TOWN OF AKRON, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2023 S-10 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 09-19-2022A, passed 9-19-2022
State legislation current through 2022 A.L.S. #3
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street Suite 310 Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS
COUNCIL
COUNCIL MEMBERS James Saner
               Richard Solano
               Antonio Rameriz
MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS
CLERK-TREASURER Rebecca Hartzler
LAW DIRECTOR    Andrew Perkins
FIRE CHIEF      Justin Gearhart
POLICE CHIEF    Justin Gearhart
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE #2-21-2006
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE TOWN OF AKRON, INDIANA,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE TOWN OF AKRON DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE OF
ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
   WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the Town of Akron,
Indiana, are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form
and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety
and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of its
affairs; and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Indiana empower and
authorize the Town of Akron to revise, amend, restate, codify and compile any
existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted or published
and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
   WHEREAS, the Town Board of the Town of Akron, Indiana, has authorized a
general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the Town of
Akron a general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinance in book
form; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN BOARD OF THE TOWN OF AKRON, INDIANA,
AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the Town of Akron as revised, amended,
restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as and shall
constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the Town of Akron, State of Indiana."
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvement, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4.   Such code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Town Board, and the Clerk of the Town of Akron is hereby
authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of Ordinances in the Office
of the Clerk.
Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is property signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Town Board of the Town of Akron, Indiana, this
21st day of March, 2006.
   J. Phillip Allen /s/
   J. Phillip Allen, President
                                               
   Terry Swick, Council Member
   Crystal Weida /s/
   Crystal Weida, Council Member
   Jill Runkle /s/
   Jill Runkle, Clerk-Treasurer
ORDINANCE 1-20-09
ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE
TOWN OF AKRON, INDIANA
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2008 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of Akron,
which contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted since
the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances; and
WHEREAS American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana Code; and;
WHEREAS it is the intent of the Legislative Authority to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes in the law of the State of Indiana; and
WHEREAS it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED:
Section 1.   That the 2008 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
political Subdivision as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Akron Town Council and the Clerk-Treasurer is
hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the copy of the
Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 3.   This ordinance is necessary for the immediate preservation of the
peace, health, safety and general welfare of the people of this municipality,
it is hereby declared an emergency measure and shall take effect at the
earliest date provided by law.
Adopted by a vote of 3 aye, 0 nay, this 20 day of January, 2009.
                                    AKRON TOWN COUNCIL
                                    James Bickel /s/
                                    Diana S. Bussard /s/    
                                    Roger E. Gearhart /s/
ATTEST:
Jill Runkle /s/
Clerk-Treasurer
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter
   
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
11.   TOWN STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
      All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes,
titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the "Town
Code," for which designation "Code of Ordinances," "Codified Ordinances" or
"Code" may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation, shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or subsection.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters, or sections of this code, as
originally enacted, or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered
by the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning,
application, or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent
or context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of such persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving such authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town Council.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council.
      COUNTY. The county or counties in which the town is located.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads, and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      TOWNSHIP. The township or townships in which the town is located.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing, or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person or the person's
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of an
act are severable as provided in division (B) above does not affect the
operation of division (B) with respect to that act.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority, or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; or at the time of the effective date of that ordinance or
subsequent thereto, the rights, powers, duties, or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then such named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which such duties,
liabilities, powers, and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday, or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture, or liability incurred under
such section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture, or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, to the
prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code shall not be affected by
the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (I.C. 36-5-2-2) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-85)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a "statutory reference"
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.
Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      For provisions concerning the inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-
14-3-1 et seq.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway right-of-
ways, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this code for
which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Power to prescribe fines up to $2,500 granted, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
CHAPTER 11: TOWN STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Town boundaries
§ 11.01 TOWN BOUNDARIES.
   Except as otherwise provided and stipulated in this code, the boundary lines
of the Town of Akron, Fulton County, Indiana are as follows: Commencing at a
point 4.25 chains north of the southeast corner of Section 13, Township 30
North, Range 4 East in Fulton County in the State of Indiana; thence south 4.25
chains to the section corner, it being also the northeast corner of Section 24
of the Township, Range and county; thence south on the east line of Section 24
27.90 chains to the south line of the right-of-way of the Chicago & Erie
Railroad Company; thence north 75 degrees to the east line of the west half of
the northwest quarter of Section 24; thence north on the east line of the west
half of the northwest quarter of Section 24 30.92 chains to the north line of
Section 24; thence north on the east line of the west half of the southwest
quarter of Section 13 4.25 chains; thence east 60 chains to the place of
beginning, containing 261.96 acres.
(`86 Code, § 10-1-1)
Cross reference:
   Annexations, see Table of Special Ordinances,
Table I
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
Chapter
   
30.   TOWN COUNCIL
   
31.   BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
   
32.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
   
33.   CODE ENFORCEMENT
   
34.   PERSONNEL
   
35.   PUBLIC RECORDS
   
36.   FINANCES AND PURCHASING
CHAPTER 30: TOWN COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
30.001   Term of office
   
30.002   Residency required
   
30.003   Powers and duties
   
30.004   President
   
30.005   Abolishing legislative districts
   
30.006   Election at large of all Town Council members
Meetings; General Provisions
   
30.020   Open meetings
   
30.021   Executive sessions
   
30.022   Notice of meetings
   
30.023   Agenda
   
30.024   Record of meetings
   
30.025   Quorum
   
30.026   Clerk of Council; tie-breaking vote
   
30.027   Virtual meeting policy
Meetings; Rules of Procedure
   
30.040   Presiding officer
   
30.041   Quorum for conducting business
   
30.042   Absence of President
   
30.043   Duties of the President
   
30.044   Duties of Councilmembers
   
30.045   Seconding of motions required
   
30.046   Withdrawal of motions
   
30.047   Division of questions
   
30.048   Record of motions
   
30.049   Vote
   
30.050   Precedence of motion
   
30.051   Undebatable motions and exceptions to order
   
30.052   Motion to adjourn
   
30.053   Motion to postpone indefinitely
   
30.054   Motion to amend
   
30.055   Amendments
   
30.056   Reconsideration
   
30.057   Visitors and petitioners
   
30.058   Reports, communications, petitions, and the like
   
30.059   Adoption of Roberts Rules of Order, Revised
   
30.060   Temporary suspension of rules; amendment of rules
Ordinances and Resolutions
   
30.080   Majority vote; when required
   
30.081   Two-thirds vote; when required
   
30.082   Date of adoption; publication
   
30.083   Record of ordinances
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.001 TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in I.C. 36-5-2-3(b), (c), (d), (e), (f)
or (g), the term of office of a member of the Town Council is four years,
beginning at noon January 1 after the member's election and continuing until
the member's successor is elected and qualified.
(I.C. 36-5-2-3(a))
   (B)   Town Council members and the Town Clerk-Treasurer elected to office in
the November election in 2011, or holding over in office following the 2011
municipal election under Article 15 Section 3 of the Constitution of the State
of Indiana, shall serve a term of three years.
   (C)   After 2011, the Town Council members and the Town Clerk-Treasurer
shall next stand for election in 2014.
   (D)   The Town Council members and the Town Clerk-Treasurer elected in 2014
shall serve a four - year term and each subsequent Town Council member and Town
Clerk-Treasurer elected thereafter shall serve a four-year term as provided by
law.
(Am. Ord. 11-16-2010, passed 11-16-10)
§ 30.002 RESIDENCY REQUIRED.
   (A)   A member of the Town Council must reside within:
      (1)   The town as provided in Indiana Constitution, Article 6, Section 6;
and
      (2)   The district from which the member was elected, if applicable.
   (B)   A member of the Town Council who is elected by the voters of a
district forfeits office if the member ceases to be a resident of the district.
   (C)   A member of the Town Council who is elected by the voters of the
entire town but is elected or selected as a candidate from a district forfeits
office if the member ceases to be a resident of the district.
   (D)   An at-large member of the Town Council forfeits office if the member
ceases to be a resident of the town.
(I.C. 36-5-2-6)
§ 30.003 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Town Council may:
   (A)   Adopt ordinances and resolutions for the performance of functions of
the town;
   (B)   Purchase, hold, and convey any interest in property for the use of the
town; and
   (C)   Adopt and use a common seal.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9)
§ 30.004 PRESIDENT.
   The Town Council shall select one of its members to be its president for a
definite term, which may not exceed the member's term of office as a member of
the Town Council.
(I.C. 36-5-2-7)
§ 30.005 ABOLISHING LEGISLATIVE DISTRICTS.
   The legislative body districts (Town Council districts) heretofore existing
are abolished.
(Ord. 90-1, passed 8-21-90)
§ 30.006 ELECTION AT LARGE OF ALL TOWN COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   Hereafter, all members of the Akron Town Council shall be elected at large
by the voters of the Town of Akron.
(Ord. 90-1, passed 8-21-90)
MEETINGS; GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.020 OPEN MEETINGS.
   All meetings of the Town Council shall be held in accordance with state law
regarding open meetings, being I.C. 5-14-1.5.
§ 30.021 EXECUTIVE SESSIONS.
   (A)   As used in this section, PUBLIC OFFICIAL means a person:
      (1)   Who is a member of a governing body of a public agency; or
      (2)   Whose tenure and compensation are fixed by law and who executes an
oath.
   (B)   Executive sessions may be held only in the following instances:
      (1)   Where authorized by federal or state statute.
      (2)   For discussion of strategy with respect to any of the following:
         (a)   Collective bargaining.
         (b)   Initiation of litigation or litigation that is either pending or
has been threatened specifically in writing. As used in this division,
LITIGATION includes any judicial action or administrative law proceeding under
federal or state law.
         (c)   The implementation of security systems.
         (d)   A real property transaction including the following by the
governing body up to the time a contract is executed by the parties. This
clause does not affect a political subdivision's duty to comply with any other
statute that governs the conduct of the real property transaction, including
I.C. 36-1-10 or 36-1-11.
            1.   A purchase;
            2.   A lease as lessor;
            3.   A lease as lessee;
            4.   A transfer;
            5.   An exchange; or
            6.   A sale;
         (e)   School consolidation.
         (f)   However, all such strategy discussions must be necessary for
competitive or bargaining reasons and may not include competitive or bargaining
adversaries.
      (3)   For discussion of the assessment, design, and implementation of
school safety and security measures, plans, and systems.
      (4)   Interviews and negotiations with industrial or commercial prospects
or agents of industrial or commercial prospects by:
         (a)   The Indiana Economic Development Corporation;
         (b)   Indiana Destination Development Corporation;
         (c)   The Indiana Finance Authority;
         (d)   The ports of Indiana;
         (e)   An economic development commission;
         (f)   The Indiana State Department of Agriculture;
         (f)   The Indiana State Department of Agriculture;
         (g)   The Indiana White River state park development commission;
         (h)   A local economic development organization that is a nonprofit
corporation established under state law whose primary purpose is the promotion
of industrial or business development in Indiana, the retention or expansion of
Indiana businesses, or the development of entrepreneurial activities in
Indiana; or
         (i)   A governing body of a political subdivision.
         (j)   However, this subdivision does not apply to any discussions
regarding research that is prohibited under I.C. 16-34.5-1-2 or under any other
law.
      (5)   To receive information about and interview prospective employees.
      (6)   With respect to any individual over whom the governing body has
jurisdiction:
         (a)   To receive information concerning the individual’s alleged
misconduct; and
         (b)   To discuss, before a determination, the individual’s status as
an employee, a student, or an independent contractor who is a physician or a
school bus driver.
      (7)   For discussion of records classified as confidential by state or
federal statute.
      (8)   To discuss before a placement decision an individual student’s
abilities, past performance, behavior, and needs.
      (9)   To discuss a job performance evaluation of individual employees.
This subdivision does not apply to a discussion of the salary, compensation, or
benefits of employees during a budget process.
      (10)   When considering the appointment of a public official, to do the
following:
         (a)   Develop a list of prospective appointees.
         (b)   Consider applications.
         (c)   Make one initial exclusion of prospective appointees from
further consideration.
         (d)   Notwithstanding I.C. 5-14-3-4(b)(12), the Town Council may
release and shall make available for inspection and copying in accordance with
I.C. 5-14-3-3 identifying information concerning prospective appointees not
initially excluded from further consideration. An initial exclusion of
prospective appointees from further consideration may not reduce the number of
prospective appointees to fewer than three unless there are fewer than three
prospective appointees. Interviews of prospective appointees must be conducted
at a meeting that is open to the public.
      (11)   To train school board members with an outside consultant about the
performance of the role of its members as public officials.
      (12)   To prepare or score examinations used in issuing licenses,
certificates, permits, or registrations under I.C. 25.
      (13)   To discuss information and intelligence intended to prevent,
mitigate, or respond to the threat of terrorism.
      (14)   To train members of a board of aviation commissioners appointed
under I.C. 8-22-2 or members of an airport authority board appointed under I.C.
8-22-3 with an outside consultant about the performance of the role of the
members as public officials. A board may not hold more than one executive
session per calendar year under this subdivision.
   (C)   A final action must be taken at a meeting open to the public.
   (D)   Public notice of executive sessions must state the subject matter by
specific reference to the enumerated instance or instances for which executive
sessions may be held under division (B). The requirements stated in §§
30.023 and
30.024 for memoranda and minutes being made available to the public is modified
as to executive sessions in that the memoranda and minutes must identify the
subject matter considered by specific reference to the enumerated instance or
instances for which public notice was given. The Town Council shall certify by
a statement in the memoranda and minutes of the Town Council that no subject
matter was discussed in the executive session other than the subject matter
specified in the public notice.
   (E)   The Town Council may not conduct an executive session during a
meeting, except as otherwise permitted by applicable statute. A meeting may not
be recessed and reconvened with the intent of circumventing this division.
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-6.1)
§ 30.022 NOTICE OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the Town Council shall be held at a time and place
established by the Town Council.
   (B)   Public notice of the date, time, and place of any meetings, executive
sessions, or of any rescheduled or reconvened meeting shall be given by the
Town Council by posting a copy of the notice at the principal office of the
Town Council, or if no such office exists, at the building where the meeting is
to be held.
§ 30.023 AGENDA.
   (A)   The Town Council, when utilizing an agenda, shall post a copy of the
agenda at the entrance to the location of the meeting prior to the meeting. A
rule, regulation, ordinance, or other final action adopted by reference to
agenda number or item alone is void.
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-4(a))
   (B)   The Town Council shall designate a person who shall prepare the agenda
for each meeting.
§ 30.024 RECORD OF MEETINGS.
   As the meeting progresses, the following memoranda shall be kept:
   (A)   The date, time, and place of the meeting;
   (B)   The members of the Town Council recorded as either present or absent;
   (C)   The general substance of all matters proposed, discussed, or decided;
   (D)   A record of all votes taken, by individual members if there is a roll
call; and
   (E)   Any additional information required under I.C. 5-14.3.5 or 5-14.3.6 or
any other statute that authorizes a governing body to conduct a meeting using
an electronic means of communication.
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-4(b))
§ 30.025 QUORUM.
   A majority of all the elected members of the Town Council constitutes a
quorum.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.2)
§ 30.026 CLERK OF COUNCIL; TIE-BREAKING VOTE.
   (A)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is the Clerk of the Town Council.
   (B)   Whenever the Town Council has an even number of members for any
reason, the Clerk-Treasurer is an ex officio member for the purpose of casting
the deciding vote to break a tie.
(I.C. 36-5-2-8)
§ 30.027 VIRTUAL MEETING POLICY.
   (A)   Definitions.
      (1)   MEMBERS. Members refers to members of the Akron Town Council.
      (2)   VIRTUAL MEETING. A virtual meeting is one in which one or more Town
Council members meet by any means of electronic communication, so long as (a)
at least a quorum of the members participate; (b) members can simultaneously
communicate with each other, and (b) the public is able to attend and observe
the meeting (except for executive session meetings). It includes meetings with
a mix of electronic and in-person attendance by members, but may include 100%
electronic communication. The minutes or memoranda for a virtual meeting must
identify which members attended and by which method, which were absent, and the
means of electronic communication used by members and the public. All votes
taken in such a meeting must be by roll call vote.
   (B)   Declared emergency meetings. Whenever a disaster has been declared by
either: the Indiana Governor declaring a disaster emergency under I.C. 10-14-3-
12; or the executive of the town declaring a local disaster emergency under
I.C. 10-14-3-29; the members of the Town Council may meet in a virtual meeting.
   (C)   Non-emergency meetings. This division shall apply whenever division
(B) above is not applicable.
      (1)   A member may attend a Town Council using a virtual meeting, subject
to the conditions in this section. If doing so, a member is present for
purposes of establishing a quorum, and may participate in any final action so
long as the member can be seen and heard by other members and public attendees.
      (2)   A member should notify the President or Clerk-Treasurer at least 48
hours in advance of the meeting, if possible.
      (3)   At least 50% of the members must be physically present at the
meeting. This means no more than one member may participate virtually at any
single meeting.
      (4)   A member may not attend more than 50% of the meetings using a
virtual meeting format, or attend two consecutive meetings virtually, unless
use of the virtual meeting format is due to military service, illness or other
medical condition, death of a relative, or an emergency involving actual or
threatened injury to persons or property.
      (5)   A member may not participate in a meeting virtually if the Council
is attempting to take final action to: adopt a budget, make a reduction in
personnel; initiate a referendum; establish or increase a fee; establish or
increase a penalty; use the town's eminent domain authority; or establish,
raise or renew a tax.
(Res. 04-18-2022, passed 4-18-22)
MEETINGS; RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 30.040 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   The Council President shall take the chair at the hour appointed, or to
which the Council shall have adjourned, and shall immediately call the members
to order; whereupon, the Clerk of Council shall proceed to call the roll of
members. If a quorum is present, the Clerk of Council shall so announce and the
Council shall proceed with the order of business.
Cross-reference:
   Election of Council President, see §
30.004
   Town Clerk-Treasurer serves as Clerk of Council, see §
30.026
§ 30.041 QUORUM FOR CONDUCTING BUSINESS.
   (A)   A quorum shall consist of a majority of the entire Council, including
the Council President. A quorum shall be necessary to transact the business of
the Town Council.
   (B)   If no quorum is present, the Council shall not thereby stand
adjourned, but the members present shall adjourn or recess the Council by a
majority vote.
§ 30.042 ABSENCE OF PRESIDENT.
   At any meeting of the Council where a majority shall be assembled, and if
the President is temporarily absent, but within or near the community, the
Clerk of Council shall preside and call the roll, whereupon the Council shall
elect a Temporary Chairperson from its membership. In the event that the
absence of the President shall be of a more permanent nature, a President Pro
Tem shall be elected.
§ 30.043 DUTIES OF THE PRESIDENT.
   (A)   The President shall serve as the Chair, shall preserve order and
decorum and may speak to points of order in preference to other members, and
shall decide all questions of order subject to appeal.
   (B)   If the President refuses to allow the Councilmembers to exercise their
right to appeal a decision of the Chair, the Councilmembers may consider and
pass upon the matter in spite of the Chair's failure to grant them appeal.
   (C)   The President shall have the power to require the Council room to be
cleared, or to have any disorderly person or persons ejected, in case of any
disturbances or disorderly conduct which prevent the meeting from being
continued in an orderly manner.
   (D)   Nothing in this code shall preclude the President from making or
seconding a motion, or from voting on any matters coming before the Council.
§ 30.044 DUTIES OF COUNCILMEMBERS.
   (A)   While the President is stating the motion, or deciding a point of
order, the members shall be seated and no member shall leave the Council room
during the session without permission from the presiding officer.
   (B)   Every member, prior to his or her speaking, making a motion or
seconding the same, shall address the presiding officer and shall not proceed
with his or her remarks until recognized and named by the Chair.
   (C)   A member so recognized by the Chair shall confine himself or herself
to the question under debate.
   (D)   No member shall speak more than once on the same question, except by
permission of the Chair, and then not until every other member desiring to
speak shall have had an opportunity to do so.
   (E)   No member shall speak longer than five minutes at any one time, except
by consent of the Chair.
   (F)   While a member is speaking, no member shall hold any private
discussion, nor pass between the speaker and the Chair.
   (G)   A member, when called to order by the Chair, shall thereupon
discontinue speaking. The order or ruling of the Chair shall be binding and
conclusive, subject only to the right to appeal.
   (H)   Any member may appeal to the Council from a ruling of the Chair and,
if the appeal is seconded, the member making the appeal may briefly state his
or her reason for the same, and the Chair may briefly explain his or her
ruling; but there shall be no debate on the appeal and no other member shall
participate in the discussion. The Chair shall then put the question, "Shall
the decision of the Chair be overruled?" Otherwise, it shall be sustained.
   (I)   The right of a member to address the Council on a question of personal
privilege shall be limited to cases in which his or her integrity, character or
motives are assailed, questioned or impugned.
§ 30.045 SECONDING OF MOTIONS REQUIRED.
   No motion shall be put or debated in the Council or in committee unless it
be seconded. When a motion is seconded, it shall be stated by the presiding
officer before debate.
§ 30.046 WITHDRAWAL OF MOTIONS.
   After a resolution or a motion is stated by the President, it shall be
deemed to be in the possession of the Council, but it may be withdrawn by the
maker thereof with or without the consent of the Councilmember seconding the
motion prior to the call for the vote by the President.
§ 30.047 DIVISION OF QUESTIONS.
   If any question under consideration contains several distinct propositions,
the Council, by a majority vote of the members present, may divide such
questions.
§ 30.048 RECORD OF MOTIONS.
   In all cases where a resolution or motion is entered in the journal, the
name of the member moving and seconding the same shall be entered.
§ 30.049 VOTE.
   (A)   The ayes and nays shall be taken upon the passage of all ordinances
and on all propositions to create any liability against the town, or for the
expenditure or appropriation of its money, and upon any question and in all
other cases at the request of any member of the Council. When the Clerk of
Council has commenced to call the roll of the Council for the taking of a vote
by "Ayes" and "Nays," all debate on the question before the Council shall be
deemed concluded, and during the taking of the vote a member shall be permitted
to briefly explain his or her vote and shall respond to the calling of his or
her name by the Clerk of Council by answering "Aye" or "Nay," as the case may
be.
   (B)   The names of each member of the Council shall be listed on the
official copy of every ordinance passed indicating specifically the names of
those voting "Aye" and those voting "Nay."
   (C)   An abstention is neither an affirmative vote, nor a negative vote.
Regardless of the number of abstentions, and except as otherwise provided by
law, an affirmative vote of the majority of the Council members is required to
pass a motion, ordinance, resolution, or other action of the Town Council.
   (D)   The President shall announce the result of the Council's vote and such
votes shall be entered in the journal of the proceedings.
Cross-reference:
   Two-thirds vote; when required, see §
30.080
§ 30.050 PRECEDENCE OF MOTION.
   When a question is before the Council, no motion shall be received, except
as specified in this section, and which shall have precedence in the following
order:
   (A)   To fix the time to which to adjourn;
   (B)   To adjourn;
   (C)   To take a recess;
   (D)   To raise a question of privilege;
   (E)   To call for the orders of the day;
   (F)   To lay on the table;
   (G)   To call for the previous question;
   (H)   To postpone to a certain time;
   (I)   To refer to committee;
   (J)   To amend;
   (K)   To postpone indefinitely; and
   (L)   To the main motion.
§ 30.051 UNDEBATABLE MOTIONS AND EXCEPTIONS TO ORDER.
   The motion to adjourn or to lay on the table shall be decided without
debate, and the motion to fix the time to which to adjourn and the motion to
adjourn shall always be in order, except:
   (A)   When a member is in possession of the floor;
   (B)   When the roll call votes are being called;
   (C)   While the members are voting;
   (D)   When adjournment was the last preceding motion; or
   (E)   When it has been decided that the "previous question" shall be taken.
§ 30.052 MOTION TO ADJOURN.
   A motion to adjourn cannot be amended; but a motion to adjourn to a given
day or time shall be open to amendment and debate.
§ 30.053 MOTION TO POSTPONE INDEFINITELY.
   When a question is postponed indefinitely, it shall not be taken up again
before the next regular meeting.
§ 30.054 MOTION TO AMEND.
   A motion to amend an amendment shall be in order, but a motion to amend an
amendment to an amendment shall not be entertained.
§ 30.055 AMENDMENTS.
   Only one amendment at a time may be offered to any question before the
Council. The vote shall first be taken on the amendment and, if the amendment
passes, then further amendments may be proposed. Finally, a vote shall be taken
on the principal motion as finally amended.
§ 30.056 RECONSIDERATION.
   (A)   A vote or question may be reconsidered at any time during the same
meeting, or at the first regular meeting held thereafter. A motion for
reconsideration, once having been made and decided in the negative, shall not
be renewed. A matter once having been decided and a motion to reconsider such
matter having been defeated, it may nonetheless come before the Council at a
future time by way of a motion to rescind or as a new motion. If the Chair
determines that new facts are to be presented to the Council, or that there is
a likelihood that the Council will reverse its previous decision, the Chair
shall rule the motion in order. If a motion is continuously brought before the
Council and rejected, the Chair may rule its reintroduction under a motion to
rescind or as a new motion to be out of order.
   (B)   No motion to reconsider the approval or denial of the recommendation
of an advisory body required to hold public hearings shall be entertained
except at the same meeting at which the original action was taken or after the
matter has been referred to the advisory body for a further hearing and
recommendation.
   (C)   A motion to reconsider must be made and seconded by members who voted
on the prevailing side of the question to be reconsidered, unless otherwise
provided by law; provided, however, that where a motion has received a majority
vote in the affirmative, but is declared lost solely on the ground that a
greater number of affirmative votes is required by statute for the passage or
adoption of such motion, then in such case a motion to reconsider may be made
and seconded only by those who voted in the affirmative on such question to be
reconsidered, so long as the issue presented is the same, no new information is
forthcoming, and the rights of third parties have not intervened.
§ 30.057 VISITORS AND PETITIONERS.
   Except during the time allotted for public discussion and comments, no
person, other than a member of the Council, shall address that body, except
with the consent of a majority of the members present.
§ 30.058 REPORTS, COMMUNICATIONS, PETITIONS, AND THE LIKE.
   All communications, reports, petitions or any other papers addressed to the
Council shall be made available to the Clerk of Council prior to the meeting.
The Clerk of Council shall endeavor to distribute copies or read such material
to the members of the Council.
§ 30.059 ADOPTION OF ROBERTS RULES OF ORDER, REVISED.
   The rules of parliamentary practice comprised in the latest published
edition of Roberts Rules of Order, Revised shall govern the Council in all
cases to which they are applicable and in which they are not inconsistent with
the ordinances of the town including these rules, or the statutes of the state.
§ 30.060 TEMPORARY SUSPENSION OF RULES; AMENDMENT OF RULES.
   The rules of the Council may be temporarily suspended, altered or amended,
by concurrence of a majority vote of all the Councilmembers then in office.
ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
§ 30.080 MAJORITY VOTE; WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   A requirement that an ordinance, resolution, or other action of the
Town Council be passed by a majority vote means at least a majority vote of all
the elected members.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.4(a))
   (B)   A majority vote of the Town Council is required to pass an ordinance
unless a greater vote is required by statute.
(I.C. 36-5-3-9.6)
Cross-reference:
   Effect of abstentions, see §
30.049
§ 30.081 TWO-THIRDS VOTE; WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   A requirement that an ordinance, resolution, or other action of the
Town Council be passed by a two-thirds vote means at least a two-thirds vote of
all the elected members.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.4(b))
   (B)   A two-thirds vote of all the elected members, after unanimous consent
of the members present to consider the ordinance, is required to pass an
ordinance of the Town Council on the same day or at the same meeting at which
it is introduced.
   (C)   Division (B) does not apply to the following:
      (1)   A zoning ordinance or an amendment to a zoning ordinance adopted
under I.C. 36-7.
      (2)   An ordinance to increase the number of Town Council members adopted
under I.C. 36-5-2-4.2, unless the ordinance also establishes new legislative
body districts.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.8)
§ 30.082 DATE OF ADOPTION; PUBLICATION.
   (A)   An ordinance, order, or resolution passed by the Town Council is
considered adopted when it is signed by the President of Council. If required
by statute, an adopted ordinance, order, or resolution must be promulgated or
published before it takes effect.
   (B)   An ordinance prescribing a penalty or forfeiture for a violation must,
before it takes effect, be published in the manner prescribed by I.C. 5-3-
1 unless:
      (1)   It is published under I.C. 36-1-5; or
      (2)   It declares an emergency requiring its immediate effectiveness and
is posted in:
         (a)   One public place in each district in the town; or
         (b)   A number of public places in the town equal to the number of
Town Council members, if the town has abolished legislative body districts
under I.C. 36-5-2-4.1.
   (C)   Except as provided in I.C. 36-5-2-10(e), if a town publishes any of
its ordinances in book or pamphlet form, no other publication is required. If
an ordinance prescribing a penalty or forfeiture for a violation is published
under this division, it takes effect two weeks after the publication of the
book or pamphlet. Publication under this division, if authorized by the Town
Council, constitutes presumptive evidence.
   (D)   This section (other than division (F)), does not apply to a zoning
ordinance or amendment to a zoning ordinance, or a resolution approving a
comprehensive plan, that is adopted under I.C. 36-7.
   (E)   An ordinance increasing a building permit fee on new development must:
      (1)   Be published:
         (a)   One time in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1; and
         (b)   Not later than 30 days after the ordinance is adopted by the
Town Council in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1.
      (2)   Delay the implementation of the fee increase for 90 days after the
date the ordinance is published under division (E)(1) of this section.
   (F)   Subject to division (J) of this section, the Town Council shall:
      (1)   Subject to division (G) of this section, give written notice to the
Department of Environmental Management not later than 60 days before amendment
or repeal of an environmental restrictive ordinance; and
      (2)   Give written notice to the Department of Environmental Management
not later than 30 days after passage, amendment, or repeal of an environmental
restrictive ordinance.
   (G)   Upon written request by the Town Council, the Department of
Environmental Management may waive the notice requirement of division (F)(1) of
this section.
   (H)   An environmental restrictive ordinance passed after 2009 by the Town
Council must state the notice requirements of division (F) of this section.
   (I)   The failure of an environmental restrictive ordinance to comply with
division (H) of this section does not void the ordinance.
   (J)   The notice requirements of division (F) of this section apply only if
the municipal corporation received, under I.C. 13-25-5-8.5(f), written notice
that the department is relying on the environmental restrictive ordinance
referred to in division (F) of this section as part of a risk-based remediation
proposal:
      (1)   Approved by the department; and
      (2)   Conducted under I.C. 13-22, 13-23, 13-24, 13-25-4, or 13-25-5.
(I.C. 36-5-2-10)
§ 30.083 RECORD OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Within a reasonable time after an ordinance of the Town Council is
adopted, the Clerk-Treasurer shall record it in a book kept for that purpose.
The record must include:
      (1)   The signature of the President of Council;
      (2)   The attestation of the Clerk-Treasurer; and
      (3)   The date of each recorded item.
   (B)   The record or a certified copy of it constitutes presumptive evidence
of the adoption of the ordinance.
(I.C. 36-5-2-10.2)
CHAPTER 31: BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Plan Commission
   
31.01   Establishment
Tree Commission
   
31.10   Establishment
   
31.11   Definitions
   
31.12   Membership
   
31.13   Duties and responsibilities
   
31.14   Term of office
   
31.15   Compensation
   
31.16   Operation
   
31.17   Interference
   
31.18   Street tree species to be planted
   
31.19   Size and spacing
   
31.20   Planting and removal
   
31.21   Utilities
   
31.22   Routine tree care
   
31.23   Tree protection
   
31.24   Tree topping
   
31.25   Planting
   
31.26   Public utilities responsibility
   
31.27   Planting; new subdivisions and other construction
   
31.28   Private tree care: pruning, corner and sidewalk clearance, and dead or
diseased tree removal
   
31.29   Stump removal
   
31.30   Tree contractor’s requirements
   
31.31   Assessed fees and fines
   
31.32   Review by Town Council
   
31.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Streets and sidewalks, see
Ch. 93
PLAN COMMISSION
§ 31.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Akron Plan Commission is established ,whose membership shall be
appointed pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4.
(Ord. 06-18-96, passed 6-18-96; Am. Ord. 03-15-04, passed 4-19-04; Am. Ord. 03-
16-04A, passed 4-20-04)
TREE COMMISSION
§ 31.10 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established an Akron Tree Commission for the Town of Akron,
Indiana.
(Ord. 2000-2-15, passed 2-15-00; Am. Ord. 4-18-2006, passed 5-16-06)
§ 31.11 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future and words in the singular number include the plural. The word “shall” is
defined as mandatory and not merely directory.
   COMMISSION. The Akron Tree Commission.
   MUNICIPAL PROPERTY. A parkway, parking lot, or other property under the
control or jurisdiction of the town.
   PARK TREE. Any tree or shrub in public parks designated by signage or in
areas of land to which the public has free access as a park.
   PERSON. Any public or private individual, group, company, firm, corporation,
partnership, association, society or any other combination of human beings
whether legal or natural.
   PUBLIC STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY. The width between the property line abutting a
street, alley, or boulevard.
   STREET TREE. Any tree in a public street right-of-way.
   TOWN. The Town of Akron.
(Ord. 2000-2-15, passed 2-15-00; Am. Ord. 4-18-2006, passed 5-16-06)
§ 31.12 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Commission shall be comprised of five members, each of whom shall be
entitled to one vote. The members shall serve without compensation and shall
adopt their own by-laws including the designation and election of officers.
   (A)   Five members shall be appointed by the Town Council, for (alternating)
three-year terms;
   (B)   The department head, or his or her representatives, for the Street
Department shall have membership, but no voting power;
   (C)   The Town Council shall provide administrative staff functions for the
Commission;
   (D)   Member status shall be maintained by attending at least seven meetings
and by missing no more than three consecutive meetings. Town representatives
appointed to the Tree Commission shall have the same attendance requirements.
Noncompliance with this requirement will result in the loss of member status on
the Tree Commission.
(Ord. 2000-2-15, passed 2-15-00; Am. Ord. 4-18-2006, passed 5-16-06)
§ 31.13 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   To meet at least once each calendar month or more often as needed.
   (B)   The Tree Commission shall make recommendations to the Town Council
regarding planting, removal, and disposition of trees and shrubs in public
parks and right-of-ways with the Town Council acting as representative and
overseer for common complaints.
   (C)   To develop an annual written plan for tree care. Public notice shall
be given and a public hearing conducted prior to adoption of any plan for the
affected year. In addition, owners of property affected by the plan shall be
notified in a manner reasonably designed to insure actual notification of the
proposed action as per I.C. 5-3-1.
   (D)   To consider, investigate, recommend, and keep adequate records of all
actions dictated by the Tree Commission.
   (E)   To develop rules and regulations for the proper administration of this
subchapter, this shall include methods of good arboriculture.
   (F)   Recommend to the Council the removal of unsafe, diseased, and hollow
trees, or trees which are injurious to sewer, power lines, gas lines, water
lines, or other public improvements.
   (G)   To produce and maintain a list of tree species suitable for planting
along streets and in parks.
   (H)   To review with the Area Plan Commission all plans for new construction
which affect existing trees; and all required landscape plans for new and
replacement trees for new construction in subdivision, in parks and along
roadways.
   (I)   To conduct educational seminars and fund-raising campaigns as
necessary and to work with private and public agencies and organizations to
establish programs for the planting and care of street trees.
(Ord. 2000-2-15, passed 2-15-00; Am. Ord. 4-18-2006, passed 5-16-06)
§ 31.14 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The term of the five persons to be appointed by the Town Council shall be
three years except that the term on two of the members appointed to the first
Tree Commission shall be two years and the remaining member shall have a term
of three years. In the event that a vacancy shall occur during the term on any
member, his or her successor shall be appointed for the unexpired portion of
the term.
(Ord. 2000-2-15, passed 2-15-00; Am. Ord. 4-18-2006, passed 5-16-06)
§ 31.15 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Tree Commission shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. 2000-2-15, passed 2-15-00; Am. Ord. 4-18-2006, passed 5-16-06)
§ 31.16 OPERATION.
   The Tree Commission shall choose its own officers, make its own rules and
regulations of operation subject to Council approval and keep a journal of its
proceedings. A majority of the members shall be a quorum for the transaction of
business. As well as abide by the Open Door Law requirements.
(Ord. 2000-2-15, passed 2-15-00; Am. Ord. 4-18-2006, passed 5-16-06)
§ 31.17 INTERFERENCE.
   No person shall hinder, prevent, or interfere with the agents or
representatives of the Commission while such persons are carrying out the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2000-2-15, passed 2-15-00; Am. Ord. 4-18-2006, passed 5-16-06)
Penalty, see § 31.99
§ 31.18 STREET TREE SPECIES TO BE PLANTED.
   (A)   The Tree Commission and Town Council shall provide lists of desirable
and undesirable trees, shrubs, and groundcovers for planting in public places
in the town so as to insure the public safety and welfare. These undesirable
trees shall be restricted to special locations where they can be used to
advantage because of certain characteristics of adaptability, landscape effect
or compatibility with existing curb, sidewalk and utility lines.
   (B)   The Tree Commission and Town Council shall provide lists of trees
appropriate for planting on public streets. Other species, varieties and
cultivars may be added or deleted as experience demonstrates their superiority.
   (C)   The species should be classified by mature sizes: large (mature height
greater than 40 feet); medium (mature height between 26 feet and 40 feet);
small (mature height less than 25 feet).
   (D)   No species other than those included on the Tree Commission's list of
desirable tree may be planted as street trees without special permission of the
Commission and the Town Council.
   (E)   If special permission has not been received the cost of removal and
replacement of the undesirable tree(s) shall be charged to the individual or
firm who planted the tree(s).
(Ord. 2000-2-15, passed 2-15-00; Am. Ord. 4-18-2006, passed 5-16-06)
Penalty, see § 31.99
§ 31.19 SIZE AND SPACING.
   (A)   Minimum size for small trees at planting is one and one-half inches in
diameter (measured at six inches from the ground), for medium and large trees
two inches in diameter (measured at six inches from the ground). Any variance
of this requirement requires prior approval by the Tree Commission and/ or Town
Council.
   (B)   The spacing of street trees will be in accordance with the three
species size classes listed in §
31.18, and no trees may be planted closer together than the following: small
trees, 15 feet; medium trees, 25 feet; large trees, 35-40 feet; except in
special plantings designed by a landscape architect and approved by the Tree
Commission and/or the Town Council.
   (C)   The distance trees may be planted from curbs or curb lines and
sidewalks will be in accordance with the three species size classes listed in §
31.18.
   (D)   No street tree shall be planted closer than 25 feet of any street
corner, measured from the point of the nearest curb or curb line.
   (E)   No street tree shall be planted closer than ten feet of any fireplug.
(Ord. 2000-2-15, passed 2-15-00; Am. Ord. 4-18-2006, passed 5-16-06)
Penalty, see § 31.99
§ 31.20 PLANTING AND REMOVAL.
   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for any person to plant any
trees, shrubs, or any other plants on any public right-of-way or municipal
property until permission has been obtained from the Town Council. The purpose
of this restriction is to reduce overhead line clearance and tree removal
costs, and lessen potential highway hazards by reducing the interference with
street lighting and the danger of falling limbs and trees.
(Ord. 2000-2-15, passed 2-15-00; Am. Ord. 4-18-2006, passed 5-16-06)
Penalty, see § 31.99
§ 31.21 UTILITIES.
   No street trees other than those species listed as small trees in this
subchapter may be planted under or within 15 lateral feet of any overhead
utility wire, or within five lateral feet of any underground water line, sewer
line, transmission line or other utility.
(Ord. 2000-2-15, passed 2-15-00; Am. Ord. 4-18-2006, passed 5-16-06)
Penalty, see § 31.99
§ 31.22 ROUTINE TREE CARE.
   (A)   The town shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove
trees, plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys, venues,
lanes, squares, park grounds, as may be necessary to insure public safety.
   (B)   The Akron Tree Commission, with Town Council approval, may remove or
cause to be removed, at the town's expense, any tree or part thereof which is
an unsafe condition or which by reason of its nature is injurious to sewers,
electric power lines, gas lines, water lines, or other public improvements, or
so affected with any injurious fungus, insect or other pest. However, if a
homeowner requests the removal of a healthy street tree it shall be done at
their expense with Town Council approval.
   (C)   This section does not prohibit the planting of street trees by
adjacent property owners providing that the selection and location of the trees
is in accordance with §§
31.18 through
31.21.
   (D)   In general it will be more satisfactory to engage a nurseryman,
arborists, or someone familiar with tree care to do any planting. If the
property owner does the planting, he or she should familiarize himself or
herself with the requirements for successfully transplanting trees.
   (E)   All materials to be planted shall be nursery stock.
   (F)   Proper watering is extremely important for trees the first two years
following transplanting. During dry periods, add enough water to soak the soil
to root depth once a week. Transplanted trees can be over watered. (If the soil
is heavy and drains poorly, the trees may be injured by too much water as well
as too little.)
   (G)   Within the limits of the Tree Ordinance and the Tree Commission's
budget, the town shall assume the expense of tree care for street trees. All
routine street tree care undertaken by the town shall be initiated by the Tree
Commission and undertaken by a certified arborist.
   (H)   The owner-occupant shall be responsible so as to not permit limbs or
branches to obstruct movement of vehicles or pedestrians along streets, alleys
or sidewalks in the town. The limbs shall be trimmed so that there is a clear
space above the street surface of 12 to 14 feet; above the sidewalk surface of
eight feet; behind the street edge or alley edge of three feet; and in such a
manner as to not obstruct the view of any street activity.
   (I)   Public utilities or their agents other than the town may trim street
tree roots and branches as necessary for the maintenance of utility service and
as prescribed by state law and limited in §
31.22(I). The cost of such tree care is not the responsibility of the town.
Trimming may be performed by owner/occupant provided that the above stated
standards are complied with.
   (J)   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person to:
      (1)   Top (see §
31.24) trees within public utilities or their agents right-of-way or on other
city property;
      (2)   Prune horizontally a branch of more than one-inch in diameter; or
      (3)   Cut limbs within the tree's canopy back to stubs.
(Ord. 2000-2-15, passed 2-15-00; Am. Ord. 4-18-2006, passed 5-16-06)
Penalty, see § 31.99
§ 31.23 TREE PROTECTION.
   (A)   No person shall disturb or injure any tree or plant on a public right-
of-way or municipal property including but not limited to: cut, break, deface
or permit any hazardous chemical to come in contact with such tree or plant.
Also it shall be unlawful to fasten any signs, posters, boards to any street or
municipally owned tree in any manner. Street trees are not to be removed
without the permission of the Akron Tree Commission and Town Council.
   (B)   In connection with the erection, alteration or repair of any building
or structure, or other construction activity, the owner thereof, or his agent
or independent contractor, shall take all necessary steps to prevent injury to
any trees or shrubs growing in any public street, alley way, or public park.
   (C)   Any person who is found to have willfully mutilated, disfigured or
destroyed a street or park tree will be prosecuted and/or fined, and will be
assessed the cost of replacement and installation.
(Ord. 2000-2-15, passed 2-15-00; Am. Ord. 4-18-2006, passed 5-16-06)
Penalty, see § 31.99
§ 31.24 TREE TOPPING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person or firm to
top any street tree, park tree, or other tree on public property. Topping is
defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs within the tree's crown to
such a degree so as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree.
   (B)   Trees severely damaged by storms or other causes* or trees under
utility lines shall be exempted from this subchapter.
(*These trees should be reported to the Akron Tree Commission and/ or Town
Council so that damage verification can be made and documented.)
   (C)   Any tree service working within the town which undertakes non-
permitted tree topping shall be fined a minimum sum of $500 and no more than
$2,500.
(Ord. 2000-2-15, passed 2-15-00; Am. Ord. 4-18-2006, passed 5-16-06)
Penalty, see § 31.99
§ 31.25 PLANTING.
   (A)   Town responsibility. Except as provided in division (B) and §§
31.26 and
31.27 below, the planting of all street trees shall be done according to the
Tree Commission's Town Tree Plan, at the expense of the town, and with
permission of the Town Council. Species, spacing and size requirements of §
31.18 and §
31.19.
   (B)   Owner-occupant responsibility.
      (1)   The owner or occupant of property abutting public ways may plant
street trees at his or her own expense in accordance with §§
31.18 and
31.19 above, provided they secure permission from the Tree Commission and/or
Town Council.
      (2)   An owner or occupant who gains permission to remove a healthy tree
may be required by the Tree Commission to replace that tree. Species, spacing
and size requirements of §§
31.18 and
31.19 must be adhered to.
(Ord. 2000-2-15, passed 2-15-00; Am. Ord. 4-18-2006, passed 5-16-06)
Penalty, see § 31.99
§ 31.26 PUBLIC UTILITIES RESPONSIBILITY.
   Public utilities are not exempt from the responsibility for the replacement
of street trees which must be removed in order to maintain utility lines.
Species, spacing and size requirements of §§
31.18 and
31.19 must be adhered to.
(Ord. 2000-2-15, passed 2-15-00; Am. Ord. 4-18-2006, passed 5-16-06)
Penalty, see § 31.99
§ 31.27 PLANTING; NEW SUBDIVISIONS AND OTHER CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Street trees located within dedicated and accepted right-of-ways on
provisional plats submitted to the town after the passage of this subchapter
will be planted at the expense of the developer in compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter except as the Subdivision Control Ordinance
specifically indicates otherwise. Species, spacing and size requirements of §§
31.18 and
31.19 must be adhered to.
   (B)   The State Highway Department may act to trim or remove trees
endangering traffic on state highways within the city limits.
   (C)   In extreme emergencies, determined by the Tree Commission and/or Town
Council, when a tree (or trees) has been severely damaged by storms or other
causes or is obstructing utility wires, etc., the Street Commissioner or Public
Utilities may resort to topping (§
31.24) or other severe cutting back of limbs of street trees but must report
all such incidents to the Akron Tree Commission.
(Ord. 4-18-2006, passed 5-16-06)
§ 31.28 PRIVATE TREE CARE: PRUNING, CORNER AND SIDEWALK CLEARANCE, AND DEAD OR
DISEASED TREE REMOVAL.
   (A)   The Tree Commission or Town Council shall have the right to prune or
cause to be pruned any privately-owned trees overhanging any street or public
right-of-way or sidewalk:
      (1)   Which constitutes a menace to the safety of the public; or
      (2)   Which obstructs the light from any street lamp at the intersection;
or
      (3)   Which obstructs the motorist's view of any street intersection or
any traffic control device or sign; or
      (4)   Which obstructs or endangers passing vehicles and pedestrians.
   (B)   If a tree constitutes a hazard to life and property, harbors insects
or disease which constitutes a potential threat to other trees, the town shall
have the right to cause removal of such dead or diseased trees on private
property within the town. The Tree Commission will notify in writing the
owner's of such trees, removal shall be done by said owners at their own
expense within 60 days after the date of service of notice. In the event of
failure of owner to comply with such provisions, the town shall have the
authority to remove such trees and charge the cost of removal to the owner.
(Ord. 2000-2-15, passed 2-15-00; Am. Ord. 4-18-2006, passed 5-16-06)
Penalty, see § 31.99
§ 31.29 STUMP REMOVAL.
   All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed a least six inches
below the surface of the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project
above the surface of the ground.
(Ord. 2000-2-15, passed 2-15-00; Am. Ord. 4-18-2006, passed 5-16-06)
Penalty, see § 31.99
§ 31.30 TREE CONTRACTOR’S REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Each contractor hired by the town must provide evidence of possession
of liability insurance in the minimum amounts of $1,000,000 per occurrence for
death or bodily injury and $500,000 for property damage and indemnifying the
town from any person injured or damaged resulting from the pursuit of such
endeavors as herein described.
   (B)   Cancellation or other termination of any insurance policy issued for
or in compliance with the provision hereof shall automatically terminate any
contract with the town, unless replaced with another policy complying with the
provisions hereof and in full force.
(Ord. 2000-2-15, passed 2-15-00; Am. Ord. 4-18-2006, passed 5-16-06)
Penalty, see § 31.99
§ 31.31 ASSESSED FEES AND FINES.
   All monies collected for non-compliance with this subchapter shall be placed
into the Street Tree Fund.
(Ord. 2000-2-15, passed 2-15-00; Am. Ord. 4-18-2006, passed 5-16-06)
Penalty, see § 31.99
§ 31.32 REVIEW BY TOWN COUNCIL.
   The Town Council shall have the right to review the conduct, acts and
decisions of the Tree Commission. Any person may appeal the ruling or order of
the Tree Commission to the Town Council who may hear the matter and make a
final decision.
(Ord. 2000-2-15, passed 2-15-00; Am. Ord. 4-18-2006, passed 5-16-06)
§ 31.99 PENALTY.
   Persons violating any provision of this subchapter, upon conviction thereof,
shall pay a fine not to exceed $2,500.
(Ord. 2000-2-15, passed 2-15-00; Am. Ord. 4-18-2006, passed 5-16-06)
CHAPTER 32: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
32.01   General organization and authority
   
32.02   Creation of the executive function
   
32.03   Town Council responsibilities and authority
   
32.04   Responsibilities of the Town Marshal concerning discipline
   
32.05   Disciplinary hearing procedure
   32.06   Police body-worn cameras policy
§ 32.01 GENERAL ORGANIZATION AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   A Marshal's Police Department is established to assist the Town
Marshal in the execution of his or her duties, the enforcement of laws and the
preservation of order within the town. A Marshal shall be appointed by the Town
Council. Deputy Town Marshals shall be appointed by the Marshal as authorized
by this chapter.
   (B)   A Marshal serves at the pleasure of the Council, and Deputy Marshals
serve at the pleasure of the Marshal until each has completed the mandatory
basic training requirements under Indiana law and the statutorily established
probationary period (or town established probationary period, whichever is
less). Thereafter, the members of the Department shall serve upon good
behavior.
   (C)   Reserve Deputy Marshals (nonpay status) may be appointed by the
Marshal as established by this chapter. Reserve Deputy Marshals may be
dismissed at any time by the Marshal without cause.
(Ord. 04-21-98, passed 5-19-98)
Statutory reference:
   Reserve police, see I.C. 36-8-3-20
§ 32.02 CREATION OF THE EXECUTIVE FUNCTION.
   (A)   The Town Marshal and the President of the Town Council shall act as
the executive branch of the town government in matters having to do with the
Marshal's Police Department. (I.C. 36-5-2-2 establishes the President as the
executive. I.C. 36-5-7 assigns the Marshal certain executive duties.)
   (B)   The Town Marshal shall have the responsibility for operating the
Department as well as scheduling, assigning duties and equipment, maintaining
records, including confidential records, and accounting for funds for the
Marshal's Police Department.
   (C)   The Marshal has custody and control of town property assigned to the
Department. The Marshal is the disposal agent for the town for purposes of
transferring or disposing of worn out or useless Department equipment or
trading Department equipment with a value of less than $100.
   (D)   The Marshal shall not allow either reserve or regular Deputy Marshals
to practice the profession of law enforcement if the deputies have not first
completed the statutorily established training equipment.
   (E)   The Marshal shall establish a training program for the Department
which complies with the state minimum standards. The Marshal shall submit all
required paperwork to the appropriate authorities for keeping his or her
officers certified.
   (F)   The Town Council President shall approve the spending of all
appropriated funds for the Marshal's Police Department unless the President has
first authorized the Marshal to spend certain funds upon the Marshal's own
discretion.
   (G)   The Marshal also has won over expenditures of money in which state
statute specifically delegates such control to the Marshal (such as the
Accident Report Fund and the Firearms (Handgun License Fund and the like).
   (H)   In addition, the Town Council will appropriate certain funds
specifically for the operation of the Department which may be expended by the
Marshal up to the appropriation limit without prior approval. These funds
include the Marshal Equipment Fund, Office Supply Fund and Vehicle Maintenance
Fund.
   (I)   The Town Council President shall receive complaints concerning the
Marshal's operation of the Department. The President may then or upon his or
her own initiative file written charges with the Town Council against the
Marshal for any cause allowed by this chapter, including the unwillingness of
the Marshal to discipline a deputy for serious or repeated violations.
   (J)   The President of the Council may also issue letters of reprimand to be
included in the Marshal's personnel file for a period of no more than two years
when no further complaints are filed. Letters of reprimand can be used in
subsequent disciplinary proceedings with the two year period but only for
determining the severity of a disciplinary sanction to be imposed after an
adjudication on an independent charge. The Town Council President or the Town
Council may direct the Department to concentrate the Department's efforts in
certain areas of enforcement, but neither the Council President nor the Council
may direct that only certain types of arrests be performed or that citations or
arrests be voided except for want of good faith belief or probable cause to
avoid civil liability.
   (K)   The Council President or the Council may require that the Marshal
produce a periodic report of activity or produce any report that is public
record, but neither the President nor the Council may require the production of
records which are declared confidential by law unless it is for the purpose of
defending against a law suit or for the hearing of a disciplinary action by the
Council.
   (L)   Neither the President of the Council nor any member of the Council as
such is a law enforcement officer and none has any power in that respect.
Individual members of the Town Council are not immediate supervisors of the
Marshal, nor is the Council an executive body for the operation of the
Marshal's Police Department. The Town Council can establish standards for the
Department only as a legislative body would establish such standards by passing
ordinances.
(Ord. 04-21-98, passed 5-19-98)
§ 32.03 TOWN COUNCIL RESPONSIBILITIES AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   In addition to any authority mentioned elsewhere, the Town Council has
total discretion in setting the Marshal's Police Department budget, wages,
benefits and manpower.
   (B)   To these ends, the Town Council grants to the Marshal the authority to
appoint one regular Deputy Marshal. The Marshal may appoint no other Deputy
Marshals at this time until amended.
   (C)   The Town Council authorizes the Marshal to provide for the training
required by federal and state law, including the continuing education training
to be performed on duty time. Each Department member shall be allowed a minimum
of 16 hours of continuing education training each year.
   (D)   The Marshal shall schedule deputies so that full-time paid officers
perform approximately 40 hours of on-duty service per week.
   (E)   The Town Council further declares that it wishes the funds it budgets
to the Marshal's Police Department to be primarily expended for the following
services: as near a full-services department as possible.
(Ord. 04-21-98, passed 5-19-98)
§ 32.04 RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE TOWN MARSHAL CONCERNING DISCIPLINE.
   (A)   In addition to filling the position of Chief Deputy, the Marshal shall
promote Deputy Marshals from the grade of probationary officer to permanent
status at the conclusion of the probationary period if the Deputy has performed
satisfactorily. Demotion from Chief Deputy shall be done only in conformity to
the disciplinary hearing section of this chapter.
   (B)   Deputy Town Marshals shall be subject to the Marshal's orders and
discipline. The Marshal may discipline regular Deputy Marshals only in
conformity to the disciplinary hearing section of this chapter, except as
provided hereafter. Suspensions not totaling more than five cumulative days in
any calendar year may be imposed by the Marshal on any regular deputy without
first going through the disciplinary hearing procedure by giving written notice
to the Clerk-Treasurer and officer involved before the pay period concludes in
which the suspension is to be imposed.
   (C)   More severe discipline may be imposed by the Marshal, but Deputy
Marshals then have a right to appeal to the Town Council any such actions
according to I.C. 36-8-3.
   (D)   The Marshal may also issue letters of reprimand which will be included
in the Deputy's personnel file for not more than two years. These letters of
reprimand can be used in subsequent disciplinary proceedings within the two
year period but only for determining the severity of the disciplinary sanctions
to be imposed on an independent charge.
   (E)   The Marshal shall establish written rules for the operation of the
Department. Those rules which result in disciplinary action if violated and
will be submitted to the Town Council for the Council's approval.
(Ord. 04-21-98, passed 5-19-98)
§ 32.05 DISCIPLINARY HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Town Council has disciplinary authority as to the Marshal and
review authority as to certain disciplinary actions against Deputy Marshals.
   (B)   Complaints against a Department member made at Council meetings will
not be acted upon or discussed at a Council meeting until reduced to writing
and a preliminary investigation has been conducted to determine if there is
cause to file formal charges.
   (C)   When a charge is filed against the Marshal or when a Deputy appeals
the decision of the Marshal concerning the Deputy's discipline, the Council
will hold a hearing to determine the validity to the charge(s). In the case of
an appeal of a Deputy's discipline, the Town Council may uphold, modify or
reverse the Marshal's decision.
   (D)   The hearing shall be held in conformity with the provisions of I.C.
36-8-3 (using the procedure which would be employed by a safety board for
disciplining a city police officer in a Police Department system).
   (E)   These procedures shall include, among others, the preparation and
service to all parties of:
      (1)   Written notice of the time and place of the hearing.
      (2)   Written notice of the charge and the conduct that comprises the
charge.
      (3)   A written listing of rights, including the right to be represented
by counsel, to cross-examine witnesses and to have subpoenas issued for the
production of evidence.
   (F)   The hearing shall be open to the public. The following are the causes
for disciplinary action:
      (1)   Conviction of crime.
      (2)   Violation of a written rule.
      (3)   Disobeying a lawful order of a superior.
      (4)   Absent from duty without leave.
      (5)   Neglect of duty which is more than trivial.
      (6)   Conduct which is injurious to the public welfare.
   (G)   The standard of proof for finding a violation shall be clear and
convincing evidence.
   (H)   The Council President shall preside at any disciplinary hearing to
review disciplinary action against a Deputy. The President may receive
evidence, swear witnesses and issue subpoenas at the request of the parties.
The President may cast a tie-breaking vote in any controversy and as to the
final decision of the Council.
   (I)   When the President files a complaint against the Marshal, he or she
shall not preside at the hearing nor sit upon the Hearing Board. Any other
member of the Council may be appointed to act as presiding officer in such a
case. However, if any other Council member was a party to a complaint, that
Council member shall not sit on the Hearing Board nor preside over the Board.
   (J)   In the event that the President is disqualified from voting and an
equal number of Council members vote for or against an issue, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall cast the tie-breaking vote.
   (K)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall prepare a tape recorded record of the
hearing. A video record is also permitted as is recording by the public.
   (L)   If more than one Council member is disqualified from voting so that a
quorum is not possible, the remaining majority of Council members shall impose
or uphold a sanction or dismiss the charges. If a sanction is imposed or
upheld, the entire case shall then be immediately certified for review, de
nova, to the Superior or Circuit Court.
   (M)   The Town Council President and the Town Attorney shall prosecute all
cases against the Marshal. The Marshal and the Town Attorney shall prosecute
all cases against a deputy.
   (N)   In matters of procedure and evidence, neither the strict rules of
civil procedure nor the common law rules of evidence shall apply. Hearsay
evidence may be admitted so long as it is relevant and reliable.
   (O)   Contempt of the Hearing Board shall constitute only repeated failure
to comply with the orders of the presiding officer concerning only the conduct
of the hearing. Each incident of contempt may be punished by a fine of not more
than $100.
   (P)   The hearing shall progress in the following stages:
      (1)   Preliminary motions on evidence and procedure.
      (2)   Opening remarks by the prosecution.
      (3)   Opening remarks by the defense.
      (4)   Prosecution's case in chief with cross-examination and recross.
      (5)   Defense's case in chief with cross-examination and recross.
      (6)   Defense's closing arguments.
      (7)   Prosecution's closing arguments.
      (8)   Recess and submission of proposed findings of fact and conclusions
of law by each side.
      (9)   Reconvening of Council and dispositional vote.
      (10)   Preparation of specific facts upon which findings were based.
   (Q)   In all other matters not covered by this procedure or I.C. 36-8-3, the
Indiana Administration Adjudication Act, I.C. 4-22-1 shall govern.
(Ord. 04-21-98, passed 5-19-98)
§ 32.06 POLICE BODY-WORN CAMERAS POLICY.
   (A)   Background, scope and purpose.
      (1)   Body-worn cameras are an effective law enforcement tool that can
reduce violent confrontations and complaints against officers. Body-worn
cameras provide additional documentation of police-public encounters and may be
an important tool for collecting evidence and maintaining public trust.
      (2)   This policy is intended to provide officers with instructions on
when and how to use body-worn cameras.
      (3)   The Akron Police Department has adopted the use of body-worn
cameras to accomplish several objectives, including:
         (a)   Body-worn cameras allow for accurate documentation of police-
public contacts, arrests, and critical incidents. They also serve to enhance
the accuracy of officer reports and testimony.
         (b)   Audio and video recordings enhance the Akron Police Department's
ability to review probable cause for arrest, officer and suspect interaction,
and evidence for investigative and prosecutorial purposes and to provide
additional information for officer evaluation and training.
         (c)   Body-worn cameras may also be useful in documenting crime and
accident scenes or other events that include the confiscation and documentation
of evidence or contraband.
      (4)   The Akron Police Department recognizes that video images cannot
always show the full story nor do video images capture an entire scene. The use
of body-worn cameras does not reduce the requirement to provide thorough
written documentation of an incident. Persons reviewing recordings must also be
cautious before conclusions are reached about what the recordings show.
   (B)   Overview. The body-worn cameras should be utilized to:
      (l)   Collect evidence that can be used in the prosecution of criminal
offenses;
      (2)   Record contacts with the public in order to secure unbiased
evidence in connection with investigations;
      (3)   Allow for supervisory review to ensure that department policies and
procedures are followed; and
      (4)   Capture footage that would be helpful for training.
   (C)   Definitions.
      (1)   BODY-WORN CAMERAS. Camera systems designed to be worn by police
officers to capture digital multimedia evidence.
      (2)   DIGITAL MULTIMEDIA EVIDENCE ("DME"). Consists of all digital
recordings, to include but not limited to audio, video, photographs, and their
associated metadata. Metadata includes any digital identifiers that are
captured as part of the actual recording, such as date/time, GPS coordinates,
labeling, etc.
   (D)   Legal issues.
      (1)   Body-worn camera equipment and all data, images, video and metadata
captured, recorded, or otherwise produced by the equipment is the property of
the Akron Police Department. The personal use of all information recording by
body-worn cameras shall only be pursuant to the prior written approval of the
Marshal.
      (2)   Use of body-worn cameras for any purpose other than in accordance
with this policy is prohibited.
      (3)   All data, images, video and metadata captured by body-worn cameras
are subject to state statutes and city policies regarding retention of records.
   (E)   Procedures.
      (1)   Prior to using a body-worn camera, officers shall be trained on its
proper operation and care and the Akron Police Department's policy with respect
to the use of the body-worn camera. Additional training shall be provided at
periodic intervals to ensure the continued effective use of the equipment,
proper calibration and performance, and to incorporate changes, updates, or
other revisions in policies or equipment.
      (2)   Body-worn cameras and equipment should be used with reasonable care
to ensure proper functioning. Equipment malfunctions shall be brought to the
attention of the officer's supervisor as soon as possible so that a replacement
unit may be assigned. Officers shall inspect and test bodyworn cameras prior to
each shift to verify proper functioning, and shall notify their supervisor of
any problems.
      (3)   In the event that a body-worn camera is lost, upon discovery the
officer shall immediately notify his/her supervisor.
      (4)   Officers shall wear body-worn cameras above the midline of their
torso and in position designed to produce an effective recording.
      (5)   Officers shall not use personally-owned body-worn cameras while on
duty.
      (6)   Officers assigned a body-worn camera may use the camera at approved
off-duty employment, but only in connection with their Department duties. If
used for this purpose, the officer shall download all DME during their next
regularly assigned on-duty shift.
   (F)   Operation of body-worn cameras.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this policy, officers shall
activate body-worn cameras to record all contacts with citizens in the
performance of official duties.
      (2)   Officers have no obligation to stop recording in response to a
citizen's request if the recording is pursuant to an investigation, arrest,
lawful search, or the circumstances clearly dictate that continued recording is
necessary. However, officers may evaluate the situation and when appropriate,
honor the citizen's request. The request to turn the camera off should be
recorded, as well as the officer's response.
      (3)   Deactivation of the body-worn camera shall occur when:
         (a)   The event has concluded;
         (b)   Victim and/or witness contact has concluded;
         (c)   All persons stopped have been released;
         (d)   Once an arrestee has been placed into a vehicle to be
transported to a detention facility. However, the officer transporting the
arrestee to the detention facility shall keep the officer's body-worn camera
activated until custody of the individual is transferred to the detention
facility.
      (4)   If an officer fails to activate a body-worn camera, or fails to
record the entire contact, the officer shall document the reasons for doing so.
      (5)   Non-department personnel shall not be allowed to review the
recordings without consent of the Marshal. This requirement is not an attempt
to create any exception to the Access to Public Records Act (APRA). The Akron
Police Department will comply with any request under APRA.
      (6)   Officers shall not be required to activate body-worn cameras when
engaged in conversations with individuals with whom the officer is in a
privileged relationship (e.g., spouse, attorney, police peer counselor, labor
representative, minister, etc.).
      (7)   Officers shall not edit, alter, erase, duplicate, copy, share, or
otherwise distribute in any manner body-worn camera images and information
without the prior written approval of the Marshal or the Marshal's designee.
      (8)   Officers shall be allowed to review the recordings from their
officer-worn body cameras at any time. To help ensure accuracy and consistency,
officers are encouraged to review recording prior to preparing reports. If the
officer is giving a formal statement about the use of force or if the officer
is the subject of a disciplinary investigation, the officer shall:
         (a)   Have the option of reviewing the recordings in the presence of
the officer's attorney or labor representative; and
         (b)   Have the right to review recordings from other body-worn cameras
capturing the officer's image or voice during the underlying incident.
      (9)   Body-worn cameras shall not be used to record:
         (a)   Communications with other police personnel where no non-
departmental personnel are present.
         (b)   Undercover operations or encounters with undercover officers or
informants.
         (c)   When an officer is on break or is otherwise engaged in personal
activities.
         (d)   In any location where individuals have a reasonable expectation
of privacy, such as a restroom, or locker room.
         (e)   When an officer would be recording a patient during a medical or
psychological evaluation by a clinician or similar professional, or during
treatment. When recording in hospitals or other medical facilities, officers
shall be careful to avoid recording persons other than the suspect.
         (f)   Communications made in a psychiatric facility, unless responding
to a call involving a suspect who is thought to be present in the facility.
         (g)   Autopsies.
         (h)   A response to a call for any of the following, unless, in the
judgment of the officer, suspicious circumstances during the response warrant
starting a recording: vehicle lock-outs; or VIN/vehicle checks.
   (G)   Handling of digital multimedia evidence.
      (1)   All files from body-worn cameras shall be securely downloaded (or
if storage becomes cloudbased, uploaded) no later than 48 hours after the end
of the officer's shift.
      (2)   All files from body-worn cameras shall be securely stored in
accordance with state records retention laws and for no longer than useful for
purposes of training, or for use in an investigation or prosecution (including
appeals), or for use in resolving a claim, pending litigation, or disciplinary
investigation. In capital punishment prosecutions, files shall be kept until
the alleged offender is no longer under control of a criminal justice agency.
      (3)   It is not the intent of the Akron Police Department to review DME
for the purpose of general performance review, for routine preparation of
performance reports or evaluation, or to discover policy violations.
Supervisors and internal affairs personnel may access DME for administrative
investigations. Other than periodic supervisory reviews to ensure that
equipment is functioning properly, the scope of the review of DME should be
limited to the specific complaint against the officer. Inadvertent discovery of
other allegations during this review shall require the supervisor to articulate
the purpose of expanding the scope.
      (4)   Requests for deletion of portions of a recording from a body-worn
camera (e.g., in the event of a privileged or personal recording) must be
submitted in writing to the Marshal in accordance with state records retention
laws.
      (5)   Recordings from body-worn cameras may be shown for training
purposes upon completion of a criminal case. All such use shall be pursuant to
the written authority of the Marshal, and only with the consent of all officers
whose images or voices are captured in the recording. Officers shall be
provided with at least 30 days' notice if recordings intended for use for
training purposes captured their image or voice.
   (H)   Retention and destruction of digital multimedia evidence.
      (1)   The retention and destruction of DME shall be pursuant to state
public records retention laws.
      (2)   All stored DME is subject to release in accordance with the state
public records retention laws. Officers shall be notified of any public
requests made to review DME from their body-worn cameras.
(Res. 06-20-2022, passed 6-20-22)
CHAPTER 33: CODE ENFORCEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Policies and procedures; applicability
   
33.02   Enforcement generally discretionary; limitation of liability of
enforcement officers and municipal corporation
   
33.03   Failures and delays in enforcement not a waiver of rights and powers
   
33.04   Statute of limitations applicable to code enforcement
   
33.05   Responsibility for enforcement; power to issue citations or initiate
other enforcement actions
Violations
   
33.20   General enforcement procedure
   
33.21   General designation of violators
   
33.22   Form of citation and summons
   
33.23   Signature by accused of notice to appear; time of appearance
   
33.24   Security deposit requirements for non-Indiana residents or Indiana
residents refusing to sign promise to appear; offenses other than moving
traffic violations
   
33.25   Security deposit requirements for non-Indiana residents charged with
moving traffic violations; exceptions per reciprocal interstate agreements
   
33.26   Security deposit requirements; failure to make security deposit
   
33.27   Disposition of issued citations
   
33.28   Disposition by Town Clerk of citations
   
33.29   Satisfaction of complaint
   
33.30   Appearance at trial; fines and costs; discharge of security
   
33.31   Criteria for determining applicable fine requested by municipal
corporation
   
33.32   Delivery of collected fines and Town Prosecutor's fee to municipal
corporation; disposition of fines and fees
   
33.33   Designation of court of jurisdiction
   
33.34   Designation of Municipal Prosecutor
   
33.35   Option to give formal warning in lieu of official citation; effect of
warning
   
33.36   Nonpenal enforcement procedures; use of nonpenal procedures as
additional or alternative method of enforcement in penal violations
   
33.37   Enforcement no bar to further proceedings
   
33.38   Power to prescribe additional procedures relating to code enforcement
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 POLICIES AND PROCEDURES; APPLICABILITY.
   Many of the subsequent provisions of this code constitute mandatory or
prohibitory local laws which are intended to govern human behavior, regulate
the condition of property, further public health and safety and the like and
will from time to time require enforcement under the statutory and general
common law police powers of the municipal corporation. The purpose of this
chapter is therefore to define, prescribe or otherwise set forth general
policies, procedures and guidelines governing the enforcement and
administration of the enforceable provisions. The provisions of this chapter
apply in all instances except to the extent that a different manner, method,
procedure or policy controlling enforcement has been expressly prescribed with
respect to the particular matter by a subsequent provision of this code, by
statute, by applicable state or federal administrative regulations or by the
rules of the court of jurisdiction. Furthermore, the provisions of this chapter
govern and apply only to enforcement of and violations against the provisions
of this code or other ordinances of the municipal corporation and in no way
affect nor apply to infractions or other offenses against state law, which
latter when subject to enforcement by the authorities of the municipal
corporation shall be so enforced, administered and prosecuted solely in the
manner prescribed by statute or by state authorities having jurisdiction.
(`86 Code, § 1-4-1)
§ 33.02 ENFORCEMENT GENERALLY DISCRETIONARY; LIMITATION OF LIABILITY OF
ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS AND MUNICIPAL CORPORATION.
   The municipal corporation and its enforcement officers are afforded
discretion as to whether or not, and in what manner, to enforce any provision
of this code, provided that in the exercise of such discretion they shall not
unfairly discriminate against or otherwise cause prejudice to the interests of
any person to the favor of another person. The municipal corporation and its
enforcement officers shall have immunity from any liability arising out of the
enforcement of, or the failure or delay in the enforcement of, any provision of
this code to the full extent provided by I.C. 34-13-3 and 34-13-4. However, the
discretion granted under this section does not relieve an enforcement officer
from the obligation to enforce any provision of this code when specifically
ordered to do so by a superior authority.
(`86 Code, § 1-4-2)
§ 33.03 FAILURES AND DELAYS IN ENFORCEMENT NOT A WAIVER OF RIGHTS AND POWERS.
   Except as provided under §
33.04, the failure to enforce or any delay in the enforcement of any provision
of this code, either in any particular instance or in general over a period of
time, and whether intentional or unintentional, does not annul the provision
nor constitute any general or particular waiver of the rights and powers of the
municipal corporation to subsequently undertake the enforcement of the
provision.
(`86 Code, § 1-4-3)
§ 33.04 STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS APPLICABLE TO CODE ENFORCEMENT.
   As provided by I.C. 34-28-5-1, no proceeding to enforce a provision of this
code or to impose a penalty for the violation of the provision shall be
initiated by the municipal corporation if more than two years have elapsed
since the alleged act of violation or condition of noncompliance has occurred.
However, in the case of any act of violation or condition of noncompliance
which was not a discrete act or condition, but extended or existed over a
period of time, the limitation under this section applies and is measured from
the most recent date of occurrence and not from the date that the act or
condition first began.
(`86 Code, § 1-4-4)
§ 33.05 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ENFORCEMENT; POWER TO ISSUE CITATIONS OR INITIATE
OTHER ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS.
   Unless the power and responsibility is expressly conferred by a provision of
this code or by statute on another officer, body or agency, the general Police
Department or police authorities of the municipal corporation have the duty to
enforce the provisions of this code and all powers necessary to investigate
instances or complaints of violations, determine probable liability for
violations based on the investigation and the preponderance of the evidence
available, issue and serve citations and summonses or other notices and take
such other actions as may be necessary as provided or permitted under this code
or other laws to ensure that any violating acts or conditions are prevented or
alleviated, violators punished and the like. In cases where responsibility for
enforcement is conferred on some other officer, body or agency, the officer,
body or agency shall for that purpose have the same enforcement powers as the
general police authorities of the municipal corporation described above, but
may also call upon the general police authorities to assist in any way
necessary to carry out the enforcement responsibilities.
(`86 Code, § 1-4-5)
VIOLATIONS
§ 33.20 GENERAL ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Individual violators.
      (1)   When an enforcement officer has determined or has probable cause to
believe that a particular person has violated or is responsible for a violation
of this code, the enforcement officer may stop the person and detain him or her
for a sufficient period of time as necessary to:
         (a)   Inform the person of the alleged violation;
         (b)   Obtain the person's name, address and date of birth (or driver's
license if in his or her possession) for purposes of identification;
         (c)   Issue and serve, subject to the provisions of division (B) of
this section, if applicable, to the person the citations, summonses, notices or
other process as may be pertinent in relation to the provision allegedly
violated;
         (d)   If applicable under §
33.23 hereinafter, allow the person to sign a notice to appear in court to
answer the charges; and
         (e)   If applicable under §§
33.24 or
33.25, allow the person to make a security deposit.
      (2)   A refusal by the person to provide the information requested under
subsection (b) constitutes the commission of a Class C misdemeanor under state
law and if the enforcement officer is a police officer having general powers of
arrest, he or she may immediately arrest the person on the charge or may
otherwise further detain the person until the police officer can be summoned.
(`86 Code, § 1-4-6)
   (B)   Individual violators who are minors or incompetent persons. Persons
are not exempt from complying with the provisions of this code by virtue of
minority or legal incompetency. However, if an enforcement officer believes
that a person subject to division (A) of this section is legally incompetent or
is a minor of too young an age or immature character to fully understand the
nature of the charges alleged against him or her and/or his or her other
obligations and responsibilities in connection therewith, and if it is
reasonably feasible to do so under the circumstances, the enforcement officer
shall either summon or take the alleged violator before his or her parent or
legal guardian, or similar competent representative, and cause the latter
person to acknowledge or sign any citations, notices or other process and make
any required security deposits on behalf of the minor or legally incompetent
person. Notwithstanding, any failure of an enforcement officer, or of a parent,
guardian or competent representative, to comply with or cooperate under this
section does not absolve the alleged violator from responsibility nor bar
further prosecution.
(`86 Code, § 1-4-7)
   (C)   Corporate or organizational violators. When an enforcement officer has
determined or has probable cause to believe that a person other than a natural
individual, such as a corporation or other organization, has violated or is
responsible for a violation of this code, he or she may, for the purposes
described under division (A)(1)(a) and (A)(1)(c) through (e), stop and detain
any director, trustee, officer, partner, attorney-in-fact, resident agent or
similar person who under statute, the organizational documents of the affected
entity, or under common law is made competent to accept legal process and
execute the necessary notices or other procedures on behalf of the corporation,
organization or similar entity. The provisions of division (A)(1)(b) do not
apply in the case of violations described by this section.
(`86 Code, § 1-4-8)
   (D)   Indirect service of process. In general, and unless otherwise
expressly provided in this code or by statute, it is not requisite that an
enforcement officer directly confront an alleged violator and personally serve
any citations, notices or other related process as provided under division (A)
or division (C) of this section. If more convenient, any or all of such process
may be served by registered or certified mail upon any person to whom it may be
personally served under division (A) or division (C) of this section, addressed
to the person's last known address. The service shall be complete and evidenced
by the person's signature of the return postal acknowledgment of receipt. In
addition, in the case of nonmoving traffic violations, it shall be acceptable
and complete service for the enforcement officer to attach the citation in a
visible place upon the offending vehicle, and the service shall be deemed to be
upon the registered owner or lessee of the vehicle as determined by its license
number whether or not the person is otherwise directly and personally named in
the citation. The provisions of §
33.23 concerning signature of the notice to appear and of §§
33.24 and
33.25 concerning security deposit requirements do not apply when a citation is
served under this section.
(`86 Code, § 1-4-9)
§ 33.21 GENERAL DESIGNATION OF VIOLATORS.
   Most enforceable provisions of this code prescribe or provide for the
imposition of a fine as penalty for violating the provision. Violations of such
provisions are hereinafter in this chapter and elsewhere in this code referred
to and designated as "penal violations."
(`86 Code, § 1-4-10)
§ 33.22 FORM OF CITATION AND SUMMONS.
   Except as provided under §
33.35, whenever a person is subject to a complaint for a penal violation under
§
33.20(A) or (C), he or she shall be served by the enforcement officer with a
written citation and summons to appear in the court of jurisdiction at a time
and date of which he or she shall be notified. If the violation alleged is a
traffic violation, the form of complaint and summons (uniform traffic ticket)
prescribed by I.C. 9-30-3-6 shall be used for this purpose, and in accordance
with I.C. 34-28-5-1, the same form may be used for any other kind of penal
violation complaint when no different form has been prescribed. The enforcement
officer shall mark the form as a local ordinance violation in the space
provided, and if the form has not been so preprinted shall also modify it to
read "judgment for the town" rather than "judgment for the state" in the
appropriate space. However, if a department or agency of the municipal
corporation does not find that the form and tenor of the Uniform Traffic Ticket
is very suitable for purposes of citing violations under its jurisdiction, it
may, with the approval of the municipal prosecutor and the judge of the court
of jurisdiction, prescribe and use a different form of complaint and summons.
(`86 Code, § 1-4-11)
§ 33.23 SIGNATURE BY ACCUSED OF NOTICE TO APPEAR; TIME OF APPEARANCE.
   The uniform traffic ticket or any other form of complaint and summons for a
penal violation prescribed and used under §
33.22 will include a notice and promise to appear in court to answer the
charges. If permitted to do so by the court of jurisdiction and if feasible at
the time, the enforcement officer shall fix a date and time for the appearance
and include same in the complaint and summons when it is served. The date and
time so fixed must allow the accused ample time to exercise his or her options
under §
33.27(B) or §
33.29(A) of this chapter, if applicable. Otherwise, the notice shall be made to
read, "when further notified," as concerns the date and time of appearance, and
the Clerk of the court of jurisdiction shall notify the accused by mail when
the case is finally docketed. When personal service of the citation is made,
the enforcement officer will ask the accused (or a representative designated
under §
33.20(B) or (C), if applicable) to sign the promise to appear as provided on
the citation form. This signature is not required when indirect service is made
in a manner provided under §
33.20(D). In any event, if the accused (or representative) fails or refuses to
sign the notice and promise to appear for any reason, the notice is still valid
and the accused is nevertheless obligated to appear or to suffer the
consequences of failure to appear as provided by law.
(`86 Code, § 1-4-12)
§ 33.24 SECURITY DEPOSIT REQUIREMENTS FOR NON-INDIANA RESIDENTS OR INDIANA
RESIDENTS REFUSING TO SIGN PROMISE TO APPEAR; OFFENSES OTHER THAN MOVING
TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS.
   This section applies only in cases where the penal violation alleged does
not constitute a moving traffic violation. Whenever a person is given personal
service of a citation and summons for a penal violation, and the person is not
a resident of the state, or is a resident of the state but the person (or his
or her representative as designated under §
33.20(B) or (C), if applicable) refuses to sign the promise to appear when
required under §
33.23, the enforcement officer before ceasing to detain the person may require
that he or she post a security deposit as guaranty for appearance. The deposit,
if required, shall be equal to the maximum fine to which the person would be
liable, as determined in accordance with §
33.31 of this chapter and as fixed under the provision being enforced, were the
accused to appear and be convicted. The deposit may be tendered in any form
which would be acceptable for payment of the fine itself under the provisions
of §
33.29(A), or the person may submit a surety bond running in favor of the
municipal corporation in the amount of the deposit and issued by any company or
person licensed to issue security bonds within the state. Payment of the
deposit may be made to the Clerk of the municipal corporation if the Clerk's
office is then open for business, or otherwise may be deposited in a U.S.
Postal Service receptacle in the presence of the enforcement officer, in a
prestamped envelope to be supplied by the enforcement officer and addressed to
the office of the Clerk of the municipal corporation. The Clerk or the
enforcement officer shall give the accused a written receipt for the deposit,
stating the amount, form and purpose thereof. The Clerk shall retain the
security deposit in trust, in the manner of public trust funds and the full
amount shall be refunded to the accused or his or her representative (or the
bond discharged if a surety bond is submitted) if the accused does make an
appearance in court when scheduled or sooner satisfies the complaint in
accordance with §
33.29, or if the municipal corporation sooner withdraws the complaint. The
deposit refund may be made without appropriation. However, if the accused fails
to make an appearance, the security deposit shall be forfeited to the municipal
corporation (or the Clerk shall collect on the bond if a surety bond has been
submitted), and the amount forfeited or collected shall be deemed a
satisfaction of the complaint and deposited as though the fine had been
collected under the provisions of §
33.29(A). For purposes of this section, a resident of the state is considered
to be any individual person who at the time of citation maintains an actual
domicile in Indiana, exclusive of transient or temporary lodgings, or any
corporation, organization or similar entity which at the time is licensed by
the Secretary of State to operate in Indiana and maintains a resident agent for
service of process or which maintains a permanent business office or other
fixed place of business in the state.
(`86 Code, § 1-4-13)
§ 33.25 SECURITY DEPOSIT REQUIREMENTS FOR NON-INDIANA RESIDENTS CHARGED WITH
MOVING TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS; EXCEPTIONS PER RECIPROCAL INTERSTATE AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   This section applies only to persons subject to citation under §
33.20(A) for a penal violation constituting a moving traffic violation who are
not residents of Indiana, whether or not the person has signed a promise to
appear.
      (1)   Except as provided under subsection (2) or (3) hereinafter, the
enforcement officer shall require a person to whom this section applies to:
         (a)   Make a security deposit in an amount and form;
         (b)   Sign a security deposit agreement of a form prescribed and
provided by the court of jurisdiction, a signed copy of which shall be given to
the accused by the enforcement officer; and
         (c)   Mail the security deposit and a signed copy of the agreement to
the Clerk of the court of jurisdiction in the presence of the officer in a
prestamped envelope to be supplied to the officer by the court.
      (2)   A person who is a resident of a state with which the State of
Indiana has entered into a nonresident violator agreement under I.C. 9-28-2 may
make a deposit as prescribed under subsection (1)(a), but may alternatively
elect to deposit his or her driver's license with the enforcement officer as
security. The requirements of subsection (1)(b) and (1)(c) as to the execution
of a security deposit agreement and mailing same to the court of jurisdiction
still apply in this instance. The accused's copy of the security deposit
agreement serves as a temporary driver's license.
      (3)   A person who is a resident of a state with which the State of
Indiana has entered into an interstate driver's license compact under I.C. 9-
28-1 is not required to make any security deposit.
   (B)   Security deposits made under this section shall be administered and
subject to release, or to forfeiture, discharge or other action.
(`86 Code, § 1-4-14)
§ 33.26 SECURITY DEPOSIT REQUIREMENTS; FAILURE TO MAKE SECURITY DEPOSIT.
   If a person refuses or is unable to make a security deposit or to execute a
security deposit agreement when required under §§
33.24 or
33.25, the enforcement officer may take the person directly before a judge of
any court within the county which has jurisdiction over ordinance violation
complaints for immediate arraignment and judgment and may detain the accused
for such further period of time as may be necessary to carry out the provisions
of this section.
(`86 Code, § 1-4-15)
§ 33.27 DISPOSITION OF ISSUED CITATIONS.
   (A)   Copy provided to accused. When issuing a citation for any penal
violation, the enforcement officer shall give a signed copy of the citation to
the person accused or his or her representative.
(`86 Code, § 1-4-16)
   (B)   Administrative procedure in cases other than moving traffic
violations. In cases other than moving traffic violations, the enforcement
officer may retain one copy of the citation for his or her records or the
records of his or her department, but shall deliver all other copies to the
Clerk of the municipal corporation for purposes of §
33.29(A). In general, the delivery to the Clerk shall be made as soon as
possible. However, in a few instances, the provision being enforced may permit
the accused a specific "grace period" in which to correct a violation before he
or she is subject to penalties or may permit him or her a specific period of
time in which to file an appeal to an officer or body of the municipal
corporation, in which case the citation shall not be turned over to the Clerk
until the period has elapsed and the violation has not been corrected nor
appeal filed.
(`86 Code, § 1-4-17)
   (C)   Disposition of issued citations in moving traffic violation cases. In
cases involving moving traffic violations, the enforcement officer may retain
one copy for his or her records or the records of his or her department, but
the enforcement officer or his or her department shall either directly and
immediately file the other copies as may be required with the Clerk of the
court of jurisdiction or shall deliver them to the Municipal Prosecutor to be
so filed by him or her with the court. The Municipal Prosecutor shall determine
which procedure should be observed, but in all events shall be notified when a
complaint is filed with the court.
(`86 Code, § 1-4-18)
§ 33.28 DISPOSITION BY MUNICIPAL CLERK OF CITATIONS. 
   When the Municipal Clerk receives a citation pursuant to §
33.27(B), the Clerk shall retain the citation for the period of time indicated
under §
33.29(A) to see if the accused wishes to satisfy the complaint in the manner
provided under the section. If, at the end of the period the complaint has not
been satisfied, and has not been withdrawn by the municipal corporation, the
Clerk shall either directly file the complaint with the Clerk of the court of
jurisdiction, return the citation to the issuing enforcement officer to be so
filed by him or her or deliver same to the Municipal Prosecutor to be so filed
by him or her. The Municipal Prosecutor shall determine which procedure should
be observed, but in all events shall be notified when a complaint is filed with
the court.
(`86 Code, § 1-4-19)
§ 33.29 SATISFACTION OF COMPLAINT.
   (A)   Satisfaction of complaint directly with municipal corporation without
judicial proceedings in cases other than moving traffic violations. A person
who has been cited for a penal violation other than an offense constituting a
moving traffic violation may elect to satisfy the complaint by paying to the
Clerk of the municipal corporation the amount of the applicable fine, as
determined in accordance with §
33.31. If the applicable fine has not been noted on the citation, the
appropriate amount may be determined by contacting the Office of the Clerk.
Payment must be made within five business days after the complaint is referred
to the Clerk pursuant to §
33.27(B), after which time the complaint will have been filed with the Clerk of
the court of jurisdiction for prosecution. Payment may be made by bringing the
accused's copy of the citation and the amount of the fine owed to the Office of
the Clerk of the municipal corporation during the hours that it is open for
business or by mailing same to the office. Payment may be made by bank or
personal check, traveler's check or money order made payable to the municipal
corporation or may be made in cash. A person satisfying a complaint in
accordance with this section is not liable for court costs or Municipal
Prosecutor's fees, but only for the amount of the fine requested. Upon receipt
of payment, the Clerk of the municipal corporation shall mark the accused's
copy of the citation as "paid" and return same to the accused as a valid
receipt of payment. Payment of the fine and satisfaction of the complaint under
this section constitutes implicitly a waiver of trial and admission of guilt,
whether or not the accused signs any further document to such effect, and also
fulfills any promise to appear which the accused or a representative may have
signed and releases any security deposit which he or she may have been required
to make pursuant to §
33.24. When the satisfaction is made, the complaint is settled and will not be
filed with the court of jurisdiction.
(`86 Code, § 1-4-20)
   (B)   Satisfaction of complaint with court of jurisdiction prior to trial.
This section applies to offenses constituting moving violations, disposition of
which is subject to state procedures and may only be settled through a duly
constituted court and also applies in cases which could have been satisfied
under division (A) of this section but were not so satisfied prior to the
deadline for filing the complaint with the court of jurisdiction. A person to
whom this section applies may, in most instances, satisfy the complaint by
paying to the Clerk of the court of jurisdiction, in person or by mail, the
amount of applicable fine (as determined in accordance with §
33.31) plus all court costs which would apply if the person were to appear for
trial and be convicted. Payment must be received prior to the date and time
fixed for trial. The exact procedures and requirements for satisfying a
complaint in accordance with this section are determined pursuant to statute
and the judicial discretion of the court and persons wishing to do so should
contact the Clerk or Judge of the court in which appearance is scheduled for
instructions on the foregoing matters, the amount of fine and costs owing and
acceptable forms of payment. Satisfaction of a complaint under this section
constitutes a waiver of trial and admission of guilt, fulfills any promise to
appear which the accused or a representative may have signed and releases any
security deposit which he or she may have been required to make under the
provisions of §
33.24 or §
33.25.
(`86 Code, § 1-4-21)
§ 33.30 APPEARANCE AT TRIAL; FINES AND COSTS; DISCHARGE OF SECURITY.
   Subject to any contrary rules or orders of the court of jurisdiction, if any
penal violation complaint comes to trial, the municipal corporation may appear
and be represented by the Municipal Prosecutor, by another attorney employed as
legal counsel by the responsible enforcement authority or by the enforcement
officer who issued the citation. However, if the accused is convicted, the
municipal corporation shall be entitled to collect its lawful portion of the
Municipal Prosecutor's fee whether or not the Municipal Prosecutor actually
makes a personal appearance at the trial. Also subject to any contrary rules or
orders of the court, the accused may appear to answer the complaint in person,
by attorney, by a personal representative described under §
33.20(B) or (C) or may make a written appearance. Any such form of appearance
fulfills any promise to appear which the accused or a representative may have
signed and releases any security deposit which he or she may have been required
to make under the provisions of §
33.24 or §
33.25. However, if the accused fails to make any such appearance, the court
shall have action against any security deposit which the accused may have been
required to make under §
33.24 or §
33.25. In the case of a security deposit made under §
33.24 and held by the Clerk of the municipal corporation, the court shall first
apply the discharge of the security toward the penal fine awarded in the
judgment to the municipal corporation. The remaining amount of the deposit, if
any, may be applied to and distributed among the other applicable costs at the
court's discretion. The discharge of the security deposit as provided above
does not relieve the accused of liability for any further amounts of costs and
judgments not covered by the liquidation of the security deposit. In the case
of any cash or cashable security deposit described under §
33.25, the amount of the deposit will ordinarily be adequate to cover all
applicable fines and costs and shall be dispersed by the court in the same
manner as though the accused had appeared, been convicted and paid same in the
usual way.
(`86 Code, § 1-4-22)
§ 33.31 CRITERIA FOR DETERMINING APPLICABLE FINE REQUESTED BY MUNICIPAL
CORPORATION.
   (A)   The fine applicable for a penal violation of this code or a
supplementary ordinance shall be determined as follows:
      (1)   Fixed fines.  Some provisions of this code or a supplementary
ordinance may fix a specific invariable amount of penalty (for example, $25)
for the violation of the provision. In such instances, the fixed amount so
fixed shall be deemed the amount of penalty requested by the municipal
corporation under I.C. 34-28-5-4 and for all other purposes.
      (2)   Defined minimum and maximum fines. 
         (a)   Most penal provisions of this code or supplementary ordinances
will define a definite minimum and maximum penalty to be applied to a penal
violation (for example, not less than $25 nor more than $50). In such
instances, the amount of fine requested by the municipal corporation under I.C.
34-28-5-4 and for all other purposes in any particular case is to be determined
as follows:
            1.   If it is the accused's first offense, the amount is the
minimum so fixed;
            2.   If it is the accused's second offense (exclusive of similar
offenses against statutes or offenses committed in other jurisdictions), the
amount is the minimum amount fixed by the applicable provision plus one-half of
the difference between the minimum and the maximum amount so fixed (for
example, if the minimum fixed is $25 and the maximum is $50, the applicable
requested fine for a second offense would be: $25 + ($50 - $25/2) = $37.50;
            3.   If it is the accused's third or subsequent offense (exclusive
of similar offenses against statutes or offenses committed in other
jurisdictions), the amount is the maximum amount so fixed.
         (b)   For purposes of this subsection, the court, police or other
records available shall be used to determine what order of offense has been
committed in a particular case. If such available records do not show
otherwise, and if the accused does not admit otherwise, it may be assumed to be
the accused's first offense.
      (3)   Maximum fine only defined. In a few cases, a penal provision of
this code or a supplementary ordinance may define only a maximum penalty, but
no minimum penalty (for example, not to exceed $25). In such cases, if the
maximum fine so fixed is $5 or less, the maximum fine shall be deemed as the
amount requested for purposes of I.C. 34-28-5-4 and for all other purposes in
all cases. However, if the maximum amount exceeds $5, then $5 shall be deemed
as the minimum amount ever to be requested, the maximum amount defined by the
provision shall be deemed as the maximum amount ever applicable and the
principles described under subsection (2) of this section shall be used to
determine the actual fine requested in any particular case.
      (4)   Minimum fine only defined. In a very few cases, only a minimum fine
may be prescribed for a penal violation of this code or a supplementary
ordinance (for example, not less than $50). In these instances, for purposes of
I.C. 34-28-5-4 or any other purpose, the minimum fine shall be deemed the
minimum amount ever to be requested, the maximum amount ever applicable shall
be deemed to be the maximum amount which a municipal corporation is then
permitted to impose for the respective violation under I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10) or
any other applicable statute and the principles described under subsection (2)
of this section shall be used to determine the actual fine requested in any
particular case.
      (5)   No specific fine defined. In very rare instances, a provision may
be included in this code or a supplementary ordinance which is clearly suitable
and intended to be enforced as a penal violation, but for which, through
legislative inadvertence or otherwise, no fine has been defined at all. In
these cases, subject to full judicial discretion as hereinafter provided, for
purposes of I.C. 34-28-5-4 and for all other purposes, the maximum amount of
fine which a municipal corporation may impose under I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10) shall
be deemed as the fixed fine to be applied in accordance with subsection (1) of
this section.
   (B)   The provisions of this section govern and may be relied upon as a
determination of the fine requested by the municipal corporation in any
particular instance of a penal violation whether or not the applicable
requested fine has been specifically stated on any citation or other document
submitted to an accused person or his or her representative, to a court or to
any other person or officer who may be concerned in the determination of the
requested fine. However, except as provided by I.C. 34-28-5-4, the judge of any
court of jurisdiction is not hereby denied the discretionary power to impose a
different penalty as in the judge's opinion may be warranted, either through
direct judgment in a particular case or through adoption of a standard schedule
of judgments applicable pursuant to the intent of §
33.29(B), but no other officer has the authority to amend a fine as determined
under this section.
(`86 Code, § 1-4-23)
§ 33.32 DELIVERY OF COLLECTED FINES AND TOWN PROSECUTOR'S FEE TO MUNICIPAL
CORPORATION; DISPOSITION OF FINES AND FEES.
   All fines collected and all Municipal Prosecutor's fees in the amount
provided by law collected under §§
33.29 or
33.30, (including forfeitures of security deposits) are the property of the
municipal corporation and shall be turned over to the fiscal officer of the
municipal corporation in accordance with I.C. 33-19-1. (Acts 1986, Pub. L.
192). Unless a statute or a provision of this code or a supplementary ordinance
prescribes that the amounts be deposited in another fund, they shall be
deposited in the General Fund of the municipal corporation and treated as other
general revenues.
(`86 Code, § 1-4-24)
§ 33.33 DESIGNATION OF COURT OF JURISDICTION.
   (A)   In all cases of penal violations of this code or a supplementary
ordinance, the court in which the action should be filed may be determined as
follows:
      (1)   If the municipal corporation has created and operates its own
municipal court under the provisions of I.C. 33-10.1-1, then the court will
have primary jurisdiction;
      (2)   If subsection (1) does not apply, but the General Assembly has
established a County Court in and for the county under the provisions of I.C.
33-10.5-1, then the court shall have primary jurisdiction;
      (3)   If neither subsection (1) or (2) apply, then the small claims and
misdemeanor, or minor offenses, division or docket (as it may be styled) which
has been established within the Circuit or Superior Court in and for the county
shall have jurisdiction.
   (B)   However, this section is intended as an administrative guideline only
and is not intended to deny any of the above named courts any concurrent
jurisdiction over ordinance violation cases which they may have by law, nor to
prevent the original filing of a complaint, or transference of an action, in or
to any such court having such concurrent jurisdiction whenever it seems more
suitable or expeditious to do so.
(`86 Code, § 1-4-25)
§ 33.34 DESIGNATION OF MUNICIPAL PROSECUTOR.
   Unless another officer is designated, the attorney retained as general legal
counsel for the municipal corporation shall serve as and have all of the powers
and duties of the Municipal Prosecutor as herein referred to. However, the
legislative body of the municipal corporation may enter into an agreement under
I.C. 36-1-7 empowering, designating and appointing the Prosecuting Attorney for
the judicial circuit in which municipal corporation is located (for example,
the "County Prosecutor") to serve as Municipal Prosecutor; or may in accordance
with I.C. 36-1-3 establish by ordinance a separate office of Municipal
Prosecutor (or similar title) and provide therein for the appointment of a
different attorney as Municipal Prosecutor.
(`86 Code, § 1-4-26)
§ 33.35 OPTION TO GIVE FORMAL WARNING IN LIEU OF OFFICIAL CITATION; EFFECT OF
WARNING.
   When an enforcement officer believes that a person has committed a penal
violation of this code or a supplementary ordinance, but further believes that
the person was honestly unaware of the violation, or will voluntarily cease the
offending act or remedy the offending condition without the need to impose
penalties or take any other formal action for enforcement, the enforcement
officer may issue and serve to the person a warning citation. A warning
citation does not require the person to pay a fine, make a security deposit,
sign a notice to appear or take any other action except to cease the act or
correct the condition. A warning citation will not be filed with the court of
jurisdiction and does not create a presumption of guilt for purposes of §
33.31. However, when the provision to which the warning pertains expressly
provides that a violator be given a "grace period" of a specified time to
correct a condition or desist from an act of violation before being subject to
penalties or other action, the date of the warning citation shall be considered
as the beginning of the grace period. The same form of citation as would
otherwise be used may be used for a warning citation, but all copies thereof
must be clearly marked, "Warning Only."
(`86 Code, § 1-4-27)
§ 33.36 NONPENAL ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES; USE OF NONPENAL PROCEDURES AS
ADDITIONAL OR ALTERNATIVE METHOD OF ENFORCEMENT IN PENAL VIOLATIONS.
   Some provisions of this code or a supplementary ordinance may provide for
enforcement by nonpenal methods, such as direct corrective action by the
municipal corporation with costs incurred to be paid by the violator,
injunctive relief and the like, including, but not limited to reliance on
procedures prescribed under I.C. 36-1-6-2, I.C. 36-1-6-4 or other statutes, as
applicable. The municipal corporation also reserves the right to invoke the
procedures, as they may be applicable and suitable, with respect to the
enforcement of any penal provision either as an additional method of
enforcement or as an alternative method of enforcement in lieu of seeking
payment of a fine. This section applies regardless of whether the respective
penal provision involved in any particular case makes any expressed reference
to the use of the procedures.
(`86 Code, § 1-4-28)
§ 33.37 ENFORCEMENT NO BAR TO FURTHER PROCEEDINGS.
   The enforcement of any provision of this code or a supplementary ordinance
by any method of enforcement does not relieve the violator of liability for and
does not bar any further actions at law by the municipal corporation nor any
other person to recover damages for injury to persons or property and the like
that may concurrently have arisen in connection with any violation, nor vice
versa.
(`86 Code, § 1-4-29)
§ 33.38 POWER TO PRESCRIBE ADDITIONAL PROCEDURES RELATING TO CODE ENFORCEMENT.
   To the extent not prohibited or pre-empted herein or by law, enforcement
officers, the Municipal Prosecutor, the legislative body or Clerk of the
municipal corporation, a court of jurisdiction or other responsible officers
may prescribe any further procedures, notices, forms and the like as may be
necessary or desirable to facilitate enforcement and the carrying out of their
responsibilities under this code or supplementary ordinances.
(`86 Code, § 1-4-30)
CHAPTER 34: PERSONNEL
Section
   
34.01   Employee handbook adopted by reference
§ 34.01 EMPLOYEE HANDBOOK ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The employee handbook for the Town of Akron, issued 1-1-2023, is hereby
adopted and made a part of this code, the same as if set forth in full herein.
CHAPTER 35: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
   
35.01   Policy
   
35.02   Availability of records to public
   
35.03   Clerk-Treasurer designated Public Records Officer
   
35.04   Fee for copying public records
§ 35.01 POLICY.
   The Town of Akron shall adopt the following policy in regards to the access
to public records.
(Res. 98-04-21, passed 4-21-98)
§ 35.02 AVAILABILITY OF RECORDS TO PUBLIC.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by law.
(Res. 98-04-21, passed 4-21-98)
§ 35.03 CLERK-TREASURER DESIGNATED PUBLIC RECORDS OFFICER.
   The Akron Clerk-Treasurer shall be designated Public Records Officer of the
town. The Public Records Officer shall be the responsible party for the
development of policies and procedures regarding the maintenance and access of
the public records of the Town of Akron.
(Res. 98-04-21, passed 4-21-98)
§ 35.04 FEE FOR COPYING PUBLIC RECORDS.
   The fee for copying public records shall be as follows:
   (A)   10¢ per sheet for pages less than or equal to an 11 inch x 17 inch
page.
   (B)   20¢ per sheet for pages greater than an 11 inch x 17 inch page.
   (C)   $1 per audio tape.
   (d)   $5 for each copy of a police crash/investigation report.
   (E)   The fee for copying public records not listed in divisions (A) through
(C) of this section shall be as determined by the Public Records Officer.
(Res. 98-04-21, passed 4-21-98; Am. Ord. 03-18-03, passed 4-15-03)
CHAPTER 36: FINANCE AND PURCHASING
Section
General Provisions
   
36.01   Investment of civil town moneys authorized
   
36.02   Payment of certain recurrent charge and necessary expense claims
authorized prior to allowance
   
36.03   Payment of claims prior to Council allowance
   
36.04   Purchasing agents
   
36.05   Returned checks fee
   
36.06   Service charge schedule for marriage solemnization
   
36.07   Credit card use policies and procedures
   
36.08   Materiality threshold
   
36.09   Internal control standards
   
36.10   Policy for electronic funds transfers and online banking
Funds
   
36.15   General Fund designated as presumptive depository
   
36.16   Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund (cigarette tax) created
   
36.17   Levy Excess Fund established; deposit and use of moneys
   
36.18   Firearms Training Fund created; deposit of handgun application fees;
use of money
   
36.19   Akron Promotional Fund established; purpose of fund and expenditures
   
36.20   Community Host Fee Funds
   
36.21   Park Board Funds
   
36.22   Cumulative Fire Fund
   
36.23   Rainy Day Fund
   
36.24   Neighborhood Watch Donation Fund
   
36.25   Permitting collection of disc golf donations
   
36.26   Cumulative park fund
   
36.27   Sidewalk project fund
   
36.28   Signage project fund
   
36.29   War memorial fund
   
36.30   Economic Development Fund
   
36.31   Local Road and Bridge Matching Grant Fund
   
36.32   Park Board Grant Fund
   
36.33   Cumulative Capital Development Fund
   
36.34   ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.01 INVESTMENT OF CIVIL TOWN MONEYS AUTHORIZED.
   Excepting for municipal water utility funds, which may be invested in
accordance with §
52.19, the Clerk-Treasurer may in accordance with this section invest any
moneys belonging to or on deposit with the civil town and not required to be
immediately expended. The investments may be made in any security or investment
instrument authorized by I.C. 5-13-9, but subject to any public depository
distribution requirements as provided by I.C. 5-13-9-5.6, if applicable to the
investment. Investment shall be made in instruments having sufficient liquidity
to permit the town to meet its expenditure requirements in a timely manner and
shall not be made in any security maturing in more than one year from the date
of the investment unless the Clerk-Treasurer determines on a reasonable basis
that all moneys so invested are not likely to be required for a longer period
of time. The Clerk-Treasurer may sell or otherwise liquidate an investment if
the invested moneys should prove to be needed to pay the expenses of the town,
in order to make a more advantageous investment or to forestall principal
devaluation. Unless otherwise provided by law, applicable state or federal
administrative regulations or town ordinance, investments shall be made from
total moneys on deposit rather than by specific fund, and all net earnings or
capital gains realized from the investment shall accrue to the General Fund,
and only the amount of original principal shall be returned to the fund of
origin. Any transaction charges applying when an investment is initially made
shall be paid out of and considered part of the principal invested; any other
administration fees or transaction charges which apply during the term of or by
virtue of the liquidation or conversion of the investment shall be payable from
earnings and capital gains and deductible therefrom before distribution to the
appropriate fund or funds and are not obligations against the principal except
to the extent that earnings and capital gains are inadequate to cover any such
fees and charges. To the extent not inconsistent with the foregoing
requirements of this section, moneys from different funds may be combined and
put in a single investment if a financial advantage to the town would result.
When any investment is made in accordance with this section and applicable
laws, the Clerk-Treasurer shall not be held personally liable for any loss of
principal which may incidentally result from the making or necessary sale or
liquidation of the investment.
(`86 Code, § 9-3-6) (Ord. 86-C16, passed 9-30-86)
§ 36.02 PAYMENT OF CERTAIN RECURRENT CHARGE AND NECESSARY EXPENSE CLAIMS
AUTHORIZED PRIOR TO ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   Whereas the town from time to time incurs various recurrent charges
and similar regular or necessary expenses which are legal obligations of the
town and/or for which appropriations have been duly made, but for which claims
may be made and payment come due prior to the Town Council's next meeting to
formally allow claims, the Clerk-Treasurer is authorized when the circumstances
occur to issue warrants against the respective funds and appropriations and
make timely payment of the charges and expenses as hereinafter described.
Expenses and charges which may be paid prior to formal claim allowance under
authority of this section, if necessary, are:
      (1)   Salaries and wages of civil town or utility officers and employees;
      (2)   Other payroll-related charges and obligations such as county, state
and federal tax withholding remittances, Social Security contributions or
pension fund contributions;
      (3)   Other state or federal tax obligations;
      (4)   Utility bills;
      (5)   Postage;
      (6)   Insurance premiums;
      (7)   Regular banking and financial institution service charges;
      (8)   Rental charges on any leased property, buildings or equipment;
      (9)   Interest or mature principal on outstanding civil town or utility
obligations;
      (10)   Any periodic payments required to be made under the provisions of
any contractual agreement previously approved and entered into by the Town
Council, unless a stipulation of the contract makes each such payment expressly
conditional upon the prior review and approval of the Town Council; and
      (11)   Any other obligatory payments due in accordance with provisions of
state and federal statute or town ordinances.
   (B)   The Town Council shall allow or approve claims and payments honored
and made by the Clerk-Treasurer under authority of this section at its next
meeting at which the claims would ordinarily be considered, and such allowance
or approval shall be construed as full ratification and legalization of the
action of the Clerk-Treasurer in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-1-4-
16. However, no payment, allowance or approval granted pursuant to this section
bars any further action of the town to recover any amounts from any person to
whom payment is made hereunder if it is subsequently discovered that the
payments were not properly owing, were excessive or otherwise erroneous.
(`86 Code, § 9-3-7) (Ord. 86-C16, passed 9-30-86)
§ 36.03 PAYMENT OF CLAIMS PRIOR TO COUNCIL ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   I.C. 36-4-8 and I.C. 36-5-4 lists various conditions which must be met
prior to issuing warrants in cities and towns. I.C. 36-4-8-4 and I.C. 36-5-4-12
allow a City and Town Council to adopt an ordinance allowing the city or town
fiscal officer to pay certain types of clams prior to board allowance.
   (B)   In pursuance of I.C. 36-4-8-14 and I.C. 36-3-4-12, the Town Council
establishes the following types of claims which can be paid by the fiscal
officer prior to the council allowance.
      (1)   Property or services purchased from the U.S. Government.
      (2)   License of permit fees.
      (3)   Insurance premiums.
      (4)   Utility payments or connection charges.
      (5)   General grant programs where advance refunding is not prohibited
and the contracting party posts sufficient to cover the amount advanced.
      (6)   Grants of state funds.
      (7)   Maintenance or service of service agreements.
      (8)   Lease or rental agreements.
      (9)   Bond or coupon payments.
      (10)   Payroll.
      (11)   State, federal or county taxes.
      (12)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency situations.
      (13)   Other expenses described in an ordinance.
      (14)   Credit card payments.
      (15)   Meter deposit refunds.
      (16)   Other contractual arrangements as approved by the Town Council on
a case-by- case basis.
   (C)   The Fiscal Officer shall ensure that each payment of expenses paid in
advance of Town Council approval shall be supported by a fully itemized invoice
or bill and certification by the Fiscal Officer.
(Ord. 93-1, passed 6-23-93; Am. Ord. 07-22-2019, passed 7-22-19)
§ 36.04 PURCHASING AGENTS.
   (A)   The Town Council determines that it is the purchasing agency for the
town.
   (B)   The Town Council designates the Town Council, employees of the Town
Council and Clerk-Treasurer to serve as the purchasing agents for the town.
(Ord. 11-24-98B, passed 11-24-98)
§ 36.05 RETURNED CHECKS FEE.
   (A)   A fee in the amount of $25 shall be charged for checks returned to the
Town of Akron for insufficient funds; and
   (B)   In the event that two checks are returned to the Town of Akron for
insufficient funds within a 12 month period of time the payor shall be required
to pay by cash, money order, or certified check.
(Ord. 12-16-03, passed 1-20-04)
§ 36.06 SERVICE CHARGE SCHEDULE FOR MARRIAGE SOLEMNIZATION.
   (A)   The service charges as set forth and contained in the following
Schedule of Charges are hereby found and determined to be reasonable and just
rates reasonably related to the solemnization of marriages and related services
by the Clerk-Treasurer.
 
SCHEDULE OF CHARGES
Clerk-Treasurer                                      
Standard ceremony fee (at Clerk-Treasurer's Office) $25
Plus any additional fees for:                        
Ceremony after 5:00 p.m.                            $25
Weekend ceremony                                    $25
Attendance at rehearsal and ceremony                $25
 
   (B)   The Schedule of Charges in division (A) above shall not be interpreted
to require the availability of the Clerk-Treasurer at any particular day or
hour to perform solemnization of a marriage.
(Ord. 7-19-2011A, passed 7-19-11)
§ 36.07 CREDIT CARD USE POLICIES AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   When not in use, the credit card(s) shall be secured in the Office of
the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Upon request by a town official or employee, the Clerk-Treasurer or
Clerk-Treasurer designee shall issue the credit card for use using the Credit
Card Log.
   (C)   Town officials and employees may use credit cards for the purpose of
travel and educational expenses limited to the following:
      (1)   Hotel or motel room;
      (2)   Hotel or motel room charges for telephone calls pertaining to town
business;
      (3)   Meals, including a maximum 20% gratuity, not to exceed $50 per day,
per person, including gratuity;
      (4)   Fees or costs associated with attending schools, conventions,
seminars, and the like;
      (5)   Gasoline if using a town-owned vehicle and unable to make it back
to the fuel system;
      (6)   Prohibited charges include alcoholic beverages, room service, non-
business telephone calls, in-room movies, and cash advances.
   (D)   Town officials and employees may use credit cards for the purpose of
town public purchases limited to the following:
      (1)   Supplies;
      (2)   Materials;
      (3)   Small tools and minor equipment; and
      (4)   Gasoline.
   (E)   The Clerk-Treasurer's office is authorized to make payments online as
necessary.
   (F)   Credit cards must be returned to the Clerk-Treasurer's office within
48 hours of returning from a continuing education event. Upon return, of the
card all itemized receipts shall be turned into the Clerk-Treasurers office.
Improperly itemized and documented items as well as all interest carrying
charges or penalties shall be the personal responsibility of the individual
user.
   (G)   The employee is responsible for all charges to that card while it is
in his/her possession.
   (H)   TOWN CREDIT CARDS ARE NOT TO BE USED FOR ANY PERSONAL EXPENSES.
   (I)   An employee, department head or elected official who abuses the credit
card will be required to reimburse the town for any expenses, be restricted
from future credit card use, and subject to disciplinary action.
(Ord. 10-20-2015B, passed 10-20-15; Am. Ord. 11-21-2016A, passed 11-21-16)
§ 36.08 MATERIALITY THRESHOLD.
   (A)   Materiality defined. As used in this section MATERIAL shall mean a
significant or consequential amount, as it pertains to the town, taking into
account the town's size, demographics, calculation of monthly receivables, as
well as the form or method of payment. The Town Council establishes that such
significant or consequential amounts, warranting action under division(B) below
shall be as follows:
      (1)   Cash, checks and other bearer instruments. It will be the policy of
the Town Council that any erroneous or irregular variances, losses, shortages,
or thefts of cash in excess of $200, except for inadvertent clerical errors
that are identified timely and promptly with no loss to the town, shall be
deemed material, and reported in accordance with division (B) below.
      (2)   Credit card and other EFT and non-cash items. It will be the policy
of the Town Council that any erroneous or irregular variances, losses,
shortages, or thefts of credit card, EFT, or other non-cash items, including
town property, in excess of $500, estimated market value, except for those
resulting from inadvertent clerical errors or misplacements that are identified
timely, and promptly corrected with no loss to the town, and except for losses
from genuine accidents, shall be deemed material and reported in accordance
with division (B) below.
   (B)   Material variances.
      (1)   Reporting mandate. All erroneous or irregular material variances,
losses, shortages, or thefts of political subdivision funds or property shall
be reported immediately to the State Board of Accounts. As per I.C. 5-11-1-27
(j), the State Board of Accounts shall take appropriate investigative and/or
enforcement action, as it deems necessary, in order to rectify said material
variances, losses, shortages, or thefts.
      (2)   Public officer duties. A public officer, as that term is defined by
I.C. 5-11-1-16(d), who has actual knowledge of or reasonable cause to believe
that there has been a misappropriation of public funds or assets of the public
office, including:
         (a)   Information obtained as a result of a police report;
         (b)   An internal audit finding; or
         (c)   Another source indicating that a misappropriation has occurred;
shall immediately send written notice of the misappropriation to the State
Board of Accounts and the prosecuting attorney serving in Fulton County.
   (C)   Oversight directive.
      (1)   The Town Council hereby endorses the Clerk-Treasurer Directive,
attached as Appendix to Ordinance 3-15-2016 and incorporated as if set forth in
full herein, regarding a policy on materiality and a process for reporting
material items.
      (2)   Compliance. The Town Council calls upon all town officials,
employees, and agents to enforce and comply with this policy on materiality and
adhere to the appropriate process for reporting material variances, losses,
shortages, or thefts, and to report noteworthy items to the Town Clerk-
Treasurer or the Town Council.
      (3)   Oversight Committee. The Town Council directs its Oversight
Committee to monitor, as it deems necessary, compliance with the policy on
materiality and process of reporting material items and report noteworthy items
to the full Town Council.
      (4)   Changes. The Town Council asks the Clerk-Treasurer to advise the
Town Council of any changes in the policy on materiality and process for
reporting material items, as directed in the corresponding Clerk-Treasurer's
Directive.
(Ord. 3-15-2016, passed 3-15-16)
§ 36.09 INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   Mission. The town finds that its mission, as related to an internal
control system is as follows:
         (a)   The provision of a democratic government structure at the
grassroots level;
         (b)   The provision of services as determined through the political
process, including, but not limited to:
            1.   The Akron Municipal Waterworks Utility (the "Waterworks"); and
            2.   The Akron Municipal Sewer Works (the "Sewer Works");
         (c)   The promotion of government efficiency, accountability,
reliability, and transparency; and
         (d)   The promotion of safeguards to reduce the risk of loss due to
fraud, waste, abuse, mismanagement or errors.
      (2)   Objectives. The town finds that its interrelated and often
overlapping objectives as related to an internal control system are as follows:
         (a)   Operations objectives involving the ways governmental services
are performed and the performance of those providing governmental services,
including by way of example: budgeting, purchasing, permitting, cash
management, and planning, among others.
         (b)   Reporting objectives involving the filing of financial and non-
financial information to those inside the government and those outside of the
government, including by way of example: filing of annual reports, audit and
examination cooperation, the filing of uniform conflict of interest and
contracting forms, and any other filings with any governmental agency or
official, or any information required to be kept as such as an OSHA log, among
others.
         (c)   Compliance objectives involving the adherence to law and
regulations, including by way of example: adherence and reference to manuals,
bulletins, directives, and other training documents provided by a state agency,
such as the State Board of Accounts, the Department of Local Government
Finance, the Indiana Association of Cities and Towns, among others.
      (3)   Standards. The town adopts and directs the minimum level of
standards and procedures for an internal control system that includes the
following five standards to promote government accountability and transparency,
as described in the Uniform Internal Control Standards for Indiana Political
Subdivisions guidance document from the State Board of Accounts, and as
thereafter modified:
         (a)   Control environment;
         (b)   Risk assessment;
         (c)   Control activities;
         (d)   Information and communication;
         (e)   Monitoring.
      (4)   Principles of adherence. The town adopts and directs the following
17 principles in explanation of the pertinent standards above, to be followed
at all levels of town government:
         (a)   Control environment.
            1.   The oversight body and management demonstrate a commitment to
integrity and ethical values. The town has the responsibility to establish and
maintain an adequate system of internal control and to furnish to the Town
Council, various boards and commissions, governmental agencies, creditors and
others, reliable financial information on a timely basis. An adequate system of
internal control is necessary for the town to discharge these responsibilities.
            2.   The oversight body oversees the town's internal control
system. As the fiscal body for the town, the Town Council is responsible for
setting the institutional expectations for internal control, ensuring
management is aware of those expectations, requiring the upward communications
channels be open through all levels of management, and evaluating management's
effectiveness toward monitoring the control environment and implementing sound
control policies and procedures. As the town's chief fiscal officer, the Town
Clerk-Treasurer will be the Town Council's chief agent in implementing and
managing the internal control policies and procedures.
            3.   Management establishes an organizational structure, assigns
responsibility, and delegates authority to achieve the town's objectives.
Individuals with delegated approval authority, such as elected officials and
department heads, are responsible for establishing, maintaining, and supporting
a system of internal controls within their areas of responsibility and for
creating the control environment that encourages compliance with town policies
and procedures.
            4.   Management demonstrates a commitment to attract, develop, and
retain competent individuals. The Town Employee Handbook provides a roadmap for
recruiting and maintaining quality employees. Prior to employment, individuals
may be subject to pre-employment background screening and/or a credit history
check. Job descriptions will be updated where necessary to reflect internal
control responsibilities and duties. Employees will be trained in internal
control methods as things change and all training will be documented and placed
in the Internal Controls Binder. Employees will be regularly evaluated by their
supervisors on internal control duties and receive feedback on possible
improvements.
            5.   Management evaluates performance and holds individuals
accountable for their internal control responsibilities, as well as adherence
to all Standards and Procedures, as set forth in this section. Individuals will
be held accountable for their internal control responsibilities through a
recognized structure, which includes relevant job descriptions, operating
procedures, periodic reviews, regular feedback, and a disciplinary policy.
         (b)   Risk assessment.
            1.   Management defines objectives clearly, to enable the
identification of rislcs and defines risk tolerances. Management conveys and
identifies objectives, missions, policies, and risk tolerances to employees.
            2.   Management identifies, analyzes, and responds to risk related
to achieving the defined objectives.
            3.   Management considers the potential for fraud when identifying,
analyzing, and responding to rislcs. Fraud responses will include statutorily
required responses to fraud, including, but not limited to I.C. 5-11-1-27(l)
relating to the Report of Misappropriation of Funds to State Board of Accounts
and Prosecuting Attorney and I.C. 5-11-1-27(j) relating to the Report of
Material Variances, Losses, Shortages or Thefts to the State Board of Accounts.
The town shall utilize a materiality threshold of $200 for cash funds, and $500
for non-cash and town property.
            4.   Management identifies, analyzes, and responds to significant
changes that could impact the internal control system. The Town Council, in
coordination with department heads, will regularly evaluate and adjust internal
control policies in order to accommodate for the impact of future changes,
including but not limited to, personnel changes, newly elected officials, new
programs, new technology, new laws and regulations, and financial fluctuations.
         (c)   Control activities.
            1.   a.   Management designs control activities to achieve
objectives and respond to risks. The Clerk-Treasurer, along with the Town
Council, will establish and maintain a system of internal controls that
satisfies the town's objectives in the following categories:
                  i.   Risks are identified and effectively managed;
                  ii.   Safeguarding of town assets;
                  iii.   Reliability and integrity of financial information;
                  iv.   Compliance with town policy, plans, procedures, laws
and regulations;
                  v.   Economic and efficient use of town resources;
                  vi.   Meeting established objectives and goals for town
operations and programs.
               b.   General internal controls principles for each Department,
include:
                  i.   Separation of duties. Duties are separated so that one
person's work routinely serves as a check on another's work;
                  ii.   Authorization and approval. Proposed transactions are
authorized when proper and consistent with town policy and the department's
plans;
                  iii.   Custodial and security arrangements. Responsibility
for physical security/ custody of town assets are separated from record keeping
and accounting for those assets;
                  iv.   Timely and. accurate review and reconciliation.
Departmental accounting records and documents are examined by employees who
have sufficient understanding of the town accounting and financial systems to
verify that recorded transactions actually took place and were made in
accordance with town policies and procedures. Furthermore, departmental
accounting records and documental are compared with town accounting system
reports and financial statements to verify their reasonableness, accuracy, and
completeness.
            2.   Management designs the town's information system and related
control activities to achieve objectives to respond to risks. The department
heads will work with any information technology units to ensure that
information technology is used as an integral part of the internal control
system.
            3.   Management implements control activities through policies. The
town has an employee handbook that is regularly updated to communicate policies
to employees. Additionally, the Clerk-Treasurer regularly works with
departments and employees who handle financial transactions to recommend and
ensure best practices. All procedures are in writing and communicated
frequently to all relevant employees.
         (d)   Information and communication.
            1.   Management uses quality information to achieve the town's
objectives. The Town Clerk-Treasurer and other department heads attend training
and industry seminars to stay abreast of changes and developments in
requirements and communicate that information effectively to impacted
employees. By adopting standards and investing in systems that exceed state-
mandated minimums, town management provides employees and stakeholders with
high quality information.
            2.   Management internally communicates the necessary quality
information to achieve the town's objectives. Internal communications on
internal controls are communicated through adoption of formal policies by
relevant boards and commissions and/or the Town Council, or documented through
memos from the appropriate department head.
            3.   Management externally communicates the necessary quality
information to achieve the town's objectives. Communication with the State
Board of Accounts, other state agencies, grantor agencies, and regulatory
agencies are documented by email, memos, letters, and other forms of written
correspondence. Logs are kept for information provided verbally. All documents
are maintained in accordance with the town and state's record retention
policies. Reports and policies are checked for accuracy, relevancy, and
timeliness of information.
         (e)   Monitoring.
            1.   Management establishes and operates monitoring activities to
monitor the internal control system and evaluate the results. Town
administration will monitor and evaluate compliance with internal control
policies via multiple vectors. Separation of duties, redundancy policies,
layered approval systems, monthly reports, and physical controls allow
management to both review and evaluate control systems. Monitoring activities
will be documented by signatures, initials, or other appropriate methods.
            2.   Management remediates identified internal control deficiencies
on a timely basis. Breaches of internal controls are subject to significant
levels of internal scrutiny. If informed of a material breach of internal
controls, the Town Council shall actively investigate and address said breach
and adjust policies and procedures to prevent such breaches in the future. Once
breaches are identified and investigated, a formal or informal corrective plan
will be developed.
   (B)   Implementation.
      (1)   Directive. The Town Council directs that the above standards are
used to design, implement, operate and modify current operations, reporting and
compliance objectives that will safeguard the assets of the town, promote
reliability, accountability, and transparency of financial and non-financial
information and to assure compliance with laws and regulations for each office,
department, and personnel for an effective and reasonable internal control
system of the town.
      (2)   Application to town personnel. Town personnel, whether an official
or employee, whose official duties include receiving, processing, depositing,
disbursing, or otherwise having access to funds that belong to the federal
government, state government, a political subdivision, or another governmental
entity shall comply with these minimum internal control standards and
procedures and any other policy regarding standards and procedures determined
necessary by the town now, and as modified in the future.
      (3)   Training. Town personnel, whether an official or employee, whose
official duties include receiving, processing, depositing, disbursing, or
otherwise having access to funds that belong to the federal government, state
government, a political subdivision, or another governmental entity shall be
trained at least once during a calendar year and annually thereafter, unless on
leave status, on the minimum internal control standards and procedures and any
other standards and procedures determined necessary by the Town Council and
shall cooperate with the town's fiscal officer or designee so that the fiscal
officer can timely certify to the State Board of Accounts that the training was
received annually by the personnel as provided by law.
      (4)   Personnel defined. The town authorizes the Town Council to
determine the position and persons who are personnel, as referred to in
divisions (B)(2) and (3) above, and to notify such personnel.
      (5)   Management defined. As used in this section, MANAGEMENT shall mean
the Town Council, the Clerk-Treasurer and the town department heads.
      (6)   Failure to abide. Any employee who fails to abide by or cooperate
with the implementation, compliance and certifications connected with the
Internal Control System, commits a violation and may result in the disciplinary
action, including termination, of the employee. An elected or appointed
official of the town who fails to abide by or cooperate with the implementation
and the mandated certifications of the Internal Control System may be subject
to any action allowed by law.
   (C)   Oversight directive.
      (1)   Compliance. The Town Council calls upon all town officials,
employees, and agents to enforce and comply with this policy on materiality and
adhere to the appropriate process for reporting material variances, losses,
shortages, or thefts, and to report noteworthy items to the Town Clerk-
Treasurer, the town department heads, or the Town Council.
      (2)   Oversight body. The Town Council directs its Oversight Committee,
as well as the Town Clerk-Treasurer and the department heads, to monitor, as it
deems necessary, compliance with the policy on materiality and process of
reporting material items and report noteworthy items to the full Town Council.
      (3)   Changes. The Town Council asks the Clerk-Treasurer to advise the
Town Council of any changes in the policy on materiality and process for
reporting material items, as directed in the corresponding Clerk-Treasurer's
directive. This sections, and the Standards and Procedures, will be inspected
annually, on the first meeting in January, and changes will be made as mandated
by state law or as otherwise needed according to the town's needs.
(Ord. 9-26-2016, passed 9-26-16)
§ 36.10 POLICY FOR ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFERS AND ONLINE BANKING.
   (A)   Automatic Clearing House (ACH) transactions. ACH transactions are
hereby authorized for the Clerk-Treasurer to make certain payments via ACH.
Authorized payments are payroll, bond payments, and payments for monthly bills.
Also authorized are any funds received via ACH.
   (B)   Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) including online transfers. The Town
Council authorizes the Clerk-Treasurer use of online transfers for the purpose
of transferring funds to the account payable checking account from the general,
water, wastewater and credit card checking accounts in the process of paying
claims/invoices.
   (C)   Documentation. The Clerk-Treasurer is required to maintain adequate
documentation of the above-referenced transactions for future audits, as
provided by law.
(Ord. 08-15-2022, passed 8-15-22)
FUNDS
§ 36.15 GENERAL FUND DESIGNATED AS PRESUMPTIVE DEPOSITORY.
   All fees, charges and other revenues accruing to the Town of Akron,
exclusive of revenues of municipally owned utilities and other revenues which
by law or ordinance are expressly required or designated for deposit in another
fund, shall accrue to and be deposited in the town General Fund.
(`86 Code, § 9-3-1) (Ord. 86-C16, passed 9-30-86)
§ 36.16 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUND (CIGARETTE TAX) CREATED.
   (A)   There is established a "Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund" into
which the proceeds of cigarette tax moneys will be deposited after being
received from distributions from the State of Indiana for the purposes as
provided by Chapter 225 of the Acts of 1965 as amended, said fund to remain in
effect and in existence for so long as statutory authorization therefor remains
in existence in the State of Indiana. Funds deposited in this Capital
Improvement Fund may be used for the following purposes:
      (1)   For acquisition of real property, buildings, rights-of-way or
easements;
      (2)   For construction or improvement of municipally owned property,
including but not limited to streets and sewers;
      (3)   For payment of salaries or wages of public officials or employees,
but only to the extent that any such compensation is directly attributable to
services performed in connection with functions described under subsections (1)
or (2);
      (4)   For retirement of any general obligation bonds sold by the town to
finance costs incurred for purposes described under subsections (1) through
(4).
   (B)   However, the Town Council may by resolution transfer any
unappropriated moneys in the Cigarette Tax Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund
to the General Fund at any time and use such transferred moneys for any purpose
for which General Fund moneys may lawfully be appropriated and expended.
(`86 Code, § 9-3-2) (Ord. 86-C16, passed 9-30-86)
§ 36.17 LEVY EXCESS FUND ESTABLISHED; DEPOSIT AND USE OF MONEYS.
   (A)   In accordance with the requirements of I.C. 6-1.1-18.5-17, there is
established a "Levy Excess Fund" into which shall be receipted, in any tax year
for which the town's annual receipts from ad valorem property tax levies exceed
102% of the total nominal ad valorem levy as provided in the approved and
certified town budget, the lesser of the following amounts:
      (1)   The actual amount by which receipts exceed 102% of the nominal
levy; or
      (2)   $100.
   (B)   Moneys deposited in the Levy Excess Fund may only be used for purposes
authorized by the State Board of Tax Commissioners, but may be invested and any
earnings distributed in the same manner as for other town moneys.
(`86 Code, § 9-3-3) (Ord. 86-C16, passed 9-30-86)
§ 36.18 FIREARMS TRAINING FUND CREATED; DEPOSIT OF HANDGUN APPLICATION FEES;
USE OF MONEY.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 35-47-2-3(b), any person submitting an application to
the Town Marshal for a license to carry a handgun, either qualified or
unlimited, shall pay to the town an application fee of $10. This fee shall be
immediately deposited in a special nonreverting fund to be known as the
“Firearms Training Fund,” which the Clerk-Treasurer shall establish and
maintain. In the event the application is denied, $5 of the fee shall be
refunded to the applicant, which refund is owing by law and may be paid by the
Clerk-Treasurer out of the Firearms Training Fund without appropriation or
allowance of a claim. Otherwise, moneys credited to the Firearms Training Fund
may only be budgeted, appropriated and expended for firearms training or other
training in law enforcement duties for personnel of the Town Marshal’s Office.
   (B)   In addition, funds received by the Clerk-Treasurer from the county for
either the town’s share of the Law Enforcement Continuing Education Fund, or
other monies to which the town is entitled (under I.C. 33-37-7-6, or any other
applicable law) for its share of fees collected for infractions or ordinance
violations, shall be deposited into the Firearms Training Fund.
(`86 Code, §9-3-4) (Ord. 86-C16, passed 9-30-86; Am. Ord. 03-18-08, passed 3-
18-08)
§ 36.19 AKRON PROMOTIONAL FUND ESTABLISHED; PURPOSE OF FUND AND EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   A fund, the Akron Promotional Fund, is established. The Town Council
is authorized to budget and appropriate funds from the General Fund or from
other funds to pay the expenses incurred in promoting the betterment of the
municipality. Expenditures from this fund may include, but are not necessarily
limited to the following:
      (1)   Membership dues in local, regional, state and national associations
of a civil, educational or governmental nature which have as their purpose the
betterment and improvement of municipal operations;
      (2)   Direct expenses for travel, meals and lodging in conjunction with
municipal business or meetings of organizations to which the municipality
belongs;
      (3)   Expenses incurred in the promotion of economic or industrial
development for the municipality, including meeting room rental, decorations,
meals and travel;
      (4)   Commemorative plaques, certificates or objects such as
commemorative keys; and
      (5)   Other purposes which are deemed by the Town Council to directly
relate to promotion or betterment of the town.
   (B)   No expenses shall be allowed from this fund without prior
authorization and approval of the Town Council President. Claims for expenses
under this section shall be allowed as prescribed by law.
(`86 Code, § 9-3-5) (Ord. 83-1, passed 1-18-83)
§ 36.20 COMMUNITY HOST FEE FUND.
   (A)   The Town of Akron establishes a nonreverting fund for the receipt of
community host fees from Fulton County to be known as the Town of Akron
Community Host Fee Receipt Fund. The Town of Akron Clerk-Treasurer shall
deposit all funds received pursuant to any host fee agreement into the Town of
Akron Community Host Fee Receipt Fund, accruing all earnings upon the
investment to the Fund in compliance with rules and regulations of the State
Board of Tax Commissioners.
   (B)   The Town of Akron establishes a Town of Akron Community Host Fee
Revenue Fund which shall receive the distributions from the Town of Akron
Community Host Fee Receipt Fund for the benefit of the town, the fund to be a
nonreverting cumulative fund to be used for projects of a capital nature.
   (C)   The nonreverting cumulative fund shall remain until the County Line
Landfill is closed.
(Ord. 99-4-20, passed 4-20-99)
§ 36.21 PARK BOARD FUNDS.
   (A)   The Town of Akron establishes a special non-reverting Akron Park Board
Operating Fund for park purposes from which expenditures may be made by
appropriation of the Akron Park Board.
   (B)   The Town of Akron establishes a special non-reverting Akron Park Board
Capital Fund for the purposes of acquiring land and making specific capital
improvements from which expenditures may be made by appropriation of the Town
Council.
   (C)   Receipts from the operation of park properties, together with gifts
specified for operational purposes of the park shall be deposited into the
Akron Park Board Operating Fund by the town’s fiscal officers.
   (D)   Receipts from the sale of surplus property, gifts or grants to the
capital fund shall be deposited by the town’s fiscal officers into the Akron
Park Board Capital Fund, unless, by joint resolution of the Park Board and the
Town Council, or by written direction of the donor, the funds are directed to
the Operating Fund or to the town’s General Fund.
(Ord. 12-17-02, passed 12-17-02)
§ 36.22 CUMULATIVE FIRE FUND.
   The Town of Akron establishes a Cumulative Fire Fund for the purposes set
out in I.C. 36-8-14, and the Town Council will adhere to the provisions of I.C.
36-8-14 with respect to this fund. The fund will not exceed $.0333 on each $100
of assessed valuation. The tax rate will be levied beginning with taxes for
2003 payable in 2004.
(Ord. 5-20-03, passed 5-20-03)
§ 36.23 RAINY DAY FUND.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Akron shall establish a "Rainy Day
Fund" to receive transfers of unused and unencumbered funds raised by a general
or special tax levy on taxable property within the Town of Akron whenever the
purpose of such levy has been fulfilled and an unused and unencumbered balance
remains.
   (B)   The funds on deposit in the Rainy Day Fund may be used for the
operation of the Town of Akron and its various departments, when the Town of
Akron does not have sufficient levies or funds to pay such costs, including,
but not limited to, purchase of equipment, payment of operating expenses of any
department or office of the Town, or for any other purpose for which property
taxes may be imposed.
   (C)   The Town Council shall determine the amount, if any, of any unused and
unencumbered prior year funds available to be transferred to the Rainy Day
Fund, which transfer may not exceed more than 10% of the Town of Akron's total
budget for said fiscal year.
   (D)   The Town Council of the Town of Akron may authorize the expenditure of
funds from the Rainy Day Fund by appropriations made in the same manner as
other funds are appropriated that receive tax monies, upon making a finding
that the proposed use of the funds is consistent with the intent of the Fund.
(Ord. 03-16-04A, passed 4-20-04)
§ 36.24 NEIGHBORHOOD WATCH DONATION FUND.
   The Neighborhood Watch Donation Fund is hereby created to account for the
receipt of donations to the Neighborhood Watch program and expenditures
therefrom.
(Ord. 5-17-2011, passed 5-17-11)
§ 36.25 PERMITTING COLLECTION OF DISC GOLF DONATIONS.
   The office of the Clerk-Treasurer shall establish a non-appropriated fund
for the collection and dissemination of donations for creation, repair,
improvement or upkeep of disc golf facilities within the town.
(Ord. 02-21-2012, passed 2-21-12)
§ 36.26 CUMULATIVE PARK FUND.
   (A)   A need now exists for the establishment of a Cumulative Park Fund for
any lawful purposes set out in I.C. 36-10-3-21.
   (B)   This Board will adhere to the provisions of I.C. 36-10-3-21. The
purposed fund will not exceed $.01 on each $100.00 of assessed valuation. Said
tax rate will be levied beginning with taxes for 2014 payable 2015.
   (C)   Proofs of publication of the public hearing held on May 20, 2014, and
certified copy of this Ordinance 5-20-2014 shall be submitted to the Department
of Local Government Finance of the State of Indiana as provided by law. This
Cumulative Fund is subject to the approval of the Department of Local
Government Finance.
(Ord. 5-20-2014, passed 5-20-14; Am. Ord. 7-21-2014, passed 7-21-14)
§ 36.27 SIDEWALK PROJECT FUND.
   A fund is hereby created under I.C. 36-1-8-12 for the deposit and management
of grant funds, which shall be known as the INDOT Sidewalk Project Fund.
(Ord. 1-20-2015, passed 1-20-15)
§ 36.28 SIGNAGE PROJECT FUND.
   A fund is hereby created under I.C. 36-1-8-12 for the deposit and management
of grant funds, which shall be known as the INDOT Signage Project Fund.
(Ord. 1-20-2015A, passed 1-20-15)
§ 36.29 WAR MEMORIAL FUND.
   A fund is hereby created for the deposit, management, and use of funds that
the town may receive, through gifts, grants, or otherwise, which shall be known
as the War Memorial Fund. The purpose of this fund is to maintain, repair,
construct or improve any memorial within the town designed to honor men and
women of the armed services.
(Ord. 1-21-2015, passed 7-1-15)
§ 36.30 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   The Economic Development Fund is hereby created, to be used for the purpose
of maintaining funds received in accordance with I.C. 6-3.6 until such times as
funds are disbursed or used in accordance with law.
(Ord. 12-18-2017, passed 12-18-17)
§ 36.31 LOCAL ROAD AND BRIDGE MATCHING GRANT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Local Road and Bridge Matching Grant
Fund, and which is to be given number 243, for money received from the state
through the Community Crossings Grant and for the town's matching portion as
required by the grant.
   (B)   Appropriations from the Local Road and Bridge Matching Grant Fund
shall be made only for the purpose of expenditures authorized or provided for
by guidelines established and approved by the Community Crossings Grant program
and must be approved by the Department of Local Government.
(Ord. 04-23-2018, passed 4-23-18)
§ 36.32 PARK BOARD GRANT FUND.
   A fund is hereby created for the deposit, management, and use of grant funds
that the town may receive, through gifts, grants, or otherwise, for use by the
Park Board, which shall be known as the Park Board Grant Fund. The purpose of
this fund is to hold funds from grants external to the town revenue sources for
use by the Park Board until such time as the same are used.
(Ord. 9-17-2018, passed 9-17-18)
§ 36.33 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   The Town Council declares that a need now exists for the
reestablishment of a Cumulative Capital Development Fund for all uses as set
out in I.C. 36-9-15.5.
   (B)   The Town Council will adhere to the provisions of I.C. Code 36-9-15.5.
The proposed fund will not exceed $0.0500 on each $100 of assessed valuation.
Said tax rate will be levied beginning with taxes for 2019 payable in 2020.
   (C)   Proofs of publication of the public hearing held on February 18, 2019,
and a certified copy of this section shall be submitted to the Department of
Local Government Finance of the State of Indiana as provided by law. This
Cumulative Fund is subject to the approval of the Department of Local
Government Finance.
(Ord. 02-18-2019, passed 2-18-19)
§ 36.34 ARP CORONAVIRUS LOCAL FISCAL RECOVERY FUND.
   (A)   Fund established. There is hereby established a fund to be known as
the ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund. (FUND 176)
   (B)   Sources of funding. The source of funding includes monies allocated to
the town from the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 and distributed to the Town
in 2021 and 2022.
   (C)   Uses of funding.
      (1)   The town shall only appropriate and use the funds to cover costs
incurred by the town by December 31, 2024 for the following:
         (a)   To respond to the public health emergency with respect to the
Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) or its negative economic impacts, including
assistance to households, small businesses, and nonprofits, or aid to impacted
industries such as tourism, travel, and hospitality;
         (b)   To respond to workers performing essential work during the
COVID-19 public health emergency by providing premium pay to eligible workers
of the town that are performing such essential work, or by providing grants to
eligible employers that have eligible workers who perform essential work;
         (c)   For the provision of government services to the extent of the
reduction in revenue of the town due to the COVID-19 public health emergency
relative to revenues collected in the most recent full fiscal year of the town
prior to the emergency that being 2019; or
         (d)   To make necessary investments in water, sewer, or broadband
infrastructure.
      (2)   The Town Council shall adopt a plan which provides details for the
use of funds.
   (D)   Amendments. This section may be amended from time to time if
additional guidance is received from any federal or state agency.
   (E)   The ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund shall exist until
terminated by ordinance of the Town Council. Moneys from this Fund may not be
transferred to another fund of the town.
(Ord. 04-19-2021, passed 4-19-21)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
Chapter
   
50.   GARBAGE AND RECYCLING
   
51.   SEWERS
   
52.   WATER
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE AND RECYCLING
Section
Garbage
   
50.01   Discharge of untreated sewage or polluted water to natural outlets
prohibited
   
50.02   Improper disposal of unwholesome substances in general prohibited on
public or private property
   
50.03   Improper accumulation or disposal of garbage, rubbish or other
objectionable waste prohibited
   
50.04   Proper disposal of garbage and rubbish; disposal containers; removal
   
50.05   Proper handling and disposal of animal manure
   
50.06   Proper composting of biodegradable wastes permitted; condition and
requirements
   
50.07   Notice to offenders
   
50.08   Liability of offender for costs and damages
   
50.09   Trash collection; fee
Recycling
   
50.20   Fulton County Solid Waste District ordinance prohibiting wrongful
deposits approved and adopted
   
50.21   Recycling bins
GARBAGE
§ 50.01 DISCHARGE OF UNTREATED SEWAGE OR POLLUTED WATERS TO NATURAL OUTLETS
PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the town, or
in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any sewage or other polluted
waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with
provisions of
Ch. 51.
(`86 Code, § 3-2-1) (Ord. 6-9-70-3, passed 6-30-70)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.02 IMPROPER DISPOSAL OF UNWHOLESOME SUBSTANCES IN GENERAL PROHIBITED ON
PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY. 
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or deposit, suffer to be thrown
or deposited or suffer or permit any child, servant, member of the family or
any person under his or her control to throw or deposit any rubbish, slops,
putrid or unsound matter, any dead animal or fowl or any filthy, noisome or
unwholesome substance in or into or upon any street, lane, alley, sidewalk,
gutter crossing, lot, cellar, premises or commons.
(`86 Code, § 3-2-2) (Ord. 6, passed 1-2-39)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.03 IMPROPER ACCUMULATION OR DISPOSAL OF GARBAGE, RUBBISH OR OTHER
OBJECTIONABLE WASTES PROHIBITED.
   Because of the danger to health from vermin and insects, and to children
attracted thereby, the accumulation of or deposit upon any private property or
public way in the town of any garbage, rubbish, trash or refuse of any kind or
character is declared to be a nuisance; and except as hereinafter permitted, it
shall be unlawful to place, deposit or accumulate on any private property or
public way within the town any such garbage, rubbish, trash or refuse of any
kind or character or to place, deposit or permit to be deposited in any
unsanitary manner on public or private property within the town or on any area
under the jurisdiction of the town any human or animal excrement, garbage,
toxic matter or other objectionable waste.
(`86 Code, § 3-2-3) (Ord. 28-73, passed 3-27-73; Ord. 6-9-70-3, passed 6-30-70;
Am. Ord. 86-C3, passed 7-15-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.04 PROPER DISPOSAL OF GARBAGE AND RUBBISH; DISPOSAL CONTAINERS; REMOVAL.
   All buildings where garbage or rubbish are produced shall be provided with
garbage and rubbish receptacles, and the receptacles shall be made of
galvanized iron or other suitable material and shall be tightly covered and
emptied frequently to prevent fermentation and bad odors. Garbage and rubbish
receptacles and vaults shall be emptied, cleaned and disinfected at reasonable
intervals by the owner or occupant of the property as necessary to prevent
odors, the breeding of noxious insects or vermin or other unwholesome
conditions. The owner or occupant of the premises shall cause all such rubbish
or garbage (other than properly shredded garbage disposed through the municipal
sewage system or an authorized private sewage disposal system or garbage and
other biodegradable matter used in composting as permitted under §
50.06) to be periodically hauled away at reasonable intervals by himself or
herself or a municipal or private disposal service and properly disposed of at
an authorized disposal site or to be so hauled away at any time upon the
written order of the Town Marshal or health officer.
(`86 Code, § 3-2-4) (Ord. 6, passed -1-2-39; Am. Ord. 86-C3, passed 7-15-86)
§ 50.05 PROPER HANDLING AND DISPOSAL OF ANIMAL MANURE.
   All manure from barns or stables shall be properly cared for on the premises
and shall be removed before it becomes unwholesome or offensive.
(`86 Code, § 3-2-5) (Ord. 86-C3, passed 7-15-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.06 PROPER COMPOSTING OF BIODEGRADABLE WASTES PERMITTED; CONDITIONS AND
REQUIREMENTS. 
   Nothing in this chapter is intended to prohibit the proper composting, on
private property, of shredded or ground and completely biodegradable wastes or
animal manure (other than human excrement), nor to prevent the subsequent use
and spreading of the completely composted matter as a soil conditioner or
fertilizer for flower beds, garden plots and similar applications, provided
that:
   (A)   The composting is done in a contained bin or similar area out of
general public view; and
   (B)   Is not permitted to produce objectionable odors, attract or propagate
vermin, pollute runoff waters or otherwise engender any nuisance adversely
affecting surrounding properties.
(`86 Code, § 3-2-6) (Ord. 86-C3, passed 7-15-86)
§ 50.07 NOTICE TO OFFENDERS.
   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall be
served by the town with written notice stating the nature of the violation and
providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The
offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently
cease all violations.
(`86 Code, § 3-2-7) (Ord. 6-9-70-3, passed 6-30-70)
§ 50.08 LIABILITY OF OFFENDER FOR COSTS AND DAMAGES.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall become
liable to the town for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the town by
reason of such violation.
(`86 Code, § 3-2-9) (Ord. 6-9-70-3, passed 6-30-70)
§ 50.09 TRASH COLLECTION; FEE.
   The Town of Akron shall provide curbside or roadside trash collection
service to commercial and residential entities located within the geographical
limits of Akron. The charge for basic service is $3 per bag of trash, and the
town may limit the size of a collected bag.
(Ord. 11-18-08A)
Statutory reference:
   Trash collection fees, see I.C. 36-9-2-16
RECYCLING
§ 50.20 FULTON COUNTY SOLID WASTE DISTRICT ORDINANCE PROHIBITING WRONGFUL
DEPOSITS APPROVED AND ADOPTED.
   The Fulton County Solid Waste Disposal Ordinance Prohibiting Deposits is
approved and adopted in its entirety.
(Ord. 10-17-2000, passed 11-21-00)
§ 50.21 RECYCLING BINS.
   Only materials designated on a recycling bin or a particular compartment of
the recycling bin may be deposited in that bin or particular compartment. Any
individual or entity who places or deposits solid or liquid materials or
matter, other than that material or matter designated for that particular bin
or compartment, is in violation of this subchapter and shall be fined the sum
determined by §
10.99.
(Ord. 10-17-2000, passed 11-21-00)
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
Connections
   
51.001   Definitions
   
51.002   Installation of sanitary facilities and connections to available
public sanitary or combined sewer required
   
51.003   Connection of drains carrying unpolluted waters limited to combined or
storm sewers or suitable natural outlets
   
51.004   Permit required to make connections to or use public sewers or storm
drains; application procedure
   
51.005   Liability of owner for costs of installation and connection to
building sewer; indemnification of town
   
51.006   Requirements for building sewer installation and connection
Private Sewage Disposal Systems
   
51.045   Definitions
   
51.046   Construction or maintenance of noncomplying private sewage disposal
systems prohibited
   
51.047   Permit required for construction of private disposal system; permit
and inspection fee
   
51.048   Validity of permit contingent on inspection and approval of
installation; inspection procedure
   
51.049   Construction and location requirements
   
51.050   Discharge to natural outlets prohibited
   
51.051   Requirements for construction and use of privies and outdoor water
closets
   
51.052   Owner's liability for maintenance on private sewage disposal systems
   
51.053   Availability of public sewer; abandonment and filling of private
systems
   
51.054   Notice to offenders
   
51.055   Liability of offender for costs and damages
   
51.056   Applicability of additional requirements of health officer
Regulations
   
51.070   Discharge of wastes to sewage system
   
51.071   Auxiliary equipment and pretreatment facilities
   
51.072   Inspection, testing and maintenance of sewer system
   
51.073   Obstruction of municipal sewer system unlawful
   
51.074   Notice of violations; time period for correction
   
51.075   Liability to town for occasioned damages
Service Rates and Charges
   
51.085   Definitions
   
51.086   Tap charges
   
51.087   Sanitary sewage service rate basis
   
51.088   Sanitary sewage service rates applicable to in-town users; rate
surcharge for users outside of town
   
51.089   Metered water users
   
51.090   Residential sewer users who are not users of municipal water supply;
flat monthly sewage rate applicable
   
51.091   Nonresidential sewer users not using municipal water supply;
determination of sewage volume for rate purposes
   
51.092   Further rates and charges based on unusual strength or character of
sewage; special treatment agreements
   
51.093   Sewage service billing procedure
   
51.094   Nonpayment of sewage service bills; write-offs
CONNECTIONS
§ 51.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AVAILABILITY OF A PUBLIC SEWER. This term means that:
      (1)   The public sewer is completed and ready for use in collecting
sewage;
      (2)   The public sewer and public sewage treatment facility have adequate
capacity and treatment methods to accept the quantity and character of sewage
produced on the particular premises;
      (3)   The public sewer lies within the maximum distance from the property
line of the premises as prescribed under §
51.002; and
      (4)   There exist no natural obstacles, nor man-made obstacles beyond the
control of the owner of the premises which would prevent the running of a
building sewer between the affected building or buildings and the public sewer
using reasonable, common and ordinary design, engineering and construction
methods.
   BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The County Health Officer or similar officers of the County
or State Board of Health having jurisdiction.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the town, through its
Town Council, to inspect and approve the installation of building sewers and
their connection to the public sewer system.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers with no particle greater than ½ inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting or nearby properties
have equal rights and is controlled by public authority. Unless otherwise
indicated, the term as used herein refers to a public sanitary or combined
sewer.
   SANITARY BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of the
sanitary drainage system inside the walls of any building which receives the
discharge from soil or waste stacks and branches and conveys the same to a
point three feet outside the building walls where it connects with its
respective building sewer.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. Any part of the sanitary, combined or storm sewer system and
related facilities for collection, treatment and disposal of sewage or drainage
as defined and described by I.C. 36-9-1-8.
   SEWER SYSTEM. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage, unpolluted drainage waters or other waste water.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage or unpolluted drainage waters
or wastewater to a place of disposal.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24
hour concentration of flows during normal operation.
   STORM DRAIN (sometimes termed STORM SEWER). A sewer which carries storm and
surface waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other
than unpolluted cooling water.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the municipal sewage works of the
town, or his or her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(`86 Code, § 2-4-1) (Ord. 6-9-70-3, passed - -; Am. Ord. 86-C2, passed 7-15-86)
§ 51.002 INSTALLATION OF SANITARY FACILITIES AND CONNECTIONS TO AVAILABLE
PUBLIC SANITARY OR COMBINED SEWER REQUIRED.
   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the town and abutting
on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located a public
sanitary or combined sewer of the town, is required at his or her expense to
install suitable toilet facilities therein and to connect the facilities
directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter within 90 days after date of official notice to do so, provided that
the public sewer is within 100 feet of the property line.
(`86 Code, § 2-4-2) (Ord. 6-9-70-3, passed - -; Am. Ord. 86-C2, passed 7-15-86)
§ 51.003 CONNECTION OF DRAINS CARRYING UNPOLLUTED WATERS LIMITED TO COMBINED OR
STORM SEWERS OR SUITABLE NATURAL OUTLETS.
   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such
sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers or to
a natural outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged on approval of the Superintendent
to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet. No person shall make
connection of roof downpours, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains or
other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building
drain which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary
sewer, nor discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water, surface water,
groundwater, roof runoff, sub-surface drainage, uncontaminated cooling water or
unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.For new
construction, all clear water flow shall be prohibited from connecting to
sanitary or combined sewers.
(`86 Code, §2-4-3) (Ord. 6-9-70-3, passed - -; Am. Ord. 86-C2, passed 7-15-86;
Am. Ord. 09-21-04B, passed 10-19-04)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.004 PERMIT REQUIRED TO MAKE CONNECTIONS TO OR USE PUBLIC SEWERS OR STORM
DRAINS; APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any public sanitary, combined or storm sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the town. It
shall be unlawful for any person to tap or connect with any sewer in the town
or any sewer hereafter constructed in the town without first procuring from the
town a permit so to do and paying the applicable permit and inspection fee or
tap fee as prescribed in this chapter. The owner or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the town. The permit application
shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information
considered pertinent in the judgment of the Inspector. A permit and inspection
fee or tap charge in the amount prescribed by §
51.086 (as applicable) shall be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer at the time the
application is filed.
(`86 Code, § 2-4-4) (Ord. 7, passed 1-2-39; Am. Ord. 86-C2, passed 7-15-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.005 LIABILITY OF OWNER FOR COSTS OF INSTALLATION AND CONNECTION TO
BUILDING SEWER; INDEMNIFICATION OF TOWN.
   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the town
from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer.
(`86 Code, § 2-4-5) (Ord. 6-9-70-3, passed - -; Am. Ord. 86-C2, passed 7-15-86)
§ 51.006 REQUIREMENTS FOR BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION AND CONNECTION.
   (A)   Safeguarding of excavations. All excavations for building sewer
installation shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to
protect the public from hazard.
(`86 Code, § 2-4-6)
   (B)   General design and construction standards for building sewers. The
size, slope, alignment and materials of construction of a building sewer, and
the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing, testing
and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of the
building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
town. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply. Whenever possible,
the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an elevation below the
basement floor. In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to
permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by the
building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and discharged to the
building sewer.
(`86 Code, § 2-4-7)
   (C)   Use of independent building sewers required; exceptions. A separate
and independent building sewer shall be provided for every building, except
where one building stands at the rear of another on an interior lot and no
private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear building through
an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building sewer from the front
building may be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one
building sewer.
(`86 Code, § 2-4-8)
   (D)   Requirements for reuse of old sewers . Old building sewers may be used
in connection with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and
test by the Inspector, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
(`86 Code, § 2-4-9)
   (E)   Inspection prior to connection; supervision of connection; connection
specifications. The applicant for the sewer connection permit shall notify the
Inspector when the building sewer or other drain is ready for inspection and
connection to the public sewer or storm drain. All connections made with any
sewer of the town shall be made under the direct supervision of the Inspector
or his or her representative, and the connections shall be made in the manner
the Inspector shall designate and in no other manner. The connection of the
building sewer into the public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the
building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
town or the procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M.
and W.P.C. Manual of Practice No. 9. All such connections shall be made
gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and
materials must be approved by the Superintendent before installation. In the
case of a connection to a public sanitary or combined sewer, the connection
shall be performed by employees or agents of the town. No backfilling or other
concealment of the building sewer system or other drain may be performed until
the inspection required under this section has been performed and all work
approved by the Inspector or representative.
(`86 Code, § 2-4-10) (Ord. 7, passed 1-2-39; Am. Ord. 86-C2, passed 7-15-86)
   (F)   Restoration of public property after completion. Streets, sidewalks,
parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be
restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
(`86 Code, § 2-4-11)
(Ord. 6-9-70-3, passed - -; Am. Ord. 86-C2, passed 7-15-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
§ 51.045 DEFINITIONS.
   Terms used in this subchapter have the same meanings ascribed to them under
§
51.001.
(`86 Code, § 3-3-1) (Ord. 6-9-70-3, passed - -; Am. Ord. 86-C1, passed 7-15-86)
§ 51.046 CONSTRUCTION OR MAINTENANCE OF NONCOMPLYING PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
SYSTEMS PROHIBITED.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage. Where a public sanitary or
combined sewer is not available under the provisions of §
51.002, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this chapter.
(`86 Code, § 3-3-2) (Ord. 6-9-70-3, passed - -; Am. Ord. 86-C1, passed 7-15-86)
§ 51.047 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CONSTRUCTION OF PRIVATE DISPOSAL SYSTEM; PERMIT
AND INSPECTION FEE.
   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal system, the
owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the Superintendent. The
application for the permit shall be made on a form furnished by the Clerk-
Treasurer which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and
other information as are deemed necessary by the Superintendent. A permit and
inspection fee of $100 shall be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer at the time the
application is filed.
(`86 Code, § 3-3-3) (Ord. 6-9-70-3, passed - -; Am. Ord. 86-C1, passed 7-15-86)
§ 51.048 VALIDITY OF PERMIT CONTINGENT ON INSPECTION AND APPROVAL OF
INSTALLATION; INSPECTION PROCEDURE.
   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Superintendent.
He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction
and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the Superintendent
when the work is ready for final inspection and before any underground portions
are covered. The inspection shall be made within 48 hours of the receipt of
notice by the Superintendent.
(`86 Code, § 3-3-4) (Ord. 6-9-70-3, passed - -; Am. Ord. 86-C1, passed 7-15-86)
§ 51.049 CONSTRUCTION AND LOCATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Applicability of State Board of Health recommendations. The type,
capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal system shall
comply with all recommendations of the State Board of Health of the State of
Indiana.
(`86 Code, § 3-3-5)
   (B)   Limitation on systems using subsurface soil absorption. No permit
shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system employing subsurface
soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is less than 10,000 square
feet.
(`86 Code, § 3-3-6)
(Ord. 6-9-70-3, passed - -; Am. Ord. 86-C1, passed 7-15-86)
§ 51.050 DISCHARGE TO NATURAL OUTLETS PROHIBITED.
   No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural
outlet.
(`86 Code, § 3-3-7) (Ord. 6-9-70-3, passed - -; Am. Ord. 86-C1, passed 7-15-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.051 REQUIREMENTS FOR CONSTRUCTION AND USE OF PRIVIES AND OUTDOOR WATER
CLOSETS.
   All owners of premises on which there are outdoor water closets or privies
shall provide the same with tight boxes that can be withdrawn, emptied and
disinfected at frequent intervals and shall cause all openings to be covered
with screen wire and the privies as made as nearly fly-proof as possible. It
shall be unlawful and it shall be a nuisance for any overflowing privy box or
vault to exist, and it shall be unlawful to fill up any old privy vault without
first emptying the same.
(`86 Code, § 3-3-8) (Ord. 6, passed - -)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.052 OWNER'S LIABILITY FOR MAINTENANCE OR PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities
in a sanitary manner at all times at no expense to the town.
(`86 Code, § 3-3-9) (Ord. 6-9-70-3, passed - -; Am. Ord. 86-C1, passed 7-15-86)
§ 51.053 AVAILABILITY OF PUBLIC SEWER; ABANDONMENT AND FILLING OF PRIVATE
SYSTEMS.
   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a
private sewage disposal system as provided in this chapter, a direct connection
shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with §§
51.001 et seq. and §§
51.070 et seq. within 90 days, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar
private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned, cleaned of sludge and
filled with clean bank-run gravel or dirt.
(`86 Code, § 3-3-10) (Ord. 6-9-70-3, passed - -; Am. Ord. 86-C1, passed 7-15-
86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.054 NOTICE TO OFFENDERS.
   Any person found to be violating any provision of this subchapter shall be
served by the town with written notice stating the nature of the violation and
providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The
offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently
cease all violations.
(`86 Code, § 3-3-11) (Ord. 6, passed - -; Ord. 6-9-70-3, passed - -; Am. Ord.
86-C3, passed 7-15-86; Am. Ord. 86-C2, passed 7-15-86)
§ 51.055 LIABILITY OF OFFENDER FOR COSTS AND DAMAGES.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this subchapter shall become
liable to the town for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the town by
reason of such violation.
(`86 Code, § 3-3-13) (Ord. 6, passed - -; Ord. 6-9-70-3, passed - -; Am. Ord.
86-C3, passed 7-15-86; Am. Ord. 86-C2, passed 7-15-86)
§ 51.056 APPLICABILITY OF ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS OF HEALTH OFFICER.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed to interfere with
any additional requirements that may be imposed by the health officer.
(`86 Code, § 3-3-14)
REGULATIONS
§ 51.070 DISCHARGE OF WASTES TO SEWAGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   General regulatory powers of town. The proper officers of the town are
authorized to prohibit the dumping of wastes into the town's sewage system
which in their discretion are deemed harmful to the operation of the town's
sewage disposal works.
(`86 Code, § 2-4-12)
   (B)   Certain substances or wastes prohibited. Except pursuant to a special
treatment agreement pursuant to §
51.092, no person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to a public sewer
any of the waters or wastes described as follows:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works; or
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like)
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
(`86 Code, § 2-4-13)
   (C)   Certain substances or wastes subject to prohibition or restriction at
discretion of Superintendent. 
      (1)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged certain
substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion of
the Superintendent that the wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage treatment
process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream or can
otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance. In
forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of
subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant and other pertinent factors. The substances which may be
prohibited or restricted by the Superintendent under this section are described
as follows:
         (a)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F
(65°C);
         (b)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32° and 150°F (0° and 65°C);
         (c)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
         (d)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes
or concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
         (e)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances, or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Superintendent for such materials;
         (f)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other
public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
         (g)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
         (h)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
         (i)   Materials which exert or cause:
            1.   Unusual concentrations of inert, suspended solids (such as,
but not limited to, fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate);
            2.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye
wastes and vegetable tanning solutions);
            3.   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements
in such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; or
            4.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
"slugs" as defined by §
51.001.
         (j)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
      (2)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged, to the public sewers which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated as follows, and which in the judgment of the
Superintendent may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes,
equipment or receiving waters or which otherwise create a hazard to life or
constitute a public nuisance, the Superintendent may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         (d)   Require payment, under the provisions of §
51.092, to cover the added cost of handling and treating the wastes not covered
by existing taxes or sewer charges.
(`86 Code, § 2-4-14)
(Ord. 6-9-70-3, passed - -; Am. Ord. 86-C2, passed 7-15-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.071 AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT AND PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   (A)   Use of garbage disposals of ¾ hp or more; approval of Superintendent.
The installation and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of
¾ horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Superintendent.
(`86 Code, § 2-4-15)
   (B)   Requirement of grease, oil and sand interceptors. Grease, oil and sand
interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of the Inspector, they are
necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease in
excessive amounts or any flammable wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients;
except that the interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters
of dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by
the Superintendent and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible
for cleaning and inspection.
(`86 Code, § 2-4-16)
   (C)   Pretreatment or flow equalizing facilities subject to approval of
Superintendent; maintenance of facilities. If the Superintendent permits the
pretreatment or equalization of waste flows under §
51.070, the design, plans and installation of the equipment shall be subject to
the review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the requirements
of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws. Where preliminary treatment or
flow-equalizing facilities are provided for any waters or wastes, they shall be
maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at
his or her expense.
(`86 Code, § 2-4-17)
   (D)   Requirement of control manhole and associated equipment in building
sewers carrying industrial waste. When required by the Superintendent, the
owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes
shall install a suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters
and other appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation,
sampling and measurement of the wastes. The manhole, when required, shall be
accessibly and safely located and shall be constructed in accordance with plans
approved by the Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at
his or her expense and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and
accessible at all times.
(`86 Code, § 2-4-18)
(Ord. 6-9-70-3, passed - -; Am. Ord. 86-C2, passed 7-15-86)
§ 51.072 INSPECTION, TESTING AND MAINTENANCE OF SEWER SYSTEM.
   (A)   Right of access to easements. The Superintendent and other duly
authorized employees of the town bearing proper credentials and identification
shall be permitted to enter all private properties through which the town holds
a duly negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of
the sewage works lying within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if
any, on the easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the
duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(`86 Code, § 2-4-19)
   (B)   Right of access to private properties generally. The Superintendent,
Inspector and other duly authorized employees of the town bearing proper
credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all properties for
the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(`86 Code, § 2-4-20)
   (C)   Observance of company safety rules; indemnification of companies.
While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in
division (B) of this section, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees
of the town shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises
established by the company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or
death to the town's employees, and the town shall indemnify the company against
loss or damage to its property by town employees and against liability claims
and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company
and growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be
caused by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as
required in §
51.071(D).
(`86 Code, § 2-4-21)
   (D)   Confidentiality of industrial processes. The Superintendent or his or
her representatives shall have no authority to inquire into any processes,
including metallurgical, chemical, oil refining, ceramic, paper or other
industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and source of
discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste treatment.
(`86 Code, § 2-4-22)
   (E)   Character and standards of tests and measures. All measurements, tests
and analyses of the characteristics of waters and wastes to which reference is
made in this chapter shall be determined in accordance with the latest edition
of "Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater," published by
the American Public Health Association and shall be determined at the control
manhole provided or upon suitable samples taken at the control manhole. In the
event that no special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be
considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the
point at which the building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out
by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the
sewage works and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb and
property. (The particular analyses involved will determine whether a 24 hour
composite of all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample
or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids
analyses are obtained from 24 hour composites of all outfalls whereas pH's are
determined from periodic grab samples.)
(`86 Code, § 2-4-23)
(Ord. 6-9-70-3, passed - -; Am. Ord. 86-C2, passed 7-15-86)
§ 51.073 OBSTRUCTION OF MUNICIPAL SEWER SYSTEM UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to obstruct in any manner any
public sanitary, combined or storm sewer operated by the town or any sewer
hereafter constructed by the town.
(`86 Code, § 2-4-24) (Ord. 7, passed - -; Am. Ord. 86-C2, passed 7-15-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.074 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS; TIME PERIOD FOR CORRECTION.
   Any person found to be violating any provision of this subchapter shall be
served by the town with written notice stating the nature of the violation and
providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The
offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently
cease all violations.
(`86 Code, § 2-4-25) (Ord. 6-9-70-3, passed - -; Am. Ord. 86-C2, passed 7-15-
86)
§ 51.075 LIABILITY TO TOWN FOR OCCASIONED DAMAGES.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this subchapter shall become
liable to the town for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the town by
reason of such violation.
(`86 Code, § 2-4-27) (Ord. 6-9-70-3, passed - -; Am. Ord. 86-C2, passed 7-15-
86)
SERVICE RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.085 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid waste or liquid-borne waste resulting from any
commercial, manufacturing or industrial operation or process.
   SANITARY WASTE. Waste from water closets, urinals, lavatories, sinks, bath
tubs, showers, household laundries, basement drains, garage floor drains, bars,
soda fountains, cuspidors, refrigerator drips, drinking fountains, stable floor
drains and all other water-carried waste except industrial waste.
(`86 Code, § 2-3-1) (Ord. 6-9-70-2, passed - -)
§ 51.086 TAP CHARGES.
   (A)   Public storm sewers. For a permit to make a direct connection of any
private storm drain or other drain carrying unpolluted waters into a
municipally operated storm sewer or drain, a permit and inspection fee of$25
shall be paid to the town at the time application is made. The fee is
refundable in full if the permit is denied. The revenues from this fee are
considered general revenues of the town and not as revenues of the sewage works
and will accrue to the General Fund. (`86 Code, § 2-3-2)
   (B)   Public sanitary or combined sewers. For initially tapping into any
sanitary or combined sewer owned or operated by the town, the person requesting
the connection shall pay a connection charge of $600 to the town. This charge
applies to all user classes and is payable at the time a connection permit is
applied for and before any tap is made. In the event the permit is denied, the
charge shall be refunded in full. The connection charge covers all costs and
services of the town in relation to making the tap and also includes and is in
lieu of all other permit and inspection fees. Revenues from this charge shall
be considered as net revenues of the sewage works and distributed in the same
manner as other sewage works revenues. (`86 Code, § 2-3-3)
(Ord. 6-9-70-2, passed - -; Am. Ord. 86-C2, passed 7-15-86;; Am. Ord. 5-17-
2016, passed 6-21-16; Am. Ord. 4-23-2018B, passed 5-21-18)
§ 51.087 SANITARY SEWAGE SERVICE RATE BASIS.
   Except as otherwise provided by §§
51.089 through
51.092, the sewage rates and charges shall be based on the quantity of water
used on or in the property or premises subject to such use. The charges apply
only to the discharge of any sewage, wastes or unpolluted waters into the
town's sanitary or combined sewers where the effluent is subject to treatment
by the town. The charges do not apply to the discharge of unpolluted waters
into the town's storm sewers or drains.
(`86 Code, § 2-3-4) (Ord. 6-9-70-2, passed - -; Am. Ord. 86-C2, passed 7-15-86;
Am. Ord. 5-17-2016, passed 6-21-16; Am. Ord. 4-23-2018B, passed 5-21-18)
§ 51.088 SANITARY SEWAGE SERVICE RATES APPLICABLE TO IN-TOWN USERS; RATE
SURCHARGE FOR USERS OUTSIDE OF TOWN.
   The rates of charge as fixed under §
51.089(A) through (C) or §
51.090 apply only to sewer users within the corporate limits of the town.
Charges to users outside the corporation limits of the town will be billed at
the same rates and charges as users within the corporation limits. All other
provisions of this chapter apply equally both within and outside of the town.
(`86 Code, § 2-3-5) (Ord. 6-9-70-2, passed - -; Am. Ord. 86-C2, passed 7-15-86;
Am. Ord. 5-17-2016, passed 6-21-16; Am. Ord. 4-23-2018B, passed 5-21-18)
§ 51.089 METERED WATER USERS.
   (A)   Minimum monthly sewage charge; general users. Except when a higher
charge would apply under divisions (B) through (E) of this section, as
applicable, the minimum charge for sewage service, where the user is a metered
water consumers shall be based upon the meter size as follows.
Water Meter Size Minimum Monthly Charge
Water Meter Size Minimum Monthly Charge
5/8"-¾" Meter   $27.08
1" Meter         $34.61
1 ¼" Meter      $45.81
1 ½" Meter      $76.95
2" Meter         $114.91
3" Meter         $191.28
4" Meter         $287.01
6" Meter         $478.28
 
(`86 Code, § 2-3-6) (Am. Ord. 1-9-01A, passed 1-23-01; Am. Ord. 10-21-03A,
passed 12-16-03; Am. Ord. 09-20-05B, passed 10-18-05; Am. Ord. 5-17-2016,
passed 6-21-16; Am. Ord. 4-23-2018B, passed 5-21-18)
   (B)   Monthly sewage rates based on water consumption; general users. Except
where a higher charge would apply under division (A) of this section, or except
as otherwise provided under divisions (C) through (E) of this section and §§
51.090 and
51.091, sewage service rates, based upon the amount of water used, shall be as
follows.
 
Quantity of Water Used Rate Per 1,000 Gallons
First 2,000 Gallons    $13.54
Next 3,000 Gallons     $12.24
Next 10,000 Gallons    $10.92
Next 35,000 Gallons    $9.55
Next 50,000 Gallons    $8.22
Over 100,000 Gallons   $6.92
 
(`86 Code, § 2-3-7) (Am. Ord. 1996-12-30, passed 12-30-96; Am. Ord. 1-9-01A,
passed 1-23-01; Am. Ord. 10-21-03A, passed 12-16-03; Am. Ord. 09-20-05B, passed
10-18-05; Am. Ord. 5-17-2016, passed 6-21-16; Am. Ord. 4-23-2018B, passed 5-21-
18)
   (C)   Multiple residential or domestic users on single water meter;
determination and distribution of charges. In the event that multiple dwellings
or residential properties are discharging sanitary sewage, water or other
liquids into the town's sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly,
and are users of water and the quantity of water is measured by a single water
meter, then in such case, for billing purposes, the applicable sewage charges
shall be determined as follows:
      (1)   Two or more residential lots, parcels of real estate or buildings.
In this case, the quantity of water used shall be averaged for each user and
the minimum charge under division (A) of this section and the sewage rates aud
charges under division (B) of this section shall apply to each of the number of
residential lots, parcels of real estate or buildings served through the single
water meter.
      (2)   Apartments, housekeeping rooms, trailer parks and the like. In the
case of apartment buildings, housekeeping establishments, trailer parks and the
like having two or more dwelling units, the charge shall be computed in
accordance with divisions (A) and (B) of this section except that the minimum
monthly billing shall be computed by multiplying the monthly charge of $27.08
by the number of dwelling units served through the single meter. A dwelling
unit shall be interpreted as a room or any other space in which cooking
facilities are provided.
(`86 Code, § 2-3-8) (Am. Ord. 1-9-01A, passed 1-23-01; Am. Ord. 10-21-03A,
passed 12-16-03; Am. Ord. 09-20-05B, passed 10-18-05; Am. Ord. 5-17-2016,
passed 6-21-16; Am. Ord. 4-23-2018B, passed 5-21-18)
   (D)   Sprinkling adjustment for domestic users during summer months. In
order that domestic and residential users of sewage services shall not be
penalized for sprinkling lawns during the summer months of May, June, July and
August, the billing for sewage services for residential and/or domestic users
for the months shall be based upon the average water usage for previous months
of December, January, February and March, if such usage is lower than the
summer months. The sprinkling rate shall not apply to any premises which are
partially or wholly used for commercial or industrial purposes. In the event a
portion of the premises shall be used for commercial or industrial purposes,
the owner shall have the privilege of separating the water service so that the
residential portion of the premises is served through a separate water meter,
and in such case the water usage as registered by the water meter serving the
portion of the premises used for residential purposes would qualify under the
sprinkling rate.
(`86 Code, § 2-3-9) (Am. Ord. 5-17-2016, passed 6-21-16; Am. Ord. 4-23-2018B,
passed 5-21-18)
   (E)   Premises also discharging sewage derived from unmetered water sources;
determination of water usage for sewage purposes. In the event a lot, parcel of
real estate or building discharging sanitary sewage, industrial waste, water or
other liquids into the town's sanitary sewage system, either directly or
indirectly, is a user of water supplied by the water utility serving the town
and in addition uses water from another source which is not measured by a water
meter or is measured by a water meter not acceptable to the town, then the
amount of water used shall be otherwise measured or determined by the town in
order to ascertain the rates of charge applicable under divisions (A) through
(D) of this section, or the owner or other interested patty, at his or her
expense, may install and maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring devices
or any adequate and approved method of measurement acceptable to the town for
the determination of sewage discharge.
(`86 Code, § 2-3-10) (Am. Ord. 4-23-2018B, passed 5-21-18)
   (F)   Rate adjustment for water not discharged to sewage system;
determination of sewage volume for rate purposes. In the event a lot, parcel of
real estate or building discharges sanitary sewage, industrial waste, water or
other liquids into the town's sanitary sewage system, either directly or
indirectly, and uses water in excess of 30,000 gallons per quarter, and it can
be shown to the satisfaction of the town that a portion of water as measured by
the water meter or meters does not and cannot enter the sanitary sewage system,
then the owner or other interested patty shall install and maintain meters,
weirs, volumetric measuring devices or any adequate and approved method of
measurement acceptable to the town for the determination of sewage discharge.
(`86 Code, § 2-3-11) (Ord. 6-9-70-2, passed - -; Am. Ord. 5-17-2016, passed 6-
21-16; Am. Ord. 4-23-2018B, passed 5-21-18)
§ 51.090 RESIDENTIAL SEWER USERS WHO ARE NOT USERS OF MUNICIPAL WATER SUPPLY;
FLAT MONTHLY SEWAGE RATE APPLICABLE.
   In cases of residential sewage service where the customer is not a user of
the municipal water supply, a flat rate charge for sewage service of $63.80 per
month shall be made.
(`86 Code, § 2-3-12) (Ord. 6-9-70-2, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1-9-01A, passed 1-23-
01 ; Am. Ord. 5-17-2016, passed 6-21-16; Am. Ord. 4-23-2018B, passed 5-21-18)
§ 51.091 NONRESIDENTIAL SEWER USERS NOT USING MUNICIPAL WATER SUPPLY;
DETERMINATION OF SEWAGE VOLUME FOR RATE PURPOSES.
   In cases other than residential sewage service, the quantity of water
obtained from sources other than the water utility serving the town and
discharged into the public sanitary sewage system may be determined by the town
in such manner as the proper officers of the town shall elect, and the sewage
services may be billed at the above appropriate rates. Except in cases of
residential sewage service, in the event a lot, parcel of real estate or
building discharging sanitary sewage, industrial waste, water or other liquids
into the town's sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly, is not a
user of the water supplied by the water utility serving the town, and the water
used thereon or therein is not measured by a meter or is measured by a meter
not acceptable to the town, then the amount of water used shall be otherwise
measured or determined by the town in order to ascertain the rates of charge
applicable under §
51.089(A) through (F), or the owner or other interested party, at his or her
expense, may install and maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring devices
or any adequate and approved method of measurement acceptable to the town for
the determination of the sewage discharge.
(`86 Code, § 2-3-13) (Ord. 6-9-70-2, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1-9-01A, passed 1-23-
01 ; Am. Ord. 5-17-2016, passed 6-21-16; Am. Ord. 4-23-2018B, passed 5-21-18)
§ 51.092 FURTHER RATES AND CHARGES BASED ON UNUSUAL STRENGTH OR CHARACTER OF
SEWAGE; SPECIAL TREATMENT AGREEMENTS.
   In order that the rates and charges may be justly and equitably adjusted to
the services rendered, the town shall have the right to base its charges not
only on volume but also on the strength and character of the sewage and waste
which it is required to treat and dispose. The town shall have the right to
measure and determine the strength and content of all sewage and waste
discharged, either directly or indirectly, into the town's sanitary sewage
system in such mam1er and by such method as may be deemed practical in the
light of the conditions and attending circumstances of the case in order to
determine the proper charge. Notwithstanding any restriction under § 51-001 et
seq. or § 51-070 et seq., the town may enter into any special agreement or
arrangement between the town and any industrial concern whereby an industrial
waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by the town for
treatment, subject to payment therefore by the industrial concern.
(`86 Code, § 2-3-14) (Ord. 6-9-70-2, passed - -; Am. Ord. 5-17-2016, passed 6-
21-16; Am. Ord. 4-23-2018B, passed 5-21-18)
§ 51.093 SEWAGE SERVICE BILLING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Liability of owner for bills; billing to tenants. The rates and
charges shall be prepared and billed by the town and shall be collected in the
manner provided by law and ordinance. The owner of record of the property to
which service was rendered as of the date of issuance of the bill is presumed
liable therefore, notwithstanding any provisions of private leases, contracts
and the like to the contrary. The rates and charges may be billed to the tenant
or tenants occupying the property served unless requested in writing by the
owners, but the billing shall in no way release the owners from liability in
the event payment is not made as herein required. The owners of properties
served which are occupied by tenants shall have the right to examine the
collection records of the town for the purpose of determining whether the rates
and charges have been paid by the tenants, provided that the examination shall
be at the office in which the records are kept and during the hours that the
office is open for business.
   (B)   Monthly billing cycle; estimated monthly bills. Billing for sewage
rates and charges shall be made monthly and such rates and charges, except as
herein above provided, shall be based upon the quantity of water used on or in
the property or premises as the same is measured by the water meter there in
use, and the metered water usage shall be determined from the meter reading of
the town's waterworks.
   (C)   Payment due date: delinquency charges. All bills for sewage service
charges shall be due and payable in full within 15 days of the date of issuance
of the bill. Any portion of the bill which remains unpaid after such period of
time is subject to an additional delinquency charge of 10% in accordance with
I.C. 36-9-23-31.
(`86 Code, § 2-3-17) (Ord. 6-9-70-2, passed - -; Am. Ord. 5-17-2016, passed 6-
21-16; Am. Ord. 4-23-2018B, passed 5-21-18)
§ 51.094 NONPAYMENT OF SEWAGE SERVICE BILLS; WRITE-OFFS.
   (A)   Enforcement and collection procedures. Payment of the bill and
delinquency charges may be enforced in any or a combination of the following
ways:
      (1)   By bringing a civil action against the property owner in the name
of the town in accordance with I.C. 36-9-23-31;
      (2)   By attaching a lien to the property to which sewage service was
rendered in accordance with I.C. 36-9-23-32, 36-9-23-33; or
      (3)   In the manner provided by division (B) of this section.
   (B)   Disconnection of water service to affected property; procedure. In
accordance with its powers under I.C. 8-1.5-3-4( d), the Town Council reserves
the right, at its discretion, to direct the appropriate authorities of the
municipal water utility to discontinue water service to any property served by
the water utility and for which any portion of the bill (including applicable
delinquency charges) for municipal sanitary services also rendered to the
property has remained unpaid for more than 30 days after the date when it is
due. The Town Council shall cause the affected water customer to be given at
least ten days prior written notice, sent by certified mail to his or her last
known address, of its intent to discontinue water service under this section.
It does not bar the issuance or execution of an order under this section that
the person receiving or benefitting from the water service may be different
from the person responsible for the payment of the overdue sewer bill. The Town
Council may stay its order if it is shown to its satisfaction that the failure
to pay the sewer bill is due to financial hardships or other extraordinary
causes and that the person owing the sewer bill intends in good faith and will
be able to pay same within a reasonable further period of time acceptable to
the Council. Otherwise, water service will be resumed only when the sewer bill
and any delinquency charges are fully paid.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to write-off delinquent wastewater
service accounts if all the following conditions have been satisfied:
      (1)   A lien has been filed against the real estate by the town's sewer
system;
      (2)   The outstanding balance is not more than $500; and
      (3)   All reasonable means of collecting the account have been exhausted
and that account is more than 180 days delinquent.
(`86 Code, § 2-3-19) (Ord. 86-C1, passed 7-15-86; Am. Ord. 117-2006, passed 2-
21-06 ; Am. Ord. 5-17- 2016, passed 6-21-16; Am. Ord. 4-23-2018B, passed 5-21-
18)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Removing the Water Department Utility of the town from the supervision
of the jurisdiction of the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission
Water Utility Administration and Finance
   
52.15   Town Council designated as governing body of municipal water utility
   
52.16   Town Clerk-Treasurer designated as fiscal officer; salary appointment
   
52.17   Water Utility Cash Reserve Fund created; deposit and disposition of
funds
   
52.18   Water utility billing deposits
   
52.19   Investment of Water Utility Funds authorized
   
52.20   Water rates and charges to provide reasonable return on investment and
in lieu of property taxes
   
52.21   Responsibility for maintenance
Rates and Charges
   
52.35   Water tap charge
   
52.36   Water utility billing (meter) deposit
   
52.37   Minimum quarterly water service charges
   
52.38   Metered water usage rates
   
52.39   Charges applicable to temporary users; estimated volumetric usage
   
52.40   Fire protection availability rates
   
52.41   Delinquent water bills; collection and deferred payment charge; write-
offs
   
52.42   Reconnection fee
   
52.43   Access to property for meter reading
   
52.44   Adjustments for water bills with undetected leaks
Cross Connections
   
52.50   Cross connections prohibited
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 REMOVING THE WATER DEPARTMENT UTILITY OF THE TOWN FROM THE SUPERVISION
OF THE JURISDICTION OF THE INDIANA UTILITY REGULATORY COMMISSION.
   The Akron Water Department is removed from the jurisdiction of the Indiana
Utility Regulatory Commission for the approval of rates and charges made by the
Department and for the approval of any stocks, bonds, notes or other evidence
of indebtedness by the utility.
(Ord. 90-2, passed 12-18-90)
WATER UTILITY ADMINISTRATION AND FINANCE
§ 52.15 TOWN COUNCIL DESIGNATED AS GOVERNING BODY OF MUNICIPAL WATER UTILITY.
   Whereas I.C. 8-1.5-3-3 requires that a municipality operating a municipally
owned utility prescribe by ordinance who shall constitute the governing body of
the utility, the Town Council is designated ex officio as the governing body of
the water utility of the Town of Akron. All references in statutes or
ordinances to such governing body or a "Utility Service Board" shall be
construed as references to the Town Council in respect to the municipal water
utility.
(`86 Code, § 2-6-1) (Ord. 86-C1, passed 7-15-86)
§ 52.16 TOWN CLERK-TREASURER DESIGNATED AS FISCAL OFFICER; SALARY APPOINTMENT.
   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town is designated and appointed ex officio as
the fiscal officer of the water utility of the town and all references in
statutes or ordinances to such fiscal officer shall be construed as references
to the Clerk-Treasurer. In consideration of service in such capacity, a
reasonable and equitable portion of the salary otherwise fixed for the Clerk-
Treasurer, as determined by the Town Council, may be attributed as an operating
cost of the municipal water utility and paid from appropriate funds of the
utility rather than from the funds of the civil town.
(`86 Code, § 2-6-2) (Ord. 86-C1, passed 7-15-86)
§ 52.17 WATER UTILITY CASH RESERVE FUND CREATED; DEPOSIT AND DISPOSITION OF
FUNDS.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-3-11(b), there is created a special
nonreverting fund to be known as the "Water Utility Cash Reserve Fund." All or
a portion of any surplus revenues of the water utility of the town, as defined
by I.C. 8-1.5-3-11(c) and as determined monthly by the governing body of the
utility, may be deposited in or transferred to the Water Utility Cash Reserve
Fund. Moneys on deposit in the Water Utility Cash Reserve Fund may be disposed
or used as follows.
      (1)   They may, upon authorization of the utility governing body, be
loaned to another municipally owned utility, at a rate of interest to be
determined by the governing body, for a period not to exceed five years in
accordance with I.C. 8-1.5-3-11(f) or may be loaned without interest to a fund
of the civil town for a period not to exceed December 31 of the then current
year in accordance with I.C. 36-1-8-4 and I.C. 8-1.5-3-12;
      (2)   They may, upon order of the governing body of the utility, be
reallocated to the Operating and Maintenance Fund, Sinking Fund or other fund
of the utility if necessary to meet expenses or legal obligations; or
      (3)   To the extent not otherwise committed and disposed under
subsections (1) or (2), and subject to any further restrictions which may
pertain pursuant to any ordinance governing any waterworks revenue bonds then
outstanding, all or a portion of the amount on deposit in the Water Utility
Cash Reserve Fund as of June 30 of each year (or, in an emergency, that may be
on deposit at any other times) may by order of the Town Council be permanently
transferred to the town General Fund and may then be budgeted, appropriated and
expended for any purpose for which General Fund revenues may be used, all as
provided by I.C. 8-1.5-3-11(d).
   (B)   Moneys in the Water Utility Cash Reserve Fund may also be invested in
the manner hereinafter provided.
(`86 Code, § 2-6-3) (Ord. 86-C1, passed 7-15-86)
§ 52.18 WATER UTILITY BILLING DEPOSITS.
   (A)   Water Deposit Fund established; administration of fund. The fiscal
officer of the municipal water utility shall establish and maintain on the
books of the utility a special nonreverting fund to be known as the "Water
Deposit Fund." Every deposit tendered and received under §
52.36 shall be credited to this fund and to a specific book account in the name
of the customer making the deposit. Moneys in the Water Deposit Fund shall be
held in the manner of public trust funds and shall not be considered as
revenues of the water utility nor of the civil town for any purpose but may
only be applied and transferred or refunded as hereinafter provided. However,
moneys in the fund may be invested in the same manner as other water utility
funds in accordance with §
52.19 and other applicable laws and regulations, with the exception that should
the utility hereafter be required to pay interest on the deposits by virtue of
any statute, ordinance or PSC regulation, the investment shall be made in
securities or accounts bearing interest at a rate not less than that which is
required to be paid on the deposits, and the earnings from the investment
sufficient to pay the interest shall accrue to the Water Deposit Fund and only
the excess earnings, if any, shall accrue to the Water Utility Cash Reserve
Fund.
(`86 Code, § 2-6-4)
   (B)   Application to customer's final bill; refund of remainder. When water
service to any customer is permanently terminated for any reason, the fiscal
officer of the utility within 15 days of the termination shall prepare a final
bill for the customer reflecting all rates, costs or other charges then owing
to the utility by the customer and unpaid through the date of termination of
service from the gross bill, the fiscal officer shall deduct and credit the
amount of the customer's deposit under §
52.36 and shall then send the customer (or his or her estate) a net bill if the
amount owed exceeds the total amount credited to the customer's deposit account
or shall send the customer (or his or her estate) a refund check written on the
Water Deposit Fund in the amount by which the customer's deposit credit exceeds
the amount of the gross final bill if the latter is the case. Deposit refunds
when determined under this section shall be considered as trust and legal
obligations of the Fund and may be paid without appropriation or allowance of
the claim. All amounts deducted from the final bill shall be transferred from
the Water Deposit Fund to the water utility and treated as revenues of the
utility as though tendered in ordinary payment of the billings owed.
(`86 Code, § 2-6-5)
   (C)   Unrefundable deposit remainders; deduction of carrying costs from
deposit account. The fiscal officer of the utility shall make all reasonable
effort to deliver any deposit remainder (after deductions) owing to the
customer under the provisions of division (B) of this section. However, if the
refund cannot be made within 30 days after the date of the final bill, either
because the customer's whereabouts cannot be ascertained or for any other good
reason, the customer's deposit account shall be kept open and the deposit
remainder continue to be credited thereto, without interest, until claimed by
the customer or his or her legal representative. However, from and after such
30 days following the date of the final bill, carrying costs equal to 8.33% of
the amount of the original unrefunded deposit remainder shall apply to the
account each month and be deducted from the account until such time as the net
deposit remainder is claimed or the total amount of the account is exhausted.
Carrying cost deductions made under this section shall escheat to and become
the property of the town and shall be transferred to the Water Utility Cash
Reserve Fund, and the customer (or his or her estate) shall have no further
claim on such moneys.
(`86 Code, § 2-6-6)
   (D)   Subordination of rules and procedures to superior statutes and
regulations. Nothing in the rules and procedures set forth under divisions (A)
through (C) may be construed to contravene any contrary rule or procedure for
the administration or disposition of utility deposits as prescribed by statute
or rules of the Public Service Commission of Indiana, State Board of Accounts
or any other superior authority having jurisdiction as now or hereafter in
effect, and any of the above provisions shall be subordinate to and void to the
extent in conflict therewith.
(`86 Code, § 2-6-7)
(Ord. 86-C1, passed 7-15-86)
§ 52.19 INVESTMENT OF WATER UTILITY FUNDS AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The fiscal officer of the municipal water utility may invest or
reinvest any funds held on deposit with the water utility and not reasonably
anticipated to be required for immediate expenditure. Subject to any further
requirements or restrictions governing any waterworks revenue bonds as may then
be outstanding and subject to the provisions of §
52.18(A), if applicable:
      (1)   The investment may be made in any interest-bearing accounts or
securities as are lawful for the investment of other public funds under I.C. 5-
13-9;
      (2)   Any initial transaction fees may be paid out of the principal
invested but shall be returned to the fund of origin out of interest, capital
gains or other earnings on the investment, as shall any terminal transaction
fees, before distribution of any such earnings; and
      (3)   All net interest, capital gains or other earnings resulting from
the investment shall accrue to the Water Utility Cash Reserve Fund and only the
principal shall be credited back to the utility fund or origin.
   (B)   The utility fiscal officer will not be held personally liable for any
loss of principal which may occur by virtue of the investment when it has been
made in good faith and in accordance with this section and other applicable
statutes and ordinances.
(`86 Code, § 2-6-8) (Ord. 86-C1, passed 7-15-86)
§ 52.20 WATER RATES AND CHARGES TO PROVIDE REASONABLE RETURN ON INVESTMENT AND
IN LIEU OF PROPERTY TAXES.
   (A)   It is declared to be the intent and policy of the Town Council that in
the future all new water rates and charges established by the town and approved
by the Public Service Commission of Indiana should be sufficient not only to
fund those expenses and obligations of the water utility as set forth in I.C.
8-1.5-3-8(c), but also:
      (1)   To provide the town with a reasonable return on its capital
investment in the water utility plant and distribution system; and
      (2)   To provide the town with a reasonable return in lieu of property
taxes (ILPT) on the assessed value of the plant and distribution system.
   (B)   For purposes of subsection (A)(1), the Town Council shall expressly
declare, as a provision of its water rate request and proposed rate ordinance,
the percentage earning factor which it has deemed "reasonable," which shall not
exceed the rate of return which the town could earn were it to invest an amount
of funds, equal to the then current capital evaluation of the water utility, in
the highest yielding security or account in which town funds may lawfully be
invested under I.C. 5-13-9 as available during the week when the proposed water
rates are adopted; or, in the absence of any such more particular and
definitive criterion, the Town Council may base its judgment and request on the
one year U.S. Treasury "money market," rate for such week as determined and
published by the Federal Reserve Bank of the United States. For purposes of
subsection (A)(2), the ILPT water rate factor shall be based on the application
of the total civil town property tax rate as in effect for the then current
fiscal year to the assessed valuation of the portions of the water utility
plant and distribution system which would be subject to municipal property
taxes were the utility privately owned, as such assessed valuation is
determined by the Public Service Commission and State Board of Tax
Commissioners. This section does not affect any water rates and charges as now
fixed under the provisions of §§
52.35 et seq. but applies only to new rate requests and amendments thereto
which may be adopted and submitted after this section takes effect.
(`86 Code, § 2-6-9) (Ord. 86-C1, passed 7-15-86)
§ 52.21 RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Definitions. For purposes of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BACK FLOW DEVICE. A device designed to restrict water flow into the water
system.
      CORPORATION. A device designed to connect a water service to a water
main.
      CURB BOX. A device designed to provide access to a curb stop.
      CURB STOP. A device designed to control the flow of water within a
service line from a water main.
      METER. A device that records gallons of water used.
      WATER MAIN. A pipe, or system of pipes and fittings, designed and used to
distribute water to the water service of any customer.
   (B)   Responsibility.
      (1)   Town. The town shall maintain ownership of the water main, the
corporation, the curb box and the curb stop on the town's side of the property
line.
      (2)   Property owner. Property owners shall bear responsibility for their
water system beginning at the curb box facing their property line and ending
with their home water pipes, including the cost of installation, maintenance,
repair, replacement or abandonment, except that:
         (a)   Installation of the meter shall be performed by the town. The
cost of the meter and any costs associated with its installation shall be the
responsibility of the property owner.
         (b)   The replacement or repair of a defective meter shall be
performed by the town at its expense. The repair or replacement of a damaged
meter shall be performed by the town.
         (c)   Repair, replacement or abandonment of a water service by a
property owner must be performed by a contractor hired or approved by the town.
The cost shall be borne by the property owner.
         (d)   The town shall at all times have the right to inspect, repair or
otherwise service the meter, pipes and equipment.
(Ord. 12-21-2010, passed 1-18-11)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 52.35 WATER TAP CHARGE.
   For installing an initial connection to the water utility main, there shall
be a tap charge based on meter size as follows:
 
Meter Size   Charge
5/8" or less $450
1'           $550
             Actual cost of installation including materials, labor and other
Over 1"      costs, but not less than the average cost of installing a 1"
             meter.
(`86 Code, § 2-5-1) (Ord. 80-10, passed 10-23-80; Am. Ord. 10-16-01, passed 11-
20-01)
§ 52.36 WATER UTILITY BILLING (METER) DEPOSIT.
   (A)   Whenever water service by the municipal water utility is first
initiated to any premises, or whenever liability for payment for water service
then rendered to any existing premises is transferred to and assumed by a
different person, the new customer shall be required to post a deposit with the
water utility as a guarantee against future payment to the town of water
service bills and charges. The amount of the deposit is set and affirmed as
follows.
 
Service Class Custom Status  Deposit
All           Property Owner   $100
All           Renter           $100
 
   (B)   Any amendments to the above schedule shall hereafter require the
approval of the Town Council before taking effect. In the case of new service,
the deposit must be paid before the meter is set or water turned on; in the
case of continuing service where billing liability is assumed by a different
customer, payment must be made prior to the date of the first water bill for
which such new person is liable. Deposits shall be credited to the Water
Deposit Fund and administered accordingly. Failure to make the deposit by the
time stipulated will be grounds for denial or discontinuance of water service.
For purposes of this section, "customer" refers to the person who is
responsible for payment of water bills, as shown on the records of the utility,
and not necessarily to the person actually receiving or benefitting from the
water service. "Renter" means any customer who has rights of occupancy or
similar proprietary powers over the use and disposition of the premises served,
either transferable or nontransferable, but who is not an owner of the property
or a direct agent of an owner.
(`86 Code, § 2-5-2) (Ord. 86-C1, passed 7-15-86; Am. Ord. 9-15-09, passed 9-15-
09)
§ 52.37 MINIMUM QUARTERLY WATER SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   Except in the case of service described by §§
52.39 and
52.40 of this chapter, or unless a higher charge results from the application
of the metered usage rates set forth in §
52.38 hereafter, every user of water service shall pay a minimum charge based
on meter size as follows.
Monthly Minimum Charge (All Users)
Water Meter Size Minimum Monthly Charge
                 Phase I       Phase II  Phase III
                 Effective     Effective Effective
                 Upon Adoption 1/1/16    1/1/17
Monthly Minimum Charge (All Users)
Water Meter Size Minimum Monthly Charge
                 Phase I       Phase II  Phase III
                 Effective     Effective Effective
                 Upon Adoption 1/1/16    1/1/17
5/8" - 3/4"      $13.56        $14.10    $14.72
1"               $28.20        $29.35    $30.60
1-1/4"           $42.60        $44.30    $46.25
1-1/2"           $56.05        $58.30    $60.85
2"               $70.30        $73.10    $76.35
3"               $141.15       $146.80   $153.20
4"               $212.70       $221.20   $230.90
 
   (B)   In addition to the above minimum monthly charges based on a
consumption allowance and the metered rates following in §
52.38 based on actual water usage, the following monthly charge will apply to
each bill in order to collect one-half of the town's municipal hydrant rental.
Monthly Minimum Charge (All Users)   
Water Meter Size Minimum Monthly Charge
Monthly Minimum Charge (All Users)   
Water Meter Size Minimum Monthly Charge
5/8" - 3/4"      $16.03
1"               $33.30
1-1/4"           $50.35
1-1/2"           $66.25
2"               $83.05
3"               $166.70
4"               $251.25
 
   (B)   In addition to the above minimum monthly charges based on a
consumption allowance and the metered rates following in § 52.38 based on
actual water usage, the following monthly charge will apply to each bill in
order to collect one-half of the town's municipal hydrant rental.
 
Monthly charge per bill: $4.75
 
(`86 Code, § 2-5-3) (Ord. 80-10, passed 10-23-80; Am. Ord. 1998-01-05, passed
1-5-98; Am. Ord. 01-20-04, passed 1-20-04; Am. Ord. 09-20-05A, passed 10-18-05;
Am. Ord. 03-20-07, passed 4-17-07; Am. Ord. 5-19-2015, passed 5-19-15; Am. Ord.
10-19-2020A, passed 10-19-20; Am. Ord. 07-18-2022, passed 7-18-22)
§ 52.38 METERED WATER USAGE RATES.
   Except as provided by §
52.40, or unless a higher charge applies under §
52.37, users of water service shall pay a monthly charge based on metered water
usage as follows.
Metered Rates
Usage Per Month Rate Per 1,000 Gallons
Metered Rates
Usage Per Month      Rate Per 1,000 Gallons
Residential
First 2,000 gallons  $8.01
Next 3,000 gallons   $7.03
Next 10,000 gallons  $6.16
Next 35,000 gallons  $5.24
Next 50,000 gallons  $4.37
Over 100,000 gallons $3.54
Commercial and Industrial
First 2,000 gallons  $10.56
Next 3,000 gallons   $9.49
Next 10,000 gallons  $8.61
Next 35,000 gallons  $7.54
Next 100,000 gallons $6.50
Next 500,000 gallons $5.40
Over 650,000 gallons $4.19
 
(`86 Code, § 2-5-4) (Ord. 80-10, passed 10-23-80; Am. Ord. 1998-01-05, passed
1-5-98; Am. Ord. 09-20-05A, passed 10-18-05; Am. Ord. 03-20-07, passed 4-17-07;
Am. Ord. 5-19-2015, passed 5-19-15; Am. Ord. 10-19-2020A, passed 10-19-20; Am.
Ord. 07-18-2022, passed 7-18-22)
§ 52.39 CHARGES APPLICABLE TO TEMPORARY USERS; ESTIMATED VOLUMETRIC USAGE.
   Water furnished to temporary users, such as contractors and the like, shall
be charged on the basis of the metered rates hereinbefore set forth as
estimated and established by the Waterworks Superintendent.
(`86 Code, § 2-5-5) (Ord. 80-10, passed 10-23-80)
§ 52.40 FIRE PROTECTION AVAILABILITY RATES.
   For the availability and use of water by fire protection systems, users
shall pay a fixed annual rate as follows.
Fire Protection Charges Per Annum
Fire Protection Charges Per Annum
Fire Hydrant - Per Hydrant   
   Municipal         $387.35
   Private           $983.20
Fire sprinkler connection
1-1/2" connection       $63.45
2" connection           $109.40
2-1/2" connection       $174.90
3" connection           $244.75
4" connection           $437.05
6" connection           $983.20
8" connection           $1,747.85
 
(`86 Code, § 2-5-6) (Ord. 80-10, passed 10-23-80; Am. Ord. 1998-01-05, passed
1-5-98; Am. Ord. 01-20-04, passed 1-20-04; Am. Ord. 09-20-05B, passed 10-18-05;
Am. Ord. 5-19-2015, passed 5-19-15; Am. Ord. 10-19-2020A, passed 10-19-20; Am.
Ord. 07-18-2022, passed 7-18-22)
§ 52.41 DELINQUENT WATER BILLS; COLLECTION AND DEFERRED PAYMENT CHARGE; WRITE-
OFFS.
   (A)   All bills for water service are due on the twenty-fifth day of the
month. After that date, they are subject to a collection or deferred payment
charge of 10% on the first $3 and 3% on the excess over $3. Any bill that is
not completed by the tenth day of the following month shall have their water
utilities disconnected.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to write-off delinquent water
service accounts if all the following conditions have been satisfied:
      (1)   The meter deposit has been applied to the account;
      (2)   The outstanding account balance is not more than $500 after
application of the meter deposit; and
      (3)   All reasonable means of collection of the account have been
exhausted and the account is more than 180 days delinquent.
(`86 Code, § 2-5-7) (Ord. 80-10, passed 10-23-80; Am. Ord. 117-2006, passed 2-
21-06; Am. Ord. 4-15-2014, passed 4-15-14)
§ 52.42 RECONNECTION FEE.
   Once services have been disconnected there will be a mandatory $35
reconnection fee due before the water utilities will be reconnected. This fee
will apply each time the utilities are reconnected.
(`86 Code, § 2-5-8) (Am. Ord. 01-20-04, passed 1-20-04; Am. Ord. 09-20-05A,
passed 10-18-05; Am. Ord. 5-19-2015, passed 5-19-15; Am. Ord. 10-19-2020A,
passed 10-19-20; Am. Ord. 07-18-2022, passed 7-18-22)
§ 52.43 ACCESS TO PROPERTY FOR METER READING.
   (A)   Any customer receiving water service by the municipal water utility,
or landowner of any real property served by the municipal water utility, shall
permit such ingress and egress onto said property as is reasonably necessary to
permit the water utility's employee(s) or agent(s) to enter the premises for
the purpose of obtaining an accurate reading of water usage from the meter or
other device used to measure usage. Further, said customer or landowner shall
maintain said property free of hazards, both obvious and latent, which pose an
unreasonable risk to the employee or agent.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of this section shall be punished as
set forth in § 10.99.
(Ord. 4-19-2011A, passed 4-19-11)
§ 52.44 ADJUSTMENTS FOR WATER BILLS WITH UNDETECTED LEAKS.
   (A)   In accordance to I.C. 8-1.5-3.5, the Town of Akron may adjust an
unusually large residential water bill. UNUSUALLY LARGE means a residential
water bill that reflects monthly water usage, in whatever units measured, that
is at least two times the customer's average monthly usage on the premises.
   (B)   A utility may adjust an unusually large bill if the excess usage
reflected in the bill is caused by physical damage to any facility or equipment
supplying water to the premises and the damage:
      (1)   Is not visible or detectable on the customer's premises except upon
excavation or some other; and
      (2)   Is not the result of an act of the customer, or of any agent or
contractor hired by the customer.
   (C)   The customer must request the adjustment in writing and have proof
that the leak has been fixed. The leak must have occurred after December 12,
2006. When these requests have been fulfilled the Town Council will determine
whether or not to adjust an unusually large water bill on a case by case basis.
Adjustments will be limited at two adjustments per service annually.
(Ord. 4-19-2011, passed 4-19-11)
CROSS CONNECTIONS
§ 52.50 CROSS CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No customer shall cause or allow the construction or maintenance of a
cross connection. Piping installed to bypass a cross connection control device
constitutes a cross connection unless the bypass piping is also fitted with a
similar cross connection control devices.
   (B)   For purposes of this chapter, CROSS-CONNECTION means any physical
arrangement, including cross connection control devices not in working order,
whereby a public water supply distribution system is directly connected, either
continuously or intermittently, with any secondary source of supply, sewer,
drain, conduit, pool, piping, storage reservoir, plumbing fixture, or other
device that contains, or may contain, and is capable of imparting to the public
water supply, contaminants, contaminated water, sewage, or other waste or
liquid of unknown or unsafe quality.
   (C)   Whoever violates any provision of this section shall be punished as
set forth in §
10.99.
(Ord. 04-15-2019, passed 4-15-19)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
Chapter
   
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
   
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
   
73.   BICYCLES, MOTORIZED BICYCLES, MOTOR SCOOTERS AND GOLF CARTS
   
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
   
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Applicability and limitations of town traffic regulations
   
70.03   Exemption from town traffic regulations; certain publicly owned or
emergency vehicles; vehicles following directives of police officers
   
70.04   Traffic regulations affecting public thoroughfares to be adopted only
by ordinance
   
70.05   Traffic regulation on school property or shopping centers
   
70.06   Regulation of traffic entering town streets from private entrances;
orders to and obligations of operator of private entrance
   
70.07   Maintenance of required traffic-control signs, signals or markings
   
70.08   Unauthorized tampering with official traffic-control devices prohibited
Enforcement Procedures
   
70.20   Form and designation of citation for town traffic violations
   
70.21   Liability for violation of traffic regulations; service of citation
   
70.22   Noncitation of violations when required signs, signals or markings are
not present
   
70.23   Payment of town traffic fines on waiver of trial; requirements and
procedures; determination of applicable fine
   
70.24   Disposition of town traffic fines
   
70.25   Towing of unattended or disabled vehicles in violation of town or state
traffic regulations
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless otherwise indicated or defined, words and terms as used in respect to
traffic regulations adopted by the Town Council shall be construed to have the
same meanings as defined for such words and terms under the provisions of I.C.
9-21-1-1 et seq.
(`86 Code, § 6-1-1) (Ord. 86-C9, passed 9-30-86)
§ 70.02 APPLICABILITY AND LIMITATIONS OF TOWN TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   The provisions and requirements of traffic regulations adopted by the Town
Council shall be deemed to apply to all vehicles unless otherwise expressly
provided or unless clearly inapplicable by virtue of the character of a
particular type of vehicle. Town traffic regulations, unless otherwise
expressly limited as to area, apply to all publicly maintained streets, alleys
or other public ways and thoroughfares within and under the jurisdiction of the
town but not to any area within the right-of-way of a state highway or state
maintained route wherein regulation of traffic is under the exclusive
jurisdiction of the Indiana Department of Highways, unless permitted by law and
so provided. Other than in relation to public right-of-way easements, town
traffic regulations also do not apply upon private property, except as provided
under §§
70.05 and
70.06.
(`86 Code, § 6-1-2) (Ord. 86-C9, passed 9-30-86)
§ 70.03 EXEMPTION FROM TOWN TRAFFIC REGULATIONS; CERTAIN PUBLICLY OWNED OR
EMERGENCY VEHICLES; VEHICLES FOLLOWING DIRECTIVES OF POLICE OFFICERS.
   Publicly owned vehicles or authorized emergency vehicles shall be exempt
from town traffic regulations to the same degree and under the same
circumstances that they are exempt from equivalent state traffic regulations
under the provisions of I.C. 9-21-1-8. Also any vehicle which violates a town
traffic regulation but does so in obedience to the instructions of a police
officer is exempt from the regulation.
(`86 Code, § 6-1-3) (Ord. 86-C9, passed 9-30-86)
§ 70.04 TRAFFIC REGULATIONS AFFECTING PUBLIC THOROUGHFARES TO BE ADOPTED ONLY
BY ORDINANCE.
   Pursuant to I.C. 9-21-1-2, no town traffic regulation applying under §
70.02 shall be imposed or enforced, nor any sign or marking indicating any such
regulation erected and maintained, except as specified in ordinances duly
adopted and promulgated by the Town Council. However, this section does not
affect the enforcement or erection of appurtenant signs respecting traffic
regulations imposed by statute as they apply to public ways under town
jurisdiction, nor the regulation of private entrances to town streets as
provided and imposed pursuant to §
70.06.
(`86 Code, § 6-1-4) (Ord. 86-C9, passed 9-30-86)
§ 70.05 TRAFFIC REGULATION ON SCHOOL PROPERTY OR SHOPPING CENTERS.
   The Town Council may enter into an agreement or contract with a school
corporation pursuant to I.C. 9-21-1-3(a)(13) or the owner or lessee of a
shopping center pursuant to I.C. 9-21-18 to adopt and enforce traffic
regulations upon property under control of the corporation or person. For
purposes of this section, SHOPPING CENTER shall mean any parcel of land upon
which is located one or more wholesale or retail stores or outlets,
restaurants, business and/or professional offices or commercial  entertainment
or recreational facilities. Traffic regulations adopted under this section and
pursuant to such contract or agreement shall be adopted by ordinance in the
same manner as normal town traffic regulations, as provided by §
70.04, and shall be enforceable by the town authorities and subject to the same
penalties for violation as in the case of other town traffic regulations in
accordance with §§
70.20 et seq.
(`86 Code, § 6-1-5) (Ord. 86-C9, passed 9-30-86)
§ 70.06 REGULATION OF TRAFFIC ENTERING TOWN STREETS FROM PRIVATE ENTRANCES;
ORDERS TO AND OBLIGATIONS OF OPERATOR OF PRIVATE ENTRANCE.
   All public streets in the town street system shall be considered prima facie
as preferential streets with respect to any privately owned, operated and
maintained conjoining roads, driveways and other vehicular entrances. With the
exception of driveways leading from one and two-family dwellings, but including
roads or driveways from multifamily dwellings, privately operated common roads
in residential subdivisions, commercial and industrial drives and roads, the
Town Council, upon the recommendation of the town street supervisor or Town
Marshal, may adopt and serve a written order requiring the operator of the
conjoining private entrance to erect and maintain thereon at the entrance to
the town street system such stop or yield, turn restriction or directional
control signs or signals as may be deemed necessary to regulate traffic
traveling on the private roadway, protect the safety and convenience of traffic
on the public street and enforce the preferentiality of the public street. When
an order is issued in accordance with this section, the traffic regulations
shall be considered to have been established under authority of this section
and any further ordinance is not required. If necessary, compliance with the
order may be enforced in accordance with I.C. 36-1-6-2 or I.C. 36-1-6-4(a).
Traffic regulations established under this section shall be enforceable by the
town authorities and subject to the same penalties for violation as in the case
of other town traffic regulations in accordance with §§
70.20 et seq.
(`86 Code, § 6-1-6) (Ord. 86-C9, passed 9-30-86)
§ 70.07 MAINTENANCE OF REQUIRED TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNS, SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   Whenever any traffic-control regulation is imposed in accordance with
§§
70.04 through
70.06 with respect to any designated intersection, portion of street or other
area, and:
      (1)   Designates a street to be one-way;
      (2)   Regulates the speed of vehicles in any manner different from the
prima facie speed limit applicable by statute;
      (3)   Designates a stop or yield intersection;
      (4)   Restricts use of a street as to size, weight or type of vehicle;
      (5)   Regulates or prohibits the turning of vehicles;
      (6)   Restricts the passing of vehicles;
      (7)   Restricts the parking, stopping or standing of vehicles; or
      (8)   Is any other traffic regulation requiring the erection of signs
pursuant to I.C. 9-21-1-3 or another statute;
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Town Marshal or other town officer so
directed by the Town Council (in the case of general regulations adopted under
§
70.04), the person or entity made responsible under the agreement or contract
(in the case of regulations adopted under §
70.05) or the operator of the affected private entrance (in the case of
regulations adopted under §
70.06) to erect and maintain at such locations standard traffic-control signs,
signals, markings or devices in accordance with the Uniform Traffic Control
Manual of the State of Indiana. The cost of erecting and maintaining the signs,
markings or devices shall be borne in accordance with the provisions of the
contract or agreement in the case of regulations adopted under §
70.05. In fulfillment of any requirement under §
70.06, the operator of the affected private entrance may himself or herself
erect and maintain the required sign or signal at his or her expense, or may
elect to have the town do so upon payment of appropriate costs as determined by
the Town Council. In addition, the Town Marshal, with the approval of the Town
Council, may erect and maintain on town streets or other areas under town
traffic jurisdiction such traffic-control signs as he or she deems necessary to
remind motorists of applicable traffic statutes and promote the observance and
enforcement of traffic regulations provided by state law.
(`86 Code, § 6-1-7) (Ord. 86-C9, passed 9-30-86)
§ 70.08 UNAUTHORIZED TAMPERING WITH OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
PROHIBITED.
   All traffic control signs, signals, markings or other devices erected and
maintained in accordance with §
70.07 shall be deemed official traffic-control devices for purposes of this
section. It shall be unlawful for any person, without the authorization of the
Town Marshal or Town Council, to intentionally move, remove, alter, deface,
render inoperative or obscure any official traffic-control device.
(`86 Code, § 6-1-8 9) (Ord. 86-C9, passed 9-30-86)
Penalty, see § 70.99
ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
§ 70.20 FORM AND DESIGNATION OF CITATION FOR TOWN TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS.
   In general, whenever any person has been found in violation of any town
traffic regulation as established in accordance with §§
70.04 through
70.06, the enforcement officer shall mark the uniform traffic citation form as
a local ordinance violation complaint so that any fines assessed shall accrue
to the town in accordance with I.C. 9-21-1-2(c). However, this provision is
intended as a general guideline only and does not prohibit the enforcement
officer from citing the violation as a violation of state law under I.C. 9-4-1-
33 when applicable and when the enforcement officer believes that the citation
and state prosecution is necessary for effective enforcement of the regulation.
(`86 Code, § 6-6-1) (Ord. 86-C9, passed 9-30-86)
§ 70.21 LIABILITY FOR VIOLATION OF TRAFFIC REGULATIONS; SERVICE OF CITATION.
   In the case of any moving violation, the operator of a vehicle at the time
the violation occurs shall be cited and held liable for the violation. In the
case of a nonmoving violation, the operator of the vehicle having caused the
violation shall be cited and held liable if the person is present and can be
identified; otherwise, the registered or acknowledged owner or lessee of the
offending vehicle shall be presumed liable for the violation. If the owner or
operator of a vehicle which is in nonmoving violation is not present at the
scene when the violation is discovered, the citation may be served by securely
attaching the violator's copy of same in a conspicuous location on the vehicle.
(`86 Code, § 6-6-2) (Ord. 86-C9, passed 9-30-86)
§ 70.22 NONCITATION OF VIOLATIONS WHEN REQUIRED SIGNS, SIGNALS OR MARKINGS ARE
NOT PRESENT.
   (A)   No person shall be cited nor subject to penalties for the violation of
any town traffic regulation whenever:
      (1)   Proper signs, signals or markings are required to be maintained
indicating the regulation pursuant to §
70.07 and in accordance with I.C. 9-21-1-3 or another statute; and
      (2)   The sign, signal or marking is not present or is not reasonably
visible or decipherable.
   (B)   This section does not affect enforcement of state prima facie speed
limits, illegal parking in areas which are generally defined by law and wherein
parking is prohibited by statute, nor enforcement of other general statutory
traffic regulations which are presumed to be known to drivers irrespective of
the presence of signs.
(`86 Code, § 6-6-3) (Ord. 86-C9, passed 9-30-86)
§ 70.23 PAYMENT OF TOWN TRAFFIC FINES ON WAIVER OF TRIAL; REQUIREMENTS AND
PROCEDURES; DETERMINATION OF APPLICABLE FINE.
   Unless specifically ordered by the judge of the court of jurisdiction to
make a personal appearance, any person who has been cited for a town traffic
violation may waive trial and pay the applicable fine in accordance with this
section. The applicable fine shall be set forth by the Town Council from time
to time. If the offense involves a moving violation and further involves a
motor vehicle the operation of which must be licensed by the state, the offense
is required bylaw to be reported to Indiana Bureau of Motor Vehicles in
accordance with prescribed procedures; therefore, in such case, the citation
will be immediately filed with the clerk of the court of jurisdiction and the
waiver of trial must be given and the applicable fine paid to and collected by
the clerk of the jurisdictional court, along with any applicable court costs
and fees. In other cases, the waiver of trial may be given and the applicable
fine paid directly to the Town Clerk-Treasurer (either personally or by mail)
within five business days of the date of the citation, without payment of
further costs or fees. However, after such five days, the Clerk-Treasurer will
file the complaint with the clerk of the respective court and thereafter waiver
of trial must be given and the applicable fine, costs and fees paid to the
clerk of the court in the same manner as for a moving motor vehicle violation.
(`86 Code, § 6-6-5) (Ord. 86-C9, passed 9-30-86)
§ 70.24 DISPOSITION OF TOWN TRAFFIC FINES.
   In accordance with I.C. 9-21-1-2(c), all fines assessed for violation of
town traffic regulations and paid pursuant to §§
70.23 and
70.99, whether collected by the Clerk-Treasurer or the clerk of the court of
jurisdiction on waiver of trial or paid under judgment upon trial and
conviction shall be paid over to the town and deposited in the town General
Fund.
(`86 Code, § 6-6-6) (Ord. 86-C9, passed 9-30-86)
§ 70.25 TOWING OF UNATTENDED OR DISABLED VEHICLES IN VIOLATION OF TOWN OR STATE
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   (A)   If any vehicle is found by an enforcement officer to be in violation
of a town or state traffic regulation and the vehicle is not attended by a
driver or is disabled so that the driver is unable to remove it under its own
power, and:
      (1)   The area is specifically marked as a tow-in zone by signs; or
      (2)   In the opinion of the enforcement officer, leaving the vehicle
where it is would cause a significant hazard, obstruction or inconvenience to
the public or the owners of adjoining property;
   (B)   The officer is authorized to impound the offending vehicle and cause
same to be towed away and stored at the owner's expense.
(`86 Code, § 6-6-7) (Ord. 86-C9, passed 9-30-86)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this title for which no specific
penalty is set forth shall be punished as set forth in §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
71.01 shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $100. If a written plea of
guilty is made to the Town Clerk-Treasurer within 72 hours after a violation
notice is issued, the violator shall pay a fine of $25 to the Clerk-Treasurer,
who shall deposit all such fines in the General Fund of the Town Treasury;
provided however, that the Clerk-Treasurer may refuse to accept the plea and
payment of fine if the violator has paid such a fine to the Clerk-Treasurer two
or more times previously in any one calendar year and may require the violator
to answer the violation in a court of competent jurisdiction.
(`86 Code, § 6-6-9) (Ord. 86-C9, passed 9-30-86)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Regulations
   
71.01   Disorderly conduct by operation of a motor vehicle as "disorderly
conduct by operation of a motor vehicle"
   
71.02   Riding bicycles, motorized bicycles or motorcycles on sidewalks
prohibited
Speed Limits
   
71.15   Speed driven to be reasonable and prudent under conditions with regard
to actual and potential hazards existing
   
71.16   Maximum lawful speed, when signs posted
   
71.17   Applicability of statutory presumptive speed limit in absence of posted
limits
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 71.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT BY OPERATION OF A MOTOR VEHICLE.
   No person shall operate or cause be operated a motor vehicle on the streets
or public highways of the town or upon such similar places in the town where
the general public has motor vehicular access in such a manner or with such
equipment as to make, create, facilitate, increase or maintain any loud,
unnecessary, excessive or unusual noise which annoys, disturbs, injures or
endangers the comfort, repose or peace and quiet of any other person or of any
neighborhood within the town. The use of compression brakes ("Jake Brakes") are
prohibited within the town limits unless such use is required by emergency. No
person shall operate or cause to be operated a motor vehicle upon the aforesaid
places so as to unnecessarily break traction or so as to unnecessarily cause
undue skidding of the motor vehicle.
(`86 Code, § 6-6-9) (Ord. 86-C9, passed 9-30-86; Am. Ord. 05-18-04, passed 7-
20-04)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.02 RIDING BICYCLES, MOTORIZED BICYCLES OR MOTORCYCLES ON SIDEWALKS
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Whenever a person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, that person
shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall give audible signal
before overtaking and passing the pedestrian.
   (B)   No person shall ride a bicycle, motorized bicycle, motorcycle, roller
skates, inline skates or skateboards upon a sidewalk in the downtown area of
the town described as follows: south of Walnut Street; north of Orchard Street;
west of Center Street and east of Whittenberger Street. Operators of bicycles
and motorized bicycles in the above-described area shall walk the bicycles or
motorized bicycles while traveling on sidewalks.
   (C)   No person shall drive a motorized bicycle or motorcycle upon the
sidewalks within the corporate limits of the town except to cross the sidewalk
at an alley, street or driveway.
   (D)   Violations of this section shall result in the forfeiture to the Akron
Police Department of the bicycle, motorized bicycle, motorcycle, roller skates,
inline skates or skateboard involved for a period not to exceed 30 days and a
fine not to exceed $25.
(`86 Code, § 6-5-1) (Ord. 14, passed 1-2-32; Am. Ord. 1-82, passed 5-18-82; Am.
Ord. passed 1-8-91; Am. Ord. passed 10-28-99)
Cross reference:
   Bicycles, motorized bicycles and motor scooters, see
Ch. 73
SPEED LIMITS
§ 71.15 SPEED DRIVEN TO BE REASONABLE AND PRUDENT UNDER CONDITIONS WITH REGARD
TO ACTUAL AND POTENTIAL HAZARDS EXISTING.
   A motor driven vehicle may not be operated upon a town street or alley at a
speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions, having
regard to the actual and potential hazards then existing. The speed shall be
restricted as necessary to avoid colliding with a person, vehicle or other
conveyance on, near or entering a town street or alley in compliance with legal
requirements and with the duty of all persons to use due care.
(Am. Ord. 95-6-2, passed 12-19-95)
§ 71.16 MAXIMUM LAWFUL SPEED, WHEN SIGNS POSTED.
   Except when a special hazard exists that requires lower speed for compliance
with §
71.15, it shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor driven vehicle on
any street in the town at a speed in excess of 25 miles per hour.
(Am. Ord. 95-6-2, passed 12-19-95)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.17 APPLICABILITY OF STATUTORY PRESUMPTIVE SPEED LIMIT IN ABSENCE OF POSTED
LIMITS.
   Except when a special hazard exists that requires lower speed for compliance
with §
71.15, the state presumptive urban speed limit of 30 miles per hour as
established by I.C. 9-21-5-2 shall apply and shall be enforced on the streets
of the town; also the state presumptive alley speed limit of 15 miles per hour
as established by I.C. 9-21-5-5 shall apply and shall be enforced on the alleys
of the town. Violations of state code shall be cited as state code violations.
(Am. Ord. 95-6-2, passed 12-19-95)
Penalty, see § 70.99
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   General powers of Town Council and police to regulate and restrict
parking
   
72.02   Manner of parking generally
   
72.03   Manner of parking bicycles and motorized bicycles in certain areas
   
72.04   Limited time parking for trucks
§ 72.01 GENERAL POWERS OF TOWN COUNCIL AND POLICE TO REGULATE AND RESTRICT
PARKING.
   All vehicles parked on the streets of the town shall be parked subject to
the order of the Council and under police restrictions. It shall be unlawful to
park any motor vehicle within any restricted or prohibited place or section of
the street.
(`86 Code, § 6-4-1) (Ord. 21, passed 1-2-39; Ord. 22, passed 1-2-39; Am. Ord.
86-C10, passed 9-30-86)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.02 MANNER OF PARKING GENERALLY.
   Motor vehicles must be parked parallel to the adjacent curb in accordance
with I.C. 9-21-16-7, or, where there is no curb, parallel with and as near as
possible to the edge of the roadway, except where the Town Council by ordinance
has prescribed angle parking and angle parking spaces have been clearly marked.
Where streets are marked, vehicles must be between the markings or between the
marking and the adjacent curb or roadway edge, as appropriate.
(`86 Code, § 6-4-2) (Ord. 21, passed 1-2-39; Ord. 22, passed 1-2-39; Am. Ord.
86-C10, passed 9-30-86)
§ 72.03 MANNER OF PARKING BICYCLES AND MOTORIZED BICYCLES IN CERTAIN AREAS.
   Bicycles and motorized bicycles parked within one block of the intersection
of Rochester and Mishawaka Streets shall be placed as close as practical to the
buildings and away from building doors to provide unencumbered access to the
sidewalks and businesses by pedestrians and allow the curbside doors of motor
vehicles to be opened without hitting the bicycle.
(`86 Code, § 6-4-3) (Ord. 1-82, passed 5-18-82)
Cross reference:
   Bicycles, motorized bicycles and motor scooters, see
Ch. 73
§ 72.04 LIMITED TIME PARKING FOR TRUCKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to park any truck
on the streets or alleys of the town for a longer period than 30 minutes.
However, parking restrictions under this section only apply when appropriate
signs have been erected or when a police officer has directly informed the
driver of the truck of the applicable restriction and instructed him or her to
move the vehicle.
(`86 Code, § 6-4-4) (Ord. 18, passed 1-2-39; Ord. 19, passed 1-2-39; Am. Ord.
86-C10, passed 9-30-86)
Penalty, see § 70.99
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES, MOTORIZED BICYCLES, MOTOR SCOOTERS AND GOLF CARTS
Section
   
73.01   Definitions
   
73.02   Registration of bicycles, motorized bicycles and motor scooters kept in
town required; procedure and deadline for compliance
   
73.03   Voluntary participation in registration program for out-of-town
residents
   
73.04   Recovery of lost or stolen licensed bicycles, motorized bicycles and
motor scooters; return to registered owner
   
73.05   Recovery of unlicensed bicycles, motorized bicycles and motor scooters;
impoundment and recovery fee; sale of unclaimed vehicles
   
73.06   Notice of sale or disposal of licensed bicycle, motorized bicycle and
motor scooters; cancellation of registration
   
73.07   Exemption of motorized bicycle is state licensure required
   
73.08   Golf carts
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BICYCLE. Any foot-propelled vehicle, irrespective of the number of wheels in
contact with the ground.
   MOTORIZED BICYCLE. A two or three wheeled vehicle that is propelled by an
internal combustion engine or a battery powered motor, and if powered by an
internal combustion engine, has the following:
      (1)   An engine rating of not more than two horsepower and a cylinder
capacity not exceeding 50 cubic centimeters.
      (2)   An automatic transmission.
      (3)   A maximum design speed of not more than 25 miles per hour on a flat
surface.
   MOTOR SCOOTER. A vehicle that has the following:
      (1)   Motive power.
      (2)   A seat, but not a saddle, for the driver.
      (3)   Two wheels
      (4)   A floor pad for the driver's feet.
(`86 Code, § 6-7-1) (Ord. 1-82, passed 5-18-82; Am. Ord. 6-7-95, passed - -)
§ 73.02 REGISTRATION OF BICYCLES, MOTORIZED BICYCLES AND MOTOR SCOOTERS KEPT IN
TOWN REQUIRED; PROCEDURE AND DEADLINE FOR COMPLIANCE.
   After 31 days of the effective date of this chapter, all bicycles, motorized
bicycles and motor scooters as defined in §
73.01 which are usually housed or garaged within the corporate limits of the
town shall be registered with the Akron Police Department on forms to be
provided at the Department office. Thereafter, the owner of any bicycle,
motorized bicycle or motor scooter (other than a dealer who keeps and housed
such vehicles for purposed of resale) shall obtain the registration and license
when required under this section within 31 days of acquiring or bringing the
bicycle, motorized bicycle or motor scooter into the town. An adhesive metal
license tag will then be provided which shall be placed vertically on the seat
post of the bike where it can be readily seen. There is no fee for this
license.
(`86 Code, § 6-7-2) (Ord. 1-82, passed 5-18-82)
§ 73.03 VOLUNTARY PARTICIPATION IN REGISTRATION PROGRAM FOR OUT-OF- TOWN
RESIDENTS.
   Although not required, persons residing outside the corporate limits of the
town who wish to avail themselves of the identification service may do so.
(`86 Code, § 6-7-4) (Ord. 1-82, passed 5-18-82)
§ 73.04 RECOVERY OF LOST OR STOLEN LICENSED BICYCLES, MOTORIZED BICYCLES AND
MOTOR SCOOTERS; RETURN TO REGISTERED OWNER.
   The purpose for registering and licensing bicycles, motorized bicycles and
motor scooters as defined in §
73.01 is to provide the Akron Police Department and other agencies the
opportunity to rapidly return to their rightful owner all received lost and
stolen bicycles and to provide the owner with a positive means of identifying
his or her property. The owners of licensed bicycles, motorized bicycles and
motor scooters which have been lost, borrowed or stolen and have been recovered
by the Akron Police Department shall be notified of the recovery and the
bicycles shall be returned to the owner as soon as possible. However, in the
event that, after a reasonable effort, it is not possible to notify the owner
and return a licensed bicycle, motorized bicycle or motor scooter in the manner
provided by this section, the vehicle shall be treated and disposed in the same
manner as an unlicensed bicycle, motorized bicycle or motor scooter as provided
by §
73.05.
(`86 Code, § 6-7-5) (Ord. 1-82, passed 5-18-82)
§ 73.05 RECOVERY OF UNLICENSED BICYCLES, MOTORIZED BICYCLES AND MOTOR SCOOTERS;
IMPOUNDMENT AND RECOVERY FEE; SALE OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Unlicensed bicycles, motorized bicycles and motor scooters which are
recovered by the Akron Police Department shall be kept in a secure location for
one year in accordance with I.C. 5-22-22 awaiting their identification by the
lawful owner. When properly identified, the owner may obtain release of the
vehicle by paying an impoundment fee of $5 and registering the vehicle, if
applicable. Bicycles, motorized bicycles and motor scooters not claimed within
one year shall be sold at public auction at a time and place set and advertised
by the Akron Town Council in accordance with I.C. 36-1-11-6, if applicable, or
may be sold at public or private sale in accordance with I.C. 36-1-11-6 if the
latter is applicable.
   (B)   All proceeds of the sale after payment of any expenses incurred shall
escheat to and become the property of the town for deposit in the General Fund
and for the use and benefit of the town.
(`86 Code, § 6-7-6) (Ord. 1-82, passed 5-18-82)
§ 73.06 NOTICE OF SALE OR DISPOSAL OF LICENSED BICYCLE, MOTORIZED BICYCLE AND
MOTOR SCOOTERS; CANCELLATION OF REGISTRATION.
   In the event any bicycle, motorized bicycle or motor scooter which has been
registered and licensed is sold, transferred, scrapped or otherwise disposed of
by the registered owner, the owner shall notify the Akron Police Department as
soon as possible, and the Police Department shall annul and cancel the
registration on its records. A license stays with the vehicle and any new owner
must re-register the vehicle as prescribed by §
73.02.
(`86 Code, § 6-7-7) (Ord. 1-82, passed 5-18-82)
§ 73.07 EXEMPTION OF MOTORIZED BICYCLE IF STATE LICENSURE REQUIRED.
   In the event the General Assembly or Bureau of Motor Vehicles of the State
of Indiana shall hereafter require that a state license plate or tag be
obtained for motorized bicycles, such state plate or tag shall be sufficient
and the town registration and license tag shall not be issued for such vehicles
under §
73.02.
(`86 Code, § 6-7-8) (Ord. 1-82, passed 5-18-82)
§ 73.08 GOLF CARTS.
   (A)   This section is enacted under the town's authority under I.C. 9-21-1-
3 and 9-21-1-3.3. For purposes of this section, a GOLF CART has the definition
set forth in I.C. 9-13-2-69.7, and means a four-wheeled motor vehicle
originally and specifically designed and intended to transport one or more
individuals and golf clubs for the purpose of playing the game of golf on a
golf course; and includes Utility Task Vehicles (UTV), which are motor vehicles
with four or more wheels that are gas powered, originally and specifically
designed to be used for moving, hauling or other tasks. This section does not
include electric personal assistive mobility devices. Nothing in this section
shall be construed to permit operation of a golf cart on any state highway.
   (B)   In order to operate a golf cart on any street, alley, road, or walkway
within the limits of the Town of Akron, a driver of such a golf cart must be a
licensed driver under Indiana law and have such license on his or her person at
all times during the operation of said golf cart.
   (C)   All golf carts must have insurance on said golf cart and have proof of
such insurance in the golf cart at all times during the operation of said golf
carts in the Town of Akron.
   (D)   All golf carts must display an amber flashing light at all times,
which light must be visible from a distance of no less than 500 feet from the
rear of the golf cart or vehicle. In addition, if said golf cart is operated at
times when headlamps are necessary, said golf cart must be equipped with both
headlights and taillights that are in working order. In addition, all golf
carts must be equipped with a rear view mirror.
   (E)   While operating said golf cart within the Town of Akron, any operator
of the same must abide by all state traffic laws in the operation of said golf
cart.
   (F)   All golf carts shall adhere to the provisions of the slow moving
vehicle statute of the State of Indiana, being I.C. 9-21-9-2, such that each
golf cart shall display a triangular slow moving vehicle emblem mounted as near
as is practicable to the center of mass and at an approximate height of not
less than three and not more than five feet from level ground or pavement
surface. The emblem shall be mounted so as to be entirely visible from the
rear, day or night. The emblem and the emblem's position of mounting on the
vehicle must meet the specifications established by rules adopted by the
Indiana criminal justice institute.
   (G)   Any person who wishes to operate a golf cart in the Town of Akron must
register the same with the Clerk-Treasurer's office and pay a registration fee
of $25 each calendar year thereafter and have attached to said golf cart a
sticker provided by said town noting said vehicle has been properly registered
with the town. This registration fee shall not be applicable to Utility Task
Vehicles (UTVs). Each such golf cart shall be presented for inspection by the
Marshal or Clerk-Treasurer prior to issuance of the registration sticker.
   (H)   While in operation, such golf carts must carry no more passengers than
such golf carts are equipped to handle, and all passengers must be seated at
all times. Drivers must make reasonable efforts to restrain minors who are
passengers.
   (I)   No golf cart shall be allowed on any recreational path or trail
without the prior approval of the Board of Parks and Recreation.
   (J)   In the event that a person cannot meet any of the above criteria, that
person may make a written request with the Town Council for an exception to the
provisions of this section. Such written request shall set forth the item or
items that cannot be met by said person, and the reasons for that, and shall
state why the Town Council should allow an exception to any of the terms and
provisions of this section. The Town Council shall have the authority to grant
or deny any such exceptions following the receipt of such a written request and
the appearance of the person making such request at a Town Council meeting, by
establishing in writing the reasons for the granting or denying of the
exception(s) so requested.
   (K)   Anyone violating any of the provisions of this section shall be
subject to a fine of $25 for a first violation, $50 for a second violation, and
$75 for a third violation. If a person is cited for a violation of this section
more than three times, the registration shall be revoked and said golf cart
shall no longer be allowed to operate in the limits of the Town of Akron.
(Ord. 10-19-2010, passed 9-19-10; Am. Ord. 07-16-2018, passed 7-16-18; Am. Ord.
04-19-2021A, passed 4-19-21; Am. Ord. 09-19-2022, passed 9-19-22)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   Failure to register the vehicle within the time prescribed by §
73.02 shall subject the owner to a penal fine of $5 and impoundment of the
vehicle until compliance with §
73.02 is completed.
(`86 Code, § 6-7-3) (Ord. 1-82, passed 5-18-82; Am. Ord. 86-C10, passed 9-30-
86; Am. Ord. 09-19-2022, passed 9-19-22)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Preferential streets and controlled stop streets designated
   
II.   Three-way and all-way stop intersections designated
   
III.   Preferentiality of state highways; erection and maintenance of control
signs or signals; enforcement
SCHEDULE I. PREFERENTIAL STREETS AND CONTROLLED STOP STREETS DESIGNATED.
   When signs are erected giving notice there of, it shall be unlawful for any
person operating a motor vehicle, a bicycle or motorized bicycle or an animal-
drawn vehicle to enter upon, cross or turn into a preferential street as
designated in the following table from a stop street, without bringing the
vehicle to a stop before reaching such intersection and waiting until the
intersection is clear and free of vehicular traffic on the preferential street.
Preferential Street Controlled Streets
W. Rochester        Noyer Drive
W. Walnut           N. Whittenberger
W. Walnut           N. Adams
E. Rochester        S. West
E. Rochester        S. Slaybaugh
E. Rochester        S. Virgil
E. Rochester        N. Cherry
E. Rochester        N. Pine
E. Rochester        N. Maple
E. Rochester        N. Slaybaugh
E. Rochester        S. Cherry
S. Pine      E. Central
S. Cherry    E. Central
S. Virgil    E. Orchard
E. Central   S. Slaybaugh
S. Maple     E. Central
S. Mishawaka E. Central
S. Mishawaka W. Orchard
S. West      E. Orchard
S. Maple     E. Orchard
S. Slaybaugh E. Orchard
S. Virgil    E. Orchard
S. West      E. South
S. Mishawaka S. West
S. Mishawaka E. Front
E. Front     S. Maple
S. Maple     E. South
S. Pine      E. Main
SR 14        E. Walnut
E. Walnut    Northwood Dr.
E. Walnut    N. Cherry
E. Walnut    N. Virgil
E. Walnut    N. Central
E. Walnut    N. Johnson
N. Mishawaka E. Walnut
N. Mishawaka E. Water
N. Central   E. Water
N. Johnson   E. Water
N. Maple      E. Water
Northwood Dr. E. Water
N. Maple      E. North
N. Johnson    E. North
Center        E. North
N. Mishawaka  Rural
N. Franklin   W. Water
N. Adams      W. Water
Central       S. Virgil
S. Maple      Main
S. Cherry     Arthur
E. Front      Oak
E. Water      N. Cherry
Main          Oak
Pine          Arthur
Rural         Greenlawn
 
(`86 Code, § 6-3-1) (Ord. 6-3, passed - -; Am. Ord. passed 9-16-97; Am. Ord.
03-18-08A, passed 4-15-08)
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE II. THREE-WAY AND ALL-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS DESIGNATED.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, it shall be unlawful for any
person operating a motor vehicle, a bicycle or motorized bicycle or an animal-
drawn vehicle to enter upon or across or turn into an intersection designated
as a three-way or four-way (or all-way) stop in the following table from any of
the intersecting streets without first stopping and permitting any vehicular
cross-traffic which has previously arrived at such intersection to safely
proceed through same.
 
Three-Way Stop                 Four-Way Stop
N. Whittenberger and W. Walnut Rochester and Mishawaka
                               Franklin and W. North
E. Rural and Center            N. Maple and E. Walnut
                               E. Water and N. Virgil
                               S. West and E. Central
                               E. Rural and Johnson
 
(`86 Code, § 6-3-2) (Ord. 6-3, passed - -; Am. Ord. passed 9-16-97; Am. Ord. 4-
23-2018C, passed 4-23-18) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III. PREFERENTIALITY OF STATE HIGHWAYS; ERECTION AND MAINTENANCE OF
CONTROL SIGNS OR SIGNALS; ENFORCEMENT.
   The Indiana Department of Highways shall have exclusive power and
responsibility, in accordance with statute, to determine the preferentiality of
public ways within the town which are part of the state highway system or under
jurisdiction of the Department, to specify the character of intersection
controls at the intersection of respective streets and other public ways under
town jurisdiction with such public ways under state jurisdiction and to erect
and maintain all signs, signals or marking as required by law for the
enforcement of the controls so determined by the Department of Highways. The
Town Police Department shall enforce all such controls established by the
Department of Highways, when signs or signals have been erected as required by
law, but the violations shall be cited as state violations under I.C. 9-21-4-
18, subject to the penalties under I.C. 9-21-4-19 and the provisions of
Schedules I and II of this chapter.
(`86 Code, § 6-3-3) (Ord. 6-3, passed - -)
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Two hour parking
   
II.   15 minute parking
   
III.   Reserved handicapped parking
   
IV.   No parking areas designated; towing
   
V.   Parking of commercial vehicles
SCHEDULE I. TWO HOUR PARKING.
   Parking shall be restricted on SR 19/Mishawaka Street & SR 14/Rochester
Street in the Town of Akron, Fulton County, as follows:
   (A)   Two hour parking 7:00 a.m. - 7:00 p.m., except sundays, on both sides
of SR 19/Mishawaka Street from Orchard Street (RM 67 + 84) to Walnut Street (RM
67 + 98), a distance of approximately 750 feet.
   (B)   Two hour parking 7:00 a.m. - 7:00 p.m., except Sundays, on both sides
of SR 14/Rochester Street from a point 200 feet west of SR 19/Mishawaka Street
(RM 78 + 27) to Center Street (RM 78 + 37), a distance of approximately 550
feet.
(Ord. passed 4-12-00)
   (C)   There is established a two hour time limit for parking between the
hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m., Monday through Saturday, from the south side
of Walnut Street to Orchard, except for the 15 minute parking spot on the east
side of Mishawaka directly north of Rochester Street, also from Center Street
to the west side of Manns Feed Service, except for the parking directly in
front of Manns Feed Service to be a 15 minute parking zone.
(Ord. 11-24-98C, passed 11-24-98)
   (D)   There is established a two hour time limit for parking between the
hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m., Monday through Saturday, on S. Mishawaka one
block south of the junction of State Road 14 and 19 between Rochester Street
and Orchard Street.
(Ord. 97-4-15, passed 4-15-97)
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE II. 15 MINUTE PARKING.
   (A)   Fifteen minute parking on the east side of SR 19/Mishawaka Street from
a point 50 feet north of SR 14/Rochester Street (RM 67 + 93) to a point 70 feet
north of SR 14/Rochester Street (RM 67 + 93), a distance of approximately 20
feet.
   (B)   Fifteen minute parking on the south side of SR 14/Rochester Street
from a point 200 feet west of SR 19/Mishawaka Street (RM 78 + 27) to a point
180 feet west of SR 19/Mishawaka Street (RM 78 + 27), a distance of
approximately 20 feet.
(Ord. passed 4-12-00)
SCHEDULE III. RESERVED HANDICAPPED PARKING.
   Reserved handicapped parking on the west side of SR 19/Mishawaka Street from
a point 50 feet south of SR 14/Rochester Street (RM 67 + 91) to a point 30 feet
south of SR 14/Rochester Street (RM 67 + 91), a distance of approximately 20
feet.
   (B)   Reserved handicapped parking on the east side of SR 19/Mishawaka
Street from a point 50 feet north of SR 14/Rochester Street (RM 67 + 91) to a
point 30 feet north of SR 14/Rochester Street (RM 67 + 91), a distance of
approximately 20 feet.
(Ord. passed 4-12-00; Am. Ord. 10-17-2016B, passed 10-17-16) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE IV. NO PARKING AREAS DESIGNATED; TOWING.
   (A)   There shall be no parking in the following described areas:
      (1)   On the east side of Maple Street, from State Road 14 south to Main
Street.
      (2)   On both sides of East Walnut Street, from Maple to Mishawaka
Street.
      (3)   On the east side of Maple Street, from Rochester to Rural Street.
   (B)   Any person violating this schedule shall have his or her vehicle towed
away at the cost of the offender. In addition, any person violating this
section may be subject to a fine up to $2,500.
(`86 Code, § 6-4-5) (Ord. 27, passed 2-21-67; Am. Ord. 6-19-01A, passed 8-21-
01; Am. Ord. 04-15-08B, passed 5-20-08)
SCHEDULE V. PARKING OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   Except on state highways or state-controlled highways, it shall be
unlawful for any person to operate a commercial vehicle with a gross weight in
excess of 10,000 pounds in any residential district; provided, however, that
this prohibition shall not apply to such a vehicle when it is making a delivery
from a state or state-controlled highway and returning to it by the most direct
route possible, and in the event that this restriction results in any undue
hardship or unfair competition, the Town Marshal shall have the power to
authorize the issuance of special permits from time to time as deemed necessary
for the protection of the rights of any individual.
(Am. Ord. passed 11-16-99)
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to park
any commercial vehicle with a gross weight in excess of 10,000 pounds on any
public parking lots overnight. However, parking restrictions under this section
only apply when appropriate signs have been erected, or when a law enforcement
officer has directly informed the driver of the vehicle of the applicable
restriction and instructed him or her to move the vehicle. The Town Marshal
shall have the power to authorize the issuance of special permits from time to
time as deemed necessary for the protection of the rights of any individual.
      (2)   Violations of this division may be fined in an amount determined by
§
70.66 and the vehicle may be towed. The owner or operator of any such vehicle
so towed may regain possession thereof by paying in full to the owner or
operator of the garage having possession of the vehicle the towage charges plus
the storage charges incurred pursuant to this section.
(Am. Ord. passed 11-16-99)
Penalty, see § 70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
90.   FAIR HOUSING
   
91.   PARKS AND RECREATION
   
92.   FIRE PREVENTION; FIREWORKS
   
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
   
94.   NUISANCES
   
95.   ANIMALS
   
96.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
   
97.   GARAGE SALES
CHAPTER 90: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
90.01   Policy statement
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Unlawful practice
   
90.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
90.05   Discrimination in residential real estate related transactions
   
90.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
90.07   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
90.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
90.09   Exemptions
   
90.10   Enforcement
§ 90.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of Akron Town Council to provide, within
constitutional limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as
provided for under the Federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, the
Federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended and I.C. 22-
9.5-1 et. seq.
(Ord. 1998-01-20A, passed 1-20-98)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Any person who (I.C. 22-9.5-2-2):
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that the person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
   COMMISSION. (I.C. 22-9.5-2-3) The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created
pursuant to I.C. 22-9-1-4 et seq.
   COMPLAINANT. (I.C. 22-9.5-2-4) A person, including the Commission, who files
a complaint under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   DISABLED. With respect to a person:
      (1)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one or
more of the person's major life activities;
      (2)   A record of having such an impairment;
      (3)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
      (4)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the Federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990; and
      (5)   Any other impairment defined under I.C. 22-9.5-2-2.
   The term DISABLED shall not include current illegal use of or addiction to a
controlled substance as defined in 21 USC 802 (I.C. 22-9.5-10(c)).
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
90.04 through
90.08 or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or part of a building or structure that is
occupied as or designed or intended for occupancy as a residence by one or more
families or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families (I.C. 22-9.5-2-8).
   FAMILIAL STATUS. One or more individuals domiciled with an individual
younger than 18 years of age in regard to whom the person: either is the parent
or legal guardian; or has the written permission of the parent or legal
custodian for domicile with that person. The protections afforded against
discrimination on the basis of FAMILIAL STATUS shall also apply to any person
who is pregnant or is in the process of securing legal custody of any
individual who has not attained the age of 18 years.
(I.C. 22-9.5-1-2)
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual (I.C. 22-9.5-2-9), with the status of
the family being further defined in this section.
   PERSON. (I.C. 22-9.5-2-11) Includes one or more individuals, corporations,
partnerships, associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual
companies, joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations,
trustees, trustees in cases under Title 11 of the United States Code, receivers
and fiduciaries.
   TO RENT. (I.C. 22-9.5-2-13) Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and
otherwise to grant for a consideration the right to occupy the premises owned
by the occupant.
(Ord. 1998-01-20A, passed 1-20-98)
§ 90.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) of this section, § 90.09 and I.C.
22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or rental of
housing set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
90.04 shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) of this section and
I.C. 22-9.5-3.
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) of this section, nothing in
§
90.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single family houses
at any time; provided that in the sale of the single family house by a private
individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or who was not
the most recent resident of the house prior to the sale, the exemption shall
apply only to one such sale within any 24 month period. The private individual
owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or reserved on his or her
behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds from the sale
or rental of more than three such single-family houses at any one time. The
sale or rental of any such single family house shall be excepted from
application of this section only if the house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the sue in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson, any person in the
business of selling or renting dwellings or of any employee or agent of any
such broker, agent or salesperson; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
90.04(C), but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title; or
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) of this section, a person shall be
deemed to be in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended
for occupancy by or occupied by five or more families.
(Ord. 1998-01-20A, passed 1-20-98)
§ 90.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
90.03 and except as exempted by §§
90.03(B) and
90.09, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of or otherwise make unavailable or
deny a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, familial
status or national origin.
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provisions of services or
facilities in connection therewith because of race, color, religion, sex,
familial status or national origin.
   (C)   To make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or published,
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin or
an intention to make any such preference, limitation or discrimination.
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale or rental when the dwelling is in fact so
available.
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
disability, sex, familial status or national origin.
   (F)   (1)   To discriminate in the sale or rental or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a disability
of:
         (a)   That buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with the dwelling because of disability of:
         (a)   That person;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (3)   For purposes of this subsection, discrimination includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the disabled person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by the
person if the modifications may be necessary to afford the person full
enjoyment of the premises, except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may, where it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification
on the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modification, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford the
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after 1-
20-98, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a manner that:
            1.   The public use and common use portions of the dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by disabled persons;
            2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within the dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
disabled persons in wheelchairs; and
            3.   All premises within the dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive designs:
               a.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               b.   Light switches, electrical outlets, thermostats and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
               c.   Reinforcements in bathroom walls to allow later
installation of grab bars; and
               d.   Usable kitchens and bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
      (4)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 and of the American National Standard for Buildings
and Facilities providing accessibility and usability for physically disabled
people (commonly cited as "ANSI A117.1") suffices to satisfy the requirements
of subsections (3)(c)3.
      (5)   Nothing in this subsection requires that a dwelling be made
available to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to
the health or safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in
substantial physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 1998-01-20A, passed 1-20-98)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction because
of race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate; or
      (2)   The selling, brokering or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals or real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, disability or familial
status.
(Ord. 1998-01-20A, passed 1-20-98)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple listing service, real estate broker's
organization or other service, organization or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership or participation on
account of race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status or national
origin.
(Ord. 1998-01-20A, passed 1-20-98)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged any
other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or protected by
§§
90.03 through
90.06.
(Ord. 1998-01-20A, passed 1-20-98)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin and because he or she is or has
been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental or contracting or negotiating for
the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any dwelling or applying
for or participating in any service, organization or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in this chapter; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate; or
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin, in
any of the activities, services, organizations or facilities described in
division (A) of this section, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful
assembly opposing any denial of the opportunity to participate shall be fined
not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than one year, or both; and if
bodily injury results shall be fined not more than $10,000 or imprisoned for
not more than ten years, or both; and if death results shall be subject to
imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 1998-01-20A, passed 1-20-98)
§ 90.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under division (B) and (C) of this section.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of dwellings
which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to persons of the
same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless membership in
the religion is restricted on account of race, color or national origin. Nor
shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact open to the
public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or proposes provides
lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose, from
limiting the rental or occupancy of the lodgings to its members or from giving
preference to its members.
   (C)   (1)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply
with respect to housing for older persons.
      (2)   As used in this section, HOUSING FOR OLDER PERSONS means housing:
         (a)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary
of the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the State Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly persons (as defined in the state or federal program);
         (b)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age or
older; or
         (c)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55
years of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 1998-01-20A, passed 1-20-98)
§ 90.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commission as set forth in
division (B) of this section shall be vested in the Akron Town Council,
Indiana.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the Town Council,
because of a lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully
administer enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this
chapter, herein elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the
sections of this chapter by complainants to the Indiana Civil Rights Commission
("Commission") for administrative enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-
6, and the Akron Town Council shall refer all said complaints to the Commission
as provided for under division (A) of this section to the Commission for
purposes of investigation, resolution and appropriate relief as provided for
under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of Akron Town Council shall
administer their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and
urban development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this
chapter and shall cooperate with the Chief Executive Officer and the Commission
to further such purposes.
   (D)   The Akron Town Council shall provide information on remedies available
to any aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 1998-01-20A, passed 1-20-98)
CHAPTER 91: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Department of Parks and Recreation, Board of Parks and Recreation and
Superintendent established
   
91.03   Board of Parks and Recreation
   
91.04   Creation of advisory council and special committees authorized
   
91.05   Finance
   
91.06   Rules and regulations; procedure for adoption and promulgation
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The Board of Parks and Recreation created under §
91.02.
   EXTREME SPORTS AREA. The Akron Skate Park, located south of State Road 14
and west of State Road 19, as the term is used in I.C. 34-13-3-3.
(`86 Code, § 5-1-1) (Ord. passed 8-5-74; Am. Ord. 86-C7, passed 8-25-86; Am.
Ord. 6-24-08, passed 6-24-08)
§ 91.02 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION, BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION AND
SUPERINTENDENT ESTABLISHED.
   Under the provisions of the Park and Recreation Law (I.C. 36-10-3), there is
established a Department of Parks and Recreation composed of the Board of Parks
and Recreation, a Superintendent and such other personnel as the Board shall
determine.
(`86 Code, § 5-1-2) (Ord. passed 8-5-74; Am. Ord. 86-C7, passed 8-25-86)
§ 91.03 BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   (A) Appointment, terms and qualifications. The Board shall be composed of
four members. Upon the establishment of the Board, the terms of the members
initially appointed shall be one, two, three and four years. Thereafter as a
term expires each new appointment shall be for a four year term. All terms
shall expire on the first Monday of January, but an appointee shall continue in
office until his or her successor is appointed. The President of the Town
Council shall select the regular members on the basis of their interest in and
knowledge of parks and recreation. However, no more than two of the members of
the Board appointed under this section shall be affiliated with the same
political party.
(`86 Code, § 5-1-3)
   (B)   Election of officers. At its first regular meeting, the Board shall
elect a President and a Vice-President who shall have authority to act as the
President of the Board during the absence or disability of the President.
(`86 Code, § 5-1-4)
   (C)   The Board shall have the general power to perform all acts necessary
to acquire and develop sites and facilities to conduct such programs as are
generally understood to be park and recreation functions, including powers and
duties listed in I.C. 36-10-3-10, I.C. 36-10-3-11 and I.C. 36-10-3-21. However,
all activities of the Board shall be subject to the approval of the Town
Council.
(`86 Code, § 5-1-5)
(Ord. passed 8-5-74; Am. Ord. 86-C7, passed 8-25-86)
§ 91.04 CREATION OF ADVISORY COUNCIL AND SPECIAL COMMITTEES AUTHORIZED.
   The Board may create an advisory council and special committees composed of
citizens interested in the problems of parks and recreation in accordance with
I.C. 36-10-3-17.
(`86 Code, § 5-1-6) (Ord. passed 8-5-74; Am. Ord. 86-C7, passed 8-25-86)
§ 91.05 FINANCE.
   (A)   The Board shall prepare and submit an annual budget in the same manner
as other departments of the town government.
(`86 Code, § 5-1-7)
   (B)   The Board may accept gifts, donations and subsidies for park and
recreation purposes.
(`86 Code, § 5-1-8)
(Ord. passed 8-5-74; Am. Ord. 86-C7, passed 8-25-86)
§ 91.06 RULES AND REGULATIONS; PROCEDURE FOR ADOPTION AND PROMULGATION.
   To the extent not in conflict with the laws of the state nor the ordinances
of the town, the Board shall have the power to adopt rules and regulations
governing the access to and use of properties or the conduct of activities and
functions under their jurisdiction, provided that any such rules and
regulations shall be submitted to the Town Council for approval before taking
effect. After so taking effect, all such adopted rules and regulations shall
have the force of law, and whenever notice is given of the existence and
character of the rules and regulations, either through posted signs or by other
reasonable means, all persons or organizations utilizing the facilities or
participating in activities under jurisdiction of the Board are required to
comply therewith.
(`86 Code, § 5-1-9) (Ord. passed 8-5-74; Am. Ord. 86-C7, passed 8-25-86)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   A person or organization who fails to comply with rules and regulations as
adopted under §
91.06 will be subject to the following sanctions:
   (A)   Any such person or organization may be given a penal citation for the
violation by any police officer, or by a representative of the Department of
Parks and Recreation so authorized, and shall be liable to a penal fine as
determined by §
10.99 for each offense; and/or
   (B)   Any such person or organization, after having been warned of the
violation by a police officer or a representative of the Department of Parks
and Recreation, or after having been cited under division (A) of this section
who then refuses to desist from the violation or who thereafter persistently
engages in such violation, may by order of the Board or the Superintendent be
barred from the affected premises or from participation in the affected
activities and if further failing to comply with such debarment may be
prosecuted by the town for civil or criminal trespass.
(`86 Code, § 5-1-10) (Ord. passed 8-5-74; Am. Ord. 86-C7, passed 8-25-86)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION; FIREWORKS
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Open burning prohibited
Fireworks Displays
   
92.15   Definition
   
92.16   Detonation of fireworks prohibited except for authorized public
displays
   
92.17   Authorized public displays
   
92.18   Inapplicability to official personnel in performance of duties
   
92.19   Inapplicability to legitimate construction or demolition activities
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 OPEN BURNING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the open burning of
any yard waste or rubbish within the town limits with the following exceptions:
      (1)   Residents may burn charcoal/wood in outdoor fireplaces and grills
provided that the items shall be placed in such a location as to be reasonably
removed from any residence so as to avoid any smoke or fumes therefrom becoming
a nuisance for any adjacent neighbors.
      (2)   In the event that there are such unusual circumstances as to make
the burning of a substantial amount of combustible material necessary, the
person wishing to do so must apply to the Clerk-Treasurer for an application.
Any such applications shall be considered and voted on by the Town Council. If
the application is approved by them, the burning shall be done under the
supervision of the Fire Department.
   (B)   Any person found violating this section shall receive a warning for
first such offense. A person found guilty of a second or subsequent offense
shall be fined in an amount determined by §
92.99.
(Ord. 9-94, passed 9-20-94)
Penalty, see § 92.99
FIREWORKS DISPLAYS
§ 92.15 DEFINITION.
   The term FIREWORKS as used herein means any composition or device designed
for the purpose of producing a visible or audible effect by combustion,
deflagration or detonation, including both common and special fireworks all as
further defined by I.C. 22-11-14-1, but excluding model rockets, toy pistol
caps, emergency signal flares, matches, fixed ammunition for firearms,
ammunition components intended for use in firearms, muzzle-loading cannons or
small arms and shells, cartridges and primers for use in firearms, muzzle-
loading cannons or small arms.
(`86 Code, § 7-2-1) (Ord. 4, passed 1-2-39; Am. Ord. 86-C12, passed 9-30-86)
§ 92.16 DETONATION OF FIREWORKS PROHIBITED EXCEPT FOR AUTHORIZED PUBLIC
DISPLAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person at any time to fire or explode anywhere
within the corporate limits of the town any fireworks of any kind, except as
herein provided. Fireworks may be legally exploded between the hours of
midnight July 3 and midnight July 4, or when July 4 falls on Sunday, then
fireworks and explosives can be legally exploded between the hours of midnight,
July 4 and midnight July 5 or at such other times and occasions as may be
specially authorized by the Town Council, provided that all requirements of §§
92.17 and
92.18 are complied with.
(`86 Code, § 7-2-2) (Ord. 4, passed 1-2-39; Am. Ord. 86-C12, passed 9-30-86)
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.17 AUTHORIZED PUBLIC DISPLAYS.
   (A)   Application to Town Council. 
      (1)   A person, organization or governmental entity wishing to legally
conduct or sponsor a public fireworks display at times permitted under §
92.16 must first file a written application with the Town Council no later than
its regular meeting preceding the proposed event. The application must include
the following:
         (a)   The name and address of the applicant;
         (b)   The name and address of the operator who will actually conduct
the proposed display;
         (c)   The time, location, purpose and nature of the proposed display
(including the types of fireworks proposed to be used);
         (d)   Evidence that the proposed operator, location and nature of the
display have been approved by the Chief of the Fire Department having
jurisdiction in the area; and
         (e)   Evidence that a permit from the State Fire Marshal as required
under I.C. 22-11-14-2 has been obtained or duly applied for at least 15 days in
advance of the proposed event.
      (2)   The Town Council may grant or deny the application, or impose
further conditions, restrictions or modifications thereon, at its discretion.
However, in all events, the approval and validity of any application granted
under this section shall be conditional upon the applicant's filing a
certificate of insurance as required under division (B) of this section, and,
if a state permit has not yet been obtained as referred to in subsection (e),
also upon the granting of the state permit.
(`86 Code, § 7-2-3)
   (B)   Insurance requirements; filing of certificate of insurance. At the
time it approves any application under division (A) of this section, the Town
Council shall stipulate an amount of personal injury and property damage
insurance which the applicant must carry against any liabilities arising out of
the proposed display. The insurance must expressly cover all related acts of
the applicant and any of his or her agents, employees or subcontractors. The
Council may set the required amount of insurance in each instance at its
discretion, except that pursuant to I.C. 22-11-14-3 such amount shall not be
less than $10,000 nor more than $100,000 for injury to a person or persons, and
not less than $10,000 nor more than $100,000 for damage to property (or such
other minimum and maximum insurance amounts as may at the time be prescribed by
amendments to such statute). At least 48 hours prior to the proposed event, the
applicant must file with the Town Clerk-Treasurer a certificate of insurance
issued by an insurance company licensed to do business in Indiana and
certifying the issuance of a valid policy complying with the requirements of
this section and the insurance amounts stipulated by the Council pursuant to
its approval of the application. Failure to file the certificate, or the
cancellation, expiration or lapsing of the insurance policy in whole or in part
prior to the proposed event, shall fully annul any approval of the application
granted under division (A) of this section and will bar the legal conduct of
the event notwithstanding any state permit which may have been granted.
(`86 Code, § 7-2-4)
   (C)   Nonassumption of liability by town. The approval of any application to
conduct a fireworks display under division (A) of this section, and/or the
stipulation of any insurance requirement under division (B), by the Town
Council are purely discretionary acts which may not be deemed to imply any
assumption of risk or liability on the part of the Council, the town or any
individual officers or employees, and all immunity provided under I.C. 34-13-
3 and 34-13-4 shall apply to such matters.
(`86 Code, § 7-2-5)
(Ord. 4, passed 1-2-39; Am. Ord. 86-C12, passed 9-30-86)
§ 92.18 INAPPLICABILITY TO OFFICIAL PERSONNEL IN PERFORMANCE OF DUTIES.
   This chapter shall not apply to any police officer nor to members of the
armed forces and authorized emergency management agencies while in the
discharge of their official duties, nor prevent or restrict the necessary and
appropriate use in the performance of such duties of any explosive,
combustible, incendiary, smoke or gas producing or similar devices.
(`86 Code, § 7-2-7) (Ord. 4, passed 1-2-39; Am. Ord. 86-C12, passed 9-30-86)
§ 92.19 INAPPLICABILITY TO LEGITIMATE CONSTRUCTION OR DEMOLITION ACTIVITIES.
   Nothing in this chapter may be construed to prohibit the use by otherwise
authorized persons of explosive materials for legitimate purposes of
construction or demolition and similar activities not conducted for personal or
public amusement or display.
(`86 Code, § 7-2-8) (Ord. 4, passed 1-2-39; Am. Ord. 86-C12, passed 9-30-86)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever shall violate any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is provided shall be punished as set forth in §
10.99.
CHAPTER 93: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
93.01   Playing ball on streets and alleys prohibited
   
93.02   Removal of snow from public sidewalks
   
93.03   Obstruction of public sidewalks; exceptions and exemptions
   
93.04   Street/sidewalk excavation permits; fee
   
93.05   Maintenance requirements for city sidewalks
Cross-reference:
   Tree Commission, see
Ch. 31
§ 93.01 PLAYING BALL ON STREETS AND ALLEYS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to play ball or throw or catch balls
upon any of the streets or alleys within the corporate limits of the town. Any
person violating the provisions of this section shall upon conviction be fined
in a sum determined by §
10.99.
(`86 Code, § 5-2-1) (Ord. 3, passed 1-2-39)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.02 REMOVAL OF SNOW FROM PUBLIC SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Obligations of owners or occupants of property abutting sidewalks.
Except as provided by division (D) of this section, it shall be unlawful for
any owner, occupant or agent of any commons, lot, tract or parcel of ground
adjacent to and abutting upon any sidewalk in the town to suffer or permit snow
to accumulate, be or remain upon the sidewalk abutting thereon for a longer
period than 24 hours after daylight and after the snow ceases to fall. For
purposes of this section, a public sidewalk is considered to be an "abutting"
sidewalk if:
      (1)   It in whole or part traverses the private property upon a right-of-
way easement; or
      (2)   The public sidewalk lies between the property line of the private
property and the curb or pavement line of the adjacent public street or alley,
even though no part of the public sidewalk per se may be directly upon or in
contact with the property line of such private property.
(`86 Code, § 5-2-2)
   (B)   Failure to comply; removal by town and assessment of costs. If any
snow shall remain upon any sidewalks within the corporate limits of the town
abutting upon any commons, lot, tract or parcel of ground within the town at
any time for a period of more than 24 hours after daylight and after the snow
ceases to fall, it shall be the option of the Town Marshal to procure the
removal of the snow and the clearing of the sidewalk upon which the same has
fallen and has not so been removed as provided by division (A) of this section
and to collect from the owner, occupant or agent a reasonable value of the
labor and service of cleaning the sidewalk from all snow. Upon the failure of
the owner, occupant or agent to pay the reasonable sum, it shall be the further
duty of the Marshal to report to the Clerk-Treasurer of the town the reasonable
value of the services, and the Clerk-Treasurer shall immediately mail a written
statement and demand for payment to the owner or occupant of the affected
property, due and payable within five business days of the date of dispatch of
the notice. In the event that the required amount is not paid within the time
stipulated, the Clerk-Treasurer shall cause the amount to be added to the penal
sum requested under division (C) of this section, and it shall be awardable to
the town as additional judgment against the defendant to be collected by the
court of jurisdiction and paid over to the town in the same manner as the penal
judgment. The use of the snow plow upon the sidewalks of the town, by the
Street Department of the town, shall not relieve the owner, occupant or agent
from complying with the provisions of this chapter.
(`86 Code, § 5-2-3) (Ord. 11, passed 1-2-39; Am. Ord. 86-C7, passed 8-25-86)
   (C)   Failure to comply; penalties. In addition to the penalty mentioned in
division (B) of this section, any person violating the provisions of division
(A) of this section shall upon conviction thereof be fined in any sum
determined by §
10.99.
(`86 Code, § 5-2-4) (Ord. 11, passed 1-2-39; Am. Ord. 86-C7, passed 8-25-86)
   (D)   Release from obligations for certain infirmed and indigent persons. An
owner or occupant of any affected property shall be relieved and discharged
from any obligation under division (A) of this section and from payment of any
costs and/or penal fine under divisions (B) and (C) of this sections, if the
person demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Town Council or the judge of the
court of jurisdiction that:
      (1)   By reason of age, health or other infirmity, he or she is
physically unable to perform the required work of snow clearance;
      (2)   There is no other physically able member of his or her household or
business establishment who may reasonably be called upon to perform the
required work; and
      (3)   He or she is financially unable, without incurring undue and
unreasonable hardship, to employ another person to perform the required work on
his or her behalf.
(`86 Code, § 5-2-5) (Ord. 11, passed 1-2-39; Am. Ord. 86-C7, passed 8-25-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.03 OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC SIDEWALKS; EXCEPTIONS AND EXEMPTIONS.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful for any owner or
occupant of a lot or building to place or permit to remain on the sidewalk in
front of the lot or building or for any other person to obstruct any of the
sidewalks in the town by placing there or permitting to remain thereon anything
which will obstruct the same or hinder the full and free use of such walks by
persons passing thereon on foot. Any person violating the provisions of this
section shall, upon conviction, be fined in any sum determined by §
10.99, together with the costs of prosecution, and each day such obstruction
shall remain or be place on said sidewalk shall constitute and be a separate
violation of this section. However, the restrictions under this section do not
apply to the following:
   (A)   Electric light poles or posts that are now on such sidewalks, nor any
other public utility system facilities erected and maintained by a municipal
utility or by a private utility company in accordance with any general
franchise or license granted by the town;
   (B)   The erection and maintenance of traffic-control signs or signals,
street lights, street name signs and similar devices by a public authority or
by a private person when so required or authorized by law, ordinance or special
permit;
   (C)   Temporary obstruction of sidewalks as necessary for purposes of
excavation or similar construction, maintenance or repair work when conducted
by a public authority or when conducted by a private person in accordance with
a permit granted by a public authority; or
   (D)   The use by a merchant of three feet of such walks immediately in front
of and adjacent to his or her regular business room for the exhibition of
merchandise.
(`86 Code, § 5-2-6) (Ord. 15, passed 1-2-39; Am. Ord. 86-C7, passed 8-25-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.04 STREET/SIDEWALK EXCAVATION PERMITS; FEE.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, it shall be unlawful for
any person to excavate, dig through or otherwise disturb the pavement of any
town street, public sidewalk or similar thoroughfare under town jurisdiction or
any curb adjacent to the foregoing without obtaining a permit to do so from the
Town Council. A person seeking the permit shall file a written application with
the Clerk-Treasurer stating the name and address of the applicant, his or her
interest in the matter (for example, property owner, contractor and the like),
the nature (including any plans and specifications) and purpose of the proposed
work, the location, the approximate time when the work will be done and any
other information which the Council may specifically require. The applicant
shall also pay to the town, at the time of application, a nonrefundable
application fee of $10. The Town Council shall consider the application at its
next regular meeting, or, alternatively, the Council may authorize an
appropriate officer of the town to act upon and grant or deny the permits
without the Council's direct consideration. However, in the latter instance, a
denial of the permit by the officer shall be appealable to the Town Council. It
is a condition of a permit granted under this section that the applicant be
responsible for restoring the affected public property to as good a condition
as before the work was performed (as determined by and acceptable to the town),
and that the applicant shall be liable to the town for the full costs of so
restoring the public property in the event of the applicant's failure to do so.
It shall be a further permit condition that the applicant assume all liability
for any injury or damages incurred by other persons by virtue of the permitted
work and the granting of the permit by the town shall be a purely discretionary
act subject to all protections of the town and its several officers and
employees under I.C. 34-13-3 and 34-13-4. A special permit is not required
under this section for the following activities:
      (1)   Work performed within the right-of-way of a highway under the
jurisdiction of the Indiana Department of Highways which has exclusive power to
grant permits for such purposes;
      (2)   Work performed by the town or a municipal utility by their
employees or by a contractor engaged by them for such purposes;
      (3)   Work performed by a private utility or similar entity when already
authorized under the provisions of a general franchise or license;
      (4)   Work involving the auguring under a street, sidewalk or curb for
the purpose of running small utility pipe lines or conduits not exceeding six
inches nominal diameter and not requiring more substantial excavation nor any
disturbance of the overlying pavement.
   (B)   A person who violates any provision of this section shall be liable to
a penalty determined by §
10.99 for each violation, in addition to particular damages which may be
incurred by the town to make repairs or otherwise remedy any work performed
without a permit or contrary to its conditions.
(`86 Code, § 5-2-7) (Ord. 86-C8, passed 8-25-86)
§ 93.05 MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR CITY SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   The responsibility for care, maintenance, and repairs of sidewalks
located within the town is hereby deemed that of landowners abutting any
sidewalk.
   (B)   Landowners whose land abuts any sidewalk shall keep the sidewalk in
reasonably safe condition and shall maintain and repair the sidewalk at their
own expense as and when needed within 60 days after being notified by the town
that the sidewalk is in need of repair, unless the time to make repairs is
extended by the town.
   (C)   In the event that repairs are not made within the prescribed time
frame after notification by the town, it shall be the option of the town to
procure the necessary repairs of the sidewalk and to collect from the owner the
value of labor and service for making the necessary repairs.
   (D)   In the event the owner fails to pay for the necessary repairs, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall mail a written statement and demand for payment to the
owner, due and payable within five days of the date of the notice. In the event
that the required amount is not paid within the time stipulated, the Clerk-
Treasurer may cause such amount to be added to the penal sum requested under
division (E), and it shall be awarded to the town as additional judgement
against the defendant to be collected by the court of jurisdiction and paid
over to the town in the same manner as penal judgement.
   (E)   In addition to the cost of repairs above mentioned in division (C),
any person violating the provisions of this section may be fined in a sum not
to exceed $2,500 together with the cost of the action, including reasonable
attorney fees in the event that the town incurs liability as a result of the
person not making the requested repair after notification.
(Ord. 5-16-06A, passed 6-20-06)
CHAPTER 94: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Public nuisances defined and proscribed; limitations of applicability
   
94.02   Duty of Town Marshal and Street Commissioner to assist County Health
Officer
   
94.03   Duty of Town Marshal and Street Commissioner to remove nuisances from
public places
   
94.04   Power of health officers, Town Marshal and Street Commissioner to
survey premises for nuisance or unsanitary conditions
   
94.05   Notice to offenders
   
94.06   Liability of offender for costs and damages
   
94.07   Applicability of alternative enforcement procedures in remedying
nuisance violations
   
94.08   Pools, hot tubs and ponds
Noxious and Rank Vegetation
   
94.20   Authority
   
94.21   Definitions
   
94.22   Maintenance of rank vegetation prohibited
   
94.23   Duties of Clerk-Treasurer and Town Marshal; service of notice to
landowner
   
94.24   Failure to comply with notice; removal by town; billing of costs to
landowner
   
94.25   Nonpayment of bill by landowner
   
94.26   Noneffect on private property maintenance contracts and agreements
   
Appendix:   List of noxious vegetation
Cross-reference:
   Manufactured or mobile housing, see
Ch. 151
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 PUBLIC NUISANCE DEFINED AND PROSCRIBED; LIMITATIONS OF APPLICABILITY.
   It shall be unlawful and it shall be a nuisance for any person to erect,
construct, cause, permit, keep or maintain within the limits of the town
anything whatsoever which is injurious to health, indecent or offensive to the
senses or an obstruction to the free use of property, and any person or persons
maintaining a nuisance as above set forth or as otherwise defined by ordinance
is declared to be the author and maintainer of a nuisance. However, in
accordance with I.C. 32-30-6-9, the provisions of this section do not apply to
any such condition when:
   (A)   The condition results from an agricultural or industrial activity
which has been lawfully in existence for more than one year; and
   (B)   The nuisance results from a change in the environs in which the
activity is conducted and in no way from a change in the activity itself.
(`86 Code, § 3-1-1) (Ord. 6, passed 1-2-39; Am. Ord. 86-C3, passed 7-15-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 94.02 DUTY OF TOWN MARSHAL AND STREET COMMISSIONER TO ASSIST COUNTY HEALTH
OFFICER.
   It shall be the duty of the Town Marshal and Street Commissioner at all
times to aid the County Health Officer in the work of enforcing applicable
state and county wide health laws, regulations and ordinances upon demand of
the health officer.
(`86 Code, § 3-1-2) (Ord. 6, passed 1-2-39; Am. Ord. 86-C3, passed 7-15-86)
§ 94.03 DUTY OF TOWN MARSHAL AND STREET COMMISSIONER TO REMOVE NUISANCES FROM
PUBLIC PLACES.
   It shall be the further duty of the Town Marshal and Street Commissioner to
remove or cause to be removed any dead animal, dead fowl or other nuisance from
the streets, alleys or other places of the town when he or she shall become
cognizant of the existence of the nuisance without waiting for the demand from
the health officer.
(`86 Code, § 3-1-3) (Ord. 6, passed 1-2-39; Am. Ord. 86-C3, passed 7-15-86)
§ 94.04 POWER OF HEALTH OFFICERS, TOWN MARSHAL AND STREET COMMISSIONER TO
SURVEY PREMISES FOR NUISANCES OR UNSANITARY CONDITIONS.
   The County Health Officer, and all other members of the Board of Health, the
Town Marshal and Street Commissioner shall have power and authority to enter
into or upon any street, lot, alley, premises or ground at proper times and
after notice for the purpose of making a survey of the same and to determine if
a nuisance or any unsanitary conditions are to be found.
(`86 Code, § 3-1-4) (Ord. 6, passed 1-2-39; Am. Ord. 86-C3, passed 7-15-86)
§ 94.05 NOTICE TO OFFENDERS.
   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall be
served by the town with written notice stating the nature of the violation and
providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The
offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently
cease all violations.
(`86 Code, § 3-1-5) (Ord. 6, passed 1-2-39; Am. Ord. 86-C3, passed 7-15-86)
§ 94.06 LIABILITY OF OFFENDER FOR COSTS AND DAMAGES.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this subchapter shall become
liable to the town for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the town by
reason of the violation.
(`86 Code, § 3-1-7) (Ord. 6, passed 1-2-39; Am. Ord. 86-C3, passed 7-15-86)
§ 94.07 APPLICABILITY OF ALTERNATIVE ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES IN REMEDYING
NUISANCE VIOLATIONS.
   In addition to any penalty prescribed by §
10.99 or any enforcement procedure and/or penalty prescribed under any other
provision defining a public nuisance or unsanitary condition, whenever any such
condition is found on any property and is not abated in accordance with any
notice and within any time period therein provided, the town or its authorized
agents or contractors may, in the manner provided by I.C. 36-1-6-2, undertake
to enter upon the premises and correct or remove the offending condition, and
the officer charged with the enforcement shall keep a record of all costs
incurred thereby. The costs shall be a liability of the owner and, if not
immediately paid or reimbursed to the town by the owner, shall be enforceable
by a lien against the effected property to be filed by the town in the manner
provided by I.C. 36-1-6-2 and other statutes. As an additional remedy, the Town
Council may direct the Town Attorney to file for an injunction against the
property owner or other person responsible for maintaining the nuisance or
unsanitary condition as provided by I.C. 36-1-6-4.
(`86 Code, § 3-1-8) (Ord. 6, passed 1-2-39; Am. Ord. 86-C3, passed 7-15-86)
§ 94.08 POOLS, HOT TUBS AND PONDS.
   (A)   For purposes of this chapter BODY OF WATER means swimming pool, hot
tub or pond within the town limits for residential use.
   (B)   Any property owner with a property containing a body of water, as
defined in this section, shall ensure that said body of water is surrounded by
a fence of at least four feet in height. Alternatively, if the body of water is
less than 20 feet wide at its widest point, this section may be satisfied if
the property owner causes a cover to be placed over the body of water when it
is not in use.
(Ord. 08-19-2019, passed 8-19-19)
NOXIOUS AND RANK VEGETATION
§ 94.20 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted under authority of I.C. 36-1-3 and I.C. 36-7-10-3.
(`86 Code, § 3-4-1) (Ord. 86-C4, passed 7-15-86)
§ 94.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LANDOWNER. The owner-of-record of any property, as shown in the most recent
property tax abstracts on record in the office of the County Auditor, and
includes jointly or severally two or more persons owning property in
partnership or joint tenancy. The term also includes a political or municipal
corporation or other governmental or quasi-governmental entity, religious or
charitable organization or association and the like which holds or controls
actual proprietary title to any land even though such land may be excluded from
property taxation.
   NOXIOUS VEGETATION. Any weed or other plant which because of its toxic or
allergenic characteristics, propensity to grow densely or rapidly so as to
choke out more desirable forms of vegetation or other reasons is deemed
inimical to the public health or general welfare and the presence and
proliferation of which in the community is therefore deemed subject to proper
control and restriction under the general police powers of the municipality.
Specific types or species of plant which are deemed noxious for purposes of
this act are declared and listed in the Appendix.
   RANK VEGETATION. Means the following:
      (1)   Lawn grass or weeds which are permitted to grow to a height of more
than six inches on any developed residential, commercial or industrial property
(whether occupied or not) or to a height of more than one foot on any
undeveloped land or land in agricultural use;
      (2)   Any noxious vegetation regardless of height, location, the use of
property on which situated or other incidental characteristics, subject,
however, to such exceptions as are set forth in the Appendix; or
      (3)   Trees, bushes, shrubs, vines and the like, whether cultivated or
naturally growing, which are permitted to grow so as to:
         (a)   Encroach upon, obstruct the normal use of or render hazardous a
public sidewalk or vehicular thoroughfare; or
         (b)   Encroach upon, impair the normal use and enjoyment of or detract
from the appearance of any adjacent public or private property.
   WEED. Any plant, vine or small bush which is naturally growing and is not
normally planted deliberately, cultivated and maintained for ornamental or
agricultural purposes.
(`86 Code, § 3-4-2) (Ord. 86-C4, passed 7-15-86)
§ 94.22 MAINTENANCE OF RANK VEGETATION PROHIBITED.
   It is declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance to the inhabitants of
the town for any landowner to allow rank vegetation to grow upon his or her
lands within the corporate limits of the town.
(`86 Code, § 3-4-3) (Ord. 86-C4, passed 7-15-86)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.23 DUTIES OF CLERK-TREASURER AND TOWN MARSHAL; SERVICE OF NOTICE TO
LANDOWNER.
   Whenever any rank vegetation is found to be maintained in violation of §
94.22, the landowner shall be given a written notice by the Clerk-Treasurer
describing the nature and location of the violation and directing the landowner
to remove the rank vegetation or otherwise abate the violation within five days
of the date of service of the notice. The notice shall be served by the Town
Marshal on the landowner or his or her proper representative in person if he or
she is a resident of the town, or by registered mail if he or she is a
nonresident.
(`86 Code, § 3-4-4) (Ord. 86-C4, passed 7-15-86)
§ 94.24 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH NOTICE; REMOVAL BY TOWN; BILLING OF COSTS TO
LANDOWNER.
   If the landowner or his or her agent fails to remove the rank vegetation or
otherwise abate the violation in accordance with the notice served under §
94.23, and within the time limit prescribed therein, the Town Council may cause
the same to be removed or otherwise abated either by employees of the town or
by a private contractor engaged for that purpose. The town employees or private
contractor and his or her employees shall have a right to enter upon the
affected property at any reasonable hour to carry out the removal or other
abatement. In this case, the Clerk-Treasurer shall make a certified statement
of the actual costs incurred by the town in the removal or abatement. The costs
computed shall include an allowance for the costs of service or delivery both
of the original notice provided for under §
94.23 and of the statement of costs provided under this section. The statement
shall be tendered to the landowner or his or her proper representative by the
Town Marshal or by registered mail, and the landowner shall have not more than
ten days from the date of service of the statement within which to pay the
amount to the Clerk-Treasurer. The statement shall include an expressed notice
as to the deadline for payment.
(`86 Code, § 3-4-5) (Ord. 86-C4, passed 7-15-86)
§ 94.25 NONPAYMENT OF BILL BY LANDOWNER.
   (A)   Certification to County Auditor for collection with property taxes.
Except as provided by division (B) of this section, if the landowner fails to
pay the sum owing under §
94.24 within the time prescribed, a certified copy of the statement of cost
shall be filed in the County Auditor's office, as provided by I.C. 36-7-10-3,
and the Auditor shall place the amount claimed on the tax duplicate against the
lands of the landowner affected by the work, and the amount shall be collected
as taxes are collected and when collected shall be dispersed to the General
Fund of the town.
(`86 Code, § 3-4-6)
   (B)   Alternative collection procedure in the case of nontaxable property.
In the event the landowner fails to pay the sum owing under §
94.24 within the time prescribed, but the nature of the landowner and affected
property is such that the property is not subject to property taxes, then in
lieu of the procedure prescribed under division (A) of this section the Town
Council may direct the Town Attorney, in accordance with I.C. 36-1-6-2, to take
out and file a lien on the property in favor of the town and in the amount of
costs incurred, which lien shall be enforceable and foreclosable in the same
manner as other contractor's or worker's liens as provided by law.
(`86 Code, § 3-4-7)
(Ord. 86-C4, passed 7-15-86)
§ 94.26 NONEFFECT ON PRIVATE PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS.
   This chapter is not intended and may not be construed to abrogate any
provisions of leases, easements or other private contracts or agreements
whereby some person other than the landowner is made liable for maintenance of
the property, including expressly or implicitly the removal of weeds and rank
vegetation. However, no such lease, easement, contract or agreement shall be
construed to relieve the landowner of immediate liability for compliance with
this chapter or from costs and/or penalties assessed hereunder. It shall be a
private matter between the landowner and lessee, contractee or similar other
person to recover any costs or penalties incurred by the landowner through the
nonperformance of the other party.
(`86 Code, § 3-4-9) (Ord. 86-C4, passed 7-15-86)
APPENDIX: LIST OF NOXIOUS VEGETATION
   The following species of vegetation are declared to be noxious and subject
to control, subject to any exceptions as indicated.
PLANT SPECIES                      EXCEPTIONS
Canada thistle (Cirsium arvense)   None
Crab grass (Digitaria sanguinalis) None
                                   May be grown only under permit from
Johnson grass                      Purdue University Agricultural
                                   Experiment Station
Marijuana (Cannabis sativa)        None
                                   Other species of roses grafted to
                                   multiflora rootstock may be planted and
                                   maintained; multiflora may be grown by
Multiflora roses (Rosa multiflora) licensed plant nurseries to provide
                                   rootstock, or by other persons under a
                                   permit from Purdue University
                                   Agricultural Experiment Station
Poison ivy, oak or sumac (Rhus or  None
Toxicodendron)
Ragweed, common (Ambrosia          None
artemisifolia)
Ragweed, giant (Ambrosia trifida)  None
Sorghum almum (Sorghum halpense)   None
 
(`86 Code, Ch. 3, Art. 4, Sch. A)
CHAPTER 95: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Exceptions and exemptions
   
95.03   Relationship to zoning regulations; priority
Animal Protection
   
95.15   Hunting in town prohibited
   
95.16   General standards of animal care, cruelty and neglect of animal
   
95.17   Requirement to report injuries to animals to police or humane society
Animal Health
   
95.30   Rabies inoculations of dogs and cats
   
95.31   Failure to immunize dog or cat; bodily injury to humans
   
95.32   Requirement to report existence of rabies or animal bites; quarantine
and observation of affected animal
   
95.33   Local animal health emergencies and quarantines
   
95.34   Disposal of dead animals; pick-up fee
Regulations
   
95.45   Keeping dangerous animals in town prohibited; destruction of dangerous
animals authorized
   
95.46   Keeping livestock in town prohibited
   
95.47   Keeping of noisy or offensive animals or animals constituting public
nuisance prohibited
   
95.48   Permitting animals to defecate on public or private property;
exceptions
   
95.49   Running at large prohibited
   
95.50   Restraint permitting encroachment on public property prohibited
   
95.51   Special requirements for animals having contagious diseases/infections
   
95.52   Limiting the number of dogs per household within town limits
Commercial Animal Breeding
   
95.65   Commercial breeding of dogs and cats restricted
   
95.66   Impoundment of animals
Administration and Enforcement
   
95.80   Authorization and causes for impoundment
   
95.81   Procedure of impoundment; reclamation by owner
   
95.82   Impoundment fees and charges
   
95.83   Liability of animal owner for property damage
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABSOLUTE PHYSICAL CONTROL. A leash or lead, firmly held by a person,
confinement in a cage of sufficiently small mesh to prevent the animal from
reaching through to bite or scratch people or confinement within a motor
vehicle with windows closed or opened only to the extent necessary to provide
ventilation but not enough to permit the escape of the animal.
   ANIMAL. Any animal other than man, and includes birds, fish, mammals and
reptiles, wild or domestic. The term is generally limited to vertebrate animals
and does not refer to nor do the provisions of this chapter apply to
invertebrate creatures such as worms, insects, arthropods, crustaceans,
mollusks and the like, unless expressly so provided.
   ANIMAL CONTROL COMMISSION. The Fulton County Animal Control Commission
organized for the purpose of representing a viable animal control and rescue
program in Fulton County.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. A Deputy Marshal of the town appointed by the
Marshal for the town for the purpose of enforcing the animal control ordinances
of the town.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. The Fulton County Humane Society Animal Shelter located at
R.R. #3, Monticello Road, Rochester, Indiana, for the purpose of impounding
and/or caring for animals held under the authority of this chapter or state
law.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. Any wild animal which is not naturally tame or gentle, but
is of a wild nature or disposition and which because of its size, vicious
nature or propensity if it escaped from secure quarters would cause injury.
DANGEROUS ANIMALS also include any domestic animal which because of its size or
propensity or other characteristic would constitute a danger to human life or
property if it escaped from secure quarters.
   DOMESTIC (OR DOMESTICATED) ANIMAL. Any species or variety of animal
ordinarily kept as pets or livestock, but includes such animals as guard dogs,
seeing-eye dogs, hunting dogs or animals used for breeding purposes which may
be kept for more utilitarian reasons.
   FOWL. A bird which is usually kept as livestock, such as but not limited to
domestic varieties of chickens, ducks, turkeys, geese, guinea fowl and similar
poultry. The term does not include wild bird species or varieties, nor birds
which are usually and ordinarily kept as pets, such as canaries, parakeets,
parrots and the like.
   HUMANE OFFICER. Any person or persons designated by the Fulton County Humane
Society as a law enforcement officer who is qualified to perform such duties
under the authority of this chapter and the state.
   HUMANE SOCIETY. The Fulton County Humane Society, Inc.
   KENNEL. Any premises wherein any person engages in the business of boarding,
breeding, buying, letting for hire, training for a fee or selling dogs or cats.
   LIVESTOCK. Any species or variety of domesticated animal which is usually
and ordinarily kept and raised on a farm or similar facility for purposes of
animal husbandry, dairy farming, wool production and the like and similar
agricultural-related purposes including as draft animals or beasts of burden
and applies generically to all such animals irrespective of the actual purpose
for which any particular animal is kept. The term specifically includes, but is
not necessarily limited to cattle, horses, ponies, mules, donkeys, swine,
sheep, goats, fowl and most varieties of domesticated rabbits.
   OWNER. Any person, partnership or corporation owning, keeping or harboring
one or more animals. An animal shall be deemed to be owned if kept or harbored,
fed or sheltered for three consecutive days or more.
   PET. Any animal kept for pleasure rather than utility.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any animal or animals which:
      (1)   Molest passers by or passing vehicles;
      (2)   Attacks other animals;
      (3)   Trespasses on school grounds;
      (4)   Is repeatedly at large;
      (5)   Damages public or private property; or
      (6)   Barks, whines or howls in an excessive, continuous or untimely
fashion.
   RESTRAINT. A leash, lead or barrier used to control or confine an animal.
   RESTRAINT OF AN ANIMAL. To secure an animal by a leash or lead or under the
control of a responsible person and obedient to that person's commands or
within the real property limits of the owner.
   VARMINTS/PESTS. Any wild animals which because of their propensity to damage
property, injure humans, livestock or domestic animals, carry disease, destroy
crops, damage the environment or otherwise having a noxious character are
deemed to be subject to special control and destruction and which are not
members of protected species under the game and wildlife laws of the state or
the United States. Specifically, as used herein, the term means and applies to:
      (1)   The following species, (including all wild varieties unless
otherwise indicated):
         (a)   Rats;
         (b)   Mice;
         (c)   Moles;
         (d)   Copperhead snakes; and
         (e)   Rattlesnakes; and
      (2)   Any other species generally described above and which because of
special circumstances have by proclamation or resolution o£ the Town Council,
County Board of Health, State Board of Health, Indiana Natural Resources
Commission or similar state or federal authorities having jurisdiction are
declared to be pests or varmints and subject to special eradication programs.
   WILD ANIMAL. An animal of any species or variety which predominately exists
and propagates in a state of nature, without usual or substantial human care or
culture, and is not ordinarily kept as a pet or livestock, irrespective of the
fact that a particular such animal may have been born in captivity or tamed.
(`86 Code, § 3-5-1) (Ord. passed 7-17-84; Am. Ord. 86-C5, passed 7-15-86)
§ 95.02 EXCEPTIONS AND EXEMPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter is intended to prohibit:
   (A)   Fishing, trapping or other conduct authorized under I.C. 14-22, except
as expressly prohibited under §
95.15;
   (B)   Conduct authorized under I.C. 15-5-7;
   (C)   Veterinary practices authorized by standards adopted under state law;
   (D)   Slaughtering and butchering of livestock for meat;
   (E)   Euthanasia of aged, infirmed or unwanted animals to prevent their
suffering; or
   (F)   Any conduct toward an animal as expressly authorized in this chapter
or another town ordinance or a statute.
(`86 Code, § 3-5-22) (Ord. passed 7-17-84; Am. Ord. 86-C5, passed 7-15-86)
§ 95.03 RELATIONSHIP TO ZONING REGULATIONS; PRIORITY.
   In the event that the town shall hereafter adopt any zoning ordinance or
regulations, the provisions of which affect the place or manner of keeping
animals or similar matters as governed by this chapter, the zoning regulations
shall not be deemed to supersede any provision of this chapter except to the
degree that they may impose stricter standards or requirements. In case of any
conflict between the two provisions, the most restrictive one shall always take
precedence and be enforced.
(`86 Code, § 3-5-23 and § 4-1-4) (Ord. passed 7-17-84; Am. Ord. 86-C5, passed
7-15-86)
ANIMAL PROTECTION
§ 95.15 HUNTING IN TOWN PROHIBITED.
   The hunting of wild animals within the corporate limits of the town is
prohibited. No person shall hunt, kill or attempt to kill any wild animal by
use of firearms, compressed air or compressed gas or spring-powered weapons or
by any other means. However, this section does not prohibit the following:
   (A)   Destruction of varmints and pests by any person by means other than a
firearm or compressed gas weapon or by a police officer or other authorized
public authority by any means, provided that the method used shall be
reasonably humane and prudently applied so as to prevent probable injury to
humans or other animals;
   (B)   Euthanasia when necessary to prevent prolonged suffering of an injured
or sick wild animal; or
   (C)   Destruction of dangerous, vicious or ferocious wild animals as
authorized under §
95.45.
(`86 Code, § 3-5-9) (Ord. passed 7-17-84; Am. Ord. 86-C5, passed 7-15-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.16 GENERAL STANDARDS OF ANIMAL CARE, CRUELTY AND NEGLECT OF ANIMAL.
   (A)   Every owner of an animal within the corporate limits of the town
shall:
      (1)   Keep the animal in a clean, sanitary and healthy area. No animal
shall be confined to an area so as to be forced to stand, sit or lie in its own
excreta.
      (2)   Not confine an animal in an area littered with debris or any other
obstacles which would impair, prohibit or reduce the animal's movement or cause
injury within such area of confinement.
      (3)   Confine the animal in an area of sufficient size to permit the
animal to exercise and move about.
      (4)   Not prevent in any way any animal from seeking proper shelter by
chaining, roping or fencing in any animal.
      (5)   Not tether a dog by a choker collar or chain or similar means of
restraint less than ten feet in length or of the weight as to prevent the
animal from moving about or causing injury to the animal.
      (6)   Not fail to provide the animal with sufficient wholesome food and
clean water.
      (7)   Not fail to provide the animal with proper, soundly and effectively
constructed shelter and protection from the varying elements of the weather at
all times.
      (8)   Not fail to provide the animal with proper humane and veterinary
care and counsel for sick, injured or diseased animals and shall segregate the
animals from the healthy so as to prevent transmittal of any sickness or
disease.
      (9)   No person shall cruelly ill treat, beat, torment, overload,
overwork or otherwise abuse or mistreat any animal.
      (10)   No person shall abandon any animal on any public or private place,
including a public or private highway or street or upon the property of
another. However, a wild animal of a species indigenous to the area physically
able to care for itself in the wild and which is not dangerous nor considered a
varmint or pest may be released to the wild in a suitable area and such act
does not constitute abandonment within the meaning of this subsection.
      (11)   No person shall keep or use any animal for the purpose of fighting
or cause or permit any fighting or other combat between animals within the town
limits. No person shall be party to or present as a spectator to any such
fighting or combat between animals. No person shall knowingly suffer or permit
the use of any building, yard, ground or any other premises belonging to any
person for any fighting or combat between animals, and no person shall carry,
haul or deliver any animal for the aforementioned purposes.
      (12)   No person shall expose any known poisonous substance, whether
mixed with food or not, so that the same shall be liable to be consumed by any
animal, except in the control of varmints and pests as listed in §
95.01.
      (13)   No person shall confine an animal within a motor vehicle for a
period of time of more than five minutes when the interior temperature is
likely to exceed 85°F or to drop below 20°F.
   (B)   Many of the acts and conditions described by subsections (1) through
(13) of this section are or may be construed as cruelty to or neglect of an
animal and would be subject to criminal penalties under the provisions of I.C.
35-46-3, and in such case violations of this section shall be prosecuted as
violations of the statute and subject to penalties as provided by state law.
However, in cases where a violation of this section is determined not to
constitute a statutory violation; or when, by virtue of any vagueness or lack
of precise definition of terms such as "cruelty" or "neglect" as used in said
statute, the Town Marshal, Town Attorney, County Prosecutor or judge of a court
of jurisdiction do not believe that successful prosecution under statute would
be feasible; then the matter may be cited and prosecuted purely as a local
violation under this section and subject to penalties as provided by §
10.99.
(`86 Code, § 3-5-10) (Ord. passed 7-17-84; Am. Ord. 86-C5, passed 7-15-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.17 REQUIREMENT TO REPORT INJURIES TO ANIMALS TO POLICE OR HUMANE SOCIETY.
   No person shall injure or cause to be injured any animal by means of any
motor vehicle, firearm or any other instrument or object and fail to
immediately report the existence, location, description and tag number, if any,
of the injured animal to the police or humane society and in doing so shall
give his or her name and address.
(`86 Code, § 3-5-11) (Ord. passed 7-17-84; Am. Ord. 86-C5, passed 7-15-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
ANIMAL HEALTH
§ 95.30 RABIES INOCULATIONS FOR DOGS AND CATS.
   Every owner, keeper or harborer of any dog or cat over six months of age
within the limits of the town shall cause the dog or cat to be inoculated: in
the case of a dog, pursuant to the requirements of I.C. 35-46-3-1; and in the
case of a cat, as hereby required by a practicing Doctor of Veterinary Medicine
with a prophylactic serum to prevent rabies at least once a year, and not more
than 12 months shall elapse between successive inoculations. In addition, more
frequent reinoculation or inoculation of younger animals may be required when
ordered by the State Veterinarian pursuant to I.C. 15-2.1-6 or when ordered by
the Town Council President pursuant to §
95.33.
(`86 Code, § 3-5-12) (Ord. passed 7-17-84; Am. Ord. 86-C5, passed 7-15-86)
§ 95.31 FAILURE TO IMMUNIZE DOG OR CAT; BODILY INJURY TO HUMANS.
   In the event any person who harbors a dog which is over six months of age
and is not immunized against rabies and allows the dog to run loose with the
result that bodily injury is inflicted upon a human being, the person shall be
guilty of a Class B misdemeanor as provided by I.C. 35-46-3-1 and shall be
subject to arrest, prosecution and penalties for the offense in accordance with
statute. Any person who harbors a cat which is over six months of age and has
not been inoculated against rabies as required by §
95.30, or who harbors a dog or cat of younger age or which otherwise requires
rabies inoculation or reinoculation when ordered by the State Veterinarian or
Town Council President and permits the dog or cat to run loose with the result
that bodily injury is inflicted upon a human being shall be liable to penalties
as prescribed by §
10.99. It is not material to this section whether the animal actually is
infected with rabies, nor whether the injured human actually contracts the
disease, but only that the animal was not properly inoculated at the time the
injury occurred.
(`86 Code, § 3-5-13) (Ord. passed 7-17-84; Am. Ord. 86-C5, passed 7-15-86)
§ 95.32 REQUIREMENT TO REPORT EXISTENCE OF RABIES OR ANIMAL BITES; QUARANTINE
AND OBSERVATION OF AFFECTED ANIMAL.
   (A)   Any person having any knowledge of the existence of any rabies or the
fact that any animal has bitten any other animal or person who shall fail to
immediately report the information to the Akron Police Department or County
Humane Officer is in violation of this section. It shall be the duty of the
owner or caretaker of any dog or cat within the town to immediately notify the
Town Marshal or Deputy Marshal, and the Fulton County Health Department,
whenever his or her dog or cat has bitten any person within the town limits.
Upon notification, the Marshal or Deputy Marshal or any other police officer or
humane officer shall order the animal confined and held in observation for a
period of not less than ten days. The animal must be isolated in strict
confinement under proper care and observation in an approved place of
confinement as follows:
      (1)   The Fulton County Animal Shelter;
      (2)   A veterinary hospital or licensed kennel; or
      (3)   Confinement on the owner's premises may be permitted only if the
following conditions exist:
         (a)   The animal is protected by a current valid rabies vaccination
and is currently licensed;
         (b)   The animal is in the low risk group of large farm animals such
as a cow or horse or is a dog or cat under the age of four months;
         (c)   The animal is isolated in an occupied dwelling or under
restraint at all times in a building or yard and is not roaming at large or in
a yard without a fence high enough to make it difficult for children to enter,
tight enough to keep a child's hands from entering and sound enough to keep the
animal enclosed;
         (d)   The animal is not in contact with other animals or persons other
than the person(s) providing care;
         (e)   The animal is kept under proper care with adequate and sanitary
facilities;
         (f)   The animal is readily available for inspection by the Fulton
County Humane Officer or Animal Control Officer;
         (g)   Dwellings which are habitually unoccupied during daylight hours
are not acceptable for quarantine purposes;
         (h)   The quarantined animal may not be moved until the designated
release date established by the Fulton County Humane Officer; and
         (i)   Examination shall be made by any police officer or Humane
Officer of the quarantine quarters if the animal is quarantined on the owner's
property and if the above stated requirements are not met the animal shall be
taken from the property by the police officer or humane officer and impounded
at the Fulton County Humane Shelter.
   (B)   Any animal which dies during the period of observation, or is killed
subsequent to having bitten an individual or other animal and is suspected of
being rabid, shall have its head removed, packed in an ice container and the
head shall be forwarded immediately to the laboratory of the State Board of
Health for examination. All expenses incurred for the keeping of the animal or
the necessary tests to determine whether rabies exist shall be borne
exclusively by the owner or keeper of the animal. If at the end of the ten day
quarantine period a practicing Doctor of Veterinary Medicine is convinced that
the animal is free of rabies, the animal shall be released from quarantine.
(`86 Code, § 3-5-14) (Ord. passed 7-17-84; Am. Ord. 86-C5, passed 7-15-86)
§ 95.33 LOCAL ANIMAL HEALTH EMERGENCIES AND QUARANTINES.
   (A)   Whenever the Town Council President apprehends that there is danger of
the existence or spread of hydrophobia (rabies) or other diseases which are
dangerous to and may be contracted by humans or domestic animals, he or she may
issue a proclamation:
      (1)   Requiring any person owning or harboring a domestic animal which is
susceptible to the disease to:
         (a)   Confine or muzzle the animal for a period of time as stated in
the proclamation to prevent or limit its contact with humans or other animals;
and/or
         (b)   To cause the animal to be vaccinated against the disease, if a
vaccine is available, and the animal has not been previously vaccinated within
a period of time as fixed in the proclamation, but before establishing any
vaccination requirements the President shall seek the advice of the State
Veterinarian or a licensed local veterinarian and shall be guided by such
advice; and/or
      (2)   Require the strict quarantine, in accordance with the same
procedures as set forth in §
95.32 of any domestic animal known or believed to have the disease; and/or
      (3)   Order the appropriate authorities of the town to conduct a program
of control or eradication of any wild animal populations known or reasonably
believed to be carriers of the disease, unless the action would be prohibited
under the laws of the state or the United States.
   (B)   Any person who owns or harbors a domestic animal which is governed by
such proclamation, and who fails to comply therewith, shall be subject to
penalties as provided by §
10.99, and his or her animal shall be subject to impoundment. All costs of
complying with the proclamation shall be borne by the person owning or
harboring the animal unless, at its discretion, the Town Council may
appropriate public funds to pay all or part of the costs.
(`86 Code, § 3-5-15) (Ord. passed 7-17-84; Am. Ord. 86-C5, passed 7-15-86)
§ 95.34 DISPOSAL OF DEAD ANIMALS; PICK-UP FEE.
   No person being the owner, keeper or harborer of any animal which shall die
or be killed other than for slaughter for meat shall permit the carcass of the
animal to lie or remain unburied within the limits of the town for more than
five hours after he or she or any member of his or her household or any
employee shall have knowledge thereof. If, because of the circumstances, the
animal control officer or any other agent of the town is required to pick up
and dispose of the animal carcass, a pick up and transportation fee of $5 shall
be levied against the owner or keeper of the animal.
(`86 Code, § 3-5-16) (Ord. passed 7-17-84; Am. Ord. 86-C5, passed 7-15-86)
REGULATIONS
§ 95.45 KEEPING DANGEROUS ANIMALS IN TOWN PROHIBITED; DESTRUCTION OF DANGEROUS
ANIMALS AUTHORIZED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, maintain or have in his or her
possession or under his or her control within the town limits any dangerous
animal. If any dangerous animal escapes from the person having charge or
control of the animal, and the animal without provocation endangers, destroys
or constitutes a danger to human life or the life of any other animal or
property and cannot be immediately and safely recaptured, it shall be destroyed
by any police officer or humane officer. Any person is authorized to kill or
attempt to kill by the most expeditious means available any vicious or
dangerous animal which he or she reasonably believes is, without provocation,
attacking or threatening to attack him or her or another person or domestic
animal. However, a private citizen acting under this section shall immediately
notify the Town Police Department of his or her action and the reasons
therefor, giving his or her name and address.
(`86 Code, § 3-5-2) (Ord. passed 7-17-84; Am. Ord. 86-C5, passed 7-15-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.46 KEEPING LIVESTOCK IN TOWN PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to keep, harbor or house any livestock within the
corporate limits of the town, except that this section does not prohibit the
transportation of livestock through the town in trucks, railroad cars and
similar conveyances, nor the delivery of livestock to truck or railway
terminals for immediate trans-shipment.
(`86 Code, § 3-5-3) (Ord. passed 7-17-84; Am. Ord. 86-C5, passed 7-15-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.47 KEEPING OF NOISY OR OFFENSIVE ANIMALS OR ANIMALS CONSTITUTING PUBLIC
NUISANCE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall own, harbor or keep any animal which:
   (A)   By frequent or habitual barking, howling, yelping or otherwise creates
unreasonably loud and disturbing noises of the character, intensity or duration
as to disturb the peace, quiet and good order of the town;
   (B)   By biting, scratching, digging, jumping, running, frolicking,
urinating, defecating, vomiting or otherwise injures, damages, soils, defaces
or befouls any person, lawn, tree, shrub, plant, building, street, sidewalk or
other public or private property without the permission of the property owner
or person in charge of the property, except as provided under §
95.48; or
   (C)   Which behaves in such manner or is otherwise disposed so as to
constitute a public nuisance.
(`86 Code, § 3-5-4) (Ord. passed 7-17-84; Am. Ord. 86-C5, passed 7-15-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.48 PERMITTING ANIMALS TO DEFECATE ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY;
EXCEPTIONS.
   No owner, keeper or harborer of any animal shall knowingly permit the animal
to defecate on property, either public or private, of another without the
owner, keeper or harborer having in his or her possession the necessary tools
or equipment to remove the fecal matter immediately. However, the restriction
as to defecating imposed by §
95.47(B) or by this chapter shall not be applicable to public property when the
owner, harborer or keeper of the animal immediately and completely removes all
feces deposited by the animal and disposes of same in a sanitary manner, nor to
cases in which seeing eye dogs are leading legally blind persons.
(`86 Code, § 3-5-5) (Ord. passed 7-17-84; Am. Ord. 86-C5, passed 7-15-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.49 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The owner or person having charge of any animal within the town limits
shall at all times keep the animal confined upon the premises of the owner or
person in charge or under absolute physical control when off the premises. In
the event the animal is being walked on a leash or lead, the leash or lead
shall not exceed ten feet in length. The running at large of any animal off the
premises of the owner or person having charge of the animal is prima facie
evidence of failure to keep an animal confined in violation of this section,
and the owner or person is guilty of:
      (1)   A state violation as described under §
95.51(B), if applicable; or
      (2)   If the animal is a dog, and is permitted to run at large without
any human accompaniment and supervision whatever, a state violation (Class C
infraction) under I.C. 15-5-9-13.
   (B)   For any other violation of this section, the person shall be liable to
penalties as prescribed by §
10.99, except that if the offender has previously been convicted under this
section, then such a violation of this section is aggravated failure to keep an
animal confined and the person shall be liable to penalties as prescribed by §
10.99.
(`86 Code, § 3-5-6) (Ord. passed 7-17-84; Am. Ord. 86-C5, passed 7-15-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.50 RESTRAINT PERMITTING ENCROACHMENT ON PUBLIC PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner of any animal of any kind to pasture,
stake out or let unrestrained any such animal or animals upon any unenclosed
lot, tract or parcel of ground within the corporate limits of the town so that
the animal or animals may be allowed to go upon any sidewalk or cross the
sidewalk upon the grass plot or upon the streets in the town.
(`86 Code, § 3-5-7) (Ord. 13, passed 1-2-39; Am. Ord. 86-C5, passed 7-15-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.51 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ANIMALS HAVING CONTAGIOUS DISEASES/INFECTIONS.
   (A)   No domesticated animal afflicted with a contagious or infectious
disease shall be allowed to run at large or be exposed in any public place
whereby the health of a man or beast may be affected, nor shall any animal so
afflicted be shipped from or removed from the premises of the owner or keeper
thereof except under the supervision of the animal control officer or humane
officer and in accordance with any applicable rules adopted by the Indiana
State Board of Animal Health or the State Veterinarian. It is made the duty of
the town animal control officer, police officer or humane officer to secure the
disposition of any diseased animal and the treatment of infected premises as to
prevent the communication of disease or infection except where the State
Veterinarian is empowered to so act. Any person who knowingly and intentionally
violates this section by:
   (B)   (1)   Any person who knowingly and intentionally violates this section
by:
         (a)   Unlawfully removing an infectious or contagious domestic animal
from the premises where it is confined; or
         (b)   Permitting livestock under his or her control, having an
infectious or contagious disease, to run at large;
      (2)   Shall be charged, prosecuted and subject to penalties as provided
by statute.
   (C)   Any person who otherwise violates this section by negligently
permitting any domestic animal, or by knowingly and intentionally permitting
any domestic animal other than livestock, to run at large or otherwise be
exposed in a public place, which animal is under the person’s control or
responsibility and has an infectious or contagious disease, may be charged with
a local violation under this section and subject to penalties as prescribed by
§
10.99.
(`86 Code, § 3-5-8) (Ord. passed 7-17-84; Am. Ord. 86-C5, passed 7-15-86)
§ 95.52 LIMITING THE NUMBER OF DOGS PER HOUSEHOLD WITHIN TOWN LIMITS.
   (A)   No household located within the town limits shall have more than three
dogs. Dog shall be defined as being a canine six months of age or older.
   (B)   Upon written notice from the Town Marshal, any resident in violation
of this section shall have 30 days to remove the dog(s) to comply with this
section.
   (C)   Any resident not in compliance within 30 days after receiving written
notice from the Town Marshal shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $2,500
plus court costs. In addition to any fines imposed, the town may bring an
action in the Circuit or Superior Court of the county for mandatory injunction
requiring compliance with this section.
   (D)   In the event the town is successful in any legal action requiring a
mandatory injunction, the respondent/defendant shall be responsible for all
costs of the action, including attorney fees.
(Ord. 12-20-2005, passed 1-17-06)
COMMERCIAL ANIMAL BREEDING
§ 95.65 COMMERCIAL BREEDING OF DOGS AND CATS RESTRICTED.
   No person or persons shall keep or harbor at any one residence or business
or other address within the town more than two female dogs or cats for the
purpose of commercial breeding, provided that all such females are confined in
such a manner that they cannot come into contact with a male except for planned
breeding. The confinement shall be maintained at all times during the period of
estrus.
(`86 Code, § 4-1-1) (Ord. passed 7-17-84; Am. Ord. 86-C5, passed 7-15-86)
§ 95.66 IMPOUNDMENT OF ANIMALS.
   Animals which are found to be kept in violation of §
95.65 shall be subject to impoundment in the manner provided by §§
95.80 through
95.82.
(`86 Code, § 4-1-3) (Ord. passed 7-17-84; Am. Ord. 86-C5, passed 7-15-86)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 95.80 AUTHORIZATION AND CAUSES FOR IMPOUNDMENT.
   The town animal control officer, humane officer or any other police officer
may pick up and impound any animal found to be, or being kept, within the
corporate limits of the town:
   (A)   In violation of any provision of this chapter;
   (B)   In violation of I.C. 35-46-3-1 (failure of a dog over six months of
age to be immunized against rabies);
   (C)   In violation of I.C. 15-5-9-13 (a dog over six months of age not
wearing a township dog tax tag after June 15 of any year in which the dog first
becomes subject to the tax or a dog straying beyond its premises not
accompanied by a controlling person);
   (D)   In violation of I.C. 35-46-3-12 (cruelty to animals); or
   (E)   In violation of any other town ordinance, statute or special
regulation imposed by the State or County Board of Health, State Veterinarian
or similar competent authorities.
(`86 Code, § 3-5-17) (Ord. passed 7-17-84; Am. Ord. 86-C5, passed 7-15-86)
§ 95.81 PROCEDURE OF IMPOUNDMENT; RECLAMATION BY OWNER.
   Unless a different procedure is prescribed pursuant to a further law or
regulation described under §
95.80(E), animals impounded under §
95.80, except by reason of §
95.80(C), shall be impounded for a period of not less than five days, and if
impounded solely by reason of §
95.80(C) shall be kept for a period of not less than 20 days as required by
I.C. 15-5-9-14. During such time the owner, harborer or keeper thereof may
secure the release of the animal upon proof he or she has paid all fees and
charges owing and that he or she has duly registered the animal, if
registration of the animal is required. If the animal is a dog, the owner shall
provide proof that a dog license for the current year has been issued and, if
the animal is a dog or cat, the animal has a current rabies inoculation as
required by §
95.30. However, an animal which has been impounded under §
95.80(A) by virtue of a violation of §
95.16 or under §
95.80(D) by virtue of a violation of I.C. 15-46-3 may not be released to its
original owner or keeper unless the person shows to the satisfaction of the
impounding officer that the animal will no longer be exposed to any cruel or
neglectful conditions or unless the release is ordered by the judge of the
court having jurisdiction of the case or until the person is tried and
acquitted of the alleged offense. In addition, a wild animal may not be
released to its original keeper if the possession of the animal by the person
is per se unlawful under this or other town ordinances or under state or
federal game and wildlife laws and regulations. If the animal is not so
redeemed, the animal control officer shall deliver the animal to the County Dog
Warden or make such other disposition as the animal control officer deems
appropriate.
(`86 Code, § 3-5-18) (Ord. passed 7-17-84; Am. Ord. 86-C5, passed 7-15-86)
§ 95.82 IMPOUNDMENT FEES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   In the event that any animal is impounded under the provisions of this
chapter, the owner or harborer of the animal shall be liable to the town for
the following fees and charges in addition to any penalties that may apply:
      (1)   If the animal is picked up by an officer or employee of the town, a
pick-up charge of $10 shall be paid;
      (2)   If the animal is kept in a facility or place of impoundment which
is operated by the town, a boarding charge of $2 per day (or portion thereof)
that the animal is kept by the town shall be paid, except that if the only
reason for impounding the animal is failure to wear a township dog tag the
charge shall be $.25 per day (or the maximum then permitted under I.C. 15-5-9-
14, but not to exceed $2 per day);
      (3)   If the animal is taken by a town officer or employee to a facility
or place of impoundment which is outside the corporate limits of the town,
either immediately or subsequently, then a transportation charge of $10 shall
be paid.
   (B)   If the animal is taken to a facility or place of impoundment which is
not operated by the town, then the owner or harborer of the animal shall be
directly liable to such pound for its usual fees and charges. Payment of all
charges owing under this section shall be a requisite of reclaiming the animal,
but shall remain a legal obligation of the owner or harborer even if he or she
does not reclaim same.
(`86 Code, § 3-5-19) (Ord. passed 7-17-84; Am. Ord. 86-C5, passed 7-15-86; Am.
Ord. 6-19-01C, passed 8-21-01)
§ 95.83 LIABILITY OF ANIMAL OWNER FOR PROPERTY DAMAGE.
   The owner, keeper or harborer of any dog, cat or other animal which damages
or destroys parks or other public property or private property shall be held
liable for the full value of the damaged or destroyed property in addition to
any penalty imposed for violation of this chapter.
(`86 Code, § 3-5-20) (Ord. passed 7-17-84; Am. Ord. 86-C5, passed 7-15-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 96: ABANDONED AND JUNK VEHICLES
Section
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Abandonment of vehicles
   
96.03   Leaving of wrecked, nonoperating vehicles on street
   
96.04   Disposition of wrecked or discarded vehicles
   
96.05   Impounding
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PROPERTY. Any real property within the town which is not a street or
highway.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines when any part
thereof is opened to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
   VEHICLE. A machine propelled by power other than human power, designed to
travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners or slides and
transports persons or property or pulls machinery and shall include, without
limitations: automobiles, trucks, trailers, motorcycles, tractors, buggies and
wagons.
(`86 Code, § 6-8-1) (Ord. 1986, passed 9-30-86; Am. Ord. 1994, passed 8-16-94)
§ 96.02 ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLES.
   No person shall abandon any vehicle within the town and no person shall
leave any vehicle at any place within the town for such time and under such
circumstances as to cause the vehicle reasonably to appear to have been
abandoned.
(`86 Code, § 6-8-2) (Ord. 1986, passed 9-30-86; Am. Ord. 1994, passed 8-16-94)
Penalty, see § 96.99
§ 96.03 LEAVING OF WRECKED, NONOPERATING VEHICLES ON STREET.
   No person shall leave any partially dismantled, nonoperating, wrecked or
junked vehicle on any street or highway within the town for a period of longer
than 48 hours.
(`86 Code, § 6-8-3) (Ord. 1986, passed 9-30-86; Am. Ord. 1994, passed 8-16-94)
Penalty, see § 96.99
§ 96.04 DISPOSITION OF WRECKED OR DISCARDED VEHICLES.
   No person in charge or control of any property within the town, whether as
owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise shall allow any partially
dismantled, nonoperating, wrecked, junked or discarded vehicle to remain on the
property longer than 48 hours. This chapter shall not apply within regard to a
vehicle enclosed in a building, a vehicle on the premises of a business
enterprise operated in a lawful place and manner, when necessary to the
operation of the business enterprise, or a vehicle in an appropriate storage
place or depository maintained in a lawful place and manner by the town.
(`86 Code, § 6-8-4) (Ord. 1986, passed 9-30-86; Am. Ord. 1994, passed 8-16-94)
Penalty, see § 96.99
§ 96.05 IMPOUNDING.
   The Town Marshal, or any member of his or her department designated by him
or her, is authorized to remove or have removed any vehicle left at any place
within the town which is in violation of this chapter or lost, stolen or
unclaimed. The vehicle shall be impounded until lawfully claimed or disposed of
in accordance with state law. The 48 hour period of time provided in §§
96.03 and
96.04 shall not commence until the Town Marshal of this town receives a
complaint and has given the notice to the persons or a posted notice on the
vehicle designated in the sections to comply with the ordinance. Only one 48
hour period of grace shall be granted. Whenever in the opinion of the Town
Marshal of the town any hazard exists by reason of the violation of this
chapter, no complaint shall be required, and the Town Marshal shall direct his
or her department to give immediate notice to the persons designated in §§
96.03 and
96.04 to remove any such vehicle within 48 hours. When no responsible person
can be found to be given notice as provided in this section, removal may be
made at once in accordance with the provisions of §
96.05.
(`86 Code, § 6-8-5) (Ord. 1986, passed 9-30-86; Am. Ord. 1994, passed 8-16-94)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provision of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined in an amount
determined by §
10.99. A towing fee of $50 and storage fee of $10 per day will also be assessed
against the person liable for such charges. Each day the violation is committed
or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable as such hereunder.
   (A)   A special fund will be set up by the Clerk-Treasurer for such fines as
abandoned vehicles.
   (B)   The abandoned vehicles shall be turned over to the Indiana Bureau of
Motor Vehicles, and the Bureau shall dispose of the vehicle according to the
Indiana State Statute and its regulations on abandoned vehicles.
   (C)   The town is empowered to bring legal action against the owners and/or
whoever is liable for the disposal to recover any and all charges that the town
has had to pay for as specified in addition to the fines imposed plus attorney
fees.
(`86 Code, § 6-8-6) (Ord. 1986, passed 9-30-86; Am. Ord. 1994, passed 8-16-94)
CHAPTER 97: GARAGE SALES
Section
   
97.01   Regulations
§ 97.01 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   An individual, property owner, or resident within the town limits may
conduct a garage sale, lawn sale, moving sale, rummage sale, and the like no
more than one time every month for a time period not to exceed three days.
   (B)   An individual, property owner, or resident within the town limits may
not conduct more than two garage sales within a 12-month period of time.
   (C)   An individual, property owner, or resident shall notify the Clerk-
Treasurer's office of the date(s) of their intended sales under division (A)
above prior to conducting the same.
   (D)   The restrictions enumerated in divisions (A) and (B) above shall not
include community garage sales.
(Ord. 09-21-04A, passed 10-19-04; Am. Ord. 6-15-10, passed 6-15-10)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
   
111.   ADVERTISING
   
112.   JUNK DEALERS, JUNK YARDS AND SALVAGE YARDS
   
113.   COMMERCIAL POOL TABLES AND POOL ROOMS
   
114.   PEDDLERS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
110.01   Issuance of liquor retailer permits by state
§ 110.01 ISSUANCE OF LIQUOR RETAILER PERMITS BY STATE.
   The consent of the Town of Akron is given and granted to the proper legal
authorities of the State of Indiana to issue liquor retailer's permits for the
sale of alcoholic, spirituous beverages to applicants otherwise duly qualified
to premises within the town all agreeable to the provisions of I.C. 7.1-3-9-3.
(`86 Code, § 4-2-1) (Ord. 1-76, passed 1-27-73)
CHAPTER 111: ADVERTISING
Section
   
111.01   Use of public property to disseminate advertising matter prohibited
   
111.02   Exceptions
§ 111.01 USE OF PUBLIC PROPERTY TO DISSEMINATE ADVERTISING MATTER PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to scatter, throw, leave,
deposit or distribute or suffer to be thrown, left, deposited or distributed
any hand bills, circulars, dodgers or advertising matter of any sort on or
about the streets, alleys, sidewalks or other public property in the town,
except as permitted by §
111.02.
(`86 Code, § 3-3-1) (Ord. 17, passed 1-2-39; Am. Ord. 86-C6, passed 7-15-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 111.02 EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in §
111.01 may be construed to prohibit the following activities:
   (A)   Distribution and delivery of advertising matter through the mail;
   (B)   Distribution or delivery of newspapers, magazines or similar
periodicals which may incidentally contain advertising matter, but which have
as their primary purpose the dissemination of informative or entertaining
reading material;
   (C)   The sale or vending of materials described by division (B) on this
section on public property to the extent otherwise lawful and permitted;
   (D)   The erection or display of advertising signs adjacent to, but not
upon, public property or public rights-of-way to the extent otherwise lawful;
or
   (E)   Any activity which is expressly permitted and authorized by the public
authority having control over the affected public property.
(`86 Code, § 3-3-2) (Ord. 17, passed 1-2-39; Am. Ord. 86-C6, passed 7-15-86)
CHAPTER 112: JUNK DEALERS, JUNK YARDS AND SALVAGE YARDS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   License requirement, application procedure and fee
   
112.03   Inspection by Town Clerk or Marshal; issuance of license; license term
   
112.04   Refusal to issue license; right of appeal to Town Council
   
112.05   Record book of purchases and disposition of junk required
   
112.06   Power of police officers to inspect articles and/or record book; delay
in disposition of junk articles
   
112.07   Restrictions and standards for purchase of junk articles
   
112.08   Fencing requirements and set-backs of fences
   
112.09   Restriction on disposal of junk by burning
   
112.10   Suspension or revocation of license; appeal
   
112.11   Relationship to zoning regulations; priority of license and permit
requirements
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNK DEALER. Any person, firm or corporation which keeps a place of business
for the purpose of purchase or sale of junk, old metal, rags, old rope, old
canvas, old paper or the like.
   SALVAGE YARD. Any place of business which purchases or receives in any
manner wrecked or obsolete equipment, automotive vehicles, machinery or like
scrap for the purpose of dismantling the same and salvaging therefrom the parts
that may be of value either for re-use or for sale as junk.
(`86 Code, § 4-4-1) (Ord. 23(2), passed 5-31-55; Am. Ord. 86-C6, passed 7-15-
86)
§ 112.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT, APPLICATION PROCEDURE AND FEE.
   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any person to act
as a junk dealer or conduct a salvage yard business without first obtaining a
license from the town. Any person desiring to deal in junk and operate a junk
yard or salvage yard within the limits of the town shall pay the sum of $100
per year as a license fee to the Town Clerk, together with an application in
writing signed by the applicant, particularly describing the place where the
business is to be carried on and giving the full names of all persons who may
financially be interested in the business.
(`86 Code, § 4-4-2) (Ord. 23(2), passed 5-31-55; Am. Ord. 86-C6, passed 7-15-
86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 112.03 INSPECTION BY TOWN CLERK OR MARSHAL; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; LICENSE
TERM.
   After inspection by the Town Clerk or, upon his or her order, by the Town
Marshal, to the end that they are assured that all of the conditions
hereinafter set forth have been complied with, it shall be the duty of the Town
Clerk to issue to the applicant, whenever a license application has been filed
as provided in §
112.02, a license to carry on the business in the place specified in the
application. The term of the license will be one year from the date of
issuance. The license is not transferable.
(`86 Code, § 4-4-3) (Ord. 23(2), passed 5-31-55; Am. Ord. 86-C6, passed 7-15-
86)
§ 112.04 REFUSAL TO ISSUE LICENSE; RIGHT OF APPEAL TO TOWN COUNCIL.
   In the event that the Town Clerk shall fail or refuse to issue a license as
provided by §
112.03, then the application may be referred to the Town Council in full for
their consideration thereof.
(`86 Code, § 4-4-4) (Ord. 23(2), passed 5-31-55; Am. Ord. 86-C6, passed 7-15-
86)
§ 112.05 RECORD BOOK OF PURCHASES AND DISPOSITION OF JUNK REQUIRED.
   Every junk dealer or salvage yard shall keep at its place of business, if
the same is in the Town of Akron, a substantial and well bound book, in which
shall be entered in writing, in ink, a minute description of all junk or
articles to be salvaged, the date on which it was purchased and particularly
mentioning any prominent or descriptive marks that may be on the articles,
together with the name and residence of the person or persons by whom sold or
delivered, which book shall be kept clean and legible, and no entry thereon
shall be obliterated or defaced.
(`86 Code, § 4-4-5) (Ord. 23(2), passed 5-31-55; Am. Ord. 86-C6, passed 7-15-
86)
§ 112.06 POWER OF POLICE OFFICERS TO INSPECT ARTICLES AND/OR RECORD BOOK; DELAY
IN DISPOSITION OF JUNK ARTICLES.
   Every junk dealer or salvage yard shall, during the hours of ordinary
business, submit and exhibit the book kept as provided above, as well as any
article or property sold to him or her, to any police officer of the town,
county or state, and no article may be sold or dismantled or salvaged within
four days of the receipt thereof.
(`86 Code, § 4-4-6) (Ord. 23(2), passed 5-31-55; Am. Ord. 86-C6, passed 7-15-
86)
§ 112.07 RESTRICTIONS AND STANDARDS FOR PURCHASE OF JUNK ARTICLES.
   No licensee under this chapter shall receive or purchase any property
whatever from:
   (A)   Any minor under the age of 21 years, unless the requirements as to
identification as set forth in the statutes of the State of Indiana in regard
to such purchases are complied with, except only as to rags and waste paper;
   (B)   Any person between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.;
   (C)   Any person known by the licensee to be a thief or to have at any time
been convicted of larceny or burglary; or
   (D)   Any person under the influence of intoxicating liquors.
(`86 Code, § 4-4-7) (Ord. 23(2), passed 5-31-55; Am. Ord. 86-C6, passed 7-15-
86)
§ 112.08 FENCING REQUIREMENTS AND SET-BACKS OF FENCES.
   Every junk yard or salvage yard shall be surrounded by a solid fence, either
of wood (which shall be attractively painted) or of metal and which shall be at
least eight feet in height. The fence shall at no point be built nearer than
ten feet from any sidewalk or property line which abuts the place of business.
(`86 Code, § 4-4-8) (Ord. 23(2), passed 5-31-55; Am. Ord. 86-C6, passed 7-15-
86)
§ 112.09 RESTRICTION ON DISPOSAL OF JUNK BY BURNING.
   No junk dealer or salvage yard shall dispose of any waste materials
resulting from the purchase of junk or salvage operations by burning the same
in an open fire or in any type of container that will permit noxious odors or
excessive smoke to permeate the neighborhood or become a fire hazard for such
licensee or the immediate neighborhood.
(`86 Code, § 4-4-9) (Ord. 23(2), passed 5-31-55; Am. Ord. 86-C6, passed 7-15-
86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 112.10 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE; APPEAL.
   A license to operate a junk yard or salvage yard granted under §
112.03 may be revoked or suspended for a specified period of time by the Town
Council President, or by the Town Council on majority vote of the members
present, if he, she or they find that the licensee has falsified any
information on the application or is failing to conduct the business in
accordance with §§
112.05 through
112.09 or other applicable laws and ordinances. A written notice of the
revocation or suspension shall be served on the licensee or his or her
representative by the Town Marshal or by mail to his or her last known address,
and it shall thereafter be unlawful for the licensee to continue to operate his
or her business after the revocation or during the term when the license
suspension is in effect. However, if the license has been revoked or suspended
by action of the Town Council President alone, the action may be appealed to
the whole Council at its next regular meeting (or at a special meeting called
for that purpose), and the Council may restore the license or amend the
President's order.
(`86 Code, § 4-4-10) (Ord. 23(2), passed 5-31-55; Am. Ord. 86-C6, passed 7-15-
86)
§ 112.11 RELATIONSHIP TO ZONING REGULATIONS; PRIORITY OF LICENSE AND PERMIT
REQUIREMENTS.
   In the event the town shall hereafter adopt any zoning ordinance affecting
the place or manner of operating junk yards or salvage yards, the provisions
and requirements of this chapter shall be construed as separate from and in
addition thereto and not as superseded thereby, excepting only to the extent
that the zoning ordinance may impose further or stricter standards,
restrictions or requirements. However, no new license to operate a salvage yard
or junk yard shall be granted by the Clerk or Town Council pursuant to §§
112.03 or
112.04 until evidence is presented that a valid zoning (improvement location)
permit has been issued for the business by the appropriate zoning authority;
but conversely no such zoning permit shall be construed as sufficient in lieu
of the license required under this chapter.
(`86 Code, § 4-4-12) (Ord. 23(2), passed 5-31-55; Am. Ord. 86-C6, passed 7-15-
86)
Cross reference:
   Zoning regulations, see
Ch. 152
CHAPTER 113: COMMERCIAL POOL TABLES AND POOL ROOMS
Section
   
113.01   Pool/billiard table license required
   
113.02   License application procedure
   
113.03   License term and fee
   
113.04   License forfeiture on second violation
§ 113.01 POOL/BILLIARD TABLE LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to run, manage or control any pool or
billiard table or tables in any room in the town for the purpose of hire or
pay, without having obtained a license so to do, as hereinafter provided.
(`86 Code, § 4-5-1) (Ord. 16, passed 1-2-39; Am. Ord. passed 4-18-67; Am. Ord.
86-C6, passed 7-15-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 113.02 LICENSE APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   Any person desiring or intending to engage in the occupation or acts
specified in §
113.01 shall make application in writing for a license to the Town Clerk to so
do, giving the location of the room where the business is proposed to be
carried on, and upon payment to the town of the fee required, and as
hereinafter provided, the license shall be issued to the applicant or
applicants according to the provisions of this chapter.
(`86 Code, § 4-5-2) (Ord. 16, passed 1-2-39; Am. Ord. passed 4-18-67; Am. Ord.
86-C6, passed 7-15-86)
§ 113.03 LICENSE TERM AND FEE.
   The license fee for any person or persons, company or corporation to run,
manage or control any pool or billiard table or tables in any room in the town
for pay or hire shall be $50 for each pool or billiard table for one year.
(`86 Code, § 4-5-3) (Ord. 16, passed 1-2-39; Am. Ord. passed 4-18-67; Am. Ord.
86-C6, passed 7-15-86)
§ 113.04 LICENSE FORFEITURE ON SECOND VIOLATION.
   Upon conviction for the second offense under this chapter, the licensee
shall forfeit the license.
(`86 Code, § 4-5-5) (Ord. 16, passed 1-2-39; Am. Ord. passed 4-18-67; Am. Ord.
86-C6, passed 7-15-86)
CHAPTER 114: PEDDLERS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Itinerant merchant's license required; application procedure
   
114.03   Doubt as to application information; referral to Town Marshal for
investigation; appeal of license denial
   
114.04   License terms and fee; license nontransferable
   
114.05   Certain person or activities exempt from license requirement
   
114.06   Showing of license to prospective buyers or police officers
   
114.07   Misrepresentation of license prohibited
   
114.08   General supervisory powers of Town Marshal
   
114.09   Restriction on use of public places in front of fixed and established
businesses
   
114.10   Revocation or suspension of license
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIXED AND ESTABLISHED PLACE OF BUSINESS. A store, business office, factory,
sales lot, sales stand or similar facility operated and maintained on a regular
and permanent basis in a fixed location within the town for the purpose of
conducting the business in question, including seasonal businesses such as
fruit and vegetable stands or nurseries which are open at least 90 days per
year and otherwise meet the above qualifications. The term does not include
mobile stands, vehicles, carts and the like, even though such may be frequently
or customarily located and operated in the same place, nor temporary sales
rooms lots, tents and the like.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person who offers for sale within the town any
merchandise, except while engaging in activities or under such circumstances as
are described and exempted under §
114.05, and who:
      (1)   Does not maintain a fixed and established place of business within
the town;
      (2)   Is not a resident independent vendor or sales agent; or
      (3)   Is not a direct employee or direct sales agent representing a
person described by this section.
   MERCHANDISE. Includes real property; any tangible personal property such as
goods, wares or produce; any intangible property such as insurance policies,
securities, service contracts, subscriptions, memberships, tickets and the
like; or any personal services or labor to be provided other than as an
employee of the person solicited.
   RESIDENT INDEPENDENT VENDOR/SALES AGENT. A person who does not maintain a
fixed and established place of business in the sense defined in this section,
but who:
      (1)   Maintains and ordinarily occupies a principal place of residence in
the town; and either
      (2)   Sells merchandise manufactured or otherwise provided by himself or
herself or members of his or her family at or based from the residential
location; or
      (3)   Sells merchandise produced or provided by others and sold locally
by such person under franchise, license or distributorship; and
      (4)   The person has substantial control over and responsibility for the
delivery and character of the merchandise being sold by him or her, including
the power to refund the purchase price and/or replace or remedy defects in any
merchandise if it is not properly delivered or is unsatisfactory to the
customer.
   SELL (and any derivative term). Offering or soliciting direct purchase of
merchandise, barter or trade, lease-purchase arrangements, entering into
contracts to provide services or merchandise and all other transactions and
exchange of merchandise for valuable consideration of any sort, whether for
immediate or future delivery.
(`86 Code, § 4-6-1) (Ord. 10, passed 1-2-39; Am. Ord. 86-C6, passed 7-15-86)
§ 114.02 ITINERANT MERCHANT'S LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Except as provided by §
114.05, no person may act as an itinerant merchant within the town without
first obtaining a license from the town. The license shall be in addition to
any county license which the person may have obtained under the provisions of
I.C. 25-37-1. To obtain a license, written application must be made to the
Clerk-Treasurer, providing the following information:
      (1)   The name and permanent address of the applicant;
      (2)   The name and business address of any person, company or corporation
whom the applicant represents or serves as agent;
      (3)   The kind of merchandise to be sold by the applicant;
      (4)   The date or dates when the licensed activity will be conducted; and
      (5)   The manner of conducting the activity (for example, door-to-door,
temporary sales room or lot and the like).
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer may demand reasonable identification of the
applicant and other confirmation of information on the application.
(`86 Code, § 4-6-2) (Ord. 10, passed 1-2-39; Am. Ord. 86-C6, passed 7-15-86)
§ 114.03 DOUBT AS TO APPLICATION INFORMATION; REFERRAL TO TOWN MARSHAL FOR
INVESTIGATION; APPEAL OF LICENSE DENIAL.
   It shall be a penal violation for an applicant to knowingly provide false or
incomplete information or identification on the license application. If in
doubt about any identification or information, the Clerk-Treasurer may ask the
Town Marshal to investigate and verify such identification or information
before the license is granted. If the license is denied, the denial may be
appealed to the Town Council at its next regular meeting.
(`86 Code, § 4-6-3) (Ord. 10, passed 1-2-39; Am. Ord. 86-C6, passed 7-15-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 114.04 LICENSE TERMS AND FEE; LICENSE NONTRANSFERABLE.
   (A)   No license shall be issued under this chapter for less than one day
nor for a longer period than one year. All licenses shall be issued and signed
by the Clerk-Treasurer of the town, upon the presentation to him or her by the
applicant of the fee for the license, which fee shall be for the applicable sum
of money as follows and is nonrefundable once the license is issued.
 
License Basis Description                                             Fee
Annual        Permit covers activities on any day within one calendar $300
              year, including and following date of issue
             Discounted annual fee for Fulton County residents       $100
             Discounted annual fee for Akron residents               $0
 
   (B)   A license issued under this section is not transferable to anyone
other than the applicant named.
   (C)   A license issued under this section shall permit an itinerant merchant
to operate between 8:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. only.
(`86 Code, § 4-6-4) (Ord. 10, passed 1-2-39; Am. Ord. 86-C6, passed 7-15-86;
Am. Ord. 9-16-2014, passed 9-16-14; Am. Ord. 10-17-2016A, passed 10-17-16)
§ 114.05 CERTAIN PERSONS OR ACTIVITIES EXEMPT FROM LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The requirements for a license under §
114.02 and payment of a fee under §
114.04 do not apply to the following described persons or selling activities:
      (1)   Sales by manufacturer's representatives or wholesale distributors
to businesses, governmental entities, institutions and similar nonresidential
establishments of merchandise for use or consumption in the course of such
establishment's activities;
      (2)   Sales to dealers, for resale, by commercial travelers or selling
agents or directly by the producers of the merchandise;
      (3)   Receivers appointed by a court in this state making sales for the
benefit of creditors;
      (4)   Sales by public officers as authorized by law;
      (5)   Sales or activities conducted exclusively by or in support of a
nonprofit charitable, educational, religious, scientific or civic organization,
without benefit of private profit or gain by the person conducting the sale or
activity;
      (6)   Selling, limited to goods, wares, fruits and other tangible
merchandise, conducted by honorably discharged veterans of foreign wars exempt
from municipal licensing requirements under I.C. 10-5-12-1 or I.C. 10-5-13-1;
provided, however, that any person purportedly conducting business activities
without a license under an exemption provided by this subsection shall have the
burden of proof that his or her activities are bona fide and eligible for
exemption hereunder and for such purpose shall be required to carry and show
his or her military discharge papers or other verifying official document in
lieu of a license as otherwise provided under §
114.06;
      (7)   Sale of newspapers, dairy products or similar commodities provided
and delivered through a regularly established and direct route delivery system;
      (8)   Temporary or incidental sales by a person of his or her own real
property or his or her own used or surplus personal property which was not
originally acquired for purposes of resale;
      (9)   Sales conducted at a temporary location by a person otherwise
maintaining a fixed and established place of business in the town;
      (10)   Sales or transactions in real property conducted by real estate
brokers or salespersons licensed by the Indiana Real Estate Commission and
exempt from municipal license requirements under I.C. 25-34.1-3-1;
      (11)   Public auctions conducted by a person duly licensed by the State
of Indiana under I.C. 25-6.1-3;
      (12)   Any other selling activity for conduct of which a specific license
is required by the State of Indiana or the United States and the person
possesses the state or federal license;
      (13)   Sales solicitations conducted solely by mail, telephone or media
advertising;
      (14)   Placement and operation of automatic vending machines; or
      (15)   Visiting a residence or business establishment by prior invitation
or appointment arranged in any manner not requiring a license under this
chapter for the purpose of selling or promoting merchandise.
   (B)   However, the fact that any person is exempt from the town license
requirement under this section does not imply that the person is necessarily
exempt from any county, state or federal license requirements which may also
and incidentally apply to the person's activities.
(`86 Code, § 4-6-5) (Ord. 10, passed 1-2-39; Am. Ord. 86-C6, passed 7-15-86)
§ 114.06 SHOWING OF LICENSE TO PROSPECTIVE BUYERS OR POLICE OFFICERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any peddler, hawker or other persons coming under
this chapter to refuse to show his or her license when requested to do so by
any person to whom he or she shall offer to sell any merchandise or to the
Marshal or any police officer of the town when so requested by them.
(`86 Code, § 4-6-6) (Ord. 10, passed 1-2-39; Am. Ord. 86-C6, passed 7-15-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 114.07 MISREPRESENTATION OF LICENSE PROHIBITED.
   A license granted under this chapter does not imply, and it shall be a
violation for any licensee to represent, that the town in any way warrants the
quality of any merchandise being offered or the honesty and integrity of the
licensee or any person whom he or she represents.
(`86 Code, § 4-6-7) (Ord. 10, passed 1-2-39; Am. Ord. 86-C6, passed 7-15-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 114.08 GENERAL SUPERVISORY POWERS OF TOWN MARSHAL.
   The sale of merchandise under the provisions of this chapter shall be at all
times under the immediate supervision of the Marshal of the town, and no person
licensed under this chapter shall carry on his or her business at any place in
town where the Marshal or his or her deputies and officers shall deem that by
the carrying on of the business, general traffic, the convenience of travelers
upon the walks or streets and the health of the citizens or the public may be
interfered with. When the Marshal or his or her deputies and officers shall at
any time notify any such itinerant merchant not to occupy, in the carrying on
of his or her business, any particular place on the streets or alleys of the
town, he or she shall immediately desist but shall not be barred from resuming
the business at another place or time or in such manner as not to create the
difficulties identified by the Marshal or his or her deputies and officers.
(`86 Code, § 4-6-8) (Ord. 10, passed 1-2-39; Am. Ord. 86-C6, passed 7-15-86)
§ 114.09 RESTRICTION ON USE OF PUBLIC PLACES IN FRONT OF FIXED AND ESTABLISHED
BUSINESSES.
   No person included under this chapter shall carry on his or her business,
for which a license is issued, on the streets, alleys or sidewalks of the town
in front of any store, building, shop or other place of business when forbidden
so to do by the owner, agent or occupant of the store, building, shop or other
place of business.
(`86 Code, § 4-6-9) (Ord. 10, passed 1-2-39; Am. Ord. 86-C6, passed 7-15-86)
§ 114.10 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   A license granted under §
114.04 may be revoked, or suspended for a specified period of time, by the Town
Council President, or by the Town Council on majority vote of the members
present, if he, she or they find that the licensee has falsified any
information on the application or is failing to conduct the business in
accordance with this chapter or other applicable laws and ordinances. A written
notice of the revocation or suspension shall be served on the licensee or his
or her representative by the Town Marshal or by mail to his or her last known
address, and it shall thereafter be unlawful for the licensee to continue to
conduct his or her business after the revocation or during the term when the
license suspension is in effect. However, if the license has been revoked or
suspended by action of the Town Council President alone, the action may be
appealed to the whole Council at its next regular meeting (or at a special
meeting called for that purpose), and the Council may restore the license or
amend the President's order.
(`86 Code, § 4-6-10) (Ord. 10, passed 1-2-39; Am. Ord. 86-C6, passed 7-15-86)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
Chapter
   
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Loitering and Unlawful Congregations
   
130.01   Unlawful loitering or gathering on private property prohibited
   
130.02   Unlawful loitering or gathering on public property prohibited
   
130.03   Burden of proof of consent or other permit
Weapons
   
130.15   Shooting firearms in town limits
   
130.16   Shooting air or gas operated guns in town limits restricted
   
130.17   Use of firearms and related weapons permitted on authorized indoor
ranges; requirements
   
130.18   General exceptions and exemptions
Curfew
   
130.30   Hours of curfew for minors
   
130.31   Exceptions
   
130.32   Violations
LOITERING AND UNLAWFUL CONGREGATIONS
§ 130.01 UNLAWFUL LOITERING OR GATHERING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   Irrespective of whether or not any other unlawful activity is conducted or
intended, it shall be unlawful for any person or group of persons to loiter or
gather, whether in a vehicle or otherwise:
   (A)   Upon any business or commercial premises (including parking lots or
other exterior areas):
      (1)   After the closing hours of the business or commercial
establishment; or
      (2)   During the business hours of the establishment other than pursuant
to the purposes for which the establishment is open to the public; unless with
the knowledge and consent of the owner, tenant, operator or manager of the
business or commercial property; or
   (B)   Upon any business or commercial property in a manner contrary to any
written and prominently displayed rules of the establishment, or if asked to
disperse or depart by the owner, tenant or manager of the establishment or
their authorized agent; or
   (C)   Upon any residential, agricultural, industrial or undeveloped
property, occupied or unoccupied, except with the knowledge and consent of the
owner, tenant or manager of the property.
(`86 Code, § 7-1-1) (Ord. 86-C13, passed 9-30-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 130.02 UNLAWFUL LOITERING OR GATHERING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Irrespective of whether or not any other unlawful activity is
conducted or intended, it shall be unlawful, except as hereafter permitted, for
any person or persons to loiter or gather, whether in a vehicle or otherwise:
      (1)   In a public building, except on bona fide public business or for
purposes for which such building is open to the public or which are authorized
by law or by the public body or officer having charge of such building;
      (2)   In a street, alley, parking area, sidewalk or other public
thoroughfare so as to obstruct the use thereof by normal vehicular or
pedestrian traffic, to which use such thoroughfares are dedicated or pose a
hazard to the traffic; except that the Town Council may, at its discretion,
permit the use of the thoroughfares for parades, demonstrations or similar
events having a public purpose, interest or benefit;
      (3)   In a street, alley, parking area, sidewalk, park or similar public
facility for the purpose of or in such manner so as to harass, disturb or annoy
passers by or other persons seeking to use and enjoy the public facility;
      (4)   On other public premises, except for the purposes for which the
premises are ordinarily used and made available to the public and in accordance
with any applicable rules and regulations imposed by the appropriate public
authority.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed or applied so as to
prohibit the exercise of any of the rights of any person as guaranteed under
the constitutions or statutes of the state or United States, except to the
extent that the exercise would unreasonably and unavoidably impair the
supervening rights, safety and welfare of the general public.
(`86 Code, § 7-1-2) (Ord. 86-C13, passed 9-30-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 130.03 BURDEN OF PROOF OF CONSENT OR OTHER PERMIT.
   Whenever under §§
130.01 or
130.02 any activity which might otherwise be construed as unlawful thereunder
is not unlawful in the circumstances because it is done with the consent and
permission of a person, public officer or public body having power over the
premises and authority to grant the consent, or because it is done under
authority of law, it shall be the burden of any person suspected of or charged
with violating the section to show to the satisfaction of an enforcement
officer or a court that such knowledge and consent, permit or other such
authorization did in fact validly exist.
(`86 Code, § 7-1-3) (Ord. 86-C13, passed 9-30-86)
WEAPONS
§ 130.15 SHOOTING FIREARMS IN TOWN LIMITS.
   Except as provided by §§
130.17 or
130.18, it shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any pistol, revolver,
rifle, shotgun, firearm of any type, or bow with a five pound pull or greater
within the town.
(`86 Code, § 7-3-1) (Am. Ord. 86-C12, passed 9-30-86; Am. Ord. 6-19-01B, passed
8-21-01)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 130.16 SHOOTING AIR OR GAS OPERATED GUNS IN TOWN LIMITS RESTRICTED.
   Except as provided by §§
130.17 or
130.18, it shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any air rifles, air
pistols or revolvers or any gun operated by C02 or other gaseous propellants
within the limits of the town.
(`86 Code, § 7-3-2) (Am. Ord. 86-C12, passed 9-30-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 130.17 USE OF FIREARMS AND RELATED WEAPONS PERMITTED ON AUTHORIZED INDOOR
RANGES; REQUIREMENTS.
   Subject to any other applicable laws and ordinances, a person may establish
and operate a public or private indoor firearms range or shooting range with
the approval and written authorization of the Town Marshal. The Marshal may, at
his or her discretion, grant such approval when he or she is satisfied that the
proposed range will be responsibly operated and so constructed as not to
constitute a hazard or nuisance to surrounding persons and properties nor to
persons using the range. The authorization may also be revoked by the Marshal
whenever he or she finds that the above conditions no longer obtain.
Notwithstanding §§
130.15 or
130.16, it shall be lawful to discharge a weapon or device described by §§
130.15 or
130.16 upon such authorized firearms or shooting range, subject to observance
of any particular rules and restrictions that may be expressly included by the
Marshal in his or her authorization.
(`86 Code, § 7-3-4) (Am. Ord. 86-C12, passed 9-30-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 130.18 GENERAL EXCEPTIONS AND EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any police officer nor to
members of the armed forces and authorized emergency management agencies while
in the discharge of their official duty, nor to persons acting in defense of
their life, person or property (or those of another person) under circumstances
where use of deadly force has been deemed reasonable and justifiable by law.
(`86 Code, § 7-3-3) (Am. Ord. 86-C12, passed 9-30-86)
CURFEW
§ 130.30 HOURS OF CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   It shall be a curfew violation for any child 17 years of age or
younger to be in a public place between 12:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. on any
Saturday or Sunday or to be in any public place after 10:00 p.m. on any Sunday,
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday.
   (B)   It shall be a curfew violation for any child 15 years of age or
younger to be in a public place after 10:00 p.m. and before 5:00 a.m. on any
day.
(Ord. 91-1, passed 10-15-91)
§ 130.31 EXCEPTIONS.
   These curfews do not apply to any child who is:
   (A)   Accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or custodian;
   (B)   Accompanied by an adult specified by his or her parent, guardian or
custodian; or
   (C)   Participating in, going to or returning from:
      (1)   Lawful employment;
      (2)   A school sanctioned activity; or
      (3)   A religious event in accordance with I.C. 31-37-3-3.5.
(Ord. 91-1, passed 10-15-91)
§ 130.32 VIOLATIONS.
   The Town Marshal is further authorized to take into custody any minor found
in violation of these curfew provisions until such time as the parents or other
proper custodians can be contacted to take charge of the violators, at which
time they shall be released to the parent or other appropriate authority.
(Ord. 91-1, passed 10-15-91)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
Chapter
   
150.   BUILDING CODE
   
151.   MANUFACTURED OR MOBILE HOUSING
   
152.   ZONING CODE
   
153.   SUBDIVISION CONTROL
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Title
   
150.02   Purpose
   
150.03   Definitions
   
150.04   Scope
   
150.05   Authority
   
150.06   Severability
   
150.07   Effect of adoption on prior ordinance
Building Permits
   
150.15   Building permit required
   
150.16   Application for building permit
   
150.17   Site standards
   
150.18   Issuance of building permit
   
150.19   Notice of use of advanced structural components
   
150.20   Certificate of occupancy
Inspections
   
150.25   General authority to make inspections and investigations
   
150.26   Inspections by Fire Department
Enforcement
   
150.35   Withhold issuance of permits
   
150.36   Permit revocation
   
150.37   Stop-work order
   
150.38   Enforcement of building standards
   
150.39   Civil action
   
150.40   Right of appeal
Minimum Construction Standards
   
150.45   Adoption of rules by reference
   
150.46   Lifting devices located within a private residence
 
   
150.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Town of Akron Building Code Fee Schedule
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 TITLE.
   This chapter and all material included herein by reference shall be known as
the “Building Code of the Town of Akron, Indiana.”
(Ord. 07-20-2020, passed 7-20-20)
§ 150.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the life, public safety, health
and general welfare of the citizens of the Town of Akron, Indiana, and shall be
construed in such a manner as to effectuate this purpose.
(Ord. 07-20-2020, passed 7-20-20)
§ 150.03 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless otherwise clearly indicated by its context, the words and terms
defined in this section shall have the specified meanings.
   BUILDING COMMISSIONER. As used in this chapter, includes officers employed
by the Town of Akron and/or the Fulton Plan Commission and Building Department
that are authorized to inspect and represent the enforcement of this chapter
through interlocal agreement(s).
   CLASS 1 STRUCTURE. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-4.
   CLASS 2 STRUCTURE. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-5.
   CONSTRUCTION. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-7.
   INDUSTRIALIZED BUILDING SYSTEM. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-
12-1-14.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in IC 22-12-1-16.
   MOBILE STRUCTURE. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in IC 22-12-1-17.
   PERSON. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-18.
   STRUCTURE. Means both Class 1 and Class 2 structures, unless specifically
stated otherwise.
   VEHICULAR BRIDGE. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in I C 22-12-1-26.
(Ord. 07-20-2020, passed 7-20-20)
§ 150.04 SCOPE.
   (A)   All construction shall be accomplished in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter, including new construction, demolition, alteration,
repair, use, occupancy, and addition(s) to all buildings and structures.
   (B)   As used in this chapter, the term “repair” shall not include the
replacement of roofing material or windows which does not require the
alteration or replacement of structural supports in either the roof or walls of
the building.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-6, this chapter shall not apply to
industrialized building systems or mobile structures certified under I.C. 22-
15-4; however, the provisions of this chapter and the rules promulgated by the
Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission do apply to any construction
related to an industrialized building system or mobile structure not certified
under I.C. 22-15-4.
   (D)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-9, this chapter is not applicable to
regulated amusement devices, regulated boilers, regulated pressure vessels, or
regulated lifting devices.
(Ord. 07-20-2020, passed 7-20-20)
§ 150.05 AUTHORITY.
   The Building Commissioner is hereby authorized and directed to administer
and enforce the following:
   (A)   All of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Variances granted in accordance with I.C. 22-13-2-11.
   (C)   Orders issued under I.C. 22-12-7.
(Ord. 07-20-2020, passed 7-20-20)
§ 150.06 SEVERABILITY.
   Should any provision (section, clause, phrase, word, or any other portion)
of this chapter be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid
for any reason, the remaining provisions shall not be affected, if and only if
such remaining provisions can, without the invalid provision or provisions be
given the effect intended in adopting this chapter. To this end, the provisions
of this chapter are severable.
(Ord. 07-20-2020, passed 7-20-20)
§ 150.07 EFFECT OF ADOPTION ON PRIOR ORDINANCE.
   The expressed or implied repeal of amendment by this chapter of any other
ordinance or part of any other ordinance does not affect any rights or
liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the
effective date of this chapter. Such rights, liabilities, and other proceedings
are continued and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under the repealed or
amended ordinance as if this chapter had not been adopted.
(Ord. 07-20-2020, passed 7-20-20)
BUILDING PERMITS
§ 150.15 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Construction is prohibited unless in conformity with a valid building permit
obtained from the Building Commissioner prior to commencement of construction
that:
   (A)   Exceeds $1,500 in cost. Total construction cost is valued at the
average contractor cost when self-construction/labor is used; and
   (B)   Changes, upgrades, or installs a new electrical service, wiring, or
meter base.
(Ord. 07-20-2020, passed 7-20-20)
§ 150.16 APPLICATION FOR BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person required to have a building permit shall submit a complete
application to the Building Commissioner.
   (B)   This application shall be submitted on a form prepared by the Building
Commissioner, and shall contain the following:
      (1)   Information that the Building Commissioner determines to be
necessary to locate and contact the applicant.
      (2)   A clear and understandable copy of detailed plans and
specifications drawn to scale which indicate in a precise manner the nature and
location of all construction to be accomplished.
      (3)   A plot plan drawn to scale; provided, however, such plot plan shall
not be required in the instance where all such construction is to occur
entirely within an existing structure. This plot plan shall reflect the
location of the structure in relation to existing property lines and shall show
streets, curbs and sidewalks and proposed changes or additions to such streets,
curbs and sidewalks.
      (4)   If required by Indiana law or any rule of the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission, a copy of a construction design release for the
construction to be done that has been issued by the Building Law Compliance
Officer pursuant to I.C. 22-15-3.
      (5)   All information required pursuant to I.C. 22-11-21-9 for qualifying
properties containing advanced structural components.
      (6)   Any additional information that the Building Commissioner finds to
be necessary to determine that the construction will conform to all applicable
building and fire safety laws and will not violate any other applicable
ordinances or laws.
      (7)   The fee established by
Appendix A following this chapter represents fees established at the time of
adoption of this chapter. Any changes to the fees listed on
Appendix A shall not require an amendment to any other part of this chapter.
   (C)   Application for a building permit shall be made by the person entitled
to obtain the permit or by an employee or agent of that person. The Building
Commissioner may require that such an employee or agent provide written
authority to apply for a permit.
(Ord. 07-20-2020, passed 7-20-20)
§ 150.17 SITE STANDARDS.
   (A)   All work on the construction, alteration and repair of buildings and
other structures shall be performed in a good and workmanlike manner according
to accepted standards and practices in the trade.
   (B)   All demolition debris/rubbish shall be completely removed and disposed
of in a legal and proper manner within 14 days of the start of the demolition
process. All demolition sites will be completely enclosed with construction
barricades not to be less than six feet in height. The demolition site will be
completely back-filled with suitable material, graded, and seeded with a
vegetative cover within 30 days of the start of demolition. Any building
demolished along the State Road 25 corridor, will be completed by a contractor
that is legally bonded and insured.
   (C)   If any person, firm or corporation shall violate any of the provisions
of this section, do any act prohibited herein or fail to perform any duty
lawfully enjoined, within the time prescribed by the Building Commissioner, or
shall fail, neglect or refuse to obey any lawful order given by the Building
Commissioner in connection with the provisions of this code for each such
violation, failure or refusal, such person, firm or corporation shall be fined
$250. Each day of such unlawful activity shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 07-20-2020, passed 7-20-20)
§ 150.18 ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMIT.
   The Building Commissioner shall issue a building permit to a person after
the person has submitted a complete application, including any applicable fee,
provided that the proposed Construction will conform to all applicable building
and fire safety laws and will not violate any other applicable ordinances or
laws.
(Ord. 07-20-2020, passed 7-20-20)
§ 150.19 NOTICE OF USE OF ADVANCED STRUCTURAL COMPONENTS.
   For all building permits issued covering the construction of qualifying
properties containing advanced structural components, the Building Commissioner
shall send notice as required pursuant to I.C. 22-11-21-10.
(Ord. 07-20-2020, passed 7-20-20)
§ 150.20 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No certificate of occupancy for any structure shall be issued unless such
structure was constructed in compliance with the provisions of this chapter. It
shall be unlawful to occupy any structure unless a full, partial, or temporary
certificate of occupancy has been issued by the Building Commissioner.
(Ord. 07-20-2020, passed 7-20-20)
INSPECTIONS
§ 150.25 GENERAL AUTHORITY TO MAKE INSPECTIONS AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   All construction shall be subject to inspections by the Building
Commissioner whether a building permit has been obtained or a potential code
violation has been identified.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner may at any reasonable time go in, upon,
around or about the premises where any structure subject to the provisions of
this chapter or to the rules of the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission is located for the purposes of inspection and investigation of such
structure. Such inspection and investigation may be made before and/or after
construction on the project is completed for the purposes of determining
whether the structure meets building standards and procedures, and ascertaining
whether the construction and procedures have been accomplished in a manner
consistent with this chapter and the rules of the Fire Prevention and Building
Safety Commission.
(Ord. 07-20-2020, passed 7-20-20)
§ 150.26 INSPECTIONS BY FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   The Building Commissioner and the Fire Department shall work cooperatively
to conduct inspections and investigations to promote compliance with fire
safety laws (The Fire Department has independent authority to conduct
inspections and take enforcement actions under I.C. 36-8-17).
(Ord. 07-20-2020, passed 7-20-20)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 150.35 WITHHOLD ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Whenever a person which is either an applicant for a building permit
or an obtainer of a building permit owes fees (including checks returned for
insufficient funds, permit fees owed, or inspection fees owed pursuant to
Appendix A) to the Building Commissioner, the Building Commissioner may
withhold the issuance of subsequently requested permits until such time that
the debt is satisfied.
   (B)   Whenever a person applies for a building permit for a structure that
is not being used or constructed in conformance with applicable provisions of
an applicable zoning ordinance or other ordinance relating to land use, the
Building Commissioner is authorized to withhold the issuance of requested
permit(s) until such time that the property is brought into conformance with
applicable ordinances.
(Ord. 07-20-2020, passed 7-20-20)
§ 150.36 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   The Building Commissioner may revoke a building permit when any of the
following are applicable:
   (A)   The application, plans or supporting documents contain a false
statement or misrepresentation as to a material fact.
   (B)   The application, plans or supporting documents reflect a lack of
compliance with building standards and procedures.
   (C)   There is failure to comply with this chapter.
   (D)   The structure for which the building permit has been issued is not
being used or constructed in conformance with an applicable zoning ordinance or
other ordinance relating to land use.
(Ord. 07-20-2020, passed 7-20-20)
§ 150.37 STOP-WORK ORDER.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner may issue an order requiring suspension of
the pertinent construction (stop-work order) in accordance with this section.
   (B)   The stop work order shall:
      (1)   Be in writing.
      (2)   State with specificity the construction to which it is applicable
and the reason for its issuance.
      (3)   Be posted on the property in a conspicuous place.
      (4)   If practicable, be given to:
         (a)   The person doing the construction; and
         (b)   To the owner of the property or the owner's agent.
      (5)   Identify the specific law, order, or interpretation upon which the
finding of noncompliance is based, specifying the edition, chapter, and section
of any applicable building or fire code.
      (6)   The stop-work order shall state the conditions under which
construction may be resumed.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner may issue a stop-work order if:
      (1)   Construction is proceeding in an unsafe manner, including, but not
limited to, in violation of any standard set forth in this chapter or any state
law pertaining to safety during construction.
      (2)   Construction is occurring in violation of this chapter or in such a
manner that if construction is allowed to proceed, there is a reasonable
probability that it will substantially difficult to correct the violation.
      (3)   Construction for which a building permit is required is proceeding
without a building perm it being in force.
   (D)   The issuance of a stop-work order shall in no way limit the operation
of penalties provided elsewhere in this chapter.
(Ord. 07-20-2020, passed 7-20-20)
§ 150.38 ENFORCEMENT OF BUILDING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Adoption. I.C. 36-7-9, entitled "Enforcement of Building Standards,"
together with all the subsections thereof, is adopted by the Akron Town Council
in its entirety.
   (B)   Administration. The town may enter into an agreement with Fulton
County for the Fulton County Building Commissioner to be responsible for the
administration of the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9. In the absence of such an
agreement, the Clerk-Treasurer shall be responsible.
   (C)   Enforcement. The town may enter into an agreement with Fulton County
for the Fulton County Building Commissioner to be responsible for the
enforcement of the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9. In the absence of such an
agreement, the Clerk-Treasurer shall be responsible.
   (D)   Hearing authority. The Akron Town Council shall be the hearing
authority as provided in I.C. 36-7-9.
   (E)   Substantial property interest. The definition of “Substantial property
interest” as provided in I.C. 36-7-9 is incorporated by reference.
   (F)   Procedures. All of the procedures, requirements and other conditions
set forth in I.C. 36-7-9 shall be followed in any action taken under this
section.
(Ord. 07-20-2020, passed 7-20-20)
§ 150.39 CIVIL ACTION.
   Pursuant to IC 36-1-6-4, the Town, or the Building Commissioner in the name
of the Town of Akron, may initiate a civil action in a court of competent
jurisdiction to restrain any person from violating a provision of this chapter.
(Ord. 07-20-2020, passed 7-20-20)
2023 S-10
§ 150.40 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by an order issued under this chapter shall have the
right to petition for review of any order of the Building Commissioner. Such a
person may file a petition using either, or both, of the following procedures:
   (A)   Appeal to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission.
      (1)   A person aggrieved by an order issued under this chapter may appeal
to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission, in accordance with I.C.
22-13-2-7.
      (2)   The Commission may modify or reverse any order issued by the county
that covers a subject governed by I.C. 22-12, I.C. 22-13, I.C. 22-14, I.C. 22-
15, a fire safety or a building rule.
      (3)   The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission must review
orders that concern a Class 2 structure if the person aggrieved by the order
petitions for review under I.C. 4-21.5-3-7 within 30 days after the issuance of
the order.
      (4)   The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission may review all
other orders issued under this chapter.
      (5)   The review of an order by the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission does not suspend the running of the time period under any statute in
which a person must petition a court for judicial review of the order.
   (B)   Appeal to an established local administrative body or court. Pursuant
to I.C. 36-7-8-9, a person aggrieved by a decision of the Building Department
may appeal as in other civil actions.
      (1)   The appellant must, by registered mail, give the Town of Akron a 15
day written notice of his or her intention to appeal.
      (2)   This notice must concisely state the appellant's grievance.
      (3)   If, pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-9, the Town has established by
ordinance to hear appeals of orders issued under ordinances, then a person
aggrieved by an order may petition for review with this administrative body in
accordance with said ordinance. If no such administrative body exists, then the
person may petition a court for judicial review of the order.
(Ord. 07-20-2020, passed 7-20-20)
MINIMUM CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
§ 150.45 ADOPTION OF RULES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-3(b), the rules of the Indiana Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission as set out in the following Articles
of Title 675 of the Indiana Administrative Code are hereby incorporated by
reference in this code and shall include any later amendments to those rules.
      (1)   Article 13 - Building Codes
      (2)   Article 14-Indiana Residential Code
      (3)   Article 16 - Indiana Plumbing Code
      (4)   Article 17 - Indiana Electrical Code
      (5)   Article 18 - Indiana Mechanical Code
      (6)   Article 19 - Indiana Energy Conservation Code
      (7)   Article 20 - Indiana Swimming Pool Code
      (8)   Article 22 - Indiana Fire Code
      (9)   Article 24 - Supplemental Fire Safety Rules
      (10)   Article 25 - Indiana Fuel Gas Code
      (11)   Article 28 - NFPA Standards.
   (B)   Two copies of the above rules incorporated by reference are on file in
the office of the clerk for the legislative body for public inspection as
required by I.C. 36-1-5-4, as well as in the office of the Fulton County Plan
Commission and Building Department.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner and the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission may grant a variance to the fire safety laws and building laws
adopted in this chapter. Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-7(b), a variance granted by
the Building Commissioner is not effective until it has been approved by Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission.
(Ord. 07-20-2020, passed 7-20-20)
§ 150.46 LIFTING DEVICES LOCATED WITHIN A PRIVATE RESIDENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-l-22(b)(12), lifting devices, such as elevators
and wheelchair lifts, located within a private residence are not regulated
lifting devices. Therefore, the following standards applicable to lifting
devices located within a private residence are incorporated by reference:
      (1)   Part 5.3, Private Residence Elevators, ANSI/ASME A17.1-2000, Safety
Code for Elevators and Escalators published by the American Society of
Mechanical Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York, 10016.
      (2)   Part 5.4, Private Residence Inclined Elevators, ANSI/ASME A17.1-
2000, Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators published by the American
Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York, 10016.
      (3)   Section 5, Private Residence Vertical Platform Lifts, ASME Al8. la,
2001 (Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway
Chair Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three
Park Avenue, New York, New York 10016.
      (4)   Section 6, Private Residence Inclined Platform Lifts, ASME A18.1a,
2001 (Addenda to ASME 18-1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway
Chair Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three
Park Avenue, New York, New York 10016.
      (5)   Section 7, Private Inclined Stairway Lifts, ASME A18.la, 2001
(Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway Chair
Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three Park
Avenue, New York, New York 10016.
   (B)   Two copies of the above lifting device standards incorporated by
reference are on file in the office of the Clerk for the legislative body for
public inspection as required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
(Ord. 07-20-2020, passed 7-20-20)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter may be subject to a fine
in any sum not exceeding $2,500. The assessment of a monetary penalty shall in
no way limit the operation of the penalties provided elsewhere in this chapter.
(Ord. 07-20-2020, passed 7-20-20)
APPENDIX A: TOWN OF AKRON BUILDING CODE FEE SCHEDULE
A building permit is required for all newly constructed structures within the
Town of Akron, as well as, any alteration or repair of an existing structure
for which the cost of such alteration or repair is more than $1,500.
No concrete shall be poured for foundations without prior inspection.
No electrical, mechanical, plumbing, or thermal insulation work shall be
covered without prior inspection.
Failure of the permit holder to have the required inspections at the designated
times during construction shall be subject to fines in any sum not to exceed
$2,500, as well as re-inspection fees.
Building permit fees
Building permit fees
Residential:  $0.50 per $1,000 in construction costs, with a $10.00 minimum
              permit fee.
Commercial:   $0.50 per $1,000 on construction costs, with a $10.00 minimum
              permit fee.
              $40 permit fee for electrical wiring or installation of service
Electrical:   entrance panel. An additional inspection fee shall be charged for
              any inspection completed beyond two inspection visits.
Renewal:      A charge of 50% of the original permit shall be assessed should a
              renewal of a building permit be required.
Inspection fees
              $40.00 per inspection, plus $0.05 per square foot in excess of
              1,500 sf. If a re-inspection is required for non-compliance with
              code requirements, an additional inspection fee shall be charged
Residential:  for each inspection.
                 Stick Built:             4 inspections
                 Manufactured Home:       2 inspections
                 Accessory:            2 inspections
              $40.00 per inspection, plus $0.03 per square foot in excess of
              15,000 sf; a minimum of four inspections is required for all
              primary commercial buildings and a minimum of two inspections for
Commercial:   accessory commercial buildings. Each additional visit the
              Building Inspector is required to inspect the commercial property
              shall be considered a separate inspection, and shall be invoiced
              and paid prior to occupancy.
Condemnation: A fee of $15.00 shall be charged for all condemnation inspections
              related to the demolition of the property.
 
 
Required Inspections (As applicable per project)
Footer Inspection
Electrical Inspection
Plumbing Inspection
Final Inspection
 
(Ord. 7-20-2020, passed 7-20-20)
CHAPTER 151: MANUFACTURED OR MOBILE HOUSING
Section
Trailer Camps
   
151.01   Municipal licensure requirement for house trailer camps; procedure;
fee
   
151.02   Certain facilities exempt from municipal license requirement
   
151.03   Individual permit required for residential occupancy of house trailers
located outside of licensed facilities; permit fee
   
151.04   Requirements for individual house trailer permit
   
151.05   Licenses and permits not in lieu of other required licenses and
permits; exemption from individual house trailer permit if improvement location
permit required
Mobile Homes
   
151.15   Permits
   
151.16   Temporary parking
   
151.17   Dividing lots
   
151.18   Water and sewer utilities
   
151.19   Exceptions
   
151.20   Nuisance
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see
Ch. 94
TRAILER CAMPS
§ 151.01 MUNICIPAL LICENSURE REQUIREMENT FOR HOUSE TRAILER CAMPS; PROCEDURE;
FEE.
   Except as provided by §
151.02, any person desiring to maintain a trailer camp, or camp for the
location of house trailers thereon, in the town shall file an application with
the Town Council setting forth an exact description of the real estate intended
for such use, the number of trailer spaces available and a showing that proper
sanitary conditions have been provided for. The Council, after inspection of
the application and determination that the same meets all proper sanitary and
area requirements, may issue a license for the operation of the camp for a
period of one year, from January 1 to December 31 of each year, upon payment of
a license fee of $5. The license may be revoked in the event the camp fails to
meet the sanitary conditions as now or hereafter prescribed by ordinance of the
town or for any other reason which is deemed by the Town Council to constitute
a nuisance.
(`86 Code, § 8-3-1) (Ord. 24, passed- -; Am. Ord. 86-C18, passed 10-21-86)
§ 151.02 CERTAIN FACILITIES EXEMPT FROM MUNICIPAL LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   Requirements for town licensure of trailer camps under §
151.01 do not apply to the following facilities:
   (A)   A mobile home park (as defined by I.C. 16-41-27-5) containing five or
more mobile home spaces and subject to licensure and regulation by the State
Board of Health under I.C. 16-41-27-18; or
   (B)   A mobile home park or other group of mobile homes containing four or
fewer mobile home spaces if it is subject to licensure and regulation by the
County Board of Health pursuant to I.C. 16-41-27-32 and appropriate county
ordinances and rules.
(`86 Code, § 3-3-2) (Ord. 24, passed- -; Am. Ord. 86-C18, passed 10-21-86)
§ 151.03 INDIVIDUAL PERMIT REQUIRED FOR RESIDENTIAL OCCUPANCY OF HOUSE TRAILERS
LOCATED OUTSIDE OF LICENSED FACILITIES; PERMIT FEE.
   Except as provided by §
151.05, it shall be unlawful for any person to park, or permit to be parked,
within the town any house trailer occupied as a residence for a period of more
than five days, other than in a regularly licensed trailer camp which has been
licensed by the town pursuant to §
151.01 or which is subject to state or county licensure as described by §
151.02(A) or (B), without first having obtained a permit therefor from the Town
Clerk-Treasurer. A nonrefundable permit application fee of $5 shall be paid to
the town when the permit is applied for.
(`86 Code, § 8-3-3) (Ord. 24, passed- -; Am. Ord. 86-C18, passed 10-21-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 151.04 REQUIREMENTS FOR INDIVIDUAL HOUSE TRAILER PERMIT.
   (A)   Submission and approval of location plans. No permit shall be issued
to any person to locate a house trailer on any property in the town for the
purpose of residing therein unless and until the applicant for the permit shall
file concurrently with his or her application a drawing or plat clearly
indicating where the applicant proposes to locate any house trailer upon any
lot, plot, tract or parcel of real estate in the town and showing the location
of adjacent property lines, alleys, public ways and thoroughfares. The drawing
and proposed house trailer location shall be subject to inspection, examination
and approval by the Town Council. The drawing shall be permanently filed with
the application for the permit, and the permit may be revoked in the event that
the applicant changes the location of any house trailer without the filing of
another drawing and without the permission of the Town Council to change the
location.
(`86 Code, § 8-3-4)
   (B)   Utility and sanitary connections. No permit shall be issued to any
person to locate a house trailer on any property in the town for the purpose of
residing therein unless and until the applicant for the permit shall have
installed or caused to be connected to the house trailer sanitary running water
facilities and sanitary toilet facilities.
(`86 Code, § 8-3-5)
(Ord. 24, passed- -; Am. Ord. 86-C18, passed 10-21-86)
§ 151.05 LICENSES AND PERMITS NOT IN LIEU OF OTHER REQUIRED LICENSES AND
PERMITS; EXEMPTION FROM INDIVIDUAL HOUSE TRAILER PERMIT IF IMPROVEMENT LOCATION
PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No trailer camp license granted under §
151.01 nor individual house trailer residential occupancy permit granted
pursuant to §§
151.03 and
151.04 shall be in lieu of any building permit, improvement location (zoning)
permit or any other license or permit which may be required under applicable
laws and ordinances. However, if the town should hereafter adopt any zoning
ordinance which regulates individual house trailers and requires an improvement
location permit to establish same for residential occupancy in accordance with
standards prescribed or accepted by the town, the improvement location permit
shall be sufficient in lieu of the permit required by §
151.03 and the provisions of §§
151.03 and
151.04 shall not apply in such instance.
(`86 Code, § 8-3-6) (Ord. 24, passed- -; Am. Ord. 86-C18, passed 10-21-86)
MOBILE HOMES
§ 151.15 PERMITS.
   (A)   No person, organization or entity of any type shall park within the
corporate limits the town any mobile home house trailer without the written
permit of the Town Council, except upon land which has prior to the effective
date of this subchapter been commonly used as a mobile home park, and for which
all state licenses and permits are in full force and effect.
   (B)   No permit for the parking of any mobile home or house trailer shall be
issued by the Council except as an upgrade for an existing mobile home already
in place at the time this subchapter is written. In those instances, no permit
will be granted unless and until the Council determines that such mobile home
or house trailer shall meet the following requirements and limitations:
      (1)   The mobile home or house trailer shall be at least 14 feet in width
or shall contain a minimum of 840 square feet under one roof.
      (2)   The mobile home or house trailer shall be located on a lot of not
less than 5,000 square feet in size.
      (3)   The mobile home or house trailer shall be connected to the town's
water and sewer systems.
      (4)   The tongue or pulling ring for any such mobile home or house
trailer shall be removed and placed beneath the mobile home or house trailer or
in such other place so as to not be visible from any public way, or permanently
covered so as not to be visible from any public way.
      (5)   The mobile home or house trailer shall be placed upon a permanent
foundation or a cement slab, with its wheels removed, and such slab shall be at
least the same size as the mobile home or house trailer and at least 3½ inches
thick.
      (6)   The mobile home or house trailer shall have a full skirting on all
sides, consisting of metal, fiberglass or similar construction material.
      (7)   The mobile home or house trailer shall be tied down in accordance
with the requirements of the state.
      (8)   There shall be provision made for off-street parking for at least
two motor vehicles on the lot on which the mobile home or house trailer is
located.
      (9)   In addition to the foregoing requirements and limitations, a
storage shed containing a minimum of 100 square feet and placed on a concrete
slab or foundation at least as large as the storage building shall be placed on
the lot on which the mobile home or house trailer is located.
(Ord. 96-4-2, passed 4-18-96)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 151.16 TEMPORARY PARKING.
   The Board of Trustees may grant a temporary parking permit for a mobile home
or house trailer not to exceed 30 days for the parking of a mobile home or
house trailer upon any land located within the town, if upon investigation the
Town Council finds that good and sufficient sanitary facilities will exist for
the mobile home during the temporary period; provided, however, that only one
of such temporary permits shall be issued to the owner of any land within the
town each year.
(Ord. 96-4-2, passed 4-18-96)
§ 151.17 DIVIDING LOTS.
   No existing lot in the town may be divided into an additional lot or lots
for the purpose of locating a mobile home on any such lots.
(Ord. 96-4-2, passed 4-18-96)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 151.18 WATER AND SEWER UTILITIES.
   No owner or occupant of any dwelling within the corporate limits of the town
shall park upon his land, or suffer to be parked upon his land, any mobile home
or house trailer, which is connected to the water, sewer and/or utility
facilities of the dwelling so owned or occupied by such owner, without having
obtained the prior written permit of the Town Council.
(Ord. 96-4-2, passed 4-18-96)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 151.19 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall not apply with respect to any mobile home or house
trailer parked or located within the corporate limits of the town prior to the
passage of this subchapter. However, if any such mobile home or house trailer
is removed from the lot on which it is located, this subchapter shall apply to
any new or replacement mobile home or house trailer to be located on such lot.
(Ord. 96-4-2, passed 4-18-96)
§ 151.20 NUISANCE.
   Any mobile home or house trailer parked in the corporate limits of the town
in violation of this subchapter shall be deemed a nuisance and may be abated as
such by the town or any person or persons injured thereby and the person,
corporation or any other entity violating this subchapter shall be subject to
the maximum penalty provided by law for each day that the mobile home or house
trailer remains so parked, which penalty shall be recoverable in any court of
competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 96-4-2, passed 4-18-96)
CHAPTER 152: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Initial area zoning ordinance adopted
   
152.02   Initial area zone map adopted
Fees
   
152.10   Area fee schedule adopted
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 INITIAL AREA ZONING ORDINANCE ADOPTED.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-600 et seq., the Town of Akron adopts by reference
the initial area zoning ordinance of the Area Plan Commission of Fulton County,
Indiana. A copy of the initial area zoning ordinance is available for public
inspection in the office of the Town of Akron Clerk-Treasurer during regular
business hours.
(Res. 11-2007C, passed 11-20-07; Am. Res. 12-18-2017, passed 12-18-17; Am. Res.
10-21-2019B, passed 10-21-19; Am. Res. 08-16-2021A, passed 8-16-21; Am. Res.
08-15-2022B, passed 8-15-22)
§ 152.02 INITIAL AREA ZONE MAP ADOPTED.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-600 et seq., the Town of Akron adopts by reference
the initial area zone map of the Area Plan Commission of Fulton County,
Indiana. A copy of the initial area zone map is available for public inspection
in the office of the Town of Akron Clerk-Treasurer during regular business
hours.
(Res. 11-2007E, passed 11-20-07; Am. Res. 08-16-2021A, passed 8-16-21)
FEES
§ 152.10 AREA FEE SCHEDULE ADOPTED.
Fulton County Area Plan Commission Fee Schedule
(effective 01/01/2019)
Copies
All Photocopies are $0.10 per page (Co. Ordinance No. 031798)
Comprehensive Plan                                                    $4.80
Zone Ordinance                                                        $15.00
Subdivision Ordinance                                                 $5.10
Zone Map                                                              $0.10
Permits
Location Improvement Permit (unless otherwise specified)              
   Portable structures under 120 sf do not require a permit        $50
   Kewanna Incorporated Limits                                     $0
   Fulton Incorporated Limits                                      $0
Temporary Use Permit (unless otherwise specified)                     $50
   Kewanna Incorporated Limits                                     $0
   Fulton Incorporated Limits                                      $0
Signs
   Signs under six square feet do not require a permit             $3/sf
Telecommunications Tower                                              $500
   Additional Antenna Placement                                    $50
Solar Array                                                            
   Micro                                                           $40
   Small                                                           $80
   Medium                                                          $150
   Large                                                           $250
Wind Generating Tower (WECS)                                           
   Noncommercial Tower                                             $175
   APC & BZA Application Fees
Site Plan Review - Commercial, Industrial, & Institutional/           $175
Recreational Districts
Zone Map Amendment                                                    $500
APC Subdivision Applications (unless otherwise specified)             
   Residential Primary Plat: One & two lot subdivisions allowed by $50
ordinance
   Residential Primary Plat                                        $500 plus
                                                                      $50/lot
   Residential Primary Plat - Rochester Incorporated Limits        $250 plus
                                                                      $25/lot
   Residential Secondary Plat                                      $100
   Commercial Primary Plat                                         $1,500
   Commercial Primary Plat - Rochester Incorporated Limits         $1,000
   Commercial Secondary Plat                                       $250
Mobile Home Park                                                      $2,000 plus
                                                                      $50/lot
BZA Applications                                                       
   Development Standard Variance                                   $175
   Special Exception                                               $175
   Administrative Appeal                                           $175
                                                                      3 times the
                                                                      normal
                                                                      permit/
                                                                      application
Early Bird Fee                                                        fee plus
                                                                      $20/foot in
                                                                      height of
                                                                      the
                                                                      structure
 
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISION CONTROL
Section
   
153.01   Initial area subdivision control ordinance adopted
§ 153.01 INITIAL AREA SUBDIVISION CONTROL ORDINANCE ADOPTED.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-600 et seq., the Town of Akron adopts by reference
the initial area subdivision control ordinance of the Area Plan Commission of
Fulton County, Indiana. A copy of the initial area zone map is available for
public inspection in the office of the Town of Akron Clerk-Treasurer during
regular business hours.
(Res. 11-2007D, passed 11-20-07; Am. Res. 08-16-2021A, passed 8-16-21; Am. Res.
08-15-2022B, passed 8-15-22)
Cross-reference:
   Area fee schedule, see §
152.10
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Table
   
I.   ANNEXATIONS
   
II.   FRANCHISES
   
III.   VACATIONS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
     6-15-  Annexing Saner’s Addition, which plat is Plat Number 17035, recorded in Plat
- -  62     Book No. 3, on page 70, in the Office of the Recorder of Fulton County, to the
            town.
1- - 4-4-78 Annexing Saner’s Second Addition, a tract of land in Section 19, Township 30
78          North, Range 5 East in Henry Township, to the town.
11-  11-30- Annexing certain territory generally located south of State Road 114 and east
30-  20     of State Road 14 to the town.
2020
           
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Granting a franchise to RTC Communications Corporation to
- -      7-18-00     provide cable access television services and providing for
                     the regulation of such activity for a term of five years.
                    
 
TABLE III: VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
      10-19- Vacating an alley between Lots 20, 21 22, 23 and Lots 24, 25, 26, and 27
82-2  82     running in an easterly-westerly direction between Adams and Franklin Streets
             in the C. Hoffman's Addition.
85-2  5-7-85 Vacating the following streets and alleys:
           Main Street extending from the west lines of Lots 35 and 46 easterly to the
             west line of Cedar Street, being 60 feet in width and 310 feet in length.
             Cedar Street extending from the north side of a ten foot alley on the north
             side of Lot 40 southerly to the south side of a 16 feet alley on the south
           side of Lot 41, which street lies along the east sides of Lots 40 and 41 and
             is adjacent to the east corporation line, being 31 feet in width and 350
             feet in length.
             An alley extending from the west line of Lot 47 easterly to the west line of
           Cedar Street, which alley lies along the south side of Lots 41 through 47,
             being 16 feet in width and 360 feet in length.
      1-19-  Vacating that portion of the alley located between Lots 176 and 183 in D.C.
1-88  88     Hoover’s Addition to the town, which portion extends a distance of 66 feet
             from Depot Street east between said Lots.
1989- 8-2-89 Vacating an alley located between Lots 75 and 76 in the Original Plat of the
1            town.
12-   12-19- Vacating part of a south-easterly roadway and an east/west alley within the
19-   16     original and subsequent plats of Henry Township - Pike Lumber Co., Inc.
2016
10-   10-19-
19-   20     Vacating an 8 foot alley situated in Section 24, Township 30, Range 4 east.
2020C
09-   9-19-  Vacating a 10-foot alleyway running east and west lying directly between
19-   22     lots 197 and 198 Slaybaugh’s Town of Akron for the full platted length.
2022A
            
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to 1986 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Section Code Section
I.C. Section                    Code Section
1-1-1-5                         10.04
1-1-1-7                         10.12
1-1-1-8                         10.06
1-1-4-5                         10.05
1-1-5-1                         10.11
1-1-6-1                         10.08
3-5-2-40.1                      Ch. 34, Appendix
4-21.5-3-7                      150.36
4-22-1                          32.05
5-1.5-2-2.5                     30.024
5-3-1                           30.082,
                                31.13
5-11-1-16(d)                    36.08
5-11-1-27(j)                    36.08,
                                36.09
5-11-1-27(l)                    36.09
                                36.01,
5-13-9                          52.19,
                                52.20
5-13-9-5.6                      36.01
5-14-1.5                        30.020
5-14-1.5-4(a)                   30.023
5-14-1.5-4(b)                   30.024
5-14-1.5-6.1                    30.021
5-14-3-3                        30.021
5-14-3-4(b)(12)                 30.021
5-14.3.5                        30.024
5-14.3.6                        30.024
5-22-22                         73.05
6-1.1-18.5-17                   36.17
6-3.6                           36.20
7.1-3-9-3                       110.01
8-1.5-3-3                       52.15
8-1.5-3-4(d)                    51.094
8-1.5-3.5                       52.44
8-1.5-3-8(c)                    52.20
8-1.5-3-11(b)                   52.17
8-1.5-3-11(c)                   52.17
8-1.5-3-11(d)                   52.17
8-1.5-3-11(f)                   52.17
8-1.5-3-12                      52.17
8-22-2                          30.021
8-22-3                          30.021
9-4-1-33                        70.20
9-13-2-69.7                     73.08
9-21-1-1 et seq.                70.01
9-21-1-2                        70.04
9-21-1-2(c)                     70.20,
                                70.24
                                70.07,
9-21-1-3                        70.22,
                                73.08
9-21-1-3.3                      73.08
9-21-1-3(a)(13)                 70.05
9-21-1-8                        70.03
9-21-4-18                       Ch. 74, Sch. III
9-21-4-19                       Ch. 74, Sch. III
9-21-5-2                        71.17
9-21-5-5                        71.17
9-21-9-2                        73.08
9-21-16-7                       72.02
9-21-18                         70.05
9-28-1                          33.25
9-28-2                          33.25
9-30-3-6                        33.22
10-5-12-1                       114.05
10-5-13-1                       114.05
10-14-3-12                      30.027
10-14-3-29                      30.027
13-22                           30.082
13-23                           30.082
13-24                           30.082
13-25-4                         30.082
13-25-5                         30.082
13-25-5-8.5(f)                  30.082
14-22                           95.02
15-2.1-6                        95.30
15-5-7                          95.02
15-5-9-13                       95.49,
                                95.80
15-5-9-14                       95.81,
                                95.82
15-46-3                         95.81
16-34.5-1                       30.021
16-41-27-5                      151.02
16-41-27-18                     151.02
16-41-27-32                     151.02
22-9-1-4 et seq.                90.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.                90.01
22-9.5-1-2                      90.02
22-9.5-2-2                      90.02
22-9.5-2-3                      90.02
22-9.5-2-4                      90.02
22-9.5-2-8                      90.02
22-9.5-2-9                      90.02
22-9.5-2-11                     90.02
22-9.5-2-13                     90.02
22-9.5-3                        90.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.                90.09
22-9.5-4-8                      90.10
22-9.5-5                        90.02
22-9.5-5-1                      90.03
22-9.5-6                        90.02,
                                90.10
22-9.5-10(c)                    90.02
22-11-14-1                      92.15
22-11-14-2                      92.17
22-11-14-3                      92.17
22-11-21-9                      150.16
22-11-21-10                     150.19
22-12                           150.40
22-12-1-4                       150.03
22-12-1-5                       150.03
22-12-1-7                       150.03
22-12-1-14                      150.03
22-12-1-16                      150.03
22-12-1-17                      150.03
22-12-1-18                      150.03
22-12-1-26                      150.03
22-12-7                         150.05
22-13                           150.40
22-13-2-3(b)                    150.05
22-13-2-6                       150.04
22-13-2-7                       150.36
22-13-2-7(b)                    150.45
22-13-2-9                       150.04
22-13-2-11                      150.03
22-14                           150.40
22-15                           150.40
22-15-3                         150.16
22-15-4                         150.04 
Title 25                        30.021
25-6.1-3                        114.05
25-34.1-3-1                     114.05
25-37-1                         114.02
31-37-3-3.5                     130.31
32-30-6-9                       94.01
33-10.1-1                       33.33
33-10.5-1                       33.33
33-19-1                         33.32
33-37-7-6                       36.18
                                33.02,
34-13-3                         92.17,
                                93.04
34-13-3-3                       91.01
                                33.02,
34-13-4                         92.17,
                                93.04
34-28-5-1                       33.04,
                                33.22
34-28-5-4                       33.31
35-46-3                         95.16
                                95.30,
35-46-3-1                       95.31,
                                95.80
35-46-3-12                      95.80
35-47-2-3(b)                    36.18
36-1-3                          33.34,
                                94.20
36-1-3-8(a)(10)                 10.99,
                                33.31
36-1-4-16                       36.02
36-1-5                          30.082
36-1-5-4                        150.45,
                                150.46
                                33.36,
36-1-6-2                        70.06,
                                94.07,
                                94.25
                                33.36,
36-1-6-4                        94.07,
                                150.39
36-1-6-4(a)                     70.06
36-1-6-9                        150.40
36-1-7                          33.34
36-1-8-4                        52.17
36-1-8-12                       36.27,
                                36.28
36-1-10                         30.021
36-1-11                         30.021
36-1-11-6                       73.05
36-3-4-12                       36.03
36-4-8                          36.03
36-4-8-4                        36.03
36-4-8-14                       36.03
36-5-2-2                        32.02
36-5-2-3(a)                     30.001
36-5-2-3(b),(c),(d),(e),(f),(g) 30.001
36-5-2-4.1                      30.082
36-5-2-4.2                      30.081
36-5-2-6                        30.002
36-5-2-7                        30.004
36-5-2-8                        30.026
36-5-2-9                        30.003
36-5-2-9.2                      30.025
36-5-2-9.4(a)                   30.080
36-5-2-9.4(b)                   30.081
36-5-2-9.8                      30.081
36-5-2-10                       30.082
36-5-2-10(e)                    30.082
36-5-2-10.2                     30.083
36-5-3-9.6                      30.080
36-5-4                          36.03
36-5-4-12                       36.03
36-5-7                          32.02
36-7                            30.081,
                                30.082
36-7-4                          31.01
                                152.01,
36-7-4-600 et seq.              152.02,
                                152.150,
                                153.01
36-7-8-9                        150.40
36-7-9                          150.38
36-7-10-3                       94.20,
                                94.25
36-8-3                          32.04,
                                32.05
36-8-3-20                       32.01
36-8-10-5                       Ch. 34, Appendix
36-8-14                         36.22
36-8-17                         150.26
36-9-1-8                        51.001
36-9-2-16                       50.09
36-9-15.5                       36.33
36-9-23-31                      51.093,
                                51.094
36-9-23-32                      51.094
36-9-23-33                      51.094
36-10-3                         91.02
36-10-3-10                      91.03
36-10-3-11                      91.03
36-10-3-17                      91.04
36-10-3-21                      36.25,
                                91.03
                                
 
REFERENCES TO 1986 CODE
1986 Code Section 2001 Code Section
1986 Code Section     2001 Code Section
1-4-1                 33.01
1-4-2                 33.02
1-4-3                 33.03
1-4-4                 33.04
1-4-5                 33.05
1-4-6                 33.20
1-4-7                 33.20
1-4-8                 33.20
1-4-9                 33.20
1-4-10                33.21
1-4-11                33.22
1-4-12                33.23
1-4-13                33.24
1-4-14                33.25
1-4-15                33.26
1-4-16                33.27
1-4-17                33.27
1-4-18                33.27
1-4-19                33.28
1-4-20                33.29
1-4-21                33.29
1-4-22                33.30
1-4-23                33.31
1-4-24                33.32
1-4-25                33.33
1-4-26                33.34
1-4-27                33.35
1-4-28                33.36
1-4-29                33.37
1-4-30                33.38
2-3-1                 51.085
2-3-2                 51.086
2-3-3                 51.086
2-3-4                 51.087
2-3-5                 51.088
2-3-6                 51.089
2-3-7                 51.089
2-3-8                 51.089
2-3-9                 51.089
2-3-10                51.089
2-3-11                51.089
2-3-12                51.090
2-3-13                51.091
2-3-14                51.092
2-3-15                51.093
2-3-16                51.093
2-3-17                51.093
2-3-18                51.094
2-3-19                51.094
2-4-1                 51.001
2-4-2                 51.002
2-4-3                 51.003
2-4-4                 51.004
2-4-5                 51.005
2-4-6                 51.006
2-4-7                 51.006
2-4-8                 51.006
2-4-9                 51.006
2-4-10                51.006
2-4-11                51.006
2-4-12                51.070
2-4-13                51.070
2-4-14                51.070
2-4-15                51.071
2-4-16                51.071
2-4-17                51.071
2-4-18                51.071
2-4-19                51.072
2-4-20                51.072
2-4-21                51.072
2-4-22                51.072
2-4-23                51.072
2-4-24                51.073
2-4-25                51.074
2-4-27                51.075
2-5-1                 52.35
2-5-2                 52.36
2-5-3                 52.37
2-5-4                 52.38
2-5-5                 52.39
2-5-6                 52.40
2-5-7                 52.41
2-5-8                 52.42
2-6-1                 52.15
2-6-2                 52.16
2-6-3                 52.17
2-6-4                 52.18
2-6-5                 52.18
2-6-6                 52.18
2-6-7                 52.18
2-6-8                 52.19
2-6-9                 52.20
3-1-1                 94.01
3-1-2                 94.02
3-1-3                 94.03
3-1-4                 94.04
3-1-5                 94.05
3-1-7                 94.06
3-1-8                 94.07
3-2-1                 50.01
3-2-2                 50.02
3-2-3                 50.03
3-2-4                 50.04
3-2-5                 50.05
3-2-6                 50.06
3-2-7                 50.07
3-2-9                 50.08
3-3-1                 51.045,
                      111.01
3-3-2                 51.046
3-3-2                 111.02,
                      151.02
3-3-3                 51.047
3-3-4                 51.048
3-3-5                 51.049
3-3-6                 51.049
3-3-7                 51.050
3-3-8                 51.051
3-3-9                 51.052
3-3-10                51.053
3-3-11                51.054
3-3-13                51.055
3-3-14                51.056
Ch. 3, Art, 4, Sch. A 94.26
3-4-1                 94.20
3-4-2                 94.21
3-4-3                 94.22
3-4-4                 94.23
3-4-5                 94.24
3-4-6                 94.25
3-4-7                 94.25
3-4-9                 94.26
3-5-1                 95.01
3-5-2                 95.45
3-5-3                 95.46
3-5-4                 95.47
3-5-5                 95.48
3-5-6                 95.49
3-5-7                 95.50
3-5-8                 95.51
3-5-9                 95.15
3-5-10                95.16
3-5-11                95.17
3-5-12                95.30
3-5-13                95.31
3-5-14                95.32
3-5-15                95.33
3-5-16                95.34
3-5-17                95.80
3-5-18                95.81
3-5-19                95.82
3-5-20                95.83
3-5-22                95.02
3-5-23                95.03
4-1-1                 95.65
4-1-3                 95.66
4-1-4                 95.03
4-2-1                 110.01
4-4-1                 112.01
4-4-2                 112.02
4-4-3                 112.03
4-4-4                 112.04
4-4-5                 112.05
4-4-6                 112.06
4-4-7                 112.07
4-4-8                 112.08
4-4-9                 112.09
4-4-10                112.10
4-4-12                112.11
4-5-1                 113.01
4-5-2                 113.02
4-5-3                 113.03
4-5-5                 113.04
4-6-1                 114.01
4-6-2                 114.02
4-6-3                 114.03
4-6-4                 114.04
4-6-5                 114.05
4-6-6                 114.06
4-6-7                 114.07
4-6-8                 114.08
4-6-9                 114.09
4-6-10                114.10
5-1-1                 91.01
5-1-2                 91.02
5-1-3                 91.03
5-1-4                 91.03
5-1-5                 91.03
5-1-6                 91.04
5-1-7                 91.05
5-1-8                 91.05
5-1-9                 91.06
5-1-10                91.99
5-2-1                 93.01
5-2-2                 93.02
5-2-3                 93.02
5-2-4                 93.02
5-2-5                 93.02
5-2-6                 93.03
5-2-7                 93.04
6-1-1                 70.01
6-1-2                 70.02
6-1-3                 70.03
6-1-4                 70.04
6-1-5                 70.05
6-1-6                 70.06
6-1-7                 70.07
6-1-8                 70.08
6-3-1                 Ch. 74, Sch. I
6-3-2                 Ch. 74, Sch. II
6-3-3                 Ch. 74, Sch. III
6-4-1                 72.01
6-4-2                 72.02
6-4-3                 72.03
6-4-4                 72.04
6-4-5                 Ch. 75, Sch. IV
6-5-1                 71.02
6-6-1                 70.20
6-6-2                 70.21
6-6-3                 70.22
6-6-5                 70.23
6-6-6                 70.24
6-6-7                 70.25
6-6-9                 70.99,
                      71.01
6-7-1                 73.01
6-7-2                 73.02
6-7-3                 73.99
6-7-4                 73.03
6-7-5                 73.04
6-7-6                 73.05
6-7-7                 73.06
6-7-8                 73.07
6-8-1                 96.01
6-8-2                 96.02
6-8-3                 96.03
6-8-4                 96.04
6-8-5                 96.05
6-8-6                 96.99
7-1-1                 130.01
7-1-2                 130.02
7-1-3                 130.03
7-2-1                 92.15
7-2-2                 92.16
7-2-3                 92.17
7-2-4                 92.17
7-2-5                 92.17
7-2-7                 92.18
7-2-8                 92.19
7-3-1                 130.15
7-3-2                 130.16
7-3-3                 130.18
7-3-4                 130.17
8-3-1                 151.01
8-3-3                 151.03
8-3-4                 151.04
8-3-5                 151.04
8-3-6                 151.05
9-3-1                 36.15
9-3-2                 36.16
9-3-3                 36.17
9-3-4                 36.18
9-3-5                 36.19
9-3-6                 36.01
9-3-7                 36.02
10-1-1                11.01
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No.    Date Passed Code Section
98-04-21    4-21-98     35.01 -
                        35.04
11-2007C    11-20-07    152.01
11-2007D    11-20-07    153.01
11-2007E    11-20-07    152.02
12-18-2017  12-18-17    152.01
10-21-2019B 10-21-19    152.01
                        152.01,
08-16-2021A 8-16-21     152.02,
                        153.01
04-18-2022  4-18-22     30.027
06-20-2022  6-20-22     32.06
08-15-2022B 8-15-22     152.01,
                        153.01
                       
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.    Date Passed Code Section
                        51.051,
6           - -         51.054,
                        51.055
                        Ch. 74, Schs.
6-3         - -         I -
                        III
7           - -         51.073
24          - -         151.01 -
                        151.05
14          1-2-32      71.02
3           1-2-39      93.01
4           1-2-39      92.15 -
                        92.19
                        50.02,
6           1-2-39      50.04,
                        94.01 -
                        94.07
7           1-2-39      51.004,
                        51.006
10          1-2-39      114.01 -
                        114.10
11          1-2-39      93.02
13          1-2-39      95.50
15          1-2-39      93.03
16          1-2-39      113.01 -
                        113.04
17          1-2-39      111.01,
                        111.02
18          1-2-39      72.04
19          1-2-39      72.04
21          1-2-39      72.01,
                        72.02
22          1-2-39      72.01,
                        72.02
23(2)       5-31-55     112.01 -
                        112.11
–         6-15-62     T.S.O. I
27          2-21-67     Ch. 75, Sch. IV
–         4-18-67     113.01 -
                        113.04
                        51.001 -
                        51.006,
                        51.045 -
                        51.050,
6-9-70-3    - -         51.052 -
                        51.055,
                        51.070 -
                        51.075,
                        51.085 -
                        51.094
                        50.01,
6-9-70-3    6-30-70     50.03,
                        50.07,
                        50.08
1-76        1-27-73     110.01
28-73       3-27-73     50.03
                        91.01 -
–         8-5-74      91.06,
                        91.99
1- -78      4-4-78      T.S.O. I
                        52.35,
80-10       10-23-80    52.37 -
                        52.41
                        71.01 -
1-82        5-18-82     73.07,
                        73.99
82-2        10-19-82    T.S.O. III
83-1        1-18-83     36.19
                        95.01 -
                        95.03,
                        95.15 -
                        95.17,
                        95.30 -
                        95.34,
–         7-17-84     95.45 -
                        95.49,
                        95.51,
                        95.65,
                        95.66,
                        95.80 -
                        95.83
85-2        5-7-85      T.S.O. III
                        51.045 -
                        51.050,
                        51.052,
86-C1       7-15-86     51.053,
                        51.094,
                        52.15 -
                        52.20,
                        52.36
                        51.001 -
                        51.006,
                        51.054,
                        51.055,
86-C2       7-15-86     51.070 -
                        51.075,
                        51.086 -
                        51.088,
                        51.094
                        50.03 -
                        50.06,
86-C3       7-15-86     51.054,
                        51.055,
                        94.01 -
                        94.07
86-C4       7-15-86     94.20 -
                        94.26
                        95.01 -
                        95.03,
                        95.15 -
                        95.17,
                        95.30 -
86-C5       7-15-86     95.34,
                        95.45 -
                        95.51,
                        95.65,
                        95.66,
                        95.80 -
                        95.83
                        111.01,
                        111.02,
                        112.01 -
86-C6       7-15-86     112.11,
                        113.01 -
                        113.04,
                        114.01 -
                        114.10
                        91.01 -
                        91.06,
86-C7       8-25-86     91.99,
                        93.02,
                        93.03
86-C8       8-25-86     93.04
                        70.01 -
                        70.08,
86-C9       9-30-86     70.20 -
                        70.25,
                        70.99,
                        71.01
                        72.01,
86-C10      9-30-86     72.02,
                        72.04,
                        73.99
                        92.15 -
86-C12      9-30-86     92.19,
                        130.15 -
                        130.18
86-C13      9-30-86     130.01 -
                        130.03
                        36.01,
86-C16      9-30-86     36.02,
                        36.15 -
                        36.18
                        96.01 -
1986        9-30-86     96.05,
                        96.99
86-C18      10-21-86    151.01 -
                        151.05
1-88        1-19-88     T.S.O. III
1989-1      8-2-89      T.S.O. III
90-1        8-21-90     30.005,
                        30.006
90-2        12-18-90    52.01
–         1-8-91      71.02
91-1        10-15-91    130.30 -
                        130.32
93-1        6-23-93     36.03
                        96.01 -
1994        8-16-94     96.05,
                        96.99
9-94        9-20-94     92.01
6-7-95      - -         73.01
95-6-2      12-19-95    71.15 -
                        71.17
96-4-2      4-18-96     151.15 -
                        151.20
06-18-96    6-18-96     31.01
1996-12-30  12-30-96    51.089
97-4-15     4-15-97     Ch. 75, Sch. I
–         9-16-97     Ch. 74, Sch. I,
                        II
                        52.37,
1998-01-05  1-5-98      52.38,
                        52.40
1998-01-20A 1-20-98     90.01 -
                        90.10
04-21-98    5-19-98     32.01 -
                        32.05
11-24-98B   11-24-98    36.04
11-24-98C   11-24-98    Ch. 75, Sch. I
99-4-20     4-20-99     36.20
–         10-28-99    71.02
–         11-16-99    Ch. 75, Sch. V
                        31.10 -
                        31.19,
                        31.20 -
2000-2-15   2-15-00     31.26,
                        31.28-
                        31.32,
                        31.99
                        Ch. 75, Schs.
–         4-12-00     I -
                        III
–         7-18-00     T.S.O. II
10-17-2000  11-21-00    50.20,
                        50.21
–         12-19-00    152.01
1-9-01A     1-23-01     51.089 -
                        51.091
6-19-01A    8-21-01     Ch. 75, Sch. IV
6-19-01B    8-21-01     130.15
6-19-01C    8-21-01     95.82
10-16-01    11-20-01    52.35
12-17-02    12-17-02    36.21
3-18-03     4-15-03     35.04
5-20-03     5-20-03     36.22
10-21-03A   12-16-03    51.089
12-16-03    1-20-04     36.05
                        52.37,
01-20-04    1-20-04     52.40,
                        52.42
03-15-04    4-19-04     31.01
03-16-04    4-20-04     31.01
03-16-04A   4-20-04     36.23
05-18-04    7-20-04     71.01
09-21-04A   10-19-04    97.01
09-21-04B   10-19-04    51.003
                        52.37,
09-20-05A   10-18-05    52.38,
                        52.40,
                        52.42
09-20-05B   10-18-05    51.089
12-20-2005  1-17-06     95.52
117-2006    2-21-06     51.094,
                        52.41
2-21-2006   3-21-06     Adopting Ordinance
                        31.10 -
4-18-2006   5-16-06     31.32,
                        31.99
5-16-06A    6-20-06     93.05
03-20-07    4-17-07     52.37,
                        52.38
03-18-08    3-18-08     36.18
03-18-08A   4-15-08     Ch. 74, Sch. I
04-15-08B   5-20-08     Ch. 75, Sch. IV
6-24-08     6-24-08     91.01
11-18-08A   11-18-08    50.09
1-20-09     1-20-09     Adopting Ordinance
9-15-09     9-15-09     52.36
6-15-10     6-15-10     97.01
10-19-2010  9-19-10     73.08
11-16-2010  11-1-10     30.001
12-21-2010  1-18-11     52.21
4-19-2011   4-19-11     52.44
4-19-2011A  4-19-11     52.43
5-17-2011   5-17-11     36.24
7-19-2011A  7-19-11     36.06
02-21-2012  2-21-12     36.25
4-15-2014   4-15-14     52.41
5-20-2014   5-20-14     36.26
7-21-2014   7-21-14     36.26
9-16-2014   9-16-14     114.04
1-20-2015   1-20-15     36.27
1-20-2015A  1-20-15     36.28
                        52.37,
5-19-2015   6-16-15     52.38,
                        52.40,
                        52.42
7-21-2015   7-21-15     36.29
10-20-2015B 10-20-15    36.07
3-15-2016   3-15-16     36.08
5-17-2016   6-21-16     51.086 -
                        51.094
9-26-2016   9-26-16     36.09
12-19-2016  12-19-16    T.S.O. III
10-17-2016A 10-17-16    114.04
10-17-2016B 10-17-16    Ch. 75, Sch. III
11-21-2016A 11-21-16    36.07
12-18-2017  12-18-17    36.30
04-23-2018  4-23-18     36.31
4-23-2018B  5-21-18     51.086 -
                        51.094
4-23-2018C  4-23-18     Ch. 74, Sch. II
07-16-2018  7-16-18     73.08
9-17-2018   9-17-18     36.32
02-18-2019  2-18-19     36.33
04-15-2019  4-15-19     52.50
07-22-2019  7-22-19     36.03
08-19-2019  8-19-19     94.08
                        150.01 -
                        150.07,
                        150.15 -
                        150.20,
                        150.25,
07-20-2020  7-20-20     150.26,
                        150.35 -
                        150.40,
                        150.45,
                        150.46,
                        150.99,
                        Ch. 150 Appendix A
                        52.37,
10-19-2020A 10-19-20    52.38,
                        52.40,
                        52.42
10-19-2020C 10-19-20    T.S.O. III
11-30-2020  11-30-20    T.S.O. I
04-19-2021  4-19-21     36.34
04-19-2021A 4-19-21     73.08
                        52.37,
07-18-2022  7-18-22     52.38,
                        52.40,
                        52.42
08-15-2022  8-15-22     36.10
09-19-2022  9-19-22     73.08,
                        73.99
09-19-2022A 9-19-22     T.S.O. III
                       
