ALBANY, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-17 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2025-12, passed 12-9-2024
State legislation current through 2024 ALS Pamphlet #3
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TOWN OFFICIALS
OF
ALBANY, INDIANA
TOWN OFFICIALS
PRESIDENT                      Steven R. Hall
MEMBER                         Randall Dunnuck
MEMBER                         Spencer Reed
MEMBER                         Jeff Davis
MEMBER                         John Blankenbaker
MEMBER                         Spencer Reed
CLERK/TREASURER                Joyce L. Hamilton
TOWN ATTORNEY                  John H. Brooke
POLICE CHIEF                   Shannon Fritz
FIRE CHIEF                     Caleb Halsema
WATER SUPERINTENDENT           Rick Frieburger
SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC WORKS Jerry Scott
 
210 East State Street
Albany, Indiana 47320
Phone: (765) 789-6112
Fax: (765) 789-6961
E-mail: townofalbany@albanyin.com
Website: www.albanyin.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE N0. 2002-5
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE TOWN OF ALBANY REVISING,
AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE TOWN DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN THE CODE OF
ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
RECITALS
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the political
subdivision are inadequately arranged and classified; and
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances are insufficient in form
and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety
and general welfare of the community and for the proper conduct of its affairs;
and
WHEREAS, the State of Indiana has empowered and authorized the Town of Albany
to revise, amend, restate, codify and compile any existing ordinances and new
ordinances not heretofore adopted or published into one ordinance book form;
and
WHEREAS, the Town Council of the Town of Albany has authorized a general
compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the Town of a
general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinances in a book form;
and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the daily operation of the municipality
and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety and
general welfare of the community that this ordinance take effect upon passage.
IT IS THEREFORE ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF ALBANY:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the Town of Albany as revised, amended,
restated, codified, and compiled in the book form are hereby adopted and shall
constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the Town of Albany, Indiana.”
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
Title I         General Provisions
Title III      Administration
Title V         Public Works
Title VII      Traffic Code
Title IX      General Regulations
Title XI      Business Regulations
Title XIII      General Offenses
Title XV      Land Usage
Special Ordinances
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subject treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance expect as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of the adoption
of this ordinance and the Clerk/Treasurer of the Town of Albany is hereby
authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of Ordinances in their
office.
Section 5.   Such Code shall be in fall force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6.   This ordinance shall take effect upon passage and adoption by the
Town Council of the Town of Albany.
APPROVED by the Town Council of the Town of Albany on this 8th day of April,
2002.
Jim Miller /s/
Jim Miller, President
Ray Greer /s/
Ray Greer
Max DeVoe /s/  
Max DeVoe
Pat O’Bryant /s/
Pat O’Bryant
Tom St. John /s/
Tom St. John
ATTEST:
Marita Fields /s/
Marita Fileds, Clerk-Treasurer
ORDINANCE N0. 2004-22
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE TOWN OF ALBANY, INDIANA
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2004 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of Albany,
which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Albany; and,
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based or make
reference to sections of the Indiana Code; and,
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Town of Albany to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana, and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW THEREFOR, BE IT HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE TOWN BOARD OF ALBANY, INDIANA:
Section 1.   That the 2004 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Albany as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati,
Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as
if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Town Board and the Clerk of the Town of Albany is
hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the copy of the
Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED, by the Town Board of Albany, Delaware County, Indiana, upon
this 11th day of October, 2004.
   Jim Miller /s/
   Jim Miller, President
   Phillip Evans /s/
   Phillip Evans
   Max Devoe /s/
   Max Devoe
   Terry Barrtrum /s/
   Terry Barrtrum
                                 
   James Clevenger, Sr.
ATTEST:
William Conn /s/
William Conn, Clerk-Treasurer
ORDINANCE N0. 2006-13
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE TOWN OF ALBANY, INDIANA
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2006 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of Albany,
which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Albany; and,
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based or make
reference to sections of the Indiana Code; and,
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Town of Albany to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana, and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW THEREFOR, BE IT HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE TOWN BOARD OF ALBANY, INDIANA:
Section 1.   That the 2006 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Albany as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati,
Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as
if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Town Board and the Clerk of the Town of Albany is
hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the copy of the
Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED, by the Town Board of Albany, Delaware County, Indiana, upon
this 29th day of August, 2006.
                     James Clevenger /s/
                     James Clevenger, President
                     Phillip Evans /s/
                     Phillip Evans
                     Max Devoe /s/
                     Max Devoe
                     Gary Beal /s/
                     Gary Beal
                     Jim Miller /s/
                     Jim Miller
ATTEST:
William Conn /s/
William Conn, Clerk-Treasurer
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes,
titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Town
Code,” for which designation “Code of Ordinances,” “Codified Ordinances” or
“Code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or subsection.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted, or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered
by the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only, and do not affect the meaning,
application, or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only, and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent
or context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing
authority to a majority of such persons, unless otherwise declared in the
section giving such authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK/TREASURER. The Clerk/Treasurer of the Town Council.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council.
      COUNTY. Delaware/Randolph County.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads, and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      TOWNSHIP. The township or townships in which the town is located.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing, or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section stating that the provisions of an act are
severable as provided in
division (B) does not affect the operation of division (B) with respect to that
act.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section, reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority, or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; or at the time of the effective date of that ordinance or
subsequent thereto, the rights, powers, duties, or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then such named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which such duties,
liabilities, powers, and rights were transferred. (I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or
words necessary to express the intention of the provisions affected; the use of
a word or words to which no meaning can be attached; or the use of a word or
words when another word or words was clearly intended to express such intent,
such spelling shall be corrected and such word or words supplied, omitted, or
substituted as will conform with the manifest intention, and the provisions
shall have the same effect as though the correct words were contained in the
text as originally published. No alteration shall be made or permitted if any
question exists regarding the nature or extent of such error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday, or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture, or liability incurred under
such section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. Such section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of such penalty, forfeiture,
or liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code shall not be affected by
the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (I.C. 36-5-2-2) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-85)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.
Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      For provisions concerning the inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-
14-3-1 et seq.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway right-of-
ways, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of
any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain valid in all
respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this code for
which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Power to prescribe fines up to $2,500 granted, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   TOWN COUNCIL
      
31.   BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
      
32.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
33.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
34.   PERSONNEL
      
35.   PURCHASING
      
36.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
37.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
38.   IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM
CHAPTER 30: TOWN COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Definitions
   
30.02   Members
   
30.03   Election
   
30.04   Districts
   
30.05   District map
   
30.06   Authority to sign official documents
§ 30.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of Albany.
   TOWN.  The Town of Albany.
(Ord. 1993-1, passed 2-22-93)
§ 30.02 MEMBERS.
   The Council consists of five members.
(Ord. 1993-1, passed 2-22-93)
§ 30.03 ELECTION.
   The members of the Council shall be elected at large by the voters of the
whole town, in accordance with I.C. 36-5-2-5.
(Ord. 1993-1, passed 2-22-93)
§ 30.04 DISTRICTS.
   The Council divides the town into the following districts for the purpose of
conducting elections of town officers. The following boundaries shall be used
for District One through District Three. Districts Four and Five shall be at
large.
   (A)   District One. All of the area north of Highway 28 between the west
boundary of town and the area west of the center of Water Street, including a
portion in Niles Township. (753 residents)
   (B)   District Two. All of the area north of Highway 28 between the area
east of the center of Water Street and the area west of Albany Heights. (664
residents)
   (C)   District Three. All of the area south of Highway 28 between the east
and west boundaries of town and Albany Heights, including a portion in Niles
Township and Randolph County. (844 residents)
   (D)   District Four. One member shall be selected at large, from any
residence within the town.
   (E)   District Five. One member shall be selected at large, from any
residence within the town.
(Ord. 1993-1, passed 2-22-93; Am. Ord. 2002-13, passed 8-26-02; Am. Ord. 2012-
30, passed 11-12-12; Am. Ord. 2021-20, passed 12-13-21)
§ 30.05 DISTRICT MAP.
   The Council adopts a map depicting the districts established under this
chapter and incorporates the map by reference into this chapter. Two copies of
this map are on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer for public inspection
as required by I.C. 36-1-5-4. If a conflict exists between the districts as
depicted on the map and as described in this chapter, the description in this
chapter prevails.
(Ord. 1993-1, passed 2-22-93)
§ 30.06 AUTHORITY TO SIGN OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.
   The Town Council President has the authority to sign official documents for
the town regarding the sale or purchase of property.
(Res. 2009-12, passed 9-14-09)
CHAPTER 31: BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Economic Development Commission
   
31.01   Created
   
31.02   Authority
Plan Commission
   
31.15   Established
   
31.16   Rules and regulations
   
31.17   Financial conflicts
   
31.18   Members
   
31.19   Citizen members
   
31.20   Vacancy
   
31.21   Regular meetings
   
31.22   Special meetings
   
31.23   Quorum
   
31.24   President and Vice-President
   
31.25   Powers and duties
Redevelopment Commission
   
31.40   Establishment
   
31.41   Governance
   
31.42   Commission members
   
31.43   Qualifications
   
31.44   Meetings of Redevelopment Commission
   
31.45   Management of funds
   
31.46   Removal of Commissioner from office
   
31.47   Powers and duties
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
§ 31.01 CREATED.
   There is created the Albany Economic Development Commission, which
Commission shall be the Department of Economic Development of Albany, Indiana.
(Ord. 1978-8, passed 11-20-78)
§ 31.02 AUTHORITY.
   This Commission shall have full authority to exercise all of the powers
given by statute to the Economic Development Commission on behalf of the town.
(Ord. 1978-8, passed 11-20-78)
PLAN COMMISSION
§ 31.15 ESTABLISHED.
   The Albany Plan Commission is established, and the Commission shall serve in
an advisory capacity to the Town Council so as to carry out the planning and
zoning laws of the State of Indiana.
(Ord. 1969-14, passed 8-4-69)
§ 31.16 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Plan Commission is authorized to adopt reasonable rules and regulations
for the conduct of its affairs.
(Ord. 1969-14, passed 8-4-69)
§ 31.17 FINANCIAL CONFLICTS.
   No member of the Plan Commission shall participate in the hearing or
decision of the Commission upon any zoning matter, other than the preparation
and enactment of an overall or comprehensive plan, in which he or she is
interested in a financial sense. In the event of such disqualification, the
fact shall be entered in the records of the Commission and the remaining
members of the Commission shall choose an elector to act as a member of the
Commission in the hearing and determination of the particular matter in which
the disqualification occurs.
(Ord. 1969-14, passed 8-4-69)
§ 31.18 MEMBERS.
   The Albany Plan Commission shall consist of seven members, all of whom shall
serve without pay. The Town Council shall appoint three persons in the town
government as members. The President of the Town Council shall appoint four
citizen members, not more than two of whom shall be members of the same
political party. The citizen members shall be qualified by knowledge and
experience in matters pertaining to the development of the town and shall hold
no other office in the town government and shall be residents of the town. The
Plan Commission shall elect from among its members a President and Vice-
President.
(Ord. 1969-14, passed 8-4-69)
§ 31.19 CITIZEN MEMBERS.
   Upon creation of the Albany Plan Commission, the citizen members shall be
appointed for the following terms: two citizen members shall be appointed for a
term of three years, and the other two citizen members shall be appointed for a
term of four years. The terms shall expire on the first day of January of the
third or fourth year, respectively, following their appointment. Thereafter, as
the terms expire, each new appointment shall be for a term of four years.
(Ord. 1969-14, passed 8-4-69)
§ 31.20 VACANCY.
   If a vacancy occurs by resignation or otherwise among the citizen members,
the President of the Town Council shall appoint a replacement member for the
unexpired term.
(Ord. 1969-14, passed 8-4-69)
§ 31.21 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   The Commission shall fix the time for holding regular meetings, but it shall
meet at least once in the month of January, April, July, and October of each
year.
(Ord. 1969-14, passed 8-4-69)
§ 31.22 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings of the Commission may be called by the President of the
Commission or by two members upon written request to the President. The
President or his or her representative shall send to all members, at least two
days in advance of a special meeting, a written notice fixing the time and
place of the meeting.
(Ord. 1969-14, passed 8-4-69)
§ 31.23 QUORUM.
   A majority of members shall constitute a quorum. No action of the Commission
is official, however, unless authorized by a majority of the Commission at a
regular or properly called special meeting.
(Ord. 1969-14, passed 8-4-69)
§ 31.24 PRESIDENT AND VICE-PRESIDENT.
   At its first regular meeting in each year, the Commission shall elect from
its members a new President and Vice-President. The Vice-President shall have
the authority to act as President of the Commission during the absence or
disability of the President.
(Ord. 1969-14, passed 8-4-69)
§ 31.25 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Commission may appoint and prescribe the duties and fix the
compensation of the Secretary and such other employees as are necessary for the
discharge of the duties and responsibilities of the Commission. All such
compensation, however, shall be in conformity to and in compliance with
salaries and compensations heretofore fixed by the Town Council. The Commission
may make contracts for special or temporary services and any professional
counsel. The Town Council shall provide a suitable office for the holding of
meetings and the preservation of plans, maps, documents and other accounts of
the Commission.
   (B)   The Albany Plan Commission shall have the power and duty to:
      (1)   Exercise general supervision of and make regulations for the
administration of the affairs of the Commission;
      (2)   Prescribe uniform rules pertaining to investigations and hearings;
      (3)   Supervise the fiscal affairs and responsibilities of the
Commission;
      (4)   Prescribe the qualifications of, appoint, remove and fix the
compensation of the employees of the Commission, such compensation to be in
conformity to and in compliance with salaries and compensations therefore fixed
by the Town Council
and to delegate to employees authority to perform ministerial acts in all cases
except for final action of the Commission as necessary;
      (5)   Keep an accurate and complete record of all proceedings and assume
responsibility for the custody and preservation of all papers and documents of
the Commission;
      (6)   Make recommendations to the President of the Town Council
concerning the operation of the Commission and the status of planning within
its jurisdiction;
      (7)   Prepare, publish, and distribute reports, ordinances, and other
material relating to its activities; and
      (8)   Any and all other acts prescribed by law.
(Ord. 1969-14, passed 8-4-69)
REDEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
§ 31.40 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established a Department of Redevelopment known as the “Town
of Albany Redevelopment Commission" which shall be entitled to exercise all the
duties, rights, powers, privileges and immunities accorded to such department
pursuant to I.C. 36-7-14 (the "Redevelopment Act").
(Ord. 2014-14, passed 8-25-14)
§ 31.41 GOVERNANCE.
   The Department of Redevelopment shall be under the control of a board of
five voting members to be known as the Redevelopment Commission and said
Commission shall be granted all powers and duties as established under the
Redevelopment Act. The Redevelopment Commission shall be subject to oversight
by the legislative body of the town and shall be subject to the following:
   (A)   Subject to audit by the state board of accounts under I.C. 5-11;
   (B)   Covered by I.C. 5-14-1.5 and the Indiana Open Meetings law; and
   (C)   Covered by I.C. 5-14-3 and the Indiana Open Records law.
(Ord. 2014-14, passed 8-25-14)
§ 31.42 COMMISSION MEMBERS.
   (A)   Three members shall be appointed by the President of the Town Council
and two members shall be appointed by the Town Council.
   (B)   The President of the Town Council shall also appoint an individual to
serve as a nonvoting adviser to the Redevelopment Commission.
   (C)   The nonvoting adviser shall be a member of the Delaware Community
Schools and/or Monroe Central Community Schools.
      (1)   The nonvoting adviser from the community school corporation shall
be appointed by the President of the Town Council based up on the
recommendation of the Community School Corporation Board.
      (2)   The nonvoting adviser shall not be entitled to a salary, per diem
or reimbursement of expenses for attending the Redevelopment Commission
meetings.
      (3)   The nonvoting adviser serves for a period of two years and until a
successor is appointed and serves at the pleasure of the President of the Town
Council.
   (D)   Each Redevelopment Commissioner and the appointed adviser shall serve
for one year from the first day of January after his or her appointment and
until his or her successor is appointed and has qualified, except that the
original Commissioners shall serve from the date of their appointment until the
first day of January in the second year after their appointment. If a vacancy
occurs, a successor shall be appointed in the same manner as the original
Commissioner and the successor shall serve for the remainder of the vacated
term.
   (E)   Each Redevelopment Commissioner, before beginning his or her duties,
shall take and subscribe an oath in the usual form, to be endorsed on the
certificate of his or her appointment, which shall be promptly filed with the
Clerk-Treasurer.
   (F)   Each Redevelopment Commissioner, before beginning his or her duties,
shall execute a bond payable to the State of Indiana, with surety to be
approved by the President of the Town Council. The bond must be in the penal
sum of $15,000 and must be conditioned on the faithful performance of the
duties of his or her office and the accounting for all monies and property that
may come into his or her hands or under his or her control. The cost of the
bond shall be paid by the special taxing district.
(Ord. 2014-14, passed 8-25-14)
§ 31.43 QUALIFICATIONS.
   Such Redevelopment Commissioners shall have the qualifications prescribed by
the laws of the State of Indiana as from time to time amended and shall qualify
as therein provided and shall exercise and enjoy the rights and powers and
assume the duties and obligations conferred and imposed by the Redevelopment
Act, including, but not limited to, the following qualifications:
   (A)   A Redevelopment Commissioner must be at least 18 years of age, and
must be a resident of the town. If a Redevelopment Commissioner ceases to be
qualified under this division, he or she forfeits his or her office.
   (B)   No Redevelopment Commissioner shall receive a salary, but such
Redevelopment Commissioners are entitled to reimbursement for expenses
necessarily incurred in the performance of their duties.
   (C)   A Redevelopment Commissioner may not have a pecuniary interest in any
contract, employment, purchase or sale made under such provisions of this
subchapter and the underlying statutes. However, any property required for
redevelopment purposes in which a Redevelopment Commissioner has a pecuniary
interest may be acquired, but only by giving an interest or condemnation. A
transaction made in violation of this division is void.
(Ord. 2014-14, passed 8-25-14)
§ 31.44 MEETINGS OF REDEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Redevelopment Commission shall hold a meeting for the purpose of
reorganization not later than 30 days after they are appointed and, after that,
each year on the first day in January that is not aSaturday, a Sunday or a
legal holiday. They shall choose one of their members as President, another as
Vice President, and another as Secretary. These officers shall perform the
duties usually pertaining to their offices and shall serve from the date of
their election until their successors are elected and qualified.
   (B)   The Redevelopment Commissioners may adopt the rules and bylaws they
consider necessary for the proper conduct of their proceedings, the carrying
out of their duties, and the safeguarding of the money and property placed in
their custody.
   (C)   In addition to the annual meeting, the Redevelopment Commissioners
may, by resolution or in accordance with their rules and bylaws, prescribe the
date and manner of notice of other regular or special meetings.
   (D)   Three members of the Redevelopment Commissioners constitute a quorum,
and the concurrence of three Commissioners is necessary to authorize any
action.
(Ord. 2014-14, passed 8-25-14)
§ 31.45 MANAGEMENT OF FUNDS.
   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town shall perform the same duties with respect
to the funds and accounts of the Department of Redevelopment, except as
otherwise provided for in the Redevelopment Act. The Clerk-Treasurer shall
report annually to the Town Council as to the department funds before the first
day of July.
(Ord. 2014-14, passed 8-25-14)
§ 31.46 REMOVAL OF COMMISSIONER FROM OFFICE.
   The President of the Town Council or the Town Council that appointed a
Redevelopment Commissioner may summarily remove that Commissioner from office
at any time.
(Ord. 2014-14, passed 8-25-14)
§ 31.47 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Redevelopment Commission shall have all of the powers, duties and
responsibilities:
   (A)   The Redevelopment Commission shall have the following powers:
      (1)   Investigate, study, and survey areas needing redevelopment within
the corporate boundaries of the unit;
      (2)   Investigate, study, determine, and, to the extent possible, combat
the causes of areas needing redevelopment;
      (3)   Promote the use of land in the manner that best serves the
interests of the unit and its inhabitants;
      (4)   Cooperate:
         (a)   With the departments and agencies of:
            1.   The unit; and
            2.   Other governmental entities; and
         (b)   With:
            1.   Public instrumentalities; and
            2.   Public corporate bodies, created by state law, in the manner
that best serves the purposes of this chapter;
      (5)   Make findings and reports on their activities under this section,
and keep those reports open to inspection by the public at the offices of the
department;
      (6)   Select and acquire the areas needing redevelopment to be
redeveloped under this chapter; and
      (7)   Re-plan and dispose of the areas needing redevelopment in the
manner that best serves the social and economic interests of the unit and its
inhabitants.
   (B)   The Redevelopment Commission shall have the following powers:
      (1)   Acquire by purchase, exchange, gift, grant, condemnation, or lease,
or any combination of methods, any personal property or interest in real
property needed for the redevelopment of areas needing redevelopment that are
located within the corporate boundaries of the unit.
      (2)   Hold, use, sell (by conveyance by deed, land sale contract, or
other instrument), exchange, lease, rent, or otherwise dispose of property
acquired for use in the redevelopment of areas needing redevelopment on the
terms and conditions that the Commission considers best for the unit and its
inhabitants.
      (3)   Sell, lease, or grant interests in all or part of the real property
acquired for redevelopment purposes to any other department of the unit or to
any other governmental agency for public ways, levees, sewerage, parks,
playgrounds, schools, and other public purposes on any terms that may be agreed
on.
      (4)   Clear real property acquired for redevelopment purposes.
      (5)   Enter on or into, inspect, investigate, and assess real property
and structures acquired or to be acquired for redevelopment purposes to
determine the existence, source, nature, and extent of any environmental
contamination, including the following:
         (a)   Hazardous substances;
         (b)   Petroleum; or
         (c)   Other pollutants.
      (6)   Remediate environmental contamination, including the following,
found on any real property or structures acquired for redevelopment purposes:
         (a)   Hazardous substances;
         (b)   Petroleum; or
         (c)   Other pollutants.
      (7)   Repair and maintain structures acquired for redevelopment purposes.
      (8)   Remodel, rebuild, enlarge, or make major structural improvements on
structures acquired for redevelopment purposes.
      (9)   Survey or examine any land to determine whether it should be
included within an area needing redevelopment to be acquired for redevelopment
purposes and to determine the value of that land.
      (10)   Appear before any other department or agency of the unit, or
before any other governmental agency in respect to any matter affecting:
         (a)   Real property acquired or being acquired for redevelopment
purposes; or
         (b)   Any area needing redevelopment within the jurisdiction of the
Commissioners.
      (11)   Institute or defend in the name of the unit any civil action.
      (12)   Use any legal or equitable remedy that is necessary or considered
proper to protect and enforce the rights of and perform the duties of the
Department of Redevelopment.
      (13)   Appoint an executive director, appraisers, real estate experts,
engineers, architects, surveyors, and attorneys.
      (14)   Appoint clerks, guards, laborers, and other employees the
Commission considers advisable, except that those appointments must be made in
accordance with the merit system of the unit if such a system exists.
      (15)   Prescribe the duties and regulate the compensation of employees of
the Department of Redevelopment.
      (16)   Provide a pension and retirement system for employees of the
Department of Redevelopment by using the Indiana public employees' retirement
fund or a retirement plan approved by the United States Department of Housing
and Urban Development.
      (17)   Discharge and appoint successors to employees of the Department of
Redevelopment subject to division (14) above.
      (18)   Rent offices for use of the Department of Redevelopment, or accept
the use of offices furnished by the unit.
      (19)   Equip the offices of the Department of Redevelopment with the
necessary furniture, furnishings, equipment, records, and supplies.
      (20)   Expend, on behalf of the special taxing district, all or any part
of the money of the special taxing district.
      (21)   Contract for the construction of:
         (a)   Local public improvements (as defined in I.C. 36-7-14.5-6) or
structures that are necessary for redevelopment of areas needing redevelopment
or economic development within the corporate boundaries of the unit; or
         (b)   Any structure that enhances development or economic development.
      (22)   Contract for the construction, extension, or improvement of
pedestrian skyways.
      (23)   Accept loans, grants, and other forms of financial assistance from
the federal government, the state government, a municipal corporation, a
special taxing district, a foundation, or any other source.
      (24)   Provide financial assistance (including grants and loans) to
enable individuals and families to purchase or lease residential units in a
multiple unit residential structure within the district. However, financial
assistance may be provided only to individuals and families whose income is at
or below the unit's median income for individuals and families, respectively.
      (25)   Provide financial assistance (including grants and loans) to
neighborhood development corporations to permit them to:
         (a)   Provide financial assistance for the purposes described in
division (24) above; or
         (b)   Construct, rehabilitate, or repair commercial property within
the district.
      (26)   Require as a condition of financial assistance to the owner of a
multiple unit residential structure that any of the units leased by the owner
must be leased:
         (a)   For a period to be determined by the Commission, which may not
be less than five years;
         (b)   To families whose income does not exceed 80% of the unit's
median income for families; and
         (c)   At an affordable rate.
      (27)   This division does not apply to a Redevelopment Commission in a
county for which the total amount of net property taxes allocated to all
allocation areas or other tax increment financing areas established by a
redevelopment commission, military base reuse authority, military base
development authority, or another similar entity in the county in the preceding
calendar year exceeded 19% of the total net property taxes billed in the county
in the preceding calendar year. Subject to prior approval by the fiscal body of
the unit that established the Redevelopment Commission, expend money and
provide financial assistance (including grants and loans):
         (a)   In direct support of:
            1.   An active military base located within the unit; or
            2.   An entity located in the territory or facilities of a military
base or former military base within the unit that is scheduled for closing or
is completely or partially inactive or closed, or an entity that is located in
any territory or facilities of the United States Department of Defense within
the unit that are scheduled for closing or are completely or partially inactive
or closed;
            3.   Including direct support for the promotion of the active
military base or entity, the growth of the active military base or entity, and
activities at the active military base or entity; and
         (b)   In support of any other entity that provides services or direct
support to an active military base or entity described in division (A)(27)(a)
above.
      (28)   The fiscal body of the unit that established the Redevelopment
Commission must separately approve each grant, loan, or other expenditure for
financial assistance under this division. The terms of any loan that is made
under this division may be changed only if the change is approved by the fiscal
body of the unit that established the Redevelopment Commission. As used in this
subchapter, ACTIVE MILITARY BASE has the meaning set forth in I.C. 36-1-4-20.
      (29)   Conditions imposed by the Commission under division (A)(26) above
remain in force throughout the period determined under division (A)(26)(a),
even if the owner sells, leases, or conveys the property. The subsequent owner
or lessee is bound by the conditions for the remainder of the period.
      (30)   As used in this subchapter, PEDESTRIAN SKYWAY means a pedestrian
walkway within or outside of the public right-of-way and through and above
public or private property and buildings, including all structural supports
required to connect skyways to buildings or buildings under construction.
Pedestrian skyways constructed, extended, or improved over or through public or
private property constitute public property and public improvements, constitute
a public use and purpose, and do not require vacation of any public way or
other property.
      (31)   The Redevelopment Commission may not exercise the power of eminent
domain.
   (C)   I.C. 36-7-14-1 et. seq. is hereby incorporated by reference into this
subchapter for use by the Redevelopment Commission.
(Ord. 2014-14, passed 8-25-14)
CHAPTER 32: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
32.01   Adoption of Police Department rules and regulations by reference
§ 32.01 ADOPTION OF POLICE DEPARTMENT RULES AND REGULATIONS BY REFERENCE.
   The rules and regulations of the Police Department are adopted and
incorporated as part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at
length herein.
(Res. 1992-4, passed 3-23-92; Res. 1992-5, passed 3-23-92; Am. Res. 2003-2,
passed 1-13-03)
CHAPTER 33: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
33.01   False fire alarms
   
33.02   Fire Department Operating Fund
   
33.03   Key lock box emergency access system
§ 33.01 FALSE FIRE ALARMS.
   (A)   In response to excessive false alarm signals by the Albany-Delaware
Township Fire Department, the following fines shall be assessed:
      (1)   One-hundred dollars for the first false alarm signal in excess of
three false alarm signals in any 12 month period.
      (2)   Two-hundred dollars for the second false alarm signal in excess of
three false alarms in any 12 month period.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply for a period of three
months from the date an automatic fire detection system is initially installed.
(Ord. 1993-16, passed 11-22-93)
§ 33.02 FIRE DEPARTMENT OPERATING FUND.
   (A)   A Fire Department Operating Fund is hereby established for the purpose
of establishing a fund. The source of revenue shall be from the town, various
contracts with other public entities, contributions and miscellaneous monies.
   (B)   The purpose of the fund shall be to pay the various expenses to
operate the department. These funds shall be paid out after approval by the
Fire Board with the exceptions of utilities which are paid by due date or those
invoices that are ordered to be paid ahead to avoid penalties.
(Ord. 1999-24, passed 12-28-99)
§ 33.03 KEY LOCK BOX EMERGENCY ACCESS SYSTEM.
   (A)   The following structures shall be equipped with a key lock emergency
access system (key lock box) at or near the main entrance, or such other
location required by the Fire Department:
      (1)   Commercial or industrial structures if such structures are secured
in a manner that restricts access during an emergency; and
      (2)   Government structures and nursing care facilities.
   (B)   The cost of purchasing and installing a key lock box, along with any
costs associated with implementation of the program at a specific property,
shall be borne by the property owner.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to owner-occupied one- or two-family
dwellings or businesses that are open and staffed 24 hours a day and seven days
a week, 365 days a year. This section shall not apply to structures where an
on- site police force is present 24 hours a day and seven days a week, provided
members of that police force respond to all Fire Department responses with the
correct means of accessing the affected structures.
   (D)   All newly constructed structures subject to this section shall have a
key lock box installed and operational prior to the issuance of a certificate
of occupancy.
   (E)   The Fire Department shall designate the type of key lock box system to
be implemented within the town and shall have the authority to require all
structures subject to this section to use the designated system.
   (F)   The owner or operator of a structure required to have a key lock box
shall, at all times, keep the following in the lock box:
      (1)   Labeled keys to locked access points of egress, whether interior or
exterior of such building;
      (2)   Labeled keys to the locked mechanical rooms;
      (3)   Labeled keys to the locked elevator rooms and controls; and
      (4)   Labeled keys to any fenced or secured areas on the property.
   (G)   Floor plans of the rooms within the building may also be required to
be submitted to the Fire Department. An operator of a building shall
immediately notify the Fire Department and provide new keys when a lock is
changed or rekeyed. The new key shall be secured in the key lock box.
   (H)   An operator of a building shall keep the immediate area of the key
lock box free and clear of any and all obstructions.
   (I)   The Fire Department shall be authorized to implement rules and
regulations for the use of the key lock box system.
   (J)   The Fire Department shall store all key lock box access keys securely
in a Knox Box Key Secure system, or similar secure system, installed in the
fire apparatus.
   (K)   Non-compliance with this section will subject the responsible party to
the provisions of §
10.99 herein.
(Ord. 2020-14, passed 11-9-20)
CHAPTER 34: PERSONNEL
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Drug-free workplace regulations
   
34.02   Prospective employees
   
34.03   Employees (after serving the probationary period)
   
34.04   Work schedule
   
34.05   Employee building use policy
   
34.06   Overtime pay
   
34.07   Use of compensatory time off
   
34.08   Part-time employees
   
34.09   Health-related insurance benefits; stipend
   
34.10   Recognized holiday with pay
   
34.11   Bereavement pay
   
34.12   Vacation pay
   
34.13   Jury duty
   
34.14   Clothing allowance
   
34.15   Absence from work with pay
   
34.16   Sick leave
   
34.17   Extended sick leave
   
34.18   Personal days
   
34.19   Sexual harassment
   
34.20   Disciplinary principles
   
34.21   Termination
Public Employee's Retirement Fund
   
34.30   Participation in Fund
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE REGULATIONS.
    (A)   The unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensation, possession, or
use of a controlled substance by any employee which takes place in whole or in
part in the employer's workplace is strictly prohibited and will result in
criminal prosecution and discipline of the employee, which may include
termination from employment.
   (B)   Any employee convicted of any federal or state criminal drug or
alcohol statute for an offense must notify the employer of that fact within
five calendar days of the conviction.
   (C)   Any employee convicted of a drug or alcohol related offense who fails
to report the conviction as required above may be:
         (1)   Terminated from employment;
         (2)   Forever barred from future employment; and/or
         (3)   Held civilly liable for any loss of federal funds resulting from
the failure to report the conviction.
         (4)   The town reserves the right to request random drug tests.
   (D)   Employees (with the exception of special police operations) are not to
consume alcoholic beverages while on duty. Doing so would subject the employee
to dismissal.
   (E)   Any employee arriving at work with alcohol on their breath shall be
subject to a preliminary breathalyzer test.
   (F)   The town reserves the right to do random drug or alcohol tests.
(Ord. 2015-38, passed 12-14-15; Am. Ord. 2018-14, passed 9-24-18; Am. Ord.
2019-17, passed 11-25-19)
§ 34.02 PROSPECTIVE EMPLOYEES.
    All prospective employees must meet the following qualifications:
   (A)   The town's preference is that applicants file a completed application
form and be interviewed. Any misstatements or misrepresentations made on the
application may result in dismissal of the employee;
   (B)   Furnish us with a current telephone number where you can be contacted;
   (C)   Possess a current appropriate driver's license;
   (D)   Upon being accepted for a position, the prospective employee will be
required to have a physical exam prior to starting work. The town will pay for
the physical;
   (E)   Pass a drug test specified by the town and to be paid by the town; and
   (F)   New employees will serve a 90-day probation period. At the end of the
probation period, the employee's performance will be reviewed to determine if
the employee meets the requirements for the position.
      (1)   All employees, while on 90 days probation, shall be eligible for
employee benefits from the date of hire.
      (2)   If an employee is terminated before the 90 day probation period
ends, any clothing allowance, PERF, health insurance, which he has used, shall
be refunded to the town by deduction from the employee's final pay.
(Ord. 2015-38, passed 12-14-15; Am. Ord. 2018-14, passed 9-24-18; Am. Ord.
2019-17, passed 11-25-19)
§ 34.03 EMPLOYEES (AFTER SERVING THE PROBATIONARY PERIOD).
   (A)   If arrested for a criminal offense (Class A misdemeanors or felonies),
the employee may be subject to suspension with/or without pay until the matter
is resolved. The issue of pay would be decided by the Town Council on a case by
case basis. The employee is to notify the supervisor immediately of the filing
of charges. Failure to inform the supervisor may be grounds for dismissal.
   (B)   Employees (other than police officers) are not to carry firearms while
on duty. An employee doing so is subject to dismissal.
   (C)   Any contacts with the news media must be referred to an immediate
supervisor.
   (D)   Any contacts with the public must be done with a courteous, polite,
and professional manner. If this is not possible, the problem should be
referred to the supervisor for handling.
   (E)   Outside employment is permissible if it does not interfere with your
employment with the town. This is to be determined by the Town Council
department head.
   (F)   We request that employees not use their personal vehicles for town
use, as they are not covered by town insurance when doing so.
   (G)   (1)   Employees will undergo periodic work evaluations with the
supervisor. This will help the employee to be aware of any needs for
improvement and also help the supervisor to know if there is a need for further
instructions.
      (2)   The employee evaluation is to be maintained in the employee file.
Supervisors shall be evaluated by the Council.
      (3)   Annual evaluations in November of each year will be used to
determine pay increases for the succeeding year.
(Ord. 2015-38, passed 12-14-15; Am. Ord. 2018-14, passed 9-24-18; Am. Ord.
2019-17, passed 11-25-19)
§ 34.04 WORK SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Police employees standard work week is 40 hours (straight eight hours
per shift with paid lunch).
   (B)   Utility employees standard work week is 35-hour work week. Hours
worked over 35 but less than 40 will be paid at standard hourly rate. Over 40
hours in the week will be considered overtime and paid at time and a half. This
position is considered full time for benefit purposes.
   (C)   Payroll/AP clerk will work a standard 28-hour work week. Hours worked
over 28 but less than 40 will be paid at straight time. Over 40 hours in the
will be considered overtime and paid a time and a half. This position is
considered full time for benefit purposes.
   (D)   Employees are required to obtain authorization for taking time off by
their respective supervisor or the Councilman over the department as
applicable. Holidays are automatic.
   (E)   One employee must be available at all times in each department.
   (F)   Each employee may be required to work on any of the following
mentioned holidays if an emergency exists requiring their services. In the
event this happens, substitute days will be negotiable between the employee and
supervisor or department head.
(Ord. 2015-38, passed 12-14-15; Am. Ord. 2018-14, passed 9-24-18; Am. Ord.
2019-17, passed 11-25-19)
§ 34.05 EMPLOYEE BUILDING USE POLICY.
   (A)   Employees are to restrict their occupancy of town buildings to no more
than one-half hour before and one-half hour after their regular scheduled work
hours. Exceptions to this policy are granted to employees required to work
normal functions at non-standard work times, department heads, police and
firemen, and when emergency work is required to maintain utility services.
   (B)   Violations of this policy will result in disciplinary action.
(Ord. 2015-38, passed 12-14-15; Am. Ord. 2018-14, passed 9-24-18; Am. Ord.
2019-17, passed 11-25-19)
§ 34.06 OVERTIME PAY.
   (A)   Employees eligible for overtime may either be paid or receive comp
time for any week in which they are required to work over 40 hours (see §
34.07). The determination is to be made between the supervisor and the
employee.
   (B)   Overtime is to be authorized by the supervisor.
   (C)   Holiday or vacation pay along with hours worked will not result in
overtime pay unless the employee actually worked more that 40 hours.
   (D)   Employees called in to work on an emergency while on a vacation day
will receive time and a half. This would only apply up to 4:00 p.m. The
vacation day may be used at a later date if desired or paid along with the
overtime wages.
(Ord. 2015-38, passed 12-14-15; Am. Ord. 2018-14, passed 9-24-18; Am. Ord.
2019-17, passed 11-25-19)
§ 34.07 USE OF COMPENSATORY TIME OFF.
   (A)   Comp time may be a result of unpaid overtime worked or holiday time
not received on the designated date.
   (B)   Having a beeper and being on standby does not constitute earning comp
time.
   (C)   Comp time is computed two ways:
      (1)   First five hours over standard work week at hour for hour, for
utility workers. Comp time for police employees may be used in lieu of
overtime.
      (2)   Overtime hours accrue at one and one-half times hours worked. For
example: four hours worked equals six hours of comp time.
   (D)   The dates for using compensatory time off are to be agreed upon
between the employee and the supervisor, and may not be granted if work
schedule, number of employees already granted time off, or number of
accumulated comp time hours are excessive. This decision is at the discretion
of the supervisor.
   (E)   Comp time shall be used within 90 days from the day incurred based on
the constraints of division (D) above; for example: worked over on January 10
and requested that it be comp time which then needs to be used by April 10.
Comp time not used by the end of the allowed deadline will be forfeited.
Approved and reported comp time is not eligible for pay.
(Ord. 2015-38, passed 12-14-15; Am. Ord. 2018-14, passed 9-24-18; Am. Ord.
2019-17, passed 11-25-19)
§ 34.08 PART-TIME EMPLOYEES.
   Seasonal part-time workers are exempted from benefits.
(Ord. 2015-38, passed 12-14-15; Am. Ord. 2018-14, passed 9-24-18; Am. Ord.
2019-17, passed 11-25-19)
§ 34.09 HEALTH-RELATED INSURANCE BENEFITS; STIPEND.
   (A)   The town does not offer health insurance benefits to any of its public
safety employees or town employees in the future.
   (B)   Stipend. The town shall adopt an amount to be a stipend in a sum
determined by the Town Council per employee per year for the full-time
employees to use toward the purchase of medical services insurance, placement
into a health savings account, use for their own medical treatment costs of
medical services as the employee shall determine in their best interest.
   (C)   The Town Council shall adopt a schedule of stipends that it
anticipates being paid via salary to the employees, except the Clerk-Treasurer,
as follows:
      (1)   For the year 2025, the stipend for full time employees shall be an
amount of $4,000.
      (2)   For the year 2026, the stipend for full time employees shall be an
amount of $6,000.
      (3)   For the year 2027, the stipend for full time employees shall be an
amount of $8,000.
      (4)   For the year 2028, the stipend for full time employees shall be an
amount of $10,000.
   (D)   The amount to be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer for their stipend shall
be $4,000 annually.
   (E)   The annual stipend shall be paid to the employee each and every month
on the 15th day of the month starting June 2025 and each month thereafter.
   (F)   For any employee hired after January 1, 2026, a new employee shall
receive a stipend at the initial annual 2025 rate and stipend shall increase at
the rate of $3,000 per year until 2028. Depending on the date of hire, a new
employee hired after January 1, 2026 will receive their full annual stipend for
the balance of the year of their employment.
   (G)   The payment of the annual stipend is dependent upon the appropriation
by the Town Council and the revenue received by the town. The Town Council
reserves the right to modify, rescind or alter the annual stipend at any time
because of budgetary considerations.
(Ord. 2015-38, passed 12-14-15; Am. Ord. 2018-14, passed 9-24-18; Am. Ord.
2019-17, passed 11-25-19; Am. Ord. 2024-11, passed 12-9-2024)
§ 34.10 RECOGNIZED HOLIDAY WITH PAY.
   (A)   Holidays.
      (1)   New Year’s Day.*
      (2)   Good Friday.
      (3)   Memorial Day.
      (4)   Independence Day. If Independence Day falls on Saturdays, the
employees get Friday off as the designated day off with pay. When the holiday
falls on Sunday, the following Monday will be recognized as the designated day
off with pay.
      (5)   Labor Day.
      (6)   Thanksgiving Day and the day after Thanksgiving.
      (7)   Christmas Day.*
   * If Christmas and/or New Year’s Day fall during the regular work week
(Monday through Friday), each employee will be dismissed at noon on Christmas
Eve and /or New Year’s Eve and will report for work the day after Christmas
and/or New Year’s Day. If Christmas and/or New Year’s Day fall on Saturday or
Sunday, employees shall be dismissed at noon of the preceding Friday and report
for work on the following Tuesday morning.
   (B)   A full-time police employee shall be paid eight hours straight time
holiday pay at his/her regular hourly rate even though it may not be a
regularly scheduled work day.
   (C)   A full-time utility/office employee shall be paid seven hours straight
time holiday pay at his/her regular hourly rate even though it may not be a
regularly scheduled work day.
   (D)   Salaried employees shall receive their regular salary, which will
cover the holiday.
(Ord. 2015-38, passed 12-14-15; Am. Ord. 2018-14, passed 9-24-18; Am. Ord.
2019-17, passed 11-25-19)
§ 34.11 BEREAVEMENT PAY.
   (A)   In the event of death in an employee's and his/her spouse's immediate
family (spouse, children, sister, brother, mother, father, grandparent, and
grandchild), such employee shall be granted time off with pay up to a maximum
of three work days. This applies when the funeral services are conducted within
a 150 mile radius of Albany. Bereavement pay for such absence shall be regular
pay for hourly employees or scheduled number of hours.
   (B)   Four work days will be granted as time off when funeral services are
conducted beyond a 150 mile radius of Albany.
   (C)   Five work days will be granted as time off when funeral services are
conducted beyond a 500 mile radius of Albany.
   (D)   Noted exceptions to bereavement pay are:
      (1)   Hours worked on bereavement day are deducted from standard work
day.
      (2)   Weekends or holidays within the bereavement period are reduced from
paid days.
   (E)   Proof of the death may be required.
(Ord. 2015-38, passed 12-14-15; Am. Ord. 2018-14, passed 9-24-18; Am. Ord.
2019-17, passed 11-25-19)
§ 34.12 VACATION PAY.
    (A)   After the first anniversary date of employment, employee will have
earned vacation, but all succeeding years will be prorated in the year of
termination of employment (see §
34.21).
   (B)   The following table reflects years of service and earned vacation
respectively:
 
Years of Service Completed Vacation Weeks Earned
1                          1
2                          2
5                          3
10                         4
 
    (C)   Vacation days not taken will neither result in vacation pay plus
regular pay nor in accumulated vacation time. Vacation days not used within the
anniversary year will be forfeited.
   (D)   Vacation leave shall be taken only at a time mutually agreed to by the
supervisor and the employee.
   (E)   Employees are to submit vacation plans by the end of January each
year. A copy of the schedule will be maintained in the Municipal Office.
Employee is requested to give at least two weeks advance request of vacation
changes, but less will be acceptable if doing so would not unduly jeopardize
the operation of the department (in accordance with division (D) above).
   (F)   Employee may use vacation time in one-quarter hour increments if this
is mutually agreed to by the supervisor and the employee.
   (G)   Vacation paid in the current year will be based on the employee
working the entire year for which the vacation time is calculated (see §
34.21).
(Ord. 2015-38, passed 12-14-15; Am. Ord. 2018-14, passed 9-24-18; Am. Ord.
2019-17, passed 11-25-19)
§ 34.13 JURY DUTY.
   An employee called for jury service or subpoenaed as a witness shall be
excused from work, with pay, for the days on which they serve. Service, as used
herein, includes required reporting for jury or witness duty when summoned,
whether or not they are used.
(Ord. 2015-38, passed 12-14-15; Am. Ord. 2018-14, passed 9-24-18; Am. Ord.
2019-17, passed 11-25-19)
§ 34.14 CLOTHING ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   All clothing allowances are subject to approval by the town and are
not mandatory.
   (B)   Nothing should be construed as creating an obligation on the town to
pay any clothing allowance or at the amounts set out below.
   (C)   Full-time town laborers shall receive clothing allowance in the amount
of $500 per year ($250 per half). Town laborers who work 20 hours per week
shall receive $250 per year clothing allowance. These above workers shall
receive clothing allowances paid in the form of invoices for the clothing and
shall not receive money paid directly to the employee, unless it is a
reimbursement. In this instance, invoices (not statements) must be provided.
   (D)   Full-time police officers are to receive a total of $350 for clothing
allowance each six months. This is not to be paid directly to the officer
unless it is a reimbursement. Invoices (not statements) must be provided.
   (E)   Police reserves are to receive clothing payments which are not to
exceed $10,000 total per year or $500 per man in a six month period. The
Marshal is in charge of prorating the money between the reserves since the
number working can fluctuate, and has discretionary power to determine amounts.
This money is to be paid directly to the reserve. Those receiving over $600 a
year will be issued a 1099 at the end of the year.
(Ord. 2015-38, passed 12-14-15; Am. Ord. 2018-14, passed 9-24-18; Am. Ord.
2019-17, passed 11-25-19)
§ 34.15 ABSENCE FROM WORK WITH PAY.
   (A)   Employees may be granted a personal leave of absence without pay at
the discretion of the Town Council. This would require a recommendation from
the employee's supervisor.
   (B)   Fringe benefits do not continue during the leave.
   (C)   The employee shall make written application to his supervisor and
receive a written approval of the Town Council before such leave begins. The
application shall state the dates for which the leave is requested and reasons
for such leave.
   (D)   Unpaid leaves of absence may be denied if the requested leave
interferes with the efficient operation of the department. All approved leaves
of absence without pay shall be without loss of seniority or benefits. Leaves
of absence will be reviewed on a monthly basis. An employee absent from work
due to accident or illness must bring a doctor's release before returning to
work. If the employee has restrictions for work, the Town Council may or may
not allow the employee to return to work. This must be a vote by the majority
of the full Council.
(Ord. 2015-38, passed 12-14-15; Am. Ord. 2018-14, passed 9-24-18; Am. Ord.
2019-17, passed 11-25-19)
§ 34.16 SICK LEAVE.
   (A)   Regular employees shall accrue sick leave days at the rate of one-half
day per month worked, commencing with the month following the first full month
of employment. Employees will be able to accumulate up to 15 days of sick
leave.
   (B)   This time may be used in one-quarter hour increments.
   (C)   Sick leave is to be utilized only for the following reasons:
      (1)   Illness or injury of an employee;
      (2)   Medical or health related appointments; or
      (3)   Illness or injury within the immediate family.
   (D)   In order to qualify for sick leave pay, employees must comply with the
following conditions.
      (1)   Employees shall notify their supervisor of their absence at least
one hour prior to the start of their work shift. The exception would be if the
employee is in the emergency room.
      (2)   Failure to notify the supervisor will result in a loss of pay and
possible future actions.
   (E)   Supervisors have the right to ask for a doctor's excuse. After five
days, a doctor's release is required before returning to work.
(Ord. 2015-38, passed 12-14-15; Am. Ord. 2018-14, passed 9-24-18; Am. Ord.
2019-17, passed 11-25-19)
§ 34.17 EXTENDED SICK LEAVE.
   In case of a lengthy illness or injury not covered by Workers Compensation,
employees may receive out-of-work benefits (disability income) equal to two-
thirds of the employee's weekly wage or salary. This benefit must first be
voted on by Town Council and if approved, is to be reviewed every month. Such
benefits shall last a maximum of 26 weeks per illness or injury. Benefits begin
on the first day of injury and the eighth day for illness. This waiting period
is defined as the elimination period. Before an employee is eligible for this
benefit, he/she must furnish satisfactory medical statements that they are
unable to perform their job and their absence is due to non-work related
illness or injury.
(Ord. 2015-38, passed 12-14-15; Am. Ord. 2018-14, passed 9-24-18; Am. Ord.
2019-17, passed 11-25-19)
§ 34.18 PERSONAL DAYS.
   (A)   Every regular employee is entitled to two personal days per year.
Personal days can be granted in increments of one hour or more, up to the
maximum two days. After the first six months of employment, employees will be
eligible for one personal day. After one full year of employment, employee is
eligible for two days per year.
   (B)   Personal days cannot carry over from one year to the next.
(Ord. 2015-38, passed 12-14-15; Am. Ord. 2018-14, passed 9-24-18; Am. Ord.
2019-17, passed 11-25-19)
§ 34.19 SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   (A)   The town strictly prohibits sexual harassment in the workplace by any
person, in any form. This policy is consistent with and pursuant to the
guidelines on sexual discrimination issued by the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission.
   (B)   Specifically, it is both illegal and against the policy of the town
for any employee, male or female, to sexually harass another employee or
applicant. The EEOC guidelines identify three situations in which "unwelcome
sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other verbal or physical
conduct of a sexual nature" constitute unlawful harassment:
      (1)   When an employee must submit to such conduct as a condition of
employment;
      (2)   When decisions about an employee's job such as promotion, demotion,
benefits, and wages are based on his or her submission to, or rejection of,
such conduct; and/or
      (3)   When such conduct "unreasonably interferes" with his or her job
performance and creates an "intimidating, hostile, or offensive" working
environment.
   (C)   The first two categories are commonly referred to as quid pro quo
sexual harassment in which acquiescence to sexual advances or some type of
sexual consideration is required in exchange for a tangible job benefit. The
third category prohibits sexual harassment based on a "hostile or offensive"
work environment, even when there has been no conditioning of employment
benefits for sexual favors. Such harassment typically involves workplace
conduct such as lewd or explicit sexual remarks, innuendos, jokes, gestures,
touching, discussions of sexual activity, and display of obscene or suggestive
pictures or cartoons.
   (D)   Any employee or applicant who believes he or she has been the subject
of sexual harassment should report the alleged act immediately (not later than
48 hours after the alleged act occurs) to his or her supervisor. (If the
supervisor is the accused party, the individual should report the incident
directly to the appointing authority.) An investigation of all complaints will
be undertaken upon notification.
   (E)   Any supervisor or other employee who has been found by the appointing
authority after appropriate investigation to have sexually harassed another
employee or applicant will be subject to appropriate disciplinary action,
consistent with the provisions outlined in this manual, up to and including
termination.
   (F)   The appointing authority recognizes that the question of whether or
not a particular action or incident is based upon a purely personal, social
relationship between consenting adults that has no discriminatory employment
effect, requires a factual determination based upon all facts in the matter.
   (G)   Given the nature of this type of employment discrimination, the
appointing authority also recognizes that false accusations of sexual
harassment can have serious effects on innocent women and men. Appropriate
disciplinary action may therefore, be taken for false accusations of sexual
harassment. The appointing authority trusts that all employees will continue to
act responsibly to establish a pleasant working environment free of
discrimination.
(Ord. 2015-38, passed 12-14-15; Am. Ord. 2018-14, passed 9-24-18; Am. Ord.
2019-17, passed 11-25-19)
§ 34.20 DISCIPLINARY PRINCIPLES.
   All employees of the town serve at the will of the employer. However, to
provide for professional and consistent delivery of services by employees, the
employer has adopted the following general principles to administer
disciplinary actions.
   (A)   Employees should be advised of expected job behavior, the types of
conduct that the employer has determined to be unacceptable, and the normal
penalties for unacceptable behavior.
   (B)   Immediate attention will be given to policy and performance
infractions.
   (C)   Each offense shall be dealt with objectively.
   (D)   Department heads and the Superintendent of Public Works shall be
responsible for noting unacceptable workmanship and any performance/ policy
infractions. Verbal or written notices to the employee are acceptable means of
communication, as long as the supervisor has a record by date of infractions.
Multiple infractions within a calendar year shall result in a recommendation to
the Town Council, which will make final determination regarding demotions,
suspensions, or termination of the employee.
   (E)   An employee may file a written grievance stating the nature of the
grievance, expected resolution, and facts which affect the conditions of the
grievance. Said grievance shall be filed with the Clerk-Treasurer and the
President of the Town Council. A written response will be remitted to the
employee within 21 days.
   (F)   An offense considered criminal in nature shall be administered as
stipulated in §
34.03.
(Ord. 2015-38, passed 12-14-15; Am. Ord. 2018-14, passed 9-24-18; Am. Ord.
2019-17, passed 11-25-19)
§ 34.21 TERMINATION.
   (A)   Voluntary termination will result in all pay due at termination date,
to include hours worked, overtime due, comp time converted to pay, and any
prorated balance of vacation due based on percent of days worked during current
year. Unused clothing allowance pay will not be paid. For example, termination
on June 30 equals 50% of vacation pay.
   (B)   Retirement termination will result in all pay due at termination date
per above guideline including full current vacation pay for termination year,
providing 60 days notice is given.
   (C)   Retirement is when employee starts collecting PERF or Social Security.
   (D)   Termination for cause will result in all pay due at termination date
per above guideline except for forfeiture of any unused vacation time and a
prorated amount of pay adjustment if more vacation has been used
proportionately to that point in the calendar year.
   (E)   Normal personal deductions apply to the final check.
   (F)   Note. Fringe benefits, including holiday pay, bereavement pay,
vacation pay, clothing allowance, sick pay, extended sick pay, and personal
days, are discretionary benefits and may be amended or eliminated by a quorum
majority vote of the Town Council.
(Ord. 2015-38, passed 12-14-15; Am. Ord. 2018-14, passed 9-24-18; Am. Ord.
2019-17, passed 11-25-19)
PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT FUND
§ 34.30 PARTICIPATION IN FUND.
   (A)   The town elects to become a participating political subdivision or
miscellaneous participating entity in the Public Employees Retirement Fund by
including classes of employees as stated below in the coverage under state law.
   (B)   The town elects to offer the following retirement plan(s) under the
Public Employees Retirement Fund. Both PERF Hybrid and My Choice Retirement
Savings Plan are offered to all employees, allowing the employee to choose in
which retirement plan the employee will participate, based upon the employee's
previous participation in the Fund or the Plan.
   (C)   If an employee is eligible to choose membership in either the Fund or
the Plan, and that employee fails to make an election within the period set
forth in I.C. 5-10.3-12-20 and 35 IAC 1.3-4-1, said employee will be
automatically and irrevocably enrolled in the following plan: My Choice
Retirement Savings Plan.
   (D)   Effective as of January 1, 2020, this participating political
subdivision or miscellaneous participating entity shall pick up 0% of the
mandatory contribution for all employees who are members of PERF (remains as
is, no change to current plan where employees pay 3%). Said employees shall not
be entitled to choose to receive the contributed amounts directly instead of
having them paid by the employer to the specified pension fund.
   (E)   The town, as a participating political subdivision, offering the Plan,
agrees to pay a contribution rate to the Plan as a percentage of each member's
compensation in the amount of 11.2%. This amount may range from 0% to the
percentage that would produce the normal cost for participation in the fund
under I.C. 5-10.2-2-11.
   (F)   The town, as a participating political subdivision, offering the Plan,
agrees to pay a matching rate in the amount of 0% which is the percentage of
each member's additional voluntary contributions to the Plan that governing
body will match.
   (G)   The positions listed on Attachment A to Resolution 2019-19, adopted by
reference and incorporated as if fully set forth in this section, are declared
covered by the Fund, the Plan, or both as indicated in the attached document.
   (H)   It is hereby declared that none of the classifications or positions
specified in division (C) above are compensated on a fee basis or of an
emergency nature, or in a part-time category.
   (I)   The active participation membership of the town shall begin on January
1, 2020.
   (J)   This section shall be in full force and effect from date of passage
and upon approval of the Board of Trustees of the Indiana Public Retirement
System, except that active participating membership shall begin on the date set
forth in division (I) above.
(Res. 2019-19, passed11-25-19)
CHAPTER 35: PURCHASING
Section
   
35.01   General purchasing rules
   
35.02   Purchasing rules for supplies manufactured in the U.S.
   
35.03   Purchasing agency
   
35.04   Purchasing, maintaining and repairing fixed assets
§ 35.01 GENERAL PURCHASING RULES.
   The following purchasing rules shall apply to the Purchasing Agent, as
defined in §
35.03, when making purchases for the town.
   (A)   If the purchase of supplies is reasonably expected to be:
      (1)   Less than $50,000, the Purchasing Agent:
         (a)   May purchase the supplies on the open market; and
         (b)   Is not required to invite or receive quotes or bids;
      (2)   At least $50,000, and not more than $150,000, the Purchasing Agent:
         (a)   May purchase supplies under this section by inviting quotes from
at least three persons known to deal in the lines or classes of supplies to be
purchased;
         (b)   Shall mail an invitation to quote to the persons described in
division (A)(2)(a) at least
seven calendar days before the time fixed for receiving quotes;
         (c)   Shall award a contract to the lowest responsible and responsive
offeror for each line or class of supplies required if a satisfactory quote is
received;
         (d)   May reject all quotes; and
         (e)   May make a special purchase pursuant to the special purchasing
methods described in I.C. 5-22-10-1 et seq. in the event a quote is not
received from a responsible and responsive offeror.
      (3)   More than $150,000, the Purchasing Agent shall follow the procedure
described in I.C. 5-22-7-1 et seq. in awarding a contract for supplies, unless
another purchasing method is required or authorized by I.C. Title 5, Article
22.
   (B)   Services may be purchased in a manner deemed reasonable under the
circumstances.
(Ord. 1998-12, passed 8-24-98; Am. Ord. 2007- 4, passed 2-12-07; Am. Ord. 2018-
11, passed 7-30-18)
Statutory reference:
   Small purchases, see I.C. 5-22-8
§ 35.02 PURCHASING RULES FOR SUPPLIES MANUFACTURED IN THE U.S.
   The following are the required purchasing rules for supplies manufactured in
the United States. Purchases of supplies manufactured in the United States
shall be specified for all town purchases and shall be purchased unless the
town determines that:
   (A)   The supplies are not manufactured in the United States in reasonably
available quantities.
   (B)   The prices of the supplies manufactured in the United States exceed by
an unreasonable amount the price of available and comparable supplies
manufactured elsewhere;
   (C)   The quality of the supplies manufactured in the United States is
substantially less than the quality of comparably priced available supplies
manufactured elsewhere; or
   (D)   The purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States is not in
the public interest.
(Ord. 1998-12, passed 8-24-98)
§ 35.03 PURCHASING AGENCY.
   The Town Council and Clerk-Treasurer are designated as the Purchasing Agency
for the town, with all the powers and duties authorized under I. C. 5-22. The
Purchasing Agency designates department heads and the Deputy Clerk-Treasurer as
purchasing agents. Additional purchasing agents may be designated in writing,
as needed.
(Ord. 1998-11, passed 8-24-98)
§ 35.04 PURCHASING, MAINTAINING AND REPAIRING FIXED ASSETS.
   (A)   Any asset purchased by the town with a value in excess of $2,000 shall
be determined to be a fixed asset of the town.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall maintain a record of all of the fixed assets
of the town with their date of purchase and value at the time of purchase.
   (C)   Repairs to any fixed assets in the amount of $2,000 or more, extending
the life of such asset for more than one year, shall be an additional fixed
asset of the town.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall maintain a record of any and all repairs to
fixed assets in excess of $2,000 which extends the lifetime of a fixed asset
for more than one year, by recording the date and description of the repair and
the asset upon which the repair was performed.
   (E)   Inventoried assets are those valued at $500 through $1,999.99 and are
recorded for inventory purposes only.
(Ord. 2000-3, passed 2-28-00; Am. Ord. 2006-8, passed 4-24-06)
§ 35.05 AUTHORIZED USE OF CREDIT CARDS.
   (A)   The Council, having jurisdiction over the finances of the town,
authorizes the use of credit cards by employees holding the following titles:
      (1)   Town Marshal;
      (2)   Superintendent of Public Works; and
      (3)   Assistant Superintendent of Public Works.
   (B)   Credit cards issued to each such employee may be used to purchase
office supplies, equipment, equipment parts, services and all other expenses of
such employees which are authorized by the Council.
(Res. 2006-3, passed 3-13-06)
CHAPTER 36: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Funds
   
36.01   Rainy Day Fund
   
36.02   Riverboat Fund
   
36.03   Grant Fund
   36.04   Investment policy and fund
General Provisions
   
36.20   Payment of certain claims prior to Board allowance
   
36.21   Promotion of economic development
   
36.22   Electronic funds transfers
Internal Control Standards
   
36.35   Standards adopted
Materiality Policy
   
36.50   Threshold; reporting
FUNDS
§ 36.01 RAINY DAY FUND.
   (A)   The Town of Albany establishes a Rainy Day Fund to receive transfers
of unused and unencumbered funds under:
      (1)   Funds raised by general or specific tax levies pursuant to I.C. 36-
1-8-5;
      (2)   County adjusted gross income tax;
      (3)   County option income tax; and
      (4)   County economic development income tax.
   (B)   The town may transfer not more than 10% of the town’s annual budget
for each fiscal year to the Rainy Day Fund.
   (C)   The purposed use of the Rainy Day Fund is for payment of any and all
expenditures that may be appropriated from the General Fund to carry out the
town’s business.
   (D)   The Rainy Day Fund is subject to the same appropriation process as
other funds that receive tax money.
   (E)   Before making an appropriation from the Rainy Day Fund, the Town Board
shall make a finding that the proposed use of the Rainy Day Fund is consistent
with the intent of the funds which is to use the funds to benefit the town.
   (F)   The town may use only the funding sources specified in this section to
fund the Rainy Day Fund unless the town adopts a subsequent ordinance
authorizing the use of another funding source to fund the Rainy Day Fund.
(Ord. 2004-3, passed 2-23-04)
§ 36.02 RIVERBOAT FUND.
   (A)   The Town of Albany establishes a Riverboat Fund to deposit tax revenue
it receives from riverboat gambling under I.C. 4-33-12-6.
   (B)   The money in the Riverboat Fund may be used for any legal or corporate
business of the town, including the pledge of money to bonds, leases or other
obligations under I.C. 5-1-14-4.
   (C)   The money in the Riverboat Fund may not be used to reduce the town’s
maximum levy under I.C. 6-1.1-18.5, but may be used at the discretion of the
Town Board to reduce the property tax levy of the town for a particular year.
   (D)   The expenses of administering the Riverboat Fund shall be paid from
money in the Fund.
   (E)   Money in the Riverboat Fund not currently needed to meet the
obligations of the Fund may be invested in the same manner as other public
funds may be invested. Interest that accrues from these investments shall be
deposited in the Fund.
   (F)   Money in the Riverboat Fund at the end of a particular fiscal year
does not revert to the town’s General Fund.
(Ord. 2004-14, passed 5-24-04)
§ 36.03 GRANT FUND.
   (A)   To meet the requirements of I.C. 36-1-8-12, there is hereby created
the Grant Fund. This fund shall receive state grant money and matching money
which may only be used for the specific purposes of the grant for which the
money was received.
   (B)   Upon receipt of any grant money requiring local matching money, the
town shall immediately deposit the grant money and matching money into the fund
which shall be earmarked for the specific purpose for which it was received.
   (C)   Upon completion of the project for which the grant money was provided,
and in the event money remains in the fund, the town shall transfer the state’s
share of the remaining money to the Treasurer of State for deposit in the fund
from which the grant was made and transfer the town’s pro rata share of the
remaining money to the town’s General Fund.
(Ord. 2017-21, passed 11-13-17)
§ 36.04 INVESTMENT POLICY AND FUND.
   (A)   The town shall have an investment policy for investment of town funds
on a periodic basis, as determined by the Town Council and as funds are
available for investment.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall, at least annually, seek proposals from
financial institutions and other accredited financial advisors as to interest
rates for short-term (12- month or less) investment of town funds and the terms
of investment.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall report the rates, as proposed, received in
response to the request for proposal for investment interest rates.
   (D)   The Town Council shall determine the amount and financial service/
institution that shall receive the funds for investment with the advice of the
Clerk-Treasurer.
   (E)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall deposit the funds as per the determination
of the Town Council promptly and report the interest earned.
   (G)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall place the interest earned in the General
Fund of the of the town General Fund and shall account for the interest into
the proper funds as per Indiana State Board of Accounts recommendations at the
end of the term of the investment item.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 6-10-2024)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.20 PAYMENT OF CERTAIN CLAIMS PRIOR TO BOARD ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   The Town Council of the Town of Albany, Indiana, as the board having
jurisdiction over allowances of the town’s claims, hereby elects to give
advance approval for the payment of certain claims by the town’s fiscal officer
in advance of a board allowance for said claims.
   (B)   The types of claims which can be paid in advance of a Town Council
allowance shall include:
      (1)   Property or services purchased from the U.S. Government;
      (2)   License or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or connection charges;
      (5)   Federal grant programs where advance refunding is not prohibited
and the contracting party posts sufficient security to cover the amount
advanced;
      (6)   Grants of state funds;
      (7)   Maintenance or service agreements;
      (8)   Leases or rental agreements;
      (9)   Bond or interest payments;
      (10)   Payroll;
      (11)   State, federal or county taxes;
      (12)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances; and
      (13)   Expenses described in an ordinance.
   (C)   Each payment of expenses pursuant to this section must be supported by
a fully itemized invoice or bill and certification by the town’s fiscal
officer.
   (D)   The Town Council shall review and allow the claims at the Council’s
next regular or special meeting following the pre-approved payment of the
expense.
(Ord. 2017-4, passed 1-23-17)
§ 36.21 PROMOTION OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   The Town Council is hereby authorized to budget and appropriate funds
from the General Fund or from other funds to pay the expenses incurred in
promoting the betterment of the municipality.
   (B)   These expenses may include, but are not necessarily limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Membership dues in local, regional, state, and national
associations of a civic, educational, or governmental nature, which have as
their purpose the betterment and improvement of municipal operations.
      (2)   Direct expenses for travel, meals, and lodging in conjunction with
municipal business, meetings, or organizations to which the municipality
belongs.
      (3)   Expenses incurred in the promotion of tourism, residential
development, economic or industrial development for the municipality, including
meeting room rental, decorations, meals , travel, and promotional booths.
      (4)   Commemorative plaques, certificates, or objects such as
commemorative keys.
      (5)   Annual employee dinner to promote the betterment and morale of town
employees.
      (6)   Items to recognize employees such as a retirement gift, cake,
dinner, and the like and gifts such as flowers for an illness of an employee or
death in family.
      (7)   Other purposes which are deemed by the Town Council to directly
relate to the promotion and betterment of the town.
(Ord. 2016-29, passed 12-26-16)
§ 36.22 ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFERS.
   (A)   Electronic funds transfers (EFT), including online transfers. The
Common Council of the town hereby authorizes the use of online transfers for
the purpose of transferring funds as Electronic Funds Transfers (EFT).
   (B)   Automatic Clearing House (ACH) transactions. The Common Council of the
town hereby authorizes the Clerk-Treasurer to utilize Automatic Clearing House
(ACH) transactions including payments for payroll, retirement benefits,
utilities, taxes, bonds and payments for any other municipal expense, in the
discretion of the Clerk-Treasurer. The Council does further hereby authorize
the receipt of funds by the town pursuant to Automatic Clearing House (ACH).
   (C)   Documentation. The Clerk-Treasurer shall be required to maintain
adequate and appropriate documentation of the above-referenced transactions for
future audits, as provided by the laws of the state.
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-26-22)
INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS
§ 36.35 STANDARDS ADOPTED.
   (A)   The Town of Albany Indiana hereby adopts the Internal Control Policy
attached to the ordinance codified herein and incorporated herein as Exhibit A.
   (B)   The Clerk Treasurer is directed to ensure that all personnel receive
training concerning the internal control procedures adopted and approved herein
prior to December 31, 2016.
(Ord. 2016-14, passed 12-12-16)
MATERIALITY POLICY
§ 36.50 THRESHOLD; REPORTING.
   (A)   The materiality threshold at which point the Town of Albany shall
report incidents of material variances, losses, shortages, or thefts to the
State Board of Accounts is:
      (1)   A one-time cash loss of at least $1,000; or
      (2)   A recurring cash loss of at least $100 average per month; or
      (3)   A value of $5,000 for a one-time loss of assets; or
      (4)   A creation of additional liabilities of at least $1,000 average per
month.
   (B)   All items not reported to the State Board of Accounts shall be
resolved at the Town Council level with appropriate documentation retained by
the Clerk- Treasurer.
   (C)   The Town Council shall also consider I.C. 5-11-1-27(l), which requires
public officials who have actual knowledge of or reasonable cause to believe
that there has been a misappropriation of public funds to immediately send
written notice of the misappropriation to the State Board of Accounts and the
prosecuting attorney.
   (D)   When an irregular variance, loss, shortage, or theft is determined
material pursuant to the Town of Albany’s policy on materiality, the Clerk
Treasurer shall report the incident to the State Board of Accounts. On the
State Board of Accounts’ website there is a notification link, which allows
public officials to report via e-mail material irregular variances, losses,
shortages, or thefts. Telephone and in-person reporting is also acceptable.
Reports will be followed up with a return e-mail or call to gather additional
information as necessary. All reports of irregular variances, losses,
shortages, or thefts are maintained by the State Board of Accounts.
(Ord. 2016-4, passed 3-14-16)
CHAPTER 37: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
37.01   Inspection of public records
   
37.02   Fingerprinting fees
   
37.03   National Incident Management System
   
37.04   ADA Coordinator; grievance procedure
   
37.05   ADA accessibility guidelines for standards for accessible design
   
37.06   Public entry into certain town facilities
§ 37.01 INSPECTION OF PUBLIC RECORDS.
   (A)   Any person may inspect public records of the town, that do not contain
information that cannot be disclosed, during the regular business hours of the
town.
   (B)   Any person desiring to obtain copies of public records from the town
must submit a written request to the town. This written request must identify
with reasonable particularity the public record being requested. This written
request must be submitted to the town during the regular business hours of the
town.
   (C)   The town shall review each written request for public records to
determine whether the public records requested contain information that cannot
be disclosed.
   (D)   If the town determines that the public records requested contain
information that cannot be disclosed, the town shall notify the requester that
the public record cannot be provided to them due to the fact that the record
contains information that cannot be disclosed to the public. This denial shall
be given to the requester not later than seven days after the written request
is submitted to the town.
   (E)   If the town determines that the public records requested do not
contain information which cannot be disclosed, the town shall copy said
requested public records. The town shall copy said public records within a
reasonable time after the written request has been submitted.
   (F)   If the town copies public records, the requester shall pay a fee for
said copies. The copying fees for public records shall be the sum of the
average cost of copying records by the town or $.15 per page, whichever is
greater.
(Res. 2003-4, passed 3-10-03)
§ 37.02 FINGERPRINTING FEES.
   The Police Department shall charge a fee of $5 to fingerprint individuals.
Monies from the fees are to be deposited in the Police Continued Education
Fund.
(Ord. 2006-14, passed 8-29-06)
§ 37.03 NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM.
   The town hereby adopts the National Incident Management System dated March
1, 2004.
(Ord. 2006-20, passed 9-25-06)
§ 37.04 ADA COORDINATOR; GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is designated as the ADA Coordinator for the town.
   (B)   The notice under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), a copy of
which is attached to Res. 2012-28, passed October 22, 2012, is adopted as the
town’s notice under the Americans with Disabilities Act.
   (C)   The town’s grievance procedure under the Americans with Disabilities
Act, a copy of which is attached to Res. 2012-28, passed October 22, 2012, is
adopted as the grievance procedure for addressing complaints alleging
discrimination on the basis of disability in the provision of services,
activities, programs or benefits by the town.
   (D)   In compliance with federal and state laws as set forth above, the Town
Council resolves to post the required information regarding the ADA
Coordinator, notice under the Americans with Disabilities Act, and the town’s
grievance procedure under the Americans with Disabilities Act in locations as
may be determined from time to time.
(Res. 2012-28, passed 10-22-12)
§ 37.05 ADA ACCESSIBILITY GUIDELINES FOR STANDARDS FOR ACCESSIBLE DESIGN.
   The Town Council hereby adopts the 2010 Americans with Disabilities (ADA)
standards for accessible design.
(Res. 2012-27, passed 10-22-12)
§ 37.06 PUBLIC ENTRY INTO CERTAIN TOWN FACILITIES.
   (A)   No person, other than those authorized by the town, shall enter into a
town facility not generally open to the public. Such facilities include, but
are in no way limited to, maintenance buildings, water and sewer facilities,
waste water treatment facilities, and any areas within the fencing surrounding
a water tower.
   (B)   Any field or repair work sites will be restricted to town employees
only and not generally open to the public. These areas will be denoted by being
roped or cordoned off with cones and tape.
   (C)   Any person violating this section shall be considered to be
trespassing in violation of the law and may also be fined according to §
10.99 of the Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 2016-5, passed 6-13-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 38: IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM
Section
   
38.01   Short title
   
38.02   Purpose
   
38.03   Definitions
   
38.04   Findings
   
38.05   Process of establishing a covered account
   
38.06   Access to covered account information
   
38.07   Sources and types of red flags
   
38.08   Prevention and mitigation of identity theft
   
38.09   Updating the program
   
38.10   Program administration
   
38.11   Outside service providers
   
38.12   Treatment of address discrepancies
   
38.13   Furnishing consumer’s address to consumer reporting agency
   
38.14   Methods of confirming consumer addresses
§ 38.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This policy shall be known as the Identity Theft Prevention Program
(hereinafter “Program”).
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 4-27-09)
§ 38.02 PURPOSE.
   This policy is adopted to comply with the Fair and Accurate Credit
Transactions Act and federal regulations promulgated at 16 C.F.R. § 681.2 in
order to detect, prevent and mitigate identity theft by identifying and
detecting identity theft red flags and by responding to such red flags in a
manner that will prevent identity theft.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 4-27-09)
§ 38.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COVERED ACCOUNT.
      (1)   An account that a financial institution or creditor offers or
maintains, primarily for personal, family or household purposes, that involves
or is designed to permit multiple payments or transactions, such as a credit
card account, mortgage loan, automobile loan, margin account, cell phone
account, utility account, checking account or savings account; and
      (2)   Any other account that the financial institution or creditor offers
or maintains for which there is a reasonably foreseeable risk to customers or
to the safety and soundness of the financial institution or creditor from
identity theft, including financial, operational, compliance, reputation or
litigation risks.
   CREDIT. The right granted by a creditor to a debtor to defer payment of debt
or to incur debts and defer its payment or to purchase property or services and
defer payment therefore.
   CREDITOR. Any person who regularly extends, renews or continues credit; any
person who regularly arranges for the extension, renewal or continuation of
credit; or any assignee of an original creditor who participates in the
decision to extend, renew or continue credit and includes utility companies and
telecommunications companies.
   CUSTOMER. A person that has a covered account with a creditor.
   IDENTITY THEFT. A fraud committed or attempted using identifying information
of another person without authority.
   NOTICE OF ADDRESS DISCREPANCY. A notice sent to a user by a consumer
reporting agency pursuant to 15 U.S.C. § 1681(c)(h)(1), that informs the user
of a substantial difference between the address for the consumer that the user
provided to request the consumer report and the address(es) in the agency’s
file for the consumer.
   PERSON. A natural person, a corporation, government or governmental
subdivision or agency, trust, estate, partnership, cooperative or association.
   PERSONAL IDENTIFYING INFORMATION. A person’s credit card account
information, debit card information, bank account information and driver’s
license information and for a natural person includes his or her Social
Security Number, mother’s birth name and date of birth.
   RED FLAG. A pattern, practice or specific activity that indicates the
possible existence of identity theft.
   SERVICE PROVIDER. A person that provides a service directly to the city.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 4-27-09)
§ 38.04 FINDINGS.
   (A)   The town is a creditor pursuant to 16 C.F.R. § 681.2 due to its
provision or maintenance of covered accounts for which payment is made in
arrears.
   (B)   Covered accounts offered to customers for the provision of services
include sanitary sewer, storm water, water and trash utility services.
   (C)   The processes of opening a new covered account, restoring an existing
covered account and making payments on such accounts have been identified as
potential processes in which identity theft could occur.
   (D)   The town limits access to personal identifying information to those
employees responsible for or otherwise involved in opening or restoring covered
accounts or accepting payment for use of covered accounts. Information provided
to such employees is entered directly into the town’s computer system and a
hard copy is retained by the town and is not otherwise recorded.
   (E)   The town determines that there is a low risk of identity theft
occurring in the following ways:
      (1)   Use by an applicant of another person’s personal identifying
information to establish a new covered account;
      (2)   Use of a previous customer’s personal identifying information by
another person in an effort to have service restored in the previous customer’s
name;
      (3)   Use of another person’s credit card, bank account or other method
of payment by a customer to pay such customer’s covered account or accounts;
and
      (4)   Use by a customer desiring to restore such customer’s covered
account of another person’s credit card, bank account or other method of
payment.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 4-27-09)
§ 38.05 PROCESS OF ESTABLISHING A COVERED ACCOUNT.
   As a precondition to opening a covered account, each applicant shall provide
the town with personal identifying information of the customer, a valid
government issued identification card containing a photograph of the customer
or, for customers who are not natural persons, a photograph of the customer’s
agent opening the account.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 4-27-09)
§ 38.06 ACCESS TO COVERED ACCOUNT INFORMATION.
   (A)   Access to customer accounts shall be password protected and shall be
limited to authorized personnel.
   (B)   Such password(s) shall be changed on a regular basis by the Clerk-
Treasurer, shall be at least eight characters in length and shall contain
letters, numbers and symbols.
   (C)   Any unauthorized access to or other breach of customer accounts is to
be reported immediately to the Clerk-Treasurer and the password changed
immediately.
   (D)   Personal identifying information included in customer accounts is
considered confidential and any request or demand for such information shall be
immediately forwarded to the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 4-27-09)
§ 38.07 SOURCES AND TYPES OF RED FLAGS.
   (A)   All employees responsible for or involved in the process of opening a
covered account, restoring a covered account or accepting payment for a covered
account shall check for red flags as indicators of possible identity theft.
   (B)   Such red flags shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Alerts from consumer reporting agencies, fraud detection agencies
or service providers. Examples of such alerts are:
         (a)   A fraud or active duty alert that is included with a consumer
report;
         (b)   A notice of credit freeze in response to a request for a
consumer report;
         (c)   A notice of address discrepancy provided by a consumer reporting
agency; and
         (d)   Indications of a pattern of activity in a consumer report that
is inconsistent with the history and usual pattern of activity of an applicant
or customer, such as:
            1.   A recent and significant increase in the volume of inquiries;
            2.   An unusual number of recently established credit
relationships;
            3.   A material change in the use of credit, especially with
respect to recently established credit relationships; or
            4.   An account that was closed for cause or identified for abuse
of account privileges by a financial institution or creditor.
      (2)   Suspicious documents. Examples of suspicious documents include:
         (a)   Documents provided for identification that appear to be altered
or forged;
         (b)   Identification on which the photograph or physical description
is inconsistent with the appearance of the applicant or customer;
         (c)   Identification on which the information is inconsistent with
information provided by the applicant or customer;
         (d)   Identification on which the information is inconsistent with
readily accessible information that is on file, such as a signature card or a
recent check; or
         (e)   An application that appears to have been altered or forged, or
appears to have been destroyed and reassembled.
      (3)   Suspicious personal identifying information.  Examples include:
         (a)   Personal identifying information that is inconsistent with
external information sources used by the financial institution or creditor. For
example:
            1.   The address does not match any address in the consumer report;
or
            2.   The Social Security Number (SSN) has not been issued, or is
listed on the Social Security Administration’s Death Master File.
         (b)   Personal identifying information provided by the customer is not
consistent with other personal identifying information provided by the
customer, such as a lack of correlation between the SSN range and date of
birth.
         (c)   Personal identifying information, a phone number or address is
associated with known fraudulent applications or activities as indicated by
internal or third-party sources used by the financial institution or creditor.
         (d)   Other information provided, such as fictitious mailing address,
mail drop addresses, jail addresses, invalid phone numbers, pager numbers or
answering services, is associated with fraudulent activity.
         (e)   The SSN provided is the same as that submitted by other
applicants or customers.
         (f)   The address or telephone number provided is the same or similar
to the account number or telephone number submitted by an unusually large
number of applicants or customers.
         (g)   The applicant or customer fails to provide all required personal
identifying information on an application or in response to notification that
the application is incomplete.
         (h)   Personal identifying information is not consistent with personal
identifying information that is on file with the financial institution or
creditor.
         (i)   The applicant or customer cannot provide authenticating
information beyond that which generally would be available from a wallet or
consumer report.
      (4)   Unusual use of or suspicious activity relating to a covered
account.  Examples include:
         (a)   Shortly following the notice of a change of address for an
account, there is a request for the addition of authorized users on the
account.
         (b)   A new revolving credit account is used in a manner commonly
associated with known patterns of fraud patterns, such as where the customer
fails to make the first payment or makes an initial payment but no subsequent
payments.
         (c)   An account is used in a manner that is not consistent with
established patterns of activity on the account, such as:
            1.   Nonpayment when there is no history of late or missed
payments; and
            2.   A material change in purchasing or spending patterns.
         (d)   An account that has been inactive for a long period of time is
used (taking into consideration the type of account, the expected pattern of
usage and other relevant factors).
         (e)   Mail sent to the customer is returned repeatedly as
undeliverable although transactions continue to be conducted in connection with
the customer’s account.
         (f)   The town is notified that the customer is not receiving paper
account statements.
         (g)   The town is notified of unauthorized charges or transactions in
connection with a customer’s account.
         (h)   The town is notified by a customer, law enforcement or another
person that it has opened a fraudulent account for a person engaged in identity
theft.
      (5)   Notices. Notice from customers, law enforcement, victims or other
reliable sources regarding possible identity theft or phishing relating to
covered accounts.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 4-27-09)
§ 38.08 PREVENTION AND MITIGATION OF IDENTITY THEFT.
   (A)   In the event that any employee responsible for or involved in
restoring an existing covered account or accepting payment for a covered
account becomes aware of red flags indicating possible identity theft with
respect to existing covered accounts, such employee shall use his or her
discretion to determine whether such red flag or combination of red flags
suggests a threat of identity theft. If, in his or her discretion, such
employee determines that identity theft or attempted identity theft is likely
or probable, such employee shall immediately report such red flags to the
Clerk-Treasurer. If, in his or her discretion, such employee deems that
identity theft is unlikely or that reliable information is available to
reconcile red flags, the employee shall convey this information to the
President of the Town Council, who may, in his or her discretion, determine
that no further action is necessary. If the President of the Town Council, in
his or her discretion, determines that further action is necessary, one or more
of the following responses as determined to be appropriate by the Clerk-
Treasurer shall be performed:
      (1)   Contact the customer;
      (2)   Make the following changes to the account if, after contacting the
customer, it is apparent that someone other than the customer has accessed the
customer’s covered account:
         (a)   Change any account numbers, passwords, security codes or other
security devices that permit access to an account; or
         (b)   Close the account.
      (3)   Cease attempts to collect additional charges from the customer and
decline to sell the customer’s account to a debt collector in the event that
the customer’s account has been accessed without authorization and such access
has caused additional charges to accrue;
      (4)   Notify a debt collector within 24 to 48 hours (not including
weekends) of the discovery of likely or probable identity theft relating to a
customer account that has been sold to such debt collector in the event that a
customer’s account has been sold to a debt collector prior to the discovery of
the likelihood or probability of identity theft relating to such account;
      (5)   Notify law enforcement in the event that someone other than the
customer has accessed the customer’s account causing additional charges to
accrue or accessing personal identifying information; or
      (6)   Take other appropriate action to prevent or mitigate identity
theft.
   (B)   In the event that an employee responsible for or involved in opening a
new covered account becomes aware of red flags indicating possible identity
theft with respect to an application for a new account, such employee shall use
his or her discretion to determine whether such red flag or combination of red
flags suggests a threat of identity theft. If, in his or her discretion, such
employee determines that identity theft or attempted identity theft is likely
or probable, such employee shall immediately report such red flags to the
Clerk-Treasurer. If, in his or her discretion, such employee deems that
identity theft is unlikely or that reliable information is available to
reconcile red flags, the employee shall convey this information to the
President of the Town Council, who may, in his or her discretion, determine
that no further action is necessary. If the President of the Town Council, in
his or her discretion, determines that further action is necessary, one or more
of the following responses as determined to be appropriate shall be performed:
      (1)   Request additional identifying information from the applicant;
      (2)   Deny the application for the new account;
      (3)   Notify law enforcement of possible identity theft; or
      (4)   Take other appropriate action to prevent or mitigate identity
theft.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 4-27-09)
§ 38.09 UPDATING THE PROGRAM.
   (A)   The town shall annually review and, as deemed necessary, update the
Identity Theft Prevention Program along with any relevant red flags in order to
reflect changes in risks to customers or to the safety and soundness of the
town and its covered accounts from identity theft.
   (B)   In so doing, the town shall consider the following factors and
exercise its discretion in amending the program:
      (1)   The town’s experiences with identity theft;
      (2)   Updates in methods of identity theft;
      (3)   Updates in customary methods used to detect, prevent and mitigate
identity theft;
      (4)   Updates in the types of accounts that the town offers or maintains;
and
      (5)   Updates in service provider arrangements.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 4-27-09)
§ 38.10 PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is responsible for oversight of the program and
for program implementation. The Clerk-Treasurer is responsible for reviewing
reports prepared by staff regarding compliance with red flag requirements and
with recommending material changes to the program, as necessary in the opinion
of the Clerk-Treasurer, to address changing identity theft risks and to
identify new or discontinued types of covered accounts. Any recommended
material changes to the program shall be submitted to the Town Council.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer will report to the Town Council at least annually
on compliance with the red flag requirements. The report shall be due no later
than May 1 of each year and shall address material matters related to the
program and evaluate issues, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   The effectiveness of the program policies and procedures in
addressing the risk of identity theft in connection with the opening of covered
accounts and with respect to existing covered accounts;
      (2)   Service provider arrangements;
      (3)   Significant incidents involving identity theft and management’s
response; and
      (4)   Recommendations for material changes to the program.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer is responsible for providing training to all
employees responsible for or involved in opening a new covered account,
restoring an existing covered account or accepting payment for a covered
account with respect to the implementation and requirements of the Identity
Theft Prevention Program. The Clerk-Treasurer shall exercise his or her
discretion in determining the amount and substance of training necessary.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 4-27-09)
§ 38.11 OUTSIDE SERVICE PROVIDERS.
   In the event that the town engages a service provider to perform an activity
in connection with one or more covered accounts, the Clerk-Treasurer shall
exercise his or her discretion in reviewing such arrangements in order to
ensure, to the best of his or her ability, that the service provider’s
activities are conducted in accordance with policies and procedures, agreed
upon by contract, that are designed to detect any red flags that may arise in
the performance of the service provider’s activities and take appropriate steps
to prevent or mitigate identity theft.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 4-27-09)
§ 38.12 TREATMENT OF ADDRESS DISCREPANCIES.
   (A)   In the event that the town receives a notice of address discrepancy,
the employee responsible for verifying consumer addresses for the purpose of
providing the service or account sought by the consumer shall perform one or
more of the following activities, as determined to be appropriate by such
employee:
   (B)   Compare the information in the consumer report with:
      (1)   Information the town obtains and uses to verify a consumer’s
identity in accordance with the requirements of the Customer Information
Program Rules implementing 31 U.S.C. § 5318(1);
      (2)   Information the town maintains in its own records, such as
applications for service, change of address notices, other customer account
records or tax records;
      (3)   Information the town obtains from third-party sources that are
deemed reliable by the relevant employee; or
      (4)   Verify the information in the consumer report with the consumer.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 4-27-09)
§ 38.13 FURNISHING CONSUMER’S ADDRESS TO CONSUMER REPORTING AGENCY.
   (A)   In the event that the town reasonably confirms that an address
provided by a consumer is accurate, the town is required to provide such
address to the consumer reporting agency from which it received a notice of
address discrepancy with respect to such consumer.
   (B)   This information is required to be provided to the consumer reporting
agency when:
      (1)   The town is able to form a reasonable belief that the consumer
report relates to the consumer about whom it requested the report;
      (2)   The town establishes a continuing relation with the consumer; and
      (3)   The town regularly and in the ordinary course of business provides
information to the consumer reporting agency from which it received the notice
of address discrepancy.
   (C)   Such information shall be provided to the consumer reporting agency as
part of the information regularly provided by the town to such agency for the
reporting period in which the town establishes a relationship with the
customer.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 4-27-09)
§ 38.14 METHODS OF CONFIRMING CONSUMER ADDRESSES.
   The employee charged with confirming consumer addresses may, in his or her
discretion, confirm the accuracy of an address through one or more of the
following methods:
   (A)   Verifying the address with the consumer;
   (B)   Reviewing the town’s records to verify the consumer’s address;
   (C)   Verifying the address through third party sources; or
   (D)   Using other reasonable processes.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 4-27-09)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE SERVICE
      
51.   WATER AND SEWER SERVICE
      
52.   STORM WATER SYSTEM
      
53.   SEWER USE
         
APPENDIX A: FLOW CHART OF ENFORCEMENT RESPONSES
      
54.   WATER CONSERVATION
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE SERVICE
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Intent and purpose
   
50.02   Definitions
   
50.03   Inspections
   
50.04   Dumpsters
Charges
   
50.15   Unit determination and adjustment of service charge
   
50.16   Reserved
Requirements and Regulations  for Contractors
   
50.30   Term of contract
   
50.31   Assignment of contract
   
50.32   Reserved
   
50.33   Acceptance or rejection of bids
   
50.34   Reserved
   
50.35   Payment for services
   
50.36   Collection service requirements
   
50.37   Service, equipment and facility requirements
   
50.38   Disposal of materials collected
   
50.39   Bid bond requirement
   
50.40   Performance bond requirement
   
50.41   Insurance requirements
   
50.42   Indemnity requirement
   
50.43   Collection of large refuse items
Cross-reference:
   Delinquent utility bill procedure, see §
51.08
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   It is the intent of the town to provide for the town residents a
comprehensive refuse collection service consisting of regular pickups of
containerized garbage and household rubbish from the curb or street line at
each residence, commercial, or other property.
(Ord. 1977-16, passed 11-7-77)
§ 50.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIDDER. The person or corporation submitting a bid proposal for service
outlined herein.
   CONTRACTOR. The person or corporation with whom the town enters into a
contract for services outlined herein.
   CURB LINE. Edge of street or alley, if no curb exists.
   DWELLING UNIT. A single-family residence and each apartment shall be
considered a separate family residence; also, each trailer is to be a single-
family residence.
   GARBAGE. All refuse of animal, fish, fowl, fruit, or vegetable matter that
results from the  preparation, use, cooking, retail, or wholesale dealing in,
or storing of meat, fish, fowl, fruit, or vegetable and shall exclude offals,
trimmings, and scraps of butcher shops or meat markets. It shall further mean
and include tin cans, glass, bottles, and broken crockery which have been used
as food or beverage holders.
   HOUSEHOLD RUBBISH. Household goods, refuse, furniture, springs, mattresses,
tin cans, bottles, crockery, broken glass, rags, grass cuttings, and other
similar debris, hedge cuttings, and shrubbery trimmings bundled, boxed, or
otherwise contained, furnace pipe, stoves, water boilers, trunks, incinerator
refuse and cold ashes of all kinds, wood not over 36 inches in length, all
rubbish, trash, debris, waste, litter, scrap, packings, excelsior, straw, metal
cooking utensils, toys, porcelain, carpeting, leather, rubber, shoes, clothing,
cardboard, household appliances, tree trimmings, trees, and broken limbs under
36 inches in length. Excluded will be garbage, broken concrete, and other
refuse from repairs, alterations, and new construction of buildings and
sidewalks, tree limbs, and trunks over 30 inches in length, debris from
commercial or industrial establishments, and material which cannot be handled
easily by two men.
    OPEN GATE DUMPING PRIVILEGE. Any resident of the town shall have free
access to contractor’s landfill at all times without extra charge, excluding
commercial trash haulers.
   RESIDENCE or PROPERTY. Business and/or commercial property.
   RUBBISH. All rags, broken glass, crockery bottles, tin cans, paper, grass
cuttings and similar household refuse, including cold ashes from incinerators,
burners, heating plants and stoves. Generally included are household discards
that can be contained in a covered 30 gallon container or plastic bags.
(Ord. 1977-16, passed 11-7-77)
§ 50.03 INSPECTIONS.
   The Town Council shall designate a town employee as inspector to investigate
complaints of missed garbage or rubbish pick-ups. The contractor shall check
with the town office weekly. If the missed units are not picked up the
following day after being reported and confirmed by the inspector, the
inspector shall be authorized, upon good cause, to levy a fine or penalty of $5
against the contractor per pick-up or unit missed, the same to be paid or
credited at the next succeeding pay date following notice thereof.
(Ord. 1977-16, passed 11-7-77)
§ 50.04 DUMPSTERS.
   (A)   Residents of the town shall have the ability to use the dumpsters
provided by the town free of charge.
   (B)   Non-residents of the town shall not be allowed the use of the
dumpsters provided by the town.
   (C)   Individuals using the dumpsters provided by the town shall show proof
of residency through a valid driver’s license and/or recent utility bill.
(Ord. 2007-17, passed 9-24-07)
CHARGES
§ 50.15 UNIT DETERMINATION AND ADJUSTMENT OF SERVICE CHARGE.
   (A)   The billing unit shall be the amount to be charged per year for the
specified service of 52 regular weekly pickups.
   (B)   For the first contract year, the number of units in the town upon
which the compensation to the contractor shall be computed is arbitrarily set
at 950. For the second and subsequent years, the number of dwelling units which
shall be used as the basis upon which the compensation shall be computed shall
be the foregoing figure of 950 to which there shall be added a figure equal to
the number of units constructed or otherwise created within the limits of the
town for the 12 month period immediately preceding November 1 of the year
immediately prior to the contract year for which the computation is made, as
shown by the official residential building permit records in the Albany
Municipal Office.
   (C)   For the computation of dwelling units in apartment buildings for the
year 1977 and thereafter, one apartment unit will be equal to one dwelling
unit. Figures for these computations stall be taken from the building permits
issued for apartments in the town for the 12 months immediately preceding
November 1 of the year immediately prior to the contract year for which the
computation is being made. These building permits shall only apply to buildings
erected within the town limits.
   (D)   Should any territory be annexed to the town, a figure equal to the
actual number of dwelling units therein, on the basis of a physical count
thereof jointly made or caused to be made by the contractor and the town, shall
be added to the above figure as of and effective upon the effective date that
such annexation is complete and final as prescribed in the applicable statute
of the state on annexation, and the compensation shall be forthwith increased
accordingly. Should any territory be annexed after bid closing date and prior
to starting of the contract herein, the dwelling units shall be added to the
first year’s compensation. For the computation of dwelling units in apartment
buildings for the year 1977 and thereafter, and any territory to be annexed to
the town, this shall be done on the basis of one apartment unit being equal to
one dwelling unit.
(Ord. 1977-16, passed 11-7-77)
§ 50.16 RESERVED.
REQUIREMENTS AND REGULATIONS FOR CONTRACTORS
§ 50.30 TERM OF CONTRACT.
   The contract shall be for such term as the Town Council shall from time to
time establish, not to exceed three years per term.
(Ord. 1977-16, passed 11-7-77; Am. Ord. 1986-8, passed 9-22-86)
§ 50.31 ASSIGNMENT OF CONTRACT.
   The contractor shall not assign or sublet the contract as a whole or in part
without the written consent of the town. The consent does not release the
contractor from any obligation or liability under the contract. Violation of
this provision shall result in immediate cancellation of the contract. Any
violation of the contract shall be sufficient cause for the immediate
cancellation of the contract by the Town Council, who may thereupon employ the
necessary labor to perform the work or re-advertise or re-let the work at the
expense of the offending contractor and his or her sureties.
(Ord. 1977-16, passed 11-7-77)
§ 50.32 RESERVED.
§ 50.33 ACCEPTANCE OR REJECTION OF BIDS.
   (A)   The Town Council reserves the right to accept or reject any or all bid
proposals and to waive defects or irregularities in any bid proposal. In
particular, any alteration, erasure or interlineation of the bid proposal or
the contract document shall render the bid proposal or contract document
irregular and subject to rejection by the Board.
   (B)   The Town Council expressly reserves to itself the right to judge the
experience, capability and financial resources of the bidders to successfully
perform a contract as bid and when found unsatisfactory to reject the bid.
(Ord. 1977-16, passed 11-7-77)
§ 50.34 RESERVED.
§ 50.35 PAYMENT FOR SERVICES.
   The town shall pay the contractor once monthly in the amount of one-twelfth
of the annual service charge.
(Ord. 1977-16, passed 11-7-77)
§ 50.36 COLLECTION SERVICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The contractor shall make weekly pickups of garbage and rubbish from
the curb line of residences or property within the town in compliance with
these specifications.
   (B)   Each dwelling unit shall have a maximum of two 96-gallon containers
per weekly pickup, unless additional containers have been arranged with
disposal contractor.
   (C)   Business and/or commercial units shall have four 96-gallon containers
per weekly pickup, unless additional containers have been arranged with
disposal contractor.
(Ord. 1977-16, passed 11-7-77; Am. Ord. 2014-7, passed 5-12-14)
§ 50.37 SERVICE, EQUIPMENT AND FACILITY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The contractor shall provide all the necessary and proper equipment to
collect, haul, and dispose of all garbage and rubbish collected according to
these specifications and as defined by this chapter of the town.
   (B)   The contractor shall provide all the employees necessary to collect,
haul, and dispose of all garbage and rubbish collected according to these
specifications.
   (C)   The contractor shall haul to a sanitary landfill of his or her own
choice, the nature and operation of which must comply with the rules and
regulations of the Indiana State Board of Health.
   (D)   The name of the contractor and the truck number of each piece of
equipment operated by the contractor in the performance of the services
described herein shall be conspicuously displayed on each piece of equipment in
letters and numbers of not less than three inches in height and in compliance
with any other applicable ordinance of the town or other law or regulation.
(Ord. 1977-16, passed 11-7-77)
§ 50.38 DISPOSAL OF MATERIALS COLLECTED.
   (A)   All garbage, rubbish, and household rubbish collected by the
contractor shall be moved to a sanitary landfill as per § 50.37(C) and in
approved, enclosed vehicles.
   (B)   If an emergency arises in connection with the disposal operations, the
contractor may, with the authorization of the Town Council, dispose of
collected garbage and refuse in a manner agreed upon between the contractor and
the Town Council.
(Ord. 1977-16, passed 11-7-77)
§ 50.39 BID BOND REQUIREMENT. 
   Each bid shall be accompanied by a bid bond or certified check in the amount
of 5% of the bidder’s proposed total annual service charge. This bond shall be
forfeited if the bidder fails to enter into a contract within 30 days after he
or she is notified his or her bid has been accepted.
(Ord. 1977-16, passed 11-7-77)
§ 50.40 PERFORMANCE BOND REQUIREMENT.
   The contractor shall maintain a performance bond in an amount equal to one
full year contract service charge during the term of the contract, which bond
shall leave surety to the approval of the Town Council.
(Ord. 1977-16, passed 11-7-77)
§ 50.41 INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Worker’s compensation. The contractor shall take out and maintain,
during the term of his or her contract, worker’s compensation insurance for all
employees employed to carry out the terms of the contract. This insurance shall
conform to the requirements set forth in Sections 5, 68 and 69 of the Worker’s
Compensation Act, Burns Indiana Annotated Statutes Sections 40-1601 and 40-
1602. This insurance shall conform to all state law requirements, including,
but not limited to I.C. 22-3-5.
   (B)   Public liability and property damage. The contractor shall take out
and maintain during the term of the contract such public liability and property
damage insurance to protect him or her and any subcontractor performing work
under the contract from claims for damages for personal injury, including
accidental death, as well as from claims for property damage which may arise
from operations under the contract, whether such operations be by himself or
herself or any subcontractor or by anyone directly or indirectly employed by
either of them. The amounts of the insurance shall be as follows:
      (1)   Public liability insurance in an amount not less than $100,000 for
injuries, including accidental death to any one person, and subject to the same
limit for each person in an amount not less than $300,000 on account of one
accident; and
      (2)   Property damage in an amount of not less than $50,000.
   (C)   Certificate of insurance requirement. The contractor shall furnish the
town a certificate of compliance with all the foregoing insurance requirements.
Failure to do so is cause for immediate cancellation of the contract.
(Ord. 1977-16, passed 11-7-77)
§ 50.42 INDEMNITY REQUIREMENT.
   The contractor shall hold harmless from and indemnify the town against all
claims, suits, actions, costs, counsel fees, expenses, damages, judgments or
decrees by reason of any person or persons or property being damaged or injured
by the contractor or any of his or her subcontractors, or any person employed
under the contractor, or under any of his or her subcontractors, or in any
capacity during the progress of the services defined herein.
(Ord. 1977-16, passed 11-7-77)
§ 50.43 COLLECTION OF LARGE REFUSE ITEMS.
   (A)   The town shall provide collection services for large refuse items that
are not "garbage", "household rubbish" or "rubbish" items as defined in Ord.
1977-16.
   (B)   Individuals shall contact the town municipal office to request that
the town collect the large refuse items from their residence or business prior
to setting the large refuse item out for collection.
   (C)   Individuals shall be charged a fee for having the town collect the
large refuse item. This charge is in addition to the fee that is paid for the
collection of garbage, household rubbish and rubbish.
   (D)   The town shall determine the amount of fee to be charged for the
collection of the large refuse items. Said fees may be changed from time to
time by the Town Council. The current fee schedule shall be kept at the town
municipal office and is attached to Ord. 2014-7 and made a part of said
ordinance. Individuals shall pay the collection charge prior to having the
large refuse item being collected.
   (E)   In the event that individuals put large refuse items out for
collection prior to contacting the town municipal office requesting collection
of the same and before paying the collection charges as to the same, the town
shall place a notice on the door to the individual's residence and place a
notice on the individual's mailbox giving the individual a week to go to the
town municipal office to pay the collection charges.
   (F)   In the event that the individual fails to respond to the notice posted
on their door within a week, the town shall pick up the large refuse item the
next collection day and shall add the collection charge to the individual's
next utility bill.
(Ord. 2014-7, passed 5-12-14)
CHAPTER 51: WATER AND SEWER SERVICE
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Deposit for service
   
51.02   Regulations for customer deposits
   
51.03   Water meters
   
51.04   Damaged water lines and connections
   
51.05   Disconnection from down spouts from the sanitary sewer system
   
51.06   Sewage Collection Improvement Fund and Storm Collection Improvement
Fund established
   
51.07   Utilities outside the town
   
51.08   Delinquent utility bill procedure
   
51.09   Water rates and charges
   
51.10   Drilling for potable water wells prohibited
   
51.11   Contamination prevention
   
51.12   Water and sewer shut off procedure
Sewer Regulations
   
51.20   Definitions
   
51.21   Sewage disposal
   
51.22   Capping off sanitary sewer utility
   
51.23   Connection to sewer
   
51.24   Building sewer permits, construction and connection
   
51.25   Water and other waste drainage to sewers
   
51.26   Unauthorized use
   
51.27   Inspection permission
   
51.28   Violations
Sewer Rates and Charges
   
51.40   User classification
   
51.41   Determination of sewer rates and charges
   
51.42   Water usage
   
51.43   Strength and character of discharges
   
51.44   Billing
   
51.45   Rate study
   
51.46   By-laws and regulations
   
51.47   Special rate contracts
   
51.48   Appeals
   
51.49   No free service; annexation not required for service
   
51.50   Tap-in fees
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 DEPOSIT FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      UNCLAIMED DEPOSIT. A deposit that is held by the town is presumed to be
unclaimed if the property owner or tenant has not communicated in writing with
the town concerning the deposit or has not otherwise given any indication of
interest in the deposit within two years from the date in which the property
owner or tenant is entitled to receive said deposit.
   (B)   Property owners must make a deposit prior to having water service
connected to the property. When we install the meter we will begin charging for
water, sewage and stormwater.
   (C)   A property owner and a tenant must deposit prior to a tenant having
water service on the property.
   (D)   Before a tenant can get water service, an application must be filed at
the municipal office. The property owner shall also sign an application wherein
the property owner shall assume liability for utility charges incurred by the
tenant after the tenant’s deposit is applied.
(Ord. 2004-24, passed 11-22-04; Am. Res. 2004-28, passed 12-13-04)
§ 51.02 REGULATIONS FOR CUSTOMER DEPOSITS.
   (A)   If a resident moves from one property to another property located in
the corporate boundaries of the Town of Albany, Indiana, the property owner may
transfer their water deposit to the new property address.
   (B)   If a spouse dies and the deposit is in the deceased person’s name, the
deposit shall be transferred to the surviving spouse’s name at no additional
cost, provided the surviving spouse signs a new deposit card. If that spouse
remarries, the deposit amount will remain the same, but a new deposit card
needs to be signed.
   (C)   In the event of a divorce, the water deposit shall be refunded to the
person in whose name the water deposit is held. If one of the property owners
continues to live at that property, that person shall make a new deposit, at
the same amount of monies already on deposit.
   (D)   The Town Council shall set forth the amount of the water deposit owed
both property owners and the tenants. The deposit listing shall be kept and
maintained at the Municipal Office by the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
   (E)   In case of payment in full of the final utility bill, the Town Clerk
shall refund the water deposit to the property owner and/or tenant.
   (F)   In case of non-payment of the final utility bill, the tenant’s deposit
shall be applied to payment of water charges first, garbage and waste
collection fees second, waste water charges third and then to storm water
charges. If there is an unpaid balance, the property owner’s deposit shall be
used to cover the remaining balance of the final utility bill.
   (G)   The Town Clerk shall provide a listing of unclaimed water deposits to
the Town Council. The Council shall then give the Town Clerk-Treasurer the
authority to remove the unclaimed water deposit from the town’s water deposit
fund and to place the same in the town’s water operating funds.
   (H)   If a property owner (who is a landlord and owns more than one rental
property in the town) has provided a deposit on one premises, has a tenant at
another premises who has unpaid utility bills and has sold one of their
properties, the property owner’s deposit for the property being sold shall be
applied to any unpaid utility bills on any other premises owned by that
property owner.
(Ord. 2004-24, passed 11-22-04; Am. Ord. 2009-8, passed 6-8-09)
§ 51.03 WATER METERS.
   (A)   All residents and businesses within the town shall make the water
meters available to be read by town employees.
   (B)   In the event the meter is not accessible, then the Clerk-Treasurer
shall estimate the water usage at the highest volume for the past 12 months and
send a letter to the customer explaining why the bill was estimated.
   (C)   In the event the water meter has been estimated for a third time due
to inaccessibility, the Clerk-Treasurer shall take steps to disconnect the
service until such time as the water meter becomes accessible. The customer
shall be responsible for any fees associated with the reconnecting service.
   (D)   Owners and/or occupants of real estate shall be prohibited from
placing and maintaining obstructions on the town water meter located on their
real estate.
   (E)   The town shall have the following procedures in place when removing
said obstructions from the water meter:
      (1)   The town shall contact the owner and/or occupant of the real estate
to inform them that said obstructions shall be removed; and
      (2)   In the event that the town has determined that a water emergency
exists and the owner and/or occupant of the real estate is unable to be
contacted to remove said obstructions, the town shall have the right to enter
the real estate for the purpose of removing said obstructions
   (F)   The owner of the real estate shall be responsible for reimbursing the
town for all costs associated with removing obstructions from the town’s water
meter.
   (G)   (1)   Water meters shall be read during the middle of each month.
      (2)   Water meter readings may not occur when temperatures will be below
20°F or lower for the entire day scheduled for meter reading.
      (3)   The final determination as to when water meters shall be read shall
be made by the President of the Town Council.
      (4)   When it is determined that water meters cannot be read, then
consumption shall be estimated. Billing for estimated water usage services will
based upon the last three months average billing.
   (H)   In the event that a property owner owns real estate that has one meter
connection to the town’s water lines, regardless of how many buildings the
meter connection is feeding, the property owner shall be charged for only one
meter connection. At the time that said property is sold, a separate water
connection shall be required for the subsequent buildings that are currently
being fed from the town’s main water connection.
(Res. 1999-5, passed 4-12-99; Am. Ord. 2006-9, passed 4-24-06; Am. Ord. 2009-2,
passed 2-9-09; Am. Ord. 2011-27, passed 11-28-11)
§ 51.04 DAMAGED WATER LINES AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding division (B) of this section, water lines from the
water main to the pit, all water lines within the pit, including the water
meter, and one additional foot of water line from the pit to the building being
served shall be maintained in good repair at the expense of the Town, including
replacement if necessary because of damage, corrosion, or other deterioration,
provided such damage, corrosion, or other deterioration is not due to the fault
of the customer or owner of the property.
   (B)   Where a sidewalk is within one foot of the water meter pit, water
lines from the water main to the pit, all water lines within the pit, including
the water meter, and water lines existing beneath said sidewalk shall be
maintained in good repair one foot beyond the sidewalk at the expense of the
Town, including replacement if necessary because of damage, corrosion, or other
deterioration, provided such damage, corrosion, or other deterioration is not
due to the fault of the customer or owner of the property.
   (C)   Water lines from the point described in the division (A) or (B) of
this section to the building served shall be maintained and any leaks or other
defects shall be promptly repaired by and at the expense of the owner of the
property.
   (D)   If the meter is within the building served, the town will be
responsible only for lines to within three feet from the outside of the
building’s outer wall and for the meter itself, but not for any lines contained
within the structure.
(Res. 1988-7, passed 10-10-88; Am. Ord. 2016-6, passed 5-23-16)
§ 51.05 DISCONNECTION FROM DOWN SPOUTS FROM THE SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM.
   Any resident or business who does not comply with the sanitary sewer
regulations to disconnect all down spouts that empty into the sanitary sewer,
the town reserves the right to disconnect the water meter of the property that
fails to conform with these regulations, and the water meter will remain
disconnected until the property owner complies with the request to disconnect
the down spouts.
(Res. 1993-12, passed 8-23-93)
§ 51.06 SEWAGE COLLECTION IMPROVEMENT FUND AND STORM COLLECTION IMPROVEMENT
FUND ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is now established a Sewage Collection Improvement Fund and a
Storm Collection Improvement Fund.
   (B)   The source of revenue in the Sewage Collection Improvement Fund shall
be a loan from the town General Fund and the Albany C.C.I. Fund, along with any
grants and a U.S.D.A. Rural Development loan. Interest may be earned on the
account.
   (C)   The source of revenue in the Storm Collection Improvement Fund shall
be a loan from the town General Fund and the Albany C.C.I. Fund, along with any
grants and a loan from the Community Facility Program. Interest may be earned
on the account.
   (D)   The purposes of the two funds shall be to pay the various expenses for
the project. These funds shall be paid out after approval of the Town Council.
(Ord. 2000-8, passed 7-10-00)
§ 51.07 UTILITIES OUTSIDE THE TOWN.
   (A)   In the event that any utility owned and/or operated by the town shall
be requested for any property that exists outside the corporate boundaries of
the city, the owner must execute an agreement that so long as the real estate
shall be connected to the utility the owner will not file or remonstrate
against any proposed annexation of the real estate.
   (B)   The agreement shall also contain a provision that the persons owning
or occupying the real estate will agree for themselves, their executors, their
administrators, their heirs, devisees, grantees, successors, and assigns from
bidding them from objecting the annexation proceedings.
   (C)   All agreements for utility hookup and annexation waiver shall be
recorded with the Delaware County Recorder and made a part of the title of the
real estate.
(Res. 2001-01, passed 3-26-01)
§ 51.08 DELINQUENT UTILITY BILL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   On morning after the mid-month due date, after checking the night
deposit box and online payments, the office of the Albany Clerk-Treasurer or
designates will prepare a list of all accounts delinquent for the month. NOTE:
A utility customer may ask for an extension under provisions listed in division
(E) below.
   (B)   The office of the Albany Clerk-Treasurer shall impose a 10% penalty on
all delinquent amounts except for garbage.
   (C)   On the morning after the last day of the month, after checking the
night deposit box and online payments, the office of the Albany Clerk-Treasurer
or designates will prepare a list of all accounts delinquent for the month and
a shut off list will be generated.
   (D)   The office of the Albany Clerk-Treasurer shall impose a $35 disconnect
fee on accounts added to the disconnect list for non-payment. This fee shall be
imposed at the time the list is prepared regardless of whether the water is
disconnected or not. See division (G) below for residences that have sewage
only.
   (E)   A town utility customer who does not believe he or she can pay his or
her utility bill when due may seek additional time for payment. The request for
additional time for payment of the utility bill must be made before the Town
Council of Albany, Indiana during a regularly scheduled Town Council meeting or
by contacting the Clerk-Treasurer if attendance at a Council meeting is not
possible.
   (F)   If a town utility customer does not seek additional time for payment
of the utility bill, or is not granted additional time for payment, the town
will disconnect the water service to his or her residence or business. This
disconnect will take place during normal business hours of the Albany Municipal
Office.
   (G)   If it is necessary to disconnect a Sanitary Sewer Utility for non-
payment, the reconnection fee will consist of the actual cost of material and
labor.
   (H)   In order to reinstate the services, a utility customer of the town
must pay his or her town utility account in full, including a reconnect fee and
penalties. After the unpaid utility account and reconnect fee has been paid,
the Town Utility workers will reinstate the services. This reinstatement of
services shall take place during normal business hours at the Albany Municipal
Office. If payment is received by noon, service will be reinstated that day by
the end of business hours. If payment is received after noon, the service may
not be reinstated until the next working day.
(Ord. 2009-11, passed 9-14-09; Am. Ord. 2011-3, passed 4-11-11; Am. Ord. 2011-
11, passed 8-5-11; Am. Ord. 2019-18, passed 11-25-19)
§ 51.09 WATER RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Water rates and charges shall be based on the quantity of water used
on or in the property or premises subject to such rates and charges, as the
water meter there measures the same in use.
   (B)   For the use of and the service rendered by the town’s water works,
rates and charges shall be collected from the owners of each and every lot,
parcel of real estate or building that is connected with the town water system.
The rate and charges shall be payable as hereinafter provided and shall be in
an amount determinable as follows:
      (1)   Effective July 1, 2015:
 
Quantity of Water Used Per Month Charge Per 1,000 Gallons
First 2,000 gallons              $3.55 (included in minimum charge)
Next 3,000 gallons               $6.94
Next 5,000 gallons               $6.26
Next 20,000 gallons              $4.25
Over 30,000 gallons              $3.46
   Minimum charge $19.40 per month.*
 
* Minimum monthly charge consists of $3.95 water tower maintenance, $4.60 debt
repayment, $3.75 depreciation, and $7.10 for 2,000 gallons of water.
      (2)   Effective July 1, 2016:
 
Quantity of Water Used Per Month Charge Per 1,000 Gallons
First 2,000 gallons              $3.66
Next 3,000 gallons               $7.15
Next 5,000 gallons               $6.45
Next 20,000 gallons              $4.38
Over 30,000 gallons              $3.56
   Minimum charge $19.62 per month.*
 
* Minimum monthly charge consists of $3.95 water tower maintenance, $4.60 debt
repayment, $3.75 depreciation, and $7.32 for 2,000 gallons of water.
      (3)   Effective July 1, 2017
 
Quantity of Water Used Per Month Charge Per 1,000 Gallons
First 2,000 gallons              $3.77
Next 3,000 gallons               $7.36
Next 5,000 gallons               $6.64
Next 20,000 gallons              $4.51
Over 30,000 gallons              $3.67
   Minimum charge $19.84 per month.*
 
* Minimum monthly charge consists of $3.95 water tower maintenance, $4.60 debt
repayment, $3.75 depreciation, and $7.54 for 2,000 gallons of water.
   (4)   Effective July 1, 2018:
 
Quantity of Water Used Per Month Charge Per 1,000 Gallons
First 2,000 gallons              $3.88
Next 3,000 gallons               $7.58
Next 5,000 gallons               $6.84
Next 20,000 gallons              $4.65
Over 30,000 gallons              $3.78
   Minimum charge $20.06 per month.*
 
* Minimum monthly charge consists of $3.95 water tower maintenance, $4.60 debt
repayment, $3.75 depreciation, and $7.76 for 2,000 gallons of water.
   (5)   Effective July 1, 2019:
 
Quantity of Water Used Per Month Charge Per 1,000 Gallons
First 2,000 gallons              $4.00
Next 3,000 gallons               $7.81
Next 5,000 gallons               $7.05
Next 20,000 gallons              $4.79
Over 30,000 gallons              $3.89
   Minimum charge $20.30 per month.*
 
* Minimum monthly charge consists of $3.95 water tower maintenance, $4.60 debt
repayment, $3.75 depreciation, and $8.00 for 2,000 gallons of water.
   (C)   Each property owner, renter or land contract purchaser shall be
charged the sum of $19.20 per month. This is the minimum amount and includes
the first 2,000 gallons of water used. This charge shall be assessed to each
property that has a water connection whether the service is active or inactive.
   (D)   Persons purchasing metered water from hydrants and the like in
quantity (i.e. tankers and the like) shall be billed at two and one-half times
the regular rate plus a $10 connection fee for each individual purchase. See
April 25, 2005 minutes for interpretation.
   (E)   Albany-Delaware Township Volunteer Firefighters using water for
firefighting purposes or washing fire trucks and rescue units are exempt from
water charges.
   (F)   The connection charge shall be $850 for five-eighths inch and three-
fourth inch meters. Actual cost will be charged for meters larger than three-
fourths inch but not less than $850. This charge is to be assessed to all water
meters even if more than one meter is installed in the same pit that serves
more than one customer. Residents who request a double water meter pit with two
meters (i.e. one meter used for sprinkling and the like) in the pit will be
charged $1,100 connection charge and will be billed for the usage subject to
the monthly minimum charge even though there is no water used during the period
the meter is read.
   (G)   When a meter is moved by request, the owner shall be charged actual
cost of moving. This is to be determined by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (H)   Municipal hydrants per month: $1,238.25 (127 @ $9.75), $14,859 per
annum.
   (I)   Private hydrants per hydrant: $156 per annum.
   (J)   Automatic sprinkler: $156 per annum.
   (K)   Reconnection fee shall be $35 after disconnection for non-payment. In
cases where a customer has moved out, the new customer does not have to pay the
reconnection fee. A fee of $5 applies for reconnection when the disconnection
is requested by the customer (such as gone for the winter).
   (L)   Payment by a check, which is dishonored at a bank, will be treated as
non-payment. Penalties will apply and water services will be turned off. An
additional charge of $27.50 will be added for each dishonored check. After
receipt of second check for utilities is returned for insufficient funds, that
party is placed on a cash or money order only method of payment, indefinitely.
(See March 22, 2006 minutes).
   (M)   The Town Council shall have the authority to increase or decrease the
amounts being transferred to the Water Depreciation Fund or Water Bond and
Interest Fund each month. This is to be done by vote at a regularly scheduled
council meeting.
   (N)   The meter pit and contents are the property of the town. Any owner/
renter/land contract purchaser or agent of same found to have entered the pit
without notifying the town will be fined the sum of $150. Subsequent tampering
and/or damage will be assessed and repaired by the town with the resulting
charges billed to the customer. Emergency circumstances or situations requiring
an unauthorized breach of the meter pit, where notification of the town is not
possible, will be addressed by the Town Council to determine liability of the
customer and the amount of fine and/or charges should any occur.
   (O)   Any owner/renter/land contract purchaser or agent of same, who has
been found responsible for unauthorized restoration of water service, will be
subject to a fine of $150, the cost of any repairs and utility charges
calculated at a three month average for the period of unauthorized use.
Notification will be sent to the property owner and/or renter detailing the
fine, repair costs and water usage charges.
   (P)   See Ordinance 2006-9 for water meter obstructions and Ordinance 1998-
21 for billing procedures due to obstructions.
   (Q)   (1)   For all new residential customers and business customers, an
initial deposit to begin utility service is required. The town shall monitor
the usage of the occupied property for a three month period of time to
determine an average usage amount. If the amount of the three month average
usage exceeds the initial deposit amount, then the account holder shall pay the
difference between the initial deposit amount and the three month average
amount as an additional deposit. Future reviews may become necessary should
exceptional sustained monthly usage amounts exceed the established deposit
amount.
      (2)   Failure to pay the additional amount by the customer will result in
shut off of the service 14 business days after notice.
      (3)   Initial deposits shall be as follows:
         (a)   Residential customers: $150.00
         (b)   Business deposits shall be determined by the Town Council based
on type of business and estimated consumption.
      (4)   Initial deposits shall be made before service is established at
residential properties.
      (5)   Property owners shall advise the Town Clerk-Treasurer's Office in
writing of any change of address for notification of possible liens.
   (R)   The boys and girls Little Leagues are allowed the first 3,000 gallons
of water free per month. They will be billed for water usage over the 3,000
gallons.
   (S)   As is provided by statute, all rates and charges not paid when due are
hereby declared to be delinquent and a penalty of 10% of the amount of the
rates of charges shall thereupon attach thereto. The time at which such rates
shall be paid is now fixed at 15 days after the date of mailing the bill. (See
Ordinance 2008-14 for delinquent bill procedure.)
   (T)   A customer may have an adjustment to both their water utility billing
and their sanitary sewer billing after making repairs for a water leak. The
adjustment may be granted one time per year. This adjustment must be requested
by the customer in writing within 90 days of leak detection. All prior
unrequested adjustments that are over 90 days old will not be allowed unless
the Town Council makes an exception at the owner’s request in a Town Council
meeting. The adjustment is based on an average of the past three months’ bills.
In addition, an adjustment may be given on the sanitary sewage billing only for
water leaks or usage that does not go back into the sanitary sewage system
(i.e. leaks in lines, filling pools or watering lawns when not on summer sewage
rates). The customer, in all situations, must request an adjustment. An
adjustment will not be granted without a request from the customer.
   (U)   Dead meters are billed an average of last three months when meter last
worked.
   (V)   In the event of cold weather, the town shall reserve the right to
determine when it will replace a water meter. The Water Superintendent will
make this decision.
(Ord. 2010-15, passed 12-28-10; Am. Ord. 2011-8, passed 6-13-11; Am. Ord. 2011-
17, passed 9-12-11; Am. Ord. 2011-29, passed 11-28-11; Am. Ord. 2011-33, passed
1-23-12; Am. Ord. 2013-26, passed 1-13-14; Am. Ord. 2014-16, passed 8-25-14;
Am. Ord. 2015-13, passed 5-26-15; Am. Ord. 2016-2, passed 1-25-16; Am Ord.
2018-12, passed 7-30-18; Am. Ord. 2018-18, passed 11-26-18)
§ 51.10 DRILLING FOR POTABLE WATER WELLS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      WATER WELL. Any system used to pump, access or otherwise bring to the
surface underground sources of water existing under, upon or within the
confines of any premises located within the corporate boundaries of the town,
for the purpose of human consumption or other use, and which device is
installed after the effective date of this section.
   (B)   The installation of any private water well intended for potable human
consumption upon any premises located within the town is prohibited, provided
that the installation shall not include the redrilling of any well existing at
the time of the passage of this section, subject to provisions of division (C).
   (C)   No person, including any corporation, partnership or association,
shall drill or otherwise install any water well within the town in violation of
this section. Violations of this section shall be punishable by a fine not to
exceed $500. Each day that such person continues to operate any such water well
which has been installed in violation of the terms of this section is deemed to
be a continuing and separate violation.
   (D)   Any well not intended for human potable purpose, the redrilling of any
existing well, or any potable private water well not otherwise provided for
within division (B), may be installed within the town, subject to the following
requirement: Such well must be installed and screened in the deep aquifer
beneath the regional till. Drilling techniques to prevent drawing potentially
impacted ground water from the shallow aquifer to a deeper depth must be used
when installing any such well. Geological observation must be made and
supported with documentation to confirm that the well is installed and screened
below the confining till.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as requiring the town or
the town water utility to install or provide any water improvements or service
to any person or premises which are not otherwise currently in existence at the
time of passage of this section.
(Ord. 2011-22, passed 9-26-11)
§ 51.11 CONTAMINATION PREVENTION.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CROSS CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement between two
otherwise separate systems, one of which contains potable water from the town
water system, and the other, water from a private source, water of unknown or
questionable safety, or steam, gas, or chemicals, whereby there may be a flow
from one system to the other, the direction of flow depending on the pressure
differential between the two systems.
   (B)   No person, firm, or corporation shall establish or permit to be
established or maintain or permit to be maintained any cross connection. No
interconnection shall be established whereby potable water from a private,
auxiliary, or emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply
of the town may enter the supply or distribution system of the municipality,
unless the private, auxiliary, or emergency water supply and the method of
connection and use of the supply shall have been approved by the town water
utility and by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management in accordance
with 327 IAC 8-10.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the town to cause inspections to be made of
all properties served by the public water system where cross connections with
the public water system is deemed possible. The frequency of inspections and
re-inspections based on potential health hazards involved shall be established
by the town.
   (D)   Upon presentation of credentials, the representative of the town shall
have the right to request entry at any reasonable time to examine the property
served by a connection to the public water system of the town for cross
connections. On request, the owner, lessee, or occupant of any property so
served shall furnish to the inspection agency any pertinent information
regarding the piping system or systems on the property. The refusal of access
or refusal of requested pertinent information shall be deemed evidence of the
presence of cross connections.
   (E)   The town water utility is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue water service to any property wherein any connection in violation
of this section exists, and to take such other precautionary measures deemed
necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water system.
Water service shall be discontinued only after reasonable notice is served on
the owner, lessee, or occupants of the property or premises where a violation
is found or suspected to exist. Water service to such property shall not be
restored until the cross connection(s) has been eliminated in compliance with
the provisions of this section.
   (F)   If it is deemed by the town water utility that a cross connection or
an emergency endangers public health, safety, or welfare and requires immediate
action, and a written finding to that effect is filed with the Clerk of the
town and delivered to the consumer’s premises, service may be immediately
discontinued. The consumer shall have an opportunity for hearing within ten
days of the emergency discontinuance.
   (G)   All consumers using toxic or hazardous liquids, all hospitals,
mortuaries, wastewater treatment plants, laboratories, and all other hazardous
users shall install and maintain a reduced pressure principal backflow
preventer in the main water line serving each building on the premises. The
backflow preventer must be installed in an easily accessible location not
subject to flooding or freezing.
   (H)   The reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall not be
installed below ground level. Backflow preventer should be installed inside of
the customers building past the water shut off valve.
   (I)   This section does not supersede the Indiana Plumbing Code or the IDEM
Rule 327 IAC 8-10, but is supplementary to them.
   (J)   In addition to IDEM Rule 327 IAC 8-10- 4(c), the following customer
facilities need a backflow prevention device:
      (1)   Aircraft and missile manufacturing plants.
      (2)   Automotive plants, including those plants that manufacture
motorcycles, automobiles, trucks, recreational vehicles, and construction and
agricultural equipment.
      (3)   Beverage bottling plants, including dairies and breweries.
      (4)   Canneries, packing houses, and reduction plants.
      (5)   Car washes.
      (6)   Chemical, biological, and radiological laboratories, including
those in high schools, trade schools, colleges, universities, and research
institutions.
      (7)   Hospitals, clinics, medical buildings, autopsy facilities, morgues,
other medical facilities, and mortuaries.
      (8)   Metal and plastic manufacturing, fabricating, cleaning, plating,
and processing facilities.
      (9)   Plants manufacturing paper and paper products.
      (10)   Plants manufacturing, refining, compounding, or processing
fertilizer, film, herbicides, natural or synthetic rubber, pesticides,
petroleum or petroleum products, pharmaceuticals, radiological materials, or
any chemical that could be a contaminant to the public water supply.
      (11)   Commercial facilities that use herbicides, pesticides, or any
chemical that could be a contaminant to the public water supply.
      (12)   Plants processing, blending, or refining animal, vegetable, or
mineral oils.
      (13)   Commercial laundries and dye works, excluding coin-operated
laundromats.
      (14)   Sewage, storm water, and industrial waste treatment plants and
pumping stations.
      (15)   Waterfront facilities, including piers, docks, marinas, and
shipyards.
      (16)   Industrial facilities that recycle water.
      (17)   Restricted or classified facilities (federal government defense or
military installations), or other facilities closed to the supplier of water or
to the commissioner.
   (K)   That if, in the judgment of the Superintendent of Water or the
Superintendent of Public Works, an approved backflow prevention device is
necessary for the safety of the public water system, the Superintendent of
Water or the Superintendent of Public Works will give notice to the water
consumer to install such an approved device immediately. The water consumer
shall, at his or her own expense, install such an approved device at a location
and in a manner approved by the Superintendent of Water or the Superintendent
of Public Works and shall have inspections and tests made of the approved
devices as required by the Superintendent of Water or the Superintendent of
Public Works and in accordance with the IDEM Rule 327 IAC 8-10.
(Ord. 2012-3, passed 3-12-12)
§ 51.12 WATER AND SEWER SHUT OFF PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The following procedure shall apply to utility disconnections due to
delinquent accounts.
      (1)   The office of the Clerk- Treasurer shall provide notice to
delinquent customers via USPS and/or email on accounts that are delinquent on
the day that late penalties are incurred. The notice shall also inform the
customer that they are entitled to an opportunity to request to be heard by the
Council at its next regularly scheduled meeting, before water service is
actually disconnected. The Council will make a determination on disconnection
after hearing the customer’s reason for late or non-payment.
      (2)   In the event that the customer does not request the opportunity to
be heard by the Council, and does not pay the amount due by the statement date,
the town shall take actions to disconnect that water service.
   (B)   The following procedure shall apply to utility disconnections
requested by the customer.
      (1)   A customer may request that water and/or sewer services be
disconnected by the town during normal business hours of the Municipal Office
until one hour prior to the normally scheduled closing time of the office. No
fee shall be assessed for a requested disconnection which takes place during
these business hours.
      (2)   A customer may request that water and/or sewer services be
disconnected by the town outside of normal business hours of the Municipal
Office. A fee in the amount of $50 may be assessed for a requested
disconnection that takes place outside of the hours listed in division (B)(1).
      (3)   Notwithstanding any other provisions, the fee described in §
51.09(K) for re- connections shall apply in all cases in which the
disconnection was requested by the customer.
(Ord. 2012-24, passed 10-8-12; Am. Ord. 2018- 12, passed 7-30-18)
SEWER REGULATIONS
§ 51.20 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms
used in this subchapter shall be as follows.
   B.O.D. (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure to
five days at 20C., expressed in parts per million by weight.
   BUILDING DRAIN.  That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER.  The extension from the building drain to the public sewer
or other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER.  A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food,
and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial processes as
distinguished from sanitary sewage.
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the town, through its
Town Council, to inspect and approve the installation of sewers and their
connection to the public sewer system.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   NATURAL OUTLET.  Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than 1/2-inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER.  A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWER.  A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE.  Combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface, and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS.  All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and
disposing of sewage.
   SEWER.  A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters
and drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
   SUPERINTENDENT.  The superintendent of the municipal sewage works of the
town or his or her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS.  Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Ord. 2010-6, passed 8-9-10)
§ 51.21 SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in an unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any human or animal
excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, and sanitary sewage,
industrial waste, or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has
been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault,
septic tank, cesspool, or other facilities intended or used for the disposal of
sewage.
   (D)   (1)   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes situated within the town,
and abutting any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or
may in the future be located in a public sewer or combined sewer of the town,
is hereby required at his or her expense to install suitable toilet facilities
therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer
in accordance with §
51.21(E)(2).
      (2)   All sewer lines and connections up to the property line of the
property served shall be maintained in good repair at the expense of the Town,
including replacement if necessary because of damage, corrosion, or other
deterioration, provided such damage, corrosion, or other deterioration is not
due to the fault of the customer or owner of the property. Any such sewer lines
and/or connections which are damaged by the property owner shall be repaired or
replaced by the town at the expense of the property owner.
      (3)   All sewer lines and connections from the property line of the
property served to the building shall be maintained in good repair at the
expense of the property owner.
   (E)   (1)   The town as a municipal sanitary sewer operator shall have the
ability to require property owners whose property is located within 300 feet of
the town’s sanitary sewer system to do the following:
         (a)   Connect to the town’s sanitary sewer system: and
         (b)   Discontinue use of privies, cesspools, septic tanks and similar
structures servicing the property.
      (2)   The town shall give property owners whose property is located
within 300 feet of the town’s sanitary sewer system notification 90 days before
the property owner is required to connect to the town’s sanitary sewer system.
The town shall take all steps necessary to enforce and collect said penalties
and to enforce the required connection.
      (3)   The town establishes a penalty in the sum of $10 per day for
property owners who refuse to connect to the town’s sanitary sewer system on
the date that the property owner is to connect to the town’s sanitary sewer
system.
      (4)   The town shall begin billing property owners sanitary sewer fees
after the date that the property owner is required to complete connection to
the town’s sanitary sewer system. The property owner who does not connect to
the town’s sanitary sewer system shall be billed as an unmetered water user and
shall be assessed a flat fee as set forth in the town’s current sanitary sewer
rate ordinance.
(Ord. 2010-6, passed 8-9-10; Am. Ord. 2016-6, passed 5-23-16)
§ 51.22 CAPPING OFF SANITARY SEWER UTILITY.
   The procedure for capping off the sanitary sewer utility to a property shall
be as follows:
   (A)   The sanitary sewer shall be capped off at the property line.
   (B)   The property owner shall contact the town to notify the town that the
sanitary sewer has been capped off at the property line, prior to backfilling
dirt.
   (C)   A representative of the town shall perform an inspection of the
property to verify that the sanitary sewer has been capped off at the property
line.
   (D)   In the event that the sanitary sewer line serves more than one
property, the sanitary sewer shall be capped off at a point that will not cut
off service to other properties being served by the same line.
   (E)   In the event a person wants to have a property receive sanitary sewer
services after the sanitary sewer has been capped, the person shall pay the
tap-in fee prior to the sanitary sewer services being restored to the property.
(Ord. 2010-6, passed 8-9-10)
§ 51.23 CONNECTION TO SEWER.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
51.21(D), the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with all recommendations of the Indiana State Board of Health.
   (B)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system as provided in §
51.21(D), a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this subchapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private
sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned.
   (C)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the town.
   (D)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the local Health
Officer.
(Ord. 2010-6, passed 8-9-10)
§ 51.24 BUILDING SEWER PERMITS, CONSTRUCTION AND CONNECTION.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits: (1) for
residential and commercial service; and (2) for service to establishments
producing industrial waste. In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall
make the application on a special form furnished by the town. The permit
applications shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the Inspector.
   (C)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner or the person
installing the building sewer for the owner shall indemnify the town from any
loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation.
   (D)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjacent alley, court, yard, or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
   (E)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found on examination and test by the Inspector to meet all
requirements of this subchapter.
   (F)   The building sewer shall be cast iron soil pipe, ASTM specification or
equal; vitrified clay sewer pipe, ASTM specification or equal; or other
suitable material approved by the Inspector. Joints shall be tight and water-
proof. Any part of the building sewer that is located within ten feet of the
water service pipe shall be constructed of cast iron soil pipe with leaded
joints. Cast iron pipes with leaded joints may be required by the Inspector
where the building sewer is exposed to damage by tree roots. If installed in
filled or unstable ground, the building sewer shall be of cast iron soil pipe,
except that non- metallic material may be accepted if laid on a suitable
concrete bed or cradle as approved by the Inspector.
   (G)   The size and slope of the building sewers shall be subject to the
approval of the Inspector, but in no event shall the diameter be less than six
inches. The slope of the six-inch pipe shall be not less than 1/8-inch per
foot.
   (H)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall be laid
parallel to or within three feet of any bearing wall, which might thereby be
weakened.
   (I)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drains shall
be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the building sewer. No
water-operated sewage ejector shall be used.
   (J)   All excavations required for the installation of a building sewer
shall be open trench work unless otherwise approved by the Inspector. Pipe
laying and backfill shall be performed in accordance with ASTM specifications
except that no backfill shall be placed until the work has been inspected by
the Inspector or his or her representative.
   (K)   (1)   All joints and connections shall be made gas tight and water
tight. Cast iron pipe joints shall be firmly packed with oakum or hemp and
filled with molten lead, Federal Specification QQL-156, not less than one inch
deep. Lead shall be run in one pouring and calked tight. No paint, varnish, or
other coatings shall be permitted on the jointing material until after the
joint has been tested and approved.
      (2)   All joints in vitrified clay pipe or between such pipe and metals
shall be made with approved jointing material in accordance with the latest
edition of Volume III, Plumbing Rules and Regulations of the Administrative
Building Council of the State of Indiana.
      (3)   Other jointing materials and methods may be used only by approval
of the Inspector.
   (L)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be
made at the “Y” branch, if such branch is available at a suitable location. If
the public sewer is 12 inches in diameter or his expense to install a “Y”
branch in the public sewer at the location specified by the Inspector. Where
the public sewer is greater than 12 inches in diameter, and no properly located
“Y” branch is available, a neat hole may be cut in the public sewer to receive
the building sewer, with entry in the downstream direction at an angle of about
45. A 45 ell may be used to make the connection, with the spigot end cut so as
not to extend past the inner surface of the public sewer. The invert of the
building sewer at the point of connection shall be at the same or at a higher
elevation than the invert of the public sewer. A smooth neat joint shall be
made, and the connection made secure and water tight by encasement in concrete.
Special fittings may be used for the connection only when approved by the
Inspector.
   (M)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Inspector
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Inspector or
his or her representative.
   (N)   All excavations for building sewer installations shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazards.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
(Ord. 2010-6, passed 8-9-10)
§ 51.25 WATER AND OTHER WASTE DRAINAGE TO SEWERS.
   (A)   Except as hereinafter provided, no persons shall discharge or cause to
be discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any public
sewer:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150 F.;
      (2)   Any water or waste which may contain more than 100 parts per
million, by weight, of fat, oil, or grease;
      (3)   Any water or waste which may contain more than 25 parts per
million, by weight, or soluble oil;
      (4)   Any gasoline, benzine, naptha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (5)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
      (6)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure, or any other solid or viscous
substance, capable of obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference
with the proper operation of the sewage works;
      (7)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.0 or higher than 9.0,
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works;
      (8)   Any water from waste containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or create any hazard in the receiving
waters of the sewage treatment plant; and
      (9)   Any waters or waste containing suspended solids of such character
and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle such
materials at the sewage disposal plant.
   (D)   (1)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when in the
opinion of the Inspector, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
waste containing grease in excessive amount, or any flammable wastes, sand, and
other harmful ingredients, except that such interceptors shall not be required
for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a
type and capacity approved by the Inspector and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
      (2)   Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious
materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature.
They shall be of substantial construction, water tight, and equipped with
easily accessible covers for cleaning and inspection.
   (E)   Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously efficient
operation at all times.
   (F)   The admission into the public sewers of any waters or wastes having a
five-day BOD greater than 400 parts per million by weight, or containing more
than 450 parts per million by weight of suspended solids, or containing any
quantity of substances having the characteristics described in §
51.25(C), or having an average daily flow greater than 2% of the average daily
sewage flow of the town, shall be subject to the review and approval of the
Inspector. Where necessary in the opinion of the Inspector, the owner shall
provide at his or her expense the preliminary treatment as may be necessary to
reduce the BOD to 400 parts per million and the suspended solids to 450 parts
per million by weight, or reduce objectionable characteristics or constituents
to within the maximum limits provided for in §
51.25(C), or control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or
wastes. Plans, specifications, and any other pertinent information relating to
proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval
of the Inspector and of the Indiana State Board of Health, and no construction
of such facilities shall be commenced until the approval is obtained in
writing.
   (G)   Where preliminary treatment facilities are provided for any waters or
wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective
operation, by the owner at his or her expense.
   (H)   When required by the Inspector, the owner of any property served by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole in the building sewer to facilitate observation sampling and
measurement of the wastes. The manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the Inspector. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense, and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
   (I)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in §
51.25(C) and (F) shall be determined in accordance with Standard Methods for
the Examination of Water and Sewage and shall be determined at the control
manhole provided for in §
51.25(H) or upon suitable samples taken at the manhole. In the event that no
special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to
be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the
building sewer is connected.
   (J)   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the town and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the town for treatment, subject to payment therefor by the
industrial concern.
(Ord. 2010-6, passed 8-9-10)
§ 51.26 UNAUTHORIZED USE.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently
break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure,
appurtenance, or equipment which is a part of the municipal sewage works. Any
person violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under
charge of disorderly conduct.
   (B)   No person shall enter into any sanitary sewer or storm water sewer
manhole, meter pit, or water line at any time, except as authorized by the
town. Any person violating this provision shall be subject to a fine of not
less than $500 per occurrence, which may be billed to the customer according to
§
51.44.
(Ord. 2010-6, passed 8-9-10; Am. Ord. 2016-6, passed 5-23-16)
§ 51.27 INSPECTION PERMISSION.
   The Inspector, and other duly authorized employees of the town bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter upon all
properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
and testing, in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2010-6, passed 8-9-10)
§ 51.28 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this subchapter
except §
51.26 shall be served by the town with written notice stating the nature of the
violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction
thereof. The offender shall, within the period of the time stated in the
notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in division (A) shall be fined in an amount not to exceed $50 per
each violation. Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall be
deemed a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person that is determined to have violated this subchapter, in
addition to any penalties, fines or equitable relief granted by the Court,
shall also be responsible to the town for any expenses, loss, damage, fine,
penalty and/or attorney fees incurred by the town by reason of said violation
(Ord. 2010-6, passed 8-9-10)
SEWER RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.40 USER CLASSIFICATION.
   (A)   Every person whose premises are served by said sewage works shall be
charged for services provided. These charges are established for each user
class, as defined, in order that the sewage works shall recover, from each user
and user class, revenue which is proportional to its use of the treatment works
in terms of volume and load. User charges are levied to defray the cost of
operation and maintenance (including replacement) of the treatment works. User
charges shall be uniform in magnitude within a user class.
   (B)   User charges are subject to the rules and regulations adopted by the
United States Protection Agency. Replacement costs, which are recovered through
the system of user charges, shall be based upon the expected service life of
the sewage works equipment.
   (C)   The various classes of users of the treatment works for the purposes
of this subchapter, shall be as follows:
      (1)   Class 1 - Residential;
      (2)   Class 2 - Commercial;
      (3)   Class 3 - Governmental/Institutional;
      (4)   Class 4 - Industrial.
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 5-2-05)
§ 51.41 DETERMINATION OF SEWER RATES AND CHARGES.
   For the use of and the service rendered by sewage works, rates and charges
shall be collected from the owners of each and every lot, parcel of real estate
or building that is connected with the town sanitary system or otherwise
discharges sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquids, either
directly or indirectly, into the sanitary sewerage system of the town. Such
rate and charges include user charges, debt service costs, excessive strength
surcharges and other service charges, which rates and charges shall be payable
as hereinafter provided and shall be in an amount determinable as follows:
   (A)   (1)   The sewage rates and charges shall be based on the quantity of
water used on or in the property or premises subject to such rates and charges,
as the same is measured by the water meter there in use, plus a base charge,
except as herein otherwise provided. For the purpose of billing and collecting
the charges for sewage service, the water meters shall be read monthly (or
period equaling a month). The water usage schedule on which the amount of said
rates and charges shall be determined is as follows for the period of September
1, 2015 through August 31, 2016:
         (a)   Residential users.
            1.   Base rate: $30.68 per month; and
            2.   Flow charge: $5.15 per 1,000 gallons used per month.
         (b)    Commercial/governmental/institutional/industrial users.
            1.   Base rate per month as follows:
               a.   3/4 or 5/8-inch meter: $30.68
               b.    One-inch meter: $83.50
               c.   1 1/2-inch meter: $179.54
               d.    Two-inch meter: $278.21
               e.    Three- and four-inch meter:                 $524.58
            2.   Flow charge: $5.15 per 1,000 gallons used per month.
         (c)   Industrial users who pretreat and who use more than 30,000
gallons per month.
            1.   Base rate per month as follows:
               a.   3/4 or 5/8-inch meter: $30.68
               b.    One-inch meter: $83.50
               c.   1 1/2-inch meter: $179.54
               d.    Two-inch meter: $278.21
               e.    Three- and four-inch meter:                 $524.58
            2.   Flow charge: $.83 per 1,000 gallons used per month.
      (2)   The sewage rates and charges shall be based on the quantity of
water used on or in the property or premises subject to such rates and charges,
as the water meter there measures the same in use, plus a base charge, except
as herein otherwise provided. For the purpose of billing and collecting the
charges for sewage service, the water meters shall be read monthly (or period
equaling a month). The water usage schedule on which the amount of said rates
and charges shall be determined is as follows for the period of September 1,
2016 through August 31, 2017:
         (a)   Residential users.
            1.   Base rate: 35.68 per month; and
            2.   Flow charge: $5.15 per 1,000 gallons used per month.
         (b)    Commercial/governmental/institu- tional/industrial users.
            1.   Base rate per month as follows:
               a.   3/4 or 5/8-inch meter: $35.68
               b.    One-inch meter: $88.50
               c.   1 1/2-inch meter: $184.54
               d.    Two-inch meter: $283.21
               e.    Three- and four-inch meters: $529.58   
            2.   Flow charge: $5.15 per 1,000 gallons used per month.
         (c)   Industrial users who pretreat and who use more than 30,000
gallons per month.
            1.   Base rate per month as follows:
               a.   3/4 or 5/8-inch meter: $35.68
               b.    One-inch meter: $88.50
               c.   1 1/2-inch meter: $184.54
               d.    Two-inch meter: $283.21
               e.    Three- and four-inch meters: $529.58   
            2.   Flow charge: $.83 per 1,000 gallons used per month.
      (3)   The sewage rates and charges shall be based on the quantity of
water used on or in the property or premises subject to such rates and charges,
as the water meter there measures the same in use, plus a base charge, except
as herein otherwise provided. For the purpose of billing and collecting the
charges for sewage service, the water meters shall be read monthly (or period
equaling a month). The water usage schedule on which the amount of said rates
and charges shall be determined is as follows for the period beginning
September 1, 2017:
         (a)   Residential users.
            1.   Base rate of $35.68 per month; and
            2.   Flow charge of $7.75 per 1,000 gallons used per month.
         (b)    Commercial/governmental/institutional/industrial users.
            1.   Base rate per month as follows:
               a.   3/4 or 5/8-inch meter: $35.68
               b.    One-inch meter: $88.50;
               c.   1 1/2-inch-meter: $184.54
               d.    Two-inch meter: $283.21
               e.    Three- and four-inch meters: $529.58
            2.   Flow charge: $7.75 per 1,000 gallons used per month.
         (c)   Industrial users who pretreat and who use more than 30,000
gallons per month.
            1.   Base rate per month as follows:
               a.   3/4 or 5/8-inch meter: $35.68
               b.    One- inch meter: $88.50
               c.   1 1/2-inch meter: $184.54
               d.    Two-inch meter: $283.21
               e.    Three- and four-inch meters: $529.58
            2.   Flow charge: $1.16 per 1,000 gallons used per month.
   (B)   For residential users of the sewage works that are unmetered water
users or accurate meter readings are not available, residential users shall be
assessed a flat fee. Sewage service bills shall be rendered once each month (or
period equaling a month). The schedule on which said rate and charges shall be
determined is as follows:
      Flat fee: $54.01 per month
   (C)   For service rendered to the Town of Albany, said town shall be subject
to the same rates and charges provided in this subchapter.
   (D)   In order to recover the cost of monitoring industrial wastes, the town
shall charge the user the actual cost of monitoring but not less than $25 per
sampling event. This charge will be reviewed on the same basis as all other
rates and charges in this subchapter.
   (E)   Insufficient checks are addressed in §
51.09.
   (F)   In the event that a property owner has multiple connections to the
town's sanitary sewer utility from one parcel or multiple parcels, they shall
pay the minimum debt service fee for each connection. The additional monthly
charges shall be billed on the main water connection bill.
   (G)   Where a metered water supply is used for fire protection, the town
may, at its discretion, make adjustments in the user charges as may be
equitable.
   (H)   Lawn sprinkling.
      (1)   Where a metered water supply is used for lawn sprinkling, the town
residential users (single and multi-family) who have water usage higher than
the average usage for the billing months of July, August and September (usage
dates of May 15 through August 15) shall have their sewage charges based on the
accumulated average water usage from the previous billing months of November,
December and January (usage dates of September 15 through December 15). In the
event the water usage for the accumulated months is greater than the actual
water usage for the summer months, the billing for sewage services shall be
computed on the actual water used.
      (2)   The sprinkling rate shall not apply to any premises which are
partially or wholly used for commercial or industrial purposes. In the event a
portion of the premises shall be used for residential purposes, the owner shall
have the privilege of separating the water service so that the residential
portion of the premises is served through a separate meter, and in such case,
the water usage as registered by the water meter serving such portion of the
premises used for residential purposes would qualify under the sprinkling rate.
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 5-2-05; Am. Ord. 2006-11, passed 6-12-06; Am. Ord. 2007-
21, passed 10- 22-07; Am. Ord. 2011-28, passed 11-28-11; Am. Ord. 2011-30,
passed 12-12-11; Am. Ord. 2012- 16, passed 6-25-12; Am. Ord. 2012-23, passed 9-
24-12; Am. Ord. 2015-25, passed 8-24-15; Am. Ord. 2017-19, passed 7-31-17)
§ 51.42 WATER USAGE.
   (A)   The quantity of water discharged into the sanitary sewerage system and
obtained from sources other than the utility that serves the town shall he
determined by the town in such manner as the town shall reasonably elect, and
the sewage service shall be billed at the appropriate rates as set forth in §
51.41; except as is hereinafter provided in this section, the town may make
proper allowances in determining the sewage bill for quantities of water shown
on the records to be consumed, but which are also shown to the satisfaction of
the town that such quantities do not enter the sanitary sewage system.
   (B)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharges
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquids into the town
sanitary sewerage system, either directly or indirectly, is not a user of water
supplied by the water utility serving the town and the water used thereon or
therein is not measured by a water meter, or is measured by a water meter not
acceptable to the town, then the amount of water used shall be otherwise
measured or determined by the town. In order to ascertain the rate or charge
provided in this subchapter, the owner or other interested party shall, at his
expense, install and maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring devices or
any adequate and approved method of measurement acceptable to the town for
determining of sewage discharge.
   (C)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquids in the town's
sanitary sewerage system, either directly or indirectly, is a user of water
supplied by the water utility serving the town, and in addition, is a user of
water from another source which is not measured by a water meter or is measured
by a meter not acceptable to the town, then the amount of water used shall be
otherwise measured or determined by the town. In order to ascertain the rates
or charges, the owner or other interested parties shall, at his expense,
install and maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring devices or any
adequate and approved method of measurement acceptable to the town for the
determination of sewage discharge.
   (D)   In the event two or more residential lots, parcels of real estate, or
buildings discharging sanitary sewage, water or other liquids into the town's
sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly, are users of water and
the quantity of water is measured by a single water meter, then in each such
case, for billing purposes, the quantity of water used shall be averaged for
each user and the base charge and the flow rates and charges shall apply to
each of the number of residential lots, parcels of real estate or building
served through the single water meter.
   (E)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharges
sanitary sewage, industrial waste water or other liquids into the town's
sanitary sewerage system, either directly or indirectly, and uses water in
excess of 10,000 gallons per month, and it can be shown to the satisfaction of
the town that a portion of water as measured by the water meter or meters does
not and cannot enter the sanitary sewage system, then the owner or other
interested party shall, at his expense, install and maintain meters, weirs,
volumetric measuring devices or any adequate and approved method of measurement
acceptable to the town for the determination of sewage discharge.
   (F)   In order that the single family, domestic and residential users of
sewage services shall not be penalized for lawn sprinkling during the summer
months of July, August and September, the billing for sewage service for
residences and/or domestic users for said months shall be based upon the water
usage for the previous months of January, February and March. In the event the
water usage for said previous months is greater than the water usage for said
summer months, the billing for sewage services shall be computed on the actual
water used in the month for which the sewage service bill is being rendered.
Domestic and/or residential sewage service, as applicable to the sprinkling
rate, shall apply to each lot, parcel of real estate or building which is
occupied and used as a single family residence. Said sprinkling rate shall not
apply to any premises which are partially or wholly used for commercial or
industrial purposes. In the event a portion of such premises shall be used for
commercial or industrial purposes, the owner shall have the privilege of
separating the water service so that the residential portion of the premises is
served through a separate meter, and in such case, the water usage as
registered by the water meter serving such portion of the premises used for
residential purposes would qualify under the sprinkling rate.
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 5-2-05; Am. Res. 2005-18, passed 6-27-05)
§ 51.43 STRENGTH AND CHARACTER OF DISCHARGES.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges may be justly and equitably
adjusted to the service rendered to users, the town shall base its charges not
only on the volume, but also the strength and character of the stronger-than-
normal domestic sewage and shall require the user to determine the strength and
content of all sewage and wastes discharged, either directly or indirectly,
into the sanitary sewage system, in such manner and by such method as the town
may deem practicable in order to determine the proper charge. The user shall
furnish a central sampling point available to the town at all times.
   (B)   Normal sewage domestic waste strength should not exceed a biochemical
oxygen demand of 250 milligrams per liter of fluid, suspended solids in excess
of 250 milligrams per liter of fluid. Additional charges for treating stronger-
than-normal domestic waste shall be made on the following basis:
      (1)   Rate surcharge based upon suspended solids. There shall be an
additional charge of $.21 per pound of suspended solids received in excess of
250 milligrams per liter of fluid.
      (2)   Rate surcharge based upon BOD. There shall he an additional charge
of $.21 per pound of biochemical oxygen demand for BOD received in excess of
250 milligrams per liter of fluid.
   (C)   The determination of suspended solids, and five-day biochemical oxygen
demand contained in the waste, shall be in accordance with the latest copy of
Standard Methods for the Examination of Water, Sewage and Industrial Wastes, as
written by the American Public Health Association, the American Water Works
Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation, and in conformance with
Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis of Pollutants, Regulation
CFR Part 136, published in the Federal Register on October 16, 1973.
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 5-2-05)
§ 51.44 BILLING.
   (A)   Such rates and charges shall be prepared, billed and collected by the
town in the manner provided by law and ordinance.
   (B)   The rates and charges for all users shall he prepared and billed
monthly.
   (C)   The rates and charges may be billed to the tenant or tenants occupying
the properties served, unless otherwise requested in writing by the owner, but
such billing shall in no way relieve the owner from the liability in the event
payment is not made as herein required. The owners of properties served, which
are occupied by a tenant or tenants, shall have the right to examine the
collection records of the town for the purpose of determining whether bills
have been paid by such tenant or tenants, provided that such examination shall
be made at the office at which said records are kept and during the hours that
such office is open for business.
   (D)   As is provided by statute, all rates and charges not paid when due are
hereby declared to be delinquent and a penalty of 10% of the amount of the
rates or charges shall thereupon attach thereto. The time at which such rates
shall be paid is now fixed at 15 days after the date of mailing of the bill.
   (E)   In the event that it is necessary to institute any proceedings to
collect any past due amount, then the owner of the property shall he
responsible for all collection costs, fees, reasonable attorney fees, court
costs or other expenses incurred by the town.
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 5-2-05)
§ 51.45 RATE STUDY.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges for sewage services may be in
proportion to the cost of providing services to the various users or user
classes, the town shall cause a study to be made within one year, following the
date on which this subchapter goes into effect and at least annually
thereafter. Such study shall include, but is not limited to, an analysis of the
costs associated with the treatment of excessive strength effluents from
industrial users, volume and delivery flow rate characteristics attributed to
the various users or user classes, the financial position of the sewage works
and the adequacy of its revenue to provide reasonable funds for the operation
and maintenance, replacements, debt service requirements and capital
improvements to the waste treatment systems. The town shall adjust its rates
and charges to reflect the results of the study.
   (B)   Thereafter on an annual basis, within a reasonable period of time
following the normal accounting period, the town shall cause a similar study to
be made for the purpose of reviewing the proportionality of the rates and
charges for sewage services on a continuing basis. Said studies shall be
conducted by officers or employees of the town, or by a firm of certified
public accountants, or a firm of consulting engineers which firms shall have
experience in such studies, or by such combination of officers, employees,
certified public accountants, or engineers as the town shall determine to be
best under the circumstances. The town shall, upon completion of said study,
revise and adjust rates and charges, as necessary in accordance therewith in
order to maintain the proportionality and sufficiency of the rates.
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 5-2-05)
§ 51.46 BY-LAWS AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The town shall make and enforce such laws and regulations as may be
deemed necessary for the safe, economical and efficient management of the
town's sewerage system, pumping stations and sewage conveyance system, for the
construction and use of house sewers and connections to the sewerage system,
and for the regulation, collection, rebating and refunding of such rates and
charges.
   (B)   The town is hereby authorized to prohibit dumping of wastes into the
town's sewage system which, in its discretion, are deemed harmful to the
operation of the sewage treatment works of the town or to require methods
affecting pretreatment of said wastes to comply with the pretreatment standards
included in the National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit
issued to the sewage works.
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 5-2-05)
§ 51.47 SPECIAL RATE CONTRACTS.
    The Council is hereby further authorized to enter into special rate
contracts with customers of the sewage works where clearly definable cost to
the sewage works can be determined, and such rate shall be limited to such
costs.
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 5-2-05)
§ 51.48 APPEALS.
   That the rules and regulations promulgated by the town, after approval of
the Town Council, shall, among other things, provide for an appeal procedure
whereby a user shall have the right to appeal a decision concerning user
charges of the Town Council, and may be appealed to a court of competent
jurisdiction under the Appeal Procedures provided for in the Indiana
Administrative Adjudication Act.
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 5-2-05)
§ 51.49 NO FREE SERVICE; ANNEXATION NOT REQUIRED FOR SERVICE.
   The Council shall not grant free service or use of the sewage treatment
system to any person, group or entity. It is not necessary for an area or
parcel of real estate to be annexed to the town to receive sewage treatment.
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 5-2-05)
§ 51.50 TAP-IN FEE.
   The town shall charge a fee for each initial connection to the sanitary
sewer system made by any property owner or other person. Said fee shall be
designated as a tap-in tee and shall be in addition to any cost for service,
work or materials to connect with the town's sewage system. The tap-in fee for
residential users shall be the sum of $650. The tap-in- fee for nonresidential
users shall be the costs for labor and materials for the connection.
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 5-2-05; Am. Ord. 2010-6, passed 8-9-10; Am. Ord. 2011-35,
passed 1-9-12)
CHAPTER 52: STORM WATER SYSTEM
Section
   
52.01   Definitions; rules of construction
   
52.02   User charges
   
52.03   Billing rates; inspection/connection fees
   
52.04   Storm water discharge
   
52.05   Rate adjustment
   
52.06   Collection procedures
   
52.07   Annual review of rates and charges
   
52.08   Regulations; dumping prohibited
   
52.09   Special rate contracts
   
52.10   Appeal procedure
   
52.11   Use of system; connections
   
52.12   Initial connection fee
   
52.13   Prohibited conduct
   
52.14   Inspections
   
52.15   Regulation of drainage tile and pipe located on private property
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS; RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The same meaning as defined in Chapter
51.
      COMMERCIAL STORM WATER SURCHARGE. An additional charge which is billed to
commercial users for treating storm water in excess of “normal residential
storm water discharge.”
      CONSTRUCTION.  CONSTRUCTION shall be determined to commence upon the
awarding of the contract by the Town Council.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of Albany, Indiana, or any duly
authorized officials acting on its behalf.
      DEBT SERVICE COSTS. The average annual principal and interest payments on
all outstanding revenue bonds or other long-term capital debt.
      ERU (EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT). One ERU shall be equivalent to 2,800
square feet of impervious material for each residential user. Unless otherwise
noted, each residential user shall have one ERU per residential structure
unless otherwise indicated.
      IMPERVIOUS MATERIAL. Material that prohibits the passage or penetration
of precipitation directly into the soil or ground and shall include gravel. The
material shall be man-made and placed so that precipitation shall be diverted
or collected rather than direct passage to the ground. Ponds or retention pools
designed for collection of storm water shall not be included in this
definition.
      INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater discharges from industrial, trade or
business processes as distinct from employee wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
      INITIAL CONNECTION PERIOD. Any time after substantial completion of the
storm water system as determined by the agreement between the town and the
contractor constructing the system and 90 days after the date that the users
are notified of substantial completion.
      NPDES (NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM) PERMIT. The same
meaning as defined in Chapter 51.
      NON-RESIDENTIAL USER. Any user of a structure that is not a single-family
residence. Those users shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   COMMERCIAL USER. Any establishment involved in a commercial
enterprise, business or service based on a determination by the town.
      (2)   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Any federal, state or local governmental user of
the storm water system.
      (3)   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any manufacturing or processing facility.
      (4)   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Any establishment involved in a social,
charitable, religious and/or educational function based on a determination by
the town.
      (5)   MOBILE HOME PARK USER. An area on which two mobile homes, other
than mobile homes on permanent foundations, are harbored on temporary supports
for the purpose of being occupied as principal residences.
      (6)   MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the storm water system
whose premises or building is used as a multi-family residence.    
      NORMAL RESIDENTIAL STORM WATER DISCHARGE. For the purpose of determining
surcharges, storm water that is normal for a residential user or building.
      OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. All costs, direct and indirect,
necessary to provide adequate storm water collection, transportation and
management on a continuing basis and produce discharges to receiving waters
that conform with all related federal, state and local requirements. (These
costs shall include replacement.)
      OTHER SERVICE CHARGES. Tap charges, connection charges, area charges, and
other identifiable charges, other than user charges, debt service charges and
excessive strength surcharges.
      PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
      REPLACEMENT COSTS. The expenditures for obtaining and installing
equipment, accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful
life of the storm water system to maintain the capacity and performance for
which such system was designed and constructed.
      RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the storm water system whose premises or
building is used primarily as a single-family residence for one or more
persons. Any residence that also conducts a home- based business shall be
considered to be a non- residential user and not eligible for the residential
user rates.
      STORM WATER. That water which is received by the town and its residents
from precipitation that occurs as a result of climatic changes and storm
events.
      STORM WATER SEWAGE SYSTEM. The entire storm water collection and
discharge system for the town as set forth in this chapter.
      STORM WATER USE ORDINANCE. A separate and companion enactment to this
chapter, which regulates the connection to and use of public and private storm
water sewer systems.
      TOWN. The Town of Albany, Indiana acting by and through the Town Council.
      USER CLASS. The division of storm water customers by source, function,
characteristics, and process or discharge similarities (i.e., residential,
multi-family residential, mobile home park, commercial, industrial,
institutional, and governmental in user charge system).
      WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment, and processes required
to collect, carry away, and treat domestic and commercial wastes and dispose of
the effluent.
   (B)   SHALL. SHALL  is mandatory; MAY is permissive.
(Ord. 2004-19, passed 6-28-04)
§ 52.02 USER CHARGES.
   (A)   Every person whose premises are served by the storm water system shall
be charged for services provided. These charges are established for each user
class, as defined, in order that the storm water system shall recover, from
each user and user class, revenue which is proportional to its use of the
treatment works in terms of volume and load. User charges are levied to defray
the cost of operation and maintenance (including replacement) of the treatment
works. User charges shall be uniform in magnitude within a user class.
   (B)   User charges are subject to the rules and regulations adopted by
federal and state agencies. Replacement costs, which are recovered through the
system of user charges, shall be based upon the expected service life of the
storm water system appurtenances.
   (C)   The various classes of users of the treatment works for the purposes
of this chapter, shall be as follows:
      (1)   Class 1 - Residential;
      (2)   Class 2 - Non-residential;
      (3)   Class 2.1 - Multi-family residential/mobile home park;
      (4)   Class 2.2 - Commercial;
      (5)   Class 2.3 - Governmental/institutional;
      (6)   Class 2.4 - Industrial; and
      (7)   Class 2.5 - All other non-residential users.
(Ord. 2004-19, passed 6-28-04)
§ 52.03 BILLING RATES; INSPECTION/CONNECTION FEES.
   (A)   For the use of and the service rendered by storm water system, rates
and charges shall be collected from the owners of each and every lot, parcel of
real estate or building that is connected with the town storm water system or
otherwise discharges liquids, either directly or indirectly, into the storm
water system of the town. Such rate and charges include user charges, debt
service costs, excessive strength surcharges and other service charges, which
rates and charges shall be payable as hereinafter provided and shall be in an
amount determinable as follows:
      (1)   The storm water rates and charges shall be based on the quantity of
water discharged on or in the property or premises subject to such rates and
charges, as calculated by the town.
      (2)   For the purpose of billing and collecting the charges for storm
water service, the usage schedule on which the amount of the rates and charges
shall be determined is as follows:
Residential users (Class 1)
   Base rate as follows:
   Monthly minimum charge for each ERU: $10.64
Non-residential users (Class 2)
Multi-family residential/mobile home park users (Class 2.1)
Base rate as follows:
   $.0038 per sq. ft. of impervious material
   Minimum charge $10.64
Commercial users (Class 2.2)
   Base rate as follows:
   $.0038 per sq. ft. of impervious material
   Minimum charge $ 10.64
Governmental/institutional users (Class 2.3)
Base rate as follows:
   $.0038 per sq. ft. of impervious material
   Minimum charge $ 10.64
Industrial users (Class 2.4)
   Base rate as follows:
$.0038 per sq. ft. of impervious material
Minimum charge $10.64
All other non-residential users (Class 2.5)
Base rate as follows:
   $.0038 per sq. ft. of impervious material
Minimum charge $10.64
   (B)   Inspection and connection fees.
      (1)   The inspection fee shall be $5 for a final inspection of any and
all connections to the storm water system.
      (2)   The connection fee for any and all connections prior to the initial
connection period shall be at no charge to the user.
      (3)   The connection fee for any and all connections after the initial
connection period shall be assessed a fee of $100 for each connection.
   (C)   For service rendered to the town, the town shall be subject to the
same rates and charges herein above provided.
   (D)   All non-residential users shall be assessed the current monthly charge
in the event that the actual square footage of impervious material is less than
2,800 square feet. In the event that the actual quantity of the square footage
of the impervious material exceeds 2,800 square feet, then the user shall pay
the rates as set forth in divisions (A) and (E). In the event that the fees are
less than the current monthly charge, then the user shall pay the current
monthly charge.
    (E)   Each non-residential user shall be assessed a credit of two-thirds
the charge for each square foot of gravel impervious area.
   (F)   Any new residential or non-residential structure that is built which
adds additional square footage to the structure and the total amount of the
square footage, after the structure is built, exceeds the sum of 2,800 square
feet then user shall pay the current monthly charge and an extra charge as set
forth in division (A) for non-residential users. This extra charge also applies
to residential users.
(Ord. 2004-19, passed 6-28-04; Am. Ord. 2011-31, passed 12-12-11; Am. Ord.
2012-6, passed 4-23-12)
§ 52.04 STORM WATER DISCHARGE.
   (A)   The quantity of storm water discharged into the storm water system and
obtained from sources other than the utility that serves the town shall be
determined by the town in such manner as the town shall reasonably elect, and
the storm water service shall be billed at the above appropriate rates; except,
as is hereinafter provided in this section, the town may make proper allowances
in determining the storm water bill for quantities of water shown on the
records to be consumed, but which are also shown to the satisfaction of the
town that such quantities do not actually flow from the property.
   (B)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharges
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquids into the town storm
water system, either directly or indirectly, or is otherwise not acceptable to
the town storm water system, then the user shall be assessed any and all costs,
fines, penalties, attorney fees and any other expense associated with the
improper discharge into the storm water system. The penalty shall be the sum of
$1,000 in addition to the aforementioned expenses charge per improper
discharge.
(Ord. 2004-19, passed 6-28-04; Am. Ord. 2006-19, passed 9-25-06)
§ 52.05 RATE ADJUSTMENT.
   In order that the rates and charges may be justly and equitably adjusted to
the service rendered to users, the town shall base its charges only on the
square feet of impervious area as well as the costs for operation and
maintenance of the storm water system.
(Ord. 2004-19, passed 6-28-04)
§ 52.06 COLLECTION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Such rates and charges shall be prepared, billed and collected by the
town in the manner provided by law and ordinance.
   (B)   The rates and charges for all users shall be prepared and billed
monthly.
   (C)   The rates and charges may be billed to the owner of the property.
   (D)   As is provided by statute, all rates and charges not paid when due are
hereby declared to be delinquent and a penalty of 10% of the amount of the
rates or charges shall thereupon attach thereto. The time at which such rates
shall be paid is now fixed at 15 days after the date of mailing of the bill.
   (E)   In the event that it is necessary to institute any proceedings to
collect any past due amount, then the owner of the property shall be
responsible for all collection costs, fees, reasonable attorney fees, court
costs or other expenses incurred by the town.
   (F)   Delinquent storm water fees and penalties shall constitute a lien
against the real property against which the user fees have been imposed. Such
liens shall be certified to the Delaware County Auditor and collected as
provided in I.C. 36-9-23-32.
(Ord. 2004-19, passed 6-28-04) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.07 ANNUAL REVIEW OF RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges for storm water services may be in
proportion to the cost of providing services to the various users or user
classes, the town shall cause a study to be made within one year following the
date on which this chapter goes into effect and at least annually thereafter.
Such study shall include, but is not limited to, an analysis of the costs
associated with the collecting, controlling and discharging of the storm water
volume and delivery flow rate characteristics attributed to the various users
or user classes, the financial position of the storm water utility and the
adequacy of its revenue to provide reasonable funds for the operation and
maintenance, replacements, debt service requirements and capital improvements
to the storm water systems. The town shall adjust its rates and charges to
reflect the results of the study.
   (B)   Thereafter on an annual basis, within a reasonable period of time
following the normal accounting period, the town shall cause a similar study to
be made for the purpose of reviewing the proportionality of the rates and
charges for storm sewage services on a continuing basis. The studies shall be
conducted by officers or employees of the town, or by a firm of certified
public accountants, or a firm of consulting engineers which firms shall have
experience in such studies, or by such combination of officers, employees,
certified public accountants, or engineers as the town shall determine to be
best under the circumstances. The town shall, upon completion of the study,
revise and adjust rates and charges as necessary in accordance therewith in
order to maintain the proportionality and sufficiency of the rates.
(Ord. 2004-19, passed 6-28-04)
§ 52.08 REGULATIONS; DUMPING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The town shall make and enforce such laws and regulations as may be
deemed necessary for the safe, economical and efficient management of the
town’s storm water system and storm water conveyance system, for the
construction and use of storm water and for the regulation, collection,
rebating and refunding of such rates and charges.
   (B)   The town is hereby authorized to prohibit dumping of wastes into the
town’s storm water system which, in its discretion, are deemed harmful to the
operation of the storm water system works of the town.
(Ord. 2004-19, passed 6-28-04) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.09 SPECIAL RATE CONTRACTS.
   The Council is hereby further authorized to enter into special rate
contracts with customers of the storm water system where clearly definable cost
to the storm water system can be determined, and such rate shall be limited to
such costs.
(Ord. 2004-19, passed 6-28-04)
§ 52.10 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   The rules and regulations promulgated by the town, after approval of the
Town Council shall, among other things, provide for an appeal procedure whereby
a user shall have the right to appeal a decision concerning user charges of the
Town Council to a court of competent jurisdiction under the appeal procedures
provided for in the Indiana Administrative Adjudication Act.
(Ord. 2004-19, passed 6-28-04)
§ 52.11 USE OF SYSTEM; CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   The Council shall not grant free service or use of the storm water
system to any person, group or entity.
   (B)   It is not necessary for an area or parcel of real estate to be annexed
to the town to receive storm water system services.
   (C)   Each improved lot, parcel or user shall be obligated to use the storm
water system.
   (D)   Each improved lot, parcel or user may connect any pump, downspout or
other storm water collection device in a manner that shall not permit any water
other than rainfall or other precipitation to be placed in the system.
   (E)   Any and all connections to the storm water system shall be inspected
by the town prior to their use. All connections to the storm water system shall
be assessed an inspection fee as set forth in this chapter and completed no
more than 90 days after substantial completion of the entire system and
notification by the town (initial connection time period). Any new or
delinquent connections to the storm water system after the initial connection
time period shall be assessed a late fee and inspection fee as per this
chapter.
(Ord. 2004-19, passed 6-28-04) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.12 INITIAL CONNECTION FEE.
   The town may charge a fee for each initial connection to the storm water
system made by any property owner or other person. The fee shall be designated
as a “storm water tap-in fee” and shall be in addition to any cost for service,
work or materials to connect with the town’s storm water system.
(Ord. 2004-19, passed 6-28-04) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.13 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or entity to place any waste
material, oil, sludge, paint varnish or other substance other than storm water
into the storm water collection system.
   (B)   The town may enforce this chapter by injunction.
(Ord. 2004-19, passed 6-28-04) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.14 INSPECTIONS.
   Duly authorized employees of the town bearing proper credentials and
identification shall be permitted to enter upon all properties for the purpose
of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing of the town’s
storm water system.
(Ord. 2007-5, passed 2-12-07)
§ 52.15 REGULATION OF DRAINAGE TILE AND PIPE LOCATED ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, any person intending to
dig, excavate, or make any other alterations to land currently serviced by the
town’s storm water system must notify the town prior to the commencement of any
work. This subsection is deemed satisfied upon the submission of the
construction plans required by §
153.111 of the Albany Code of Ordinances.
   (B)   The advance notice requirement of division (A) of this section does
not apply to any digging, excavation, or alteration to land that extends one
foot or less below ground level.
   (C)   Any person digging, excavating, or altering land is required to
immediately notify the town upon the discovery of any existing drainage tile or
pipe, regardless of whether such tile or pipe is or is not operational. Town
shall inspect and record location before further excavation may proceed.
Regardless of whether such digging, excavating, or altering land was subject to
division (A) or exempted by division (B) of this section.
   (D)   If, upon inspection of an existing drainage tile or pipe, it is
determined that the drainage tile or pipe is currently operational, the
property owner shall be responsible for any maintenance or repairs necessary to
ensure the drainage tile or pipe remains operational.
   (E)   The town shall have the same right of entry upon all properties as
provided in §
52.14 and if, upon inspection, it is determined that any maintenance or repairs
have not been completed as required, the property owner may be subject to the
penalties provided in §
52.99. In addition to the existing penalty provisions, the Town reserves the
right to undertake the work necessary to complete the required maintenance or
repairs and to collect the cost of such maintenance or repairs from the
property owner, including the use of liens, if necessary.
(Ord. 2016-13, passed 8-8-16) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate this chapter may be fined in an amount
not to exceed $2,500 per violation. Each day that a violation exists shall be
considered to be a separate violation.
   (B)   In the event that the town shall be required to enforce this chapter
by seeking to redress in the Circuit Court, the person, firm or entity at which
the enforcement action is directed shall pay all costs associated with the
enforcement action, including but not limited to reasonable attorney fees,
court costs, witness fees or other costs.
(Ord. 2004-19, passed 6-28-04)
CHAPTER 53: SEWER USE
Section
Sewer Use Provisions
   
53.01   Abbreviations
   
53.02   Definitions
   
53.03   General waste discharge regulations
   
53.04   Connection to public sewer
   
53.05   Discharge of certain waters or wastes prohibited
   
53.06   Local limits
   
53.07   General pretreatment requirements
   
53.08   Wastewater strength, reports and surcharge for excess CBOD, suspended
solids, ammonia-nitrogen and phosphorus
   
53.09   Pretreatment discharge permits
   
53.10   Compliance monitoring
   
53.11   Confidential information
   
53.12   Publication of users in significant noncompliance
   
53.13   Authority to inspect
   
53.14   Search warrants
Administrative Enforcement Remedies
   
53.20   Notification of violation
   
53.21   Compliance orders
   
53.22   Show cause order and hearing
   
53.23   Cease and desist orders
   
53.24   Administrative fines
   
53.25   Emergency suspensions
   
53.26   Termination of discharge
   
53.27   Water supply severance
   
53.28   Judicial enforcement remedies
Affirmative Defenses to Discharge Violations
   
53.30   Upset
   
53.31   Prohibited discharge standards
   
53.32   Bypass
SEWER USE PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations, when used in this chapter, shall have the
designated meanings:
   ASTM   American Society for Testing Materials
   BOD   biochemical oxygen demand
   CBOD   carbonaceous biochemical oxygen demand
   CFR   Code of Federal Regulations
   COD   chemical oxygen demand
   EPA   Environmental Protection Agency
    gpd   gallons per day
   IDEM   Indiana Department of Environmental Management
   ISDH   Indiana State Department of Health
   L   liter
   mg   milligrams
   mg/l    milligrams per liter
   NPDES   National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
   O& M   operation and maintenance
   POTW   publicly owned treatment works
   RCRA   Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (PL 94-580)
   SIC   Standard Industrial Classification
   SWDA   Solid Waste Disposal Act, 42 U.S.C. 6901 et. seq.
   SIU   significant industrial user
   SNC   significant noncompliance
   TSS   total suspended solids
   USC   United States Code
   WEF   Water Environment Federation
   40 CFR 403: General Pretreatment Regulations as published in the Federal
Register on June 26, 1978, and on January 28, 1981, and in subsequent
amendments thereto
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 4-22-19)
§ 53.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMMONIA NITROGEN (OR NH3-N). All of the nitrogen in water, sewage or other
liquid waste present in the form of ammonia, ammonia ion or in the equilibrium
NH + NH + H +.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of a building and conveys it to the building sewer beginning
three feet outside the building wall.
   BUILDING DRAIN - SANITARY. A building drain which conveys sanitary or
industrial sewage only.
   BUILDING DRAIN - STORM.  A building drain which conveys storm water or other
clear water drainage, but no wastewater.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal. (Also called HOUSE CONNECTION)
   BUILDING SEWER - SANITARY. A building sewer which conveys sanitary or
industrial sewage only.
   BUILDING SEWER - STORM. A building sewer which conveys storm water or other
clear water drainage, but no sanitary or industrial sewage.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures
for five days at 20º C., usually expressed as a concentration (for example, mg/
l). The laboratory determinations shall be made in accordance with procedures
set forth in Standard Methods.
   CARBONACEOUS BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (CBOD). The CBOD of sewage, sewage
effluent, polluted waters or industrial wastes, shall mean the depletion of
dissolved oxygen by biological organisms in a body of water in which the
contribution from nitrogenous bacteria has been suppressed. The laboratory
determinations of CBOD shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in
Standard Methods.
   CATEGORICAL INDUSTRIAL USER. An industrial user subject to a categorical
pretreatment standard or categorical standard.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or CATEGORICAL STANDARD. Any federal
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in
accordance with Section 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317) which
apply to a specific category of users and which appear in 40 CFR Chapter I,
Subchapter N, Parts 405-471.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD). Of sewage, sewage effluent, polluted waters or
industrial wastes is a measure of the oxygen equivalent of that portion of the
organic matter in a sample that is susceptible to oxidation by a strong
chemical oxidant. The laboratory determination shall be made in accordance with
procedures set forth in Standard Methods.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Total suspended solids, biochemical oxygen demand,
ammonia- nitrogen, TSS, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES
permit if the treatment works was designed to treat such pollutants, and in
fact does remove such pollutants to a substantial degree. Examples of the
additional pollutants which may be considered compatible include:
      (1)   Chemical oxygen demand;
      (2)   Total organic carbon;
      (3)   Phosphorus and phosphorus compounds;
      (4)   Nitrogen and nitrogen compounds; and
      (5)   Fats, oils and greases of animal or vegetable origin (except as
prohibited where these materials would interfere with the operation of the
treatment works).
   DAILY MAXIMUM. The daily maximum discharge limitation is the maximum
allowable daily discharge for any calendar day. The DAILY DISCHARGE means the
total mass of a pollutant discharged during the calendar day or, in the case of
a pollutant limited in terms other than mass pursuant to 327 IAC 5-2-11(e), the
average concentration or other measurement of the pollutant specified over the
calendar day or any 24-hour period that represents the calendar day for the
purposes of sampling.
   COMPOSITE SAMPLE (24-hour). A 24-hour composite sample consists of at least
six individual flow-proportioned samples of wastewater, taken by the grab
sample method over equal time intervals during the period of operator
attendance or by an automatic sampler, and which are combined prior to
analysis. A flow proportioned composite sample shall be obtained by:
      (1)   Recording the discharge flow rate at the time each individual
sample is taken;
      (2)   Adding together the discharge flow rates recorded from each
individual sampling time to formulate the total flow value;
      (3)   Dividing the discharge flow rate of each individual sampling time
by the total flow value to determine its percentage of the total flow value;
and
      (4)   Multiplying the volume of the total composite sample by each
individual sample's percentage to determine the volume of that individual
sample which will be included in the total composite sample.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY. The Commissioner of the Indiana Department of
Environmental Management.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency or, where appropriate, the Regional Water Management Division Director,
or other duly authorized official of said agency.
   ESCHERICHIA COLI (E.COLI). Any number of organisms common to the intestinal
tract of man and animals whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of
pollution.
   EXCESSIVE STRENGTH SURCHARGE. An additional charge which is billed to users
for treating sewage wastes with an average strength in excess of normal
domestic sewage.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state, such that will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in a pretreatment facility
approved by the town.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   GENERAL PROHIBITIONS. No user shall introduce or cause to be introduced into
the POTW any pollutant or wastewater which causes pass through or interference.
These general prohibitions apply to all users of the POTW whether or not they
are subject to categorical pretreatment standards or any other national, state,
or local pretreatment standards or requirements.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A random sample which is taken from a wastestream without
regard to the flow in the wastestream or time of day and over a period of time
not to exceed 15 minutes.
   GREASE AND OIL. A group of substances including hydrocarbons, fatty acids,
soaps, fats, waxes, oils or any other material that is extracted by a solvent
from an acidified sample and that is not volatilized during the laboratory test
procedures. GREASES AND OILS are defined by the method of their determination
in accordance with Standard Methods.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any waste defined as a hazardous waste under 40 CFR Part
261.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT.  Any pollutant that is not defined as a compatible
pollutant, including non-biodegradable dissolved solids.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGER. A nondomestic discharger introducing pollutants into a
POTW, regardless of whether the discharger is within the governmental
jurisdiction of the town.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. An indirect discharger that may include any industrial or
commercial establishment, manufacturing, or processing facility that discharges
a non-domestic waste to a POTW.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE PERMIT. A permit to deposit or discharge non-domestic waste
into any sanitary sewer as issued by the POTW.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Any solid, liquid, or gaseous substance or form of energy
discharged, permitted to flow or escaping from an industrial, manufacturing,
commercial, or business process or from the development, recovery, or
processing of any natural resource carried on by any person and shall further
mean any waste from a non-domestic user.
   INFILTRATION. The water entering a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from the ground, through such means as, but not limited to,
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections or manhole walls. (INFILTRATION does
not include and is distinguished from INFLOW.)
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow without distinguishing the source.
   INFLOW. The water discharged into a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from such sources as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellars,
yard and area drains, foundation drains, unpolluted cooling water discharges,
drains from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross-connections from
storm sewers and combined sewers, catch basins, storm waters, surfaces run-off,
street wash waters or drainage. (INFLOW does not include, and is distinguished
from INFILTRATION.)
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the town, through its
Town Council, to inspect and approve the installation of building sewers and
their connection to the public sewer system and activities related to the
evaluation and assurance of compliance relative to any such connection.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge that, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources:
      (1)   Inhibits or disrupts the treatment processes or operations, sludge
processes, or selected sludge use or disposal methods of a POTW;
      (2)   The inhibition or disruption under division (1) of this definition
must:
         (a)   Cause a violation of a requirement of the POTW's NPDES permit,
including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation; or
         (b)   Prevent the use of the POTW's sewage sludge or its sludge
disposal method selected in compliance with the following statutory provisions,
regulations, or permits issued thereunder or more stringent state or local
regulations:
            1.   Section 405 of the Clean Water Act (33 USC 1345);
            2.   The Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) (42 USC 6901), including
Title II, more commonly referred to as the Resource Conservation and Recovery
Act (RCRA) and the rules contained in a state sludge management plan prepared
pursuant to Subtitle D of the SWDA (42 USC 6941);
            3.   The Clean Air Act (42 USC 7401); The Toxic Substances Control
Act (15 USC 2601).
   LOCAL LIMIT. Specific discharge limits developed and enforced by the town
upon industrial or commercial facilities to implement the general and specific
discharge prohibitions listed in 40 CFR 403.5(a)(1) and (b).
   MONTHLY AVERAGE. The monthly average discharge means the total mass or flow-
weighted concentration of all daily discharged during a calendar month on which
daily discharges are sampled or measured, divided by the number of daily
discharges, sampled and/or measured during such calendar month. The monthly
average discharge limitation is the highest allowable average monthly discharge
for any calendar month.
   MEDICAL WASTE.  Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes, and dialysis
wastes.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or
groundwater.
   NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling which does not come into
direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product, or
finished product.
   NON-SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER (formerly Minor Contributor). A non-major
contributor that:
      (1)   Has potential for discharging pollutants that could violate
specific local limits;
      (2)   Has potential for accidental spill or slug discharges of pollutants
to the sewage system.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. For the purpose of determining surcharges.
wastewater or sewage having an average daily concentration as follows:
      (1)   CBOD not more than 250 mg/l;
      (2)   COD not more than 500 mg/l;
      (3)   Total suspended solids not more than 250 mg/l;
      (4)   Ammonia-nitrogen not more than 25 mg/l; and
      (5)   Phosphorus not more than 10 mg/l.
   NPDES PERMIT. A permit issued under the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System for discharge of wastewaters to the navigable waters of the
United States pursuant to § 402 of P.L. 92-500.
   PASS THROUGH. A discharge proceeding through a POTW into waters of the state
in quantities or concentrations that, alone or in conjunction with a discharge
or discharges from other sources are a cause of a violation of any requirement
of the POTW's NPDES permit, including an increase in the magnitude or duration
of a violation.
   pH. The logarithm (to the base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion
concentration of a solution expressed in gram-atoms per liter of solution. A
measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a solution, expressed in standard
units.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group discharging any wastewater to the treatment works.
   POLLUTANT. Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter backwash,
sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical  wastes,
biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded
equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, municipal, agricultural and industrial
wastes, and certain characteristics of wastewater, such as, pH, temperature,
TSS, turbidity, color, CBOD, COD, toxicity, or odor.
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of discharging or
otherwise introducing such pollutants into the POTW. The reduction or
alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical, or biological processes,
process changes, or by other means, except as prohibited by 40 CFR Section
403.6(d); and shall include all applicable rules and regulations contained in
the Code of Federal Regulations as published in the Federal Register, under
Section 307 of Public Law 95-217, under regulation 40 CFR Part 403 pursuant to
the Act, and amendments.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment, other than a pretreatment standard, imposed on an industrial
user, including applicable local limits.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. State pretreatment standards as established in 327
IAC 5-18-8; pretreatment standards for prohibited discharges, as established in
327 IAC 5-18-2; national categorical pretreatment standards incorporated by
reference in 327 IAC 5-18-10; and local limits as identified herein.
   PRIVATE SEWER.  Any sewer that is not located on a public street, alley or
easement dedicated to the town.
   PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS or PROHIBITED DISCHARGES. Absolute
prohibitions  against the discharge of certain substances; these prohibitions
appear in §
53.05.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. Any sewer that is located in a public street, public alley or
easement dedicated to the town.
      (1)   COLLECTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewaters from individual point source discharges.
      (2)   FORCE MAIN. A pipe in which wastewater is carried under pressure.
      (3)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collector sewers to a treatment facility.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS or POTW. A treatment works owned by the state
or a municipality, except that it does not include pipes, sewers or other
conveyances not connected to a facility providing treatment. The term includes
any devices and systems used in the storage, treatment, recycling and
reclamation of municipal sewage or compatible industrial wastes. The term also
includes sewers, pipes, and other conveyances only if they convey wastewater to
a POTW treatment plant. POTW also means the municipality that has jurisdiction
over the indirect discharges to and the discharges from such treatment works.
   PUMPING STATION. A station positioned in the public sewer system at which
wastewater is pumped to a higher level.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sanitary and industrial wastes, and to
which storm, surface and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEPTIC TANK WASTE. Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, and septic tanks.
   SEWAGE. The combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions,
(including polluted cooling water). The most common types of sewage are:
      (1)   INDUSTRIAL SEWAGE. A combination of liquid and water-carried
wastes, discharged from any industrial establishment and resulting from any
trade or process carried on in that establishment (this shall include the
wastes from pretreatment facilities and polluted cooling water).
      (2)   SANITARY SEWAGE. The combination of liquid and water-carried wastes
discharged from toilet and other sanitary plumbing facilities.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. Industrial users subject to categorical
pretreatment standards under 327 IAC 5-18-110. An industrial user that:
      (1)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gallons per day or more of process
wastewater (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling and boiler blowdown
wastewater) to the POTW;
      (2)   Contributes a process wastestream that makes up 5% or more of the
average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment plant;
or
      (3)   Is designated as a significant industrial user by the control
authority on the basis that the industrial user has a reasonable potential to:
         (a)   Adversely affect the POTW's operation;
         (b)   Violate a pretreatment standard; or
         (c)   Violate a requirement of 327 IAC 5-19-3.
      (4)   The control authority may, on its own initiative or in response to
a petition received from an industrial user or a POTW and in accordance with
327 IAC 5-19-3(6), determine that an industrial user is not a significant
industrial user if it does not meet division (3) above.
   SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE. Shall include any of the following violations:
      (1)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which 66% or more of wastewater measurements taken during a six-month
period exceed (by any magnitude) a numeric pretreatment standard or requirement
as defined by §
53.06;
      (2)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those
in which 33% or more of wastewater measurements taken for each pollutant
parameter during a six-month period equals or exceeds the product of the
numeric pretreatment standard or requirement including daily maximum limits, as
defined by §
53.06 multiplied by the applicable criteria (1.4 for CBOD, TSS, fats, oils, and
grease, 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
      (3)   Any other discharge violation of a pretreatment standard or
requirement as defined by §
53.06 (daily maximum, long-term average, or narrative standard) that the
Wastewater Superintendent believes has caused, alone or in combination with
other discharges, interference or pass through, including endangering the
health of POTW personnel or the general public;
      (4)   Any discharge of pollutants that has caused imminent endangerment
to the public or to the environment, or has resulted in the Town Council's
exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
      (5)   Failure to meet, within 90 days of the scheduled date, a compliance
schedule milestone contained in a wastewater discharge permit or enforcement
order for starting construction, completing construction, or attaining final
compliance;
      (6)   Failure to provide within 45 days after the due date, any required
reports, including baseline monitoring reports, reports on compliance with
categorical pretreatment standard deadlines, periodic self-monitoring reports,
and reports on compliance with compliance schedules;
      (7)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
      (8)   Any other violation(s), which may include best management practices
(BMPs), that the Town Council upon recommendation of the Wastewater
Superintendent determines will adversely affect the operation or implementation
of the local pretreatment program.
   SLUDGE. Any solid, semi-solid, or liquid waste generated from a municipal,
commercial, or industrial wastewater treatment plant, water supply treatment
plant, or air pollution control facility or any other waste having similar
characteristics and effects as defined in standards issued under Section 402,
405 of the Federal Act and in the applicable requirements under Sections 3001,
3004, and 4004 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act, PL 94-580.
   SLUG LOAD or SLUG. Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration, which
could cause a violation of the prohibited discharge standards in § 53.05. A
SLUG DISCHARGE is any discharge of a non- routine, episodic nature, including
but not limited to an accidental spill or a non customary batch discharge,
which has a reasonable potential to cause interference or pass through, or in
any other way violate the POTW's regulations, local limits or permit
conditions.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC) CODE. A classification pursuant to
the Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the United States
Office of Management and Budget.
   STANDARD METHODS. The laboratory procedures set forth and in accordance with
40 CFR Part 136 and amendments thereto or with any other test procedures
approved by EPA.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer which is designed to carry only storm water but
excludes other liquid and water-carried wastes.
   STORMWATER. Water resulting from rain, melting or melted snow, hail or
sleet.
   TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids which either float on the surface of or are
in suspension in water, sewage, or other liquid and which are removable by
laboratory filtration. Their concentration shall be expressed in milligrams per
liter. Quantitative determination shall be made in accordance with procedures
set forth in Standard Methods.
   TOXIC AMOUNT. Concentrations of any pollutant or combination of pollutants,
which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause adverse
effects, such as cancer, genetic mutations and physiological manifestations, as
defined in standards issued pursuant to § 307(a) of P.L. 92-500.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   UPSET. An exceptional incident in which a discharger unintentionally and
temporarily is in a state of noncompliance with the standards set forth in this
chapter due to factors beyond the reasonable control of the discharger, and
excluding noncompliance to the extent caused by operational error, improperly
designed pretreatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance, or careless
or improper operation thereof.
   VOLATILE ORGANIC MATTER. The material in the sewage solids transformed to
gases or vapors when heated at 55°C for 15 to 20 minutes. Quantitative
determination shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in Standard
Methods.
   WASTE. Includes sanitary sewage and any and all other waste substances,
liquid, solid, gaseous, or radioactive, associated with human habitation, or of
human or animal origin, or from any producing, processing, manufacturing, or
industrial operation of whatever nature, including such waste placed within
containers or whatever nature prior to, and for purposes of, disposal.
   WASTEWATER. Liquid and water-carried industrial wastes and sewage from
residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing
facilities, and institutions, whether treated or untreated, which are
contributed to the POTW.
   WASTEWATER SUPERINTENDENT. The Wastewater Superintendent of the POTW of the
town or his or her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or TREATMENT PLANT. That portion of the POTW
which is designed to provide treatment of municipal sewage and industrial
waste.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. Any water, surface or underground, within the
boundaries of Indiana, except confined waters in sewers, tanks, etc.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 4-22-19)
§ 53.03 GENERAL WASTE AND WATER DISCHARGE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property with the town
or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any sanitary
sewer, either directly or indirectly, stormwaters, surface water, ground water,
roof run-off, subsurface drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water or
unpolluted industrial process water. The town shall require the removal of
unpolluted waters from any wastewater collection or treatment facility if such
removal is cost effective and is in the best interest of all users of those
facilities.
   (C)   Stormwater, surface water, ground water, roof run-off, subsurface
drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water or unpolluted industrial process
water may be admitted to storm sewers which have adequate capacity for their
accommodation. No person shall use such sewers, however, without the specific
permission of the town.
   (D)   No person shall place, deposit or permit to be deposited in any
unsanitary manner on public or private property within the jurisdiction of the
town, any wastewater or other polluted waters except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provisions of this chapter and the NPDES
permit.
   (E)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any natural
outlet any wastewater or other polluted waters except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provisions of this chapter and the NPDES
permit.
   (F)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, combined sewer, septic tank or other facility intended or
used for the disposal of sewage.
   (G)   The owners of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the town
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located
a public sanitary sewer of the town is hereby required at his or her expense to
install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect with facilities
directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, within 90 days after date of official notice to do so, provided that
the public sewer is within 100 feet of the property line.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 4-22-19)
§ 53.04 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Clerk-Treasurer and signed by the
Wastewater Superintendent.
   (B)   (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   For residential and commercial service; and
         (b)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
      (2)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the town. The permit application
shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information
considered pertinent in the judgment of the Inspector. A permit and inspection
fee of $25 for a residential or commercial building sewer permit and $50 for an
industrial building sewer permit shall be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer at the
time the application is filed.
   (C)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
town from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer.
   (D)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
   (E)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the Inspector, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
   (F)   The building sewer shall be no less than six inches in diameter,
sloped not less than one-eighth inch per foot and the material shall be SDR 35
PVC or other suitable material approved by the Wastewater Superintendent. The
pipe shall be bedded six inches below and to the top of the pipe with crushed
stone. Where a wye is not available, a wye or saddle shall be installed for a
connection.
   (G)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (H)   No person shall make connection of inflow sources such as roof
downspouts, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains or other source of
surface run-off or ground water to a building sewer or building drain which in
turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (I)   Unpolluted water from air conditioners, cooling, condensing systems or
swimming pools shall be discharged to a storm sewer, where it is available.
Where a storm sewer is not available, discharge may be to a natural outlet
approved by the town and by the State of Indiana. Where a storm sewer is not
available, such unpolluted water may be discharged to a sanitary sewer pending
written approval by the town.
   (J)   The inflow/clear water connection for any new building shall be made
separate and distinct from the sanitary waste connection to facilitate
disconnection of the former if a separate storm sewer subsequently becomes
available.
   (K)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the town or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.P. Manual of Practice
NO. 9. All such connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight. Any
deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
Wastewater Superintendent before installations.
   (L)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointly
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules of the town. In the
absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the materials and
procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM and WPCF Manuals
of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (M)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Inspector
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Inspector or
his or her representative.
   (N)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
   (O)   No user shall make a new connection unless there is capacity available
to all downstream sewers, lift stations, force mains and the sewage treatment
plant, including capacity for compatible pollutants.
   (P)   Except as otherwise provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (Q)   The owner of all homes, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situation with the town
and abutting on any street, alley or right- of-way in which there is now
located a public sanitary sewer of the town is hereby required at his or her
expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such
facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, within 90 days after date of official notice to do
so, provided that said public sewer is within 300 feet of the property line.
   (R)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (S)   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently
break, damage, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the POTW. Any person violating this provision
shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 4-22-19)
§ 53.05 DISCHARGE OF CERTAIN WATERS OR WASTES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   General prohibitions. No user shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW any pollutant or wastewater that causes pass through
or interference. These general prohibitions apply to all users of the POTW.
   (B)   Specific prohibitions.
      (1)   A user of the POTW, whether or not the user is subject to national
categorical standards or state, local, or any other national pretreatment
standard or requirement, shall not allow the introduction of the following into
the POTW:
         (a)   A pollutant from any source of non-domestic wastewaters that
could pass through or cause interference with the operation or performance of
the POTW;
         (b)   Pollutants that create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, waste streams with a closed-cup flashpoint of
less than 140º F. (60º C.) using the test methods specified in 40 CFR 261.21;
         (c)   Wastewater having a pH less than 5.0 or greater than 10.0 or
otherwise causing corrosive structural damage to the POTW or equipment;
         (d)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts that will cause
obstruction to the flow in a sewer or other interference with the operation of
the POTW. Total suspended solids concentrations in excess of 250 mg/l will be
subject to surcharge as identified in §
53.08;
         (e)   Pollutants, including oxygen demanding pollutants (such as
CBOD), released in a discharge at a flow rate or pollutant concentration that
could cause interference with the POTW. CBOD concentrations in excess of 250
mg/l will be subject to surcharge as identified in §
53.08;
         (f)   Wastewater having a temperature greater than (110º F. (45º C.)),
or which will inhibit biological activity in the treatment plant resulting in
interference, but in no case wastewater that causes the temperature at the
introduction into the treatment plant to exceed 104º F. (40º C.);
         (g)   Petroleum oil, non- biodegradable cutting oil, or products of
mineral oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
         (h)   Pollutants that could result in the presence of toxic gases,
vapors, or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker
health and safety problems;
         (i)   Trucked or hauled pollutants, except with the permission of the
POTW and when introduced at discharge points designated by the Wastewater
Superintendent;
         (j)   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids, or other
wastewater which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are
sufficient to create a public nuisance or a hazard to quality of life, or to
prevent entry into the sewers for maintenance or repair;
         (k)   Wastewater which imparts color that cannot be removed by the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently impact color to the treatment plant's
effluent, thereby violating the town's NPDES permit;
         (l)   Wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes except
in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
         (m)   Stormwater, surface water, ground water, artesian well water,
roof runoff, Subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, non- contact cooling water, and unpolluted wastewater, unless
specifically authorized by the Wastewater Superintendent;
         (n)   Sludges, screenings, or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes;
         (o)   Medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the
Wastewater Superintendent in a wastewater discharge permit;
         (p)   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the treatment plant's effluent to fail a toxicity test;
         (q)   Detergents, surface-active agents, or other substances that may
cause excessive foaming in the POTW;
         (r)   Wastewater causing two readings on an explosion hazard meter at
the point of discharge into the POTW, or at any point in the POTW, of more than
5% or any single reading over 10% of the lower explosive limit of the meter; or
         (s)   Ammonia-nitrogen discharges to the publicly owned treatment
works must be in concentrations that do not cause pass through and
interference. Ammonia-nitrogen concentrations in excess of 25 mg/l will be
subject to surcharge as identified in §
53.08;
         (t)   Phosphorus discharges to the publicly owned treatment works must
be in concentrations that do not cause pass through and interference. Total
phosphorus concentrations in excess of 10 mg/l will be subject to surcharge as
identified in §
53.08.
      (2)   Pollutants, substances, or wastewater prohibited by this section
must not be processed or stored in such a manner that they could be discharged
to the POTW.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 4-22-19)
§ 53.06 LOCAL LIMITS.
   (A)   The town has the legal authority to develop and enforce specific
limits on prohibited substances such that a pollutant contributed by an
industrial user that has caused or is likely to cause interference or pass
through at the receiving POTW and the recurrence of the contributed pollutant's
effect on the POTW are limited.
   (B)   No person shall discharge wastewater containing in excess of the
following monthly average and daily maximum limits:
Parameter            Monthly Average Limit Daily Maximum Limit
Arsenic              3.80                  7.73
Cadmium              0.09 mg/l             0.18 mg/l
Chromium             12.26 mg/l            24.51 mg/l (hex)
Copper               2.47 mg/l             4.94 mg/l
Cyanide              0.19 mg/l             0.37 mg/l
Lead                 0.39 mg/l             0.79 mg/l
Molybdenum           85.7 mg/l             173.03 mg/l
Nickel               2.24 mg/l             5.59 mg/l
Selenium             0.78 mg/l             1.59 mg/l
Silver               0.43                  0.87
Zinc                 10.99 mg/l            21.63 mg/l
Oil and grease       200 mg/l              200 mg/l
(animal/vegetable)
Oil and grease       100 mg/l              100 mg/l
(mineral/petrol eum)
 
   (C)   The above limits apply at the point where the wastewater is discharged
to the POTW. All concentrations for metallic substances are for "total" metal
unless indicated otherwise.
   (D)   The town reserves the right to establish more stringent standards or
requirements on discharges to the POTW.
   (E)   No user shall ever increase the use of process water, or in any way
attempt to dilute a discharge, as a partial or complete substitute or adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with a discharge limitation unless expressly
authorized by an applicable pretreatment standard of requirement.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 4-22-19)
§ 53.07 GENERAL PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Pretreatment facilities. Users must provide wastewater treatment as
necessary to comply with this chapter and must achieve compliance with local
limits and the prohibitions set out in §
53.06 within the time limitations specified by the Wastewater Superintendent.
Any facilities necessary for compliance shall be provided, operated, and
maintained at the user's expense.
   (B)   Charges and fees.
      (1)   The town may adopt reasonable fees for reimbursement of costs of
setting up and operating the town's pretreatment program which may include:
         (a)   Fees for monitoring, inspection, and surveillance procedures
including the cost of collecting and analyzing a user's discharge, and
reviewing monitoring reports submitted by users;
         (b)   Fees for reviewing and responding to accidental discharge
procedures and construction;
         (c)   Fees for filing appeals; and
         (d)   Other fees as the town may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained in this chapter.
      (2)   These fees relate solely to the matters covered by this chapter and
are separate from all other fees, fines, and penalties chargeable by the town.
   (C)   Additional measures.
      (1)   Whenever deemed necessary, the Wastewater Superintendent may
require users to restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate
that certain wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/
or consolidate points of discharge, separate sewage wastestreams from
industrial wastestreams, and such other conditions as may be necessary to
protect the POTW and determine the user's compliance with the requirements of
this chapter.
      (2)   The Wastewater Superintendent may require any person discharging
into the POTW to install and maintain, on their property and at their expense,
a suitable storage and flow control facility to ensure equalization of flow.
      (3)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors or traps shall be provided when,
in the opinion of the town they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
waters containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand
and other harmful ingredients, except that such interceptors or traps will not
be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors or
traps shall be of a type and capacity approved by the town and shall be located
so as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. They
shall be constructed of impervious materials capable of withstanding abrupt and
extreme changes in temperatures and shall be of substantial construction, be
gas-tight, water-tight and equipped with easily removable covers. Where
installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors or traps shall be maintained
by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously efficient operation at all
times. Fats, oils greases and non-biodegradable cutting oils in excess of 100
mg/l which may pass through or interfere with the treatment process are
strictly prohibited.
      (4)   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
      (5)   The town has the legal authority to accept or deny any new or
increased discharges from an indirect discharger.
      (6)   The town has the legal authority to immediately halt or prevent any
discharge of pollutants to the POTW which reasonably appears to present an
imminent endangerment to the health or welfare of the public, the environment,
and/or which threatens to interfere with the operation of the POTW.
      (7)   The town has the legal authority to require compliance with all
applicable pretreatment standards and requirements by indirect dischargers.
   (D)   Plans for pretreatment facilities. Specifications and any other
pertinent information relating to pretreatment or control facilities shall be
submitted for approval of the control authority and no construction of such
facilities shall be commenced until approval in writing, is granted. Where such
facilities are provided, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operating order by the owner at his or her expense and shall be
subject to periodic inspection by the town to determine that such facilities
are being operated in conformance with applicable federal, state and local laws
and permits.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 4-22-19)
§ 53.08 WASTEWATER STRENGTH, REPORTS AND SURCHARGE FOR EXCESS CBOD, SUSPENDED
SOLIDS, AMMONIA- NITROGEN AND PHOSPHORUS.
   (A)   The strength of wastewaters shall be determined, for periodic
establishment of charges provided for in the rate ordinance, from samples taken
at the aforementioned structure at any period of time and of such duration and
in such manner as the town may elect, or, at any place mutually agreed upon
between the user and the town. Appropriate charges from sampling and analysis
may be assessed to the user at the option of the town. The results of routine
sampling and analysis by the user may also be used, for determination of
charges after verification by the town.
   (B)   The town may require users of the POTW, other than residential users,
to supply pertinent information on wastewater flow characteristics. Such
measurements, tests and analysis shall be made at the users' expense. If made
by the town, an appropriate charge may be assessed to the user at the option of
the town.
   (C)   Normal domestic sewage strength should not exceed a CBOD demand of 250
milligrams per liter of fluid, total suspended solids in excess of 250
milligrams per liter of fluid, ammonia-nitrogen in excess of 25 milligrams per
liter of fluid, or Phosphorus in excess of 10 milligrams per liter of fluid.
   (D)   Additional charges for treatment of stronger than normal domestic
waste shall be as follows:
      (1)   There shall be an additional charge of $0.12 per pound of CBOD in
excess of 250 milligrams per liter of fluid; and
      (2)   There shall be an additional charge of $0.12 per pound of total
suspended solids in excess of 250 milligrams per liter of fluid;
      (3)   There shall be an additional charge of $0.12 per pound of ammonia-
nitrogen in excess of 25 milligrams per liter of fluid;
      (4)   There shall be an additional charge of $0.12 per pound of
phosphorus in excess of 10 milligrams per liter of fluid.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 4-22-19)
§ 53.09 PRETREATMENT DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   (A)   The Wastewater Superintendent may require new industrial users or
existing users to apply for a discharge permit.
   (B)   The purpose of the permit is to protect the POTW from pass through and
interference.
   (C)   Wastewater discharge permits may contain, but not be limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge and
requirements for flow regulation;
      (2)   Limits on the daily and monthly average and/or maximum
concentration, mass or other measures of identified wastewater pollutants or
properties;
      (3)   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment facilities,
pollution control or construction of appropriate containment facilities
designed to reduce, eliminate or prevent the introduction of flow or pollutants
to the treatment plant that have the potential to cause pass through and
interference of the POTW;
      (4)   Development and implementation of spill control plans, total toxic
control plans or other special conditions including management practices
necessary to prevent accidental or unanticipated discharges;
      (5)   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the treatment plant;
      (6)   Implement surcharges for conventional pollutants including, but not
limited to TSS, CBOD, ammonia, phosphorus and oil and grease;
      (7)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection,
sampling facilities and equipment;
      (8)   A statement that compliance with the wastewater discharge permit
does not relieve the industrial user from compliance with all applicable
federal and state pretreatment standards, including those which become
effective during the term of the discharge permit; and
      (9)   Other conditions as deemed necessary by the Wastewater
Superintendent to ensure compliance with this chapter, federal and state laws,
rules and regulations.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 4-22-19)
§ 53.10 COMPLIANCE MONITORING.
   Right of entry; inspection and sampling. The Wastewater Superintendent or
duly authorized representative (Inspector) bearing the proper identification
and credentials shall have the right to enter the premises of any user to
determine whether the user is complying with all requirements of this chapter
and any wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder. Users shall
allow the Inspector ready access to all parts of the premises for the purposes
of inspections, surveillance, record review, monitoring as necessary to
determine compliance with this chapter, if applicable or any industrial
wastewater pretreatment permit.
   (A)   Where a user has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation
of suitable identification, the Inspector will be permitted to enter without
delay for the purposes of performing specific responsibilities.
   (B)   The Inspector shall have the right to set up on the user's property,
or require installation of, such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling
and/or metering of the user's operations.
   (C)   The Wastewater Superintendent may require the user to install
monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility's sampling and monitoring
equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating
condition by the user at its own expense. All devices used to measure
wastewater flow and quality shall be calibrated annually to ensure their
accuracy.
   (D)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the
facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the user
at the written or verbal request of the Wastewater Superintendent and shall not
be replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the user.
   (E)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the Inspector access to the user's
premises shall be a violation of this chapter.
   (F)   Inspection. of industrial users for the purposes of verifying industry
self- monitoring information will be done at such intervals as determined by
the Wastewater Superintendent to be necessary to detect prohibited discharges.
The minimum surveillance schedule to be conducted by the POTW, if deemed
warranted by the Wastewater Superintendent, will be semi-annually.
   (G)   A seven-day monitoring period shall be allowed if deemed warranted in
order to obtain representative data. The surveillance period will normally be
for a period of one day representative of the normal production day, but can be
of longer duration at the discretion of the Wastewater Superintendent. In cases
where the surveillance period extends for a greater number of consecutive days
than seven, the POTW shall have the prerogative of selecting the seven
consecutive days of its choice for establishing rates and charges.
   (H)   The POTW may sample and conduct inspection activities of SIU's
contributing and non-SIU industries when deemed necessary by the Wastewater
Superintendent to verify, independent of information supplied by industrial
users, compliance or non-compliance with applicable pretreatment standards. For
scheduled surveillance, the user shall be given the option of splitting the
obtained sample such that it may be analyzed by the user.
   (I)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
above, the Wastewater Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the town
shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the
user, and the user shall be held harmless for injury or death to the town
employees and the town shall indemnify the user against loss or damage to its
property by town employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the user and growing out of
the gauging and sampling operation, except as they may be caused by negligence
or failure of the user to maintain safe conditions.
   (J)   The Wastewater Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of
the town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all private properties for the following activities, including, but not
limited to inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, repair, and
maintenance. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on an easement, shall be
done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 4-22-19)
§ 53.11 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, surveys, wastewater
discharge permit applications, wastewater discharge permits, and monitoring
programs, and from the Wastewater Superintendent 's inspection and sampling
activities, shall be available to the public without restriction, unless the
user specifically requests, and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of
the Wastewater Superintendent that the release of such information would
divulge information, processes, or methods of production entitled to protection
as trade secrets under applicable state law or would otherwise be exempt from
disclosure pursuant to applicable law. Any such request must be asserted at the
time of submission of the information or data. When requested and demonstrated
by the user furnishing a report that such information should be exempt from
disclosure, the portions of a report which might disclose trade secrets or
secret processes shall not be made available for inspection by the public.
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, any such information and/or
data shall be made immediately available if access to such information and/or
data is specifically required by a state or federal statute, rule or regulation
or is ordered by a court (with appropriate jurisdiction) under the rules of
discovery.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 4-22-19)
§ 53.12 PUBLICATION OF USERS IN SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.
   The Wastewater Department shall publish annually, in a newspaper of general
circulation that provides meaningful public notice within the jurisdictions
served by the POTW, a list of the users which, during the previous 12 months,
were in significant noncompliance with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements. The term SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE shall mean:
   (A)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which 66% or more of wastewater measurements taken during a six- month
period exceed (by any magnitude) a numeric pretreatment standard or requirement
including instantaneous limits as defined by §
53.06;
   (B)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those in
which 33% or more of wastewater measurements taken for each pollutant parameter
during a six-month period equals or exceeds the product of the numeric
pretreatment standard or requirement including instantaneous limits, as defined
by §
53.06 multiplied by the applicable criteria (1.4 for CBOD, COD, TSS, fats,
oils, and grease, 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
   (C)   Any other discharge violation of a pretreatment standard or
requirement as defined herein that the Wastewater Superintendent believes has
caused, alone or in combination with other discharges, interference or pass
through, including endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general
public;
   (D)   Any discharge of pollutants that has caused imminent endangerment to
the public or to the environment, or has resulted in the Wastewater
Superintendent to exercise emergency authority under 327 IAC 5-19-3(1)(G) to
halt or prevent such a discharge;
   (E)   Failure to meet, within 90 days of the scheduled date, a compliance
schedule milestone contained in a wastewater discharge permit or enforcement
order for starting construction, completing construction, or attaining final
compliance;
   (F)   Failure to provide within 45 days after the due date, any required
reports, including baseline monitoring reports, reports on compliance with
categorical pretreatment standard deadlines, periodic self-monitoring reports,
and reports on compliance with compliance schedules;
   (G)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
   (H)   Any other violation(s), which may include best management practices
(BMPs), that the town upon recommendation of the Wastewater Superintendent
determines will adversely affect the operation or implementation of the local
pretreatment program.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 4-22-19)
§ 53.13 AUTHORITY TO INSPECT.
   (A)   The Wastewater Superintendent, Inspector and other duly authorized
employees of the town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all properties for the purpose of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter. The Wastewater Superintendent or his or her representative shall have
no authority to inquire into any processes including metallurgical, chemical,
oil, refining, ceramic, paper or other industries beyond that point having a
direct bearing on the kind of source of discharge to the sewers, waterways or
facilities for waste treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the Wastewater Superintendent or duly authorized
employees of the town shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises
established by the company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or
death to the town employees and the town shall indemnify the company against
loss or damage to its property by town employees and against liability claims
and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company
and growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be
caused by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as
required herein.
   (C)   The Wastewater Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of
the town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all private properties through which the town holds a duly negotiated
easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the POTW lying
within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
   (D)   Where a user has security measures in force that require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation
of suitable identification, the Wastewater Superintendent will be permitted to
enter without delay for the purposes of performing specific responsibilities.
   (E)   The Wastewater Superintendent shall have the right to set up on the
user's property, or require installation of, such devices as are necessary to
conduct sampling and/or metering of the user's operations.
   (F)   The Wastewater Superintendent may require the user to install
monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility's sampling and monitoring
equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating
condition by the user at own expense. All devices used to measure wastewater
flow and quality shall be calibrated yearly to ensure their accuracy.
   (G)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to the safe and easy access of
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled must be promptly removed by the
user at the written or verbal request of the Wastewater Superintendent and
shall not be replaced. The costs of cleaning such access shall be borne by the
user.
   (H)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the Wastewater Superintendent access
to the user's premises is be a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 4-22-19)
§ 53.14 SEARCH WARRANTS.
   If the Wastewater Superintendent or his designee has been refused access to
a building, structure or property or any part thereof, and if the Wastewater
Superintendent has demonstrated probable cause to believe that there may be a
violation of this chapter or that there is a need to inspect as part of a
routine inspection program of the town designed to verify compliance with this
chapter or any permit or order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall
public health, safety and welfare of the community or the environment, then
upon application by the Town Attorney, a judge of a circuit or superior court
of the county in which the wastewater discharge in question enters the POTW
shall issue a search and/or seizure warrant describing the specific location
subject to the warrant. The warrant shall specify what, if anything, may be
searched and/or seized on the property described. Such warrant shall be served
at reasonable hours by the Wastewater Superintendent in the company of a
uniformed police officer of the town. In the event of an emergency affecting
public health and safety or environmental quality, inspections shall be made
without the issuance of a warrant.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 4-22-19)
ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
§ 53.20 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   When the Wastewater Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or
continues to violate, a discharge permit, any provision of this chapter or
order issued hereunder, the Wastewater Superintendent may serve upon that user
a written notice of violation setting forth the nature of the violation(s). The
notice may also include specific corrective actions and compliance schedules to
which the Wastewater Superintendent requires the user to adhere. Within 30 days
of the date of receipt of this notice, the user shall submit to the Wastewater
Superintendent a written explanation of the violation and a plan for the
satisfactory correction and prevention thereof, consistent with the terms of
the notice (to include specific corrective actions and compliance schedules).
   (B)   Compliance with the conditions, requirements and terms of this notice
shall not be construed to relieve the user of its obligation to comply with its
discharge permit which remains in full force and effect nor does such
compliance excuse violations occurring before or after receipt of this notice
of violation. Additional enforcement action may be pursued if corrective
actions are not accomplished as scheduled and the Wastewater Superintendent
expressly reserves the right to seek any and all remedies available to it under
this chapter for any violations cited by the notice. Nothing in this chapter
shall limit the authority of the town to take any action, including emergency
actions or any other enforcement action, without first issuing a notice of
violation.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 4-22-19)
§ 53.21 COMPLIANCE ORDERS.
   When the Wastewater Superintendent finds that a user has violated or
continues to violate this chapter, discharge permits or orders issued
hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, he may issue an
order to the user responsible for the discharge directing that the user come
into compliance within a specified time period. If the user does not come into
compliance within the specified time period, sewer service shall be
discontinued to the user unless and until adequate treatment facilities,
devices or other related appurtenances are installed and properly operated.
Such service shall not recommence until such time as the user is able to
demonstrate that it can and will maintain compliance. Failure to comply with
this compliance order may subject the user to having its connection to the
sanitary sewer sealed by the town and assessed the costs therefor. Compliance
orders may also contain such other requirements as might be reasonably
necessary and appropriate to address the noncompliance, including, but not
limited to, the installation of pretreatment technology, additional self-
monitoring and improved management practices designed to minimize the amount of
pollutants discharged to the POTW. A compliance order may not extend the
deadline for compliance established for a federal pretreatment standard or
requirement, nor does a compliance order release the user of liability for any
violation, including any continuing violation. Issuance of a compliance order
shall not be a prerequisite to taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 4-22-19)
§ 53.22  SHOW CAUSE ORDER AND HEARING.
   (A)   The Wastewater Superintendent may serve upon any user who causes,
allows or contributes to a violation of this chapter, its discharge permit, or
any order issued hereunder, or an unauthorized discharge to enter the POTW a
written show cause order. Said order must be given at least 15 days prior to
the hearing in accordance with this chapter. The show cause order must contain:
      (1)   The name and address of the user to whom the show cause order is
issued;
      (2)   The address, or the parcel number, of the property that is the
subject of the order, if different from division (A) above;
      (3)   The nature of the violation(s);
      (4)   An order to the user to appear before the Town Council to show
cause as to why the town would not initiate formal enforcement action against
the user or discontinue service to the user;
      (5)   A statement indicating the exact time and place of the hearing, and
that the person to whom the show cause order was issued is entitled to appear
at the hearing with or without legal counsel, present evidence, cross examine
opposing witnesses and present arguments;
      (6)   A statement of the proposed enforcement action and the reasons
therefor;
      (7)   A statement indicating that a failure to comply with any of the
conditions, requirements or terms of the show cause order shall constitute a
violation of this chapter and may subject the user to such other enforcement
response that may be appropriate; and
      (8)   The name, address and telephone number of the Wastewater
Superintendent.
   (B)   The Town Council may itself conduct a hearing and take the evidence,
or may designate any of its members or any officer or employee of the
Wastewater Department to:
      (1)   Issue in the name of the Town Council notices of hearings
requesting the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of
evidence relevant to any matter involved in such hearing;
      (2)   Take the evidence; and
      (3)   Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, including
transcripts and other evidence, together with recommendations to the Town
Council for action thereon.
   (C)   A hearing must be held relative to each show cause order of the Town
and the hearing shall be held on a business day no earlier than 15 days after
notice of the show cause order is given. At any hearing held pursuant to this
ordinance, testimony taken must be under oath and recorded stenographically or
mechanically. The person to whom the show cause order was issued, or any other
person with an interest in the proceedings may appear in person or by counsel
at the hearing. Whether or not a duly notified user appears as noticed,
enforcement action may be pursued as appropriate. Each person appearing at the
hearing is entitled to present evidence, cross examine opposing witnesses and
present arguments. The transcript, so recorded, will be made available to any
member of the public or any party to the hearing upon payment of the usual
charges therefor.
   (D)   After the Town Council has reviewed the evidence and if it finds any
violation(s) of this chapter, any prohibition, limitation or requirement
contained herein or of the user's discharge permit, or of any order issued
hereunder, it shall make findings and it may issue to the user responsible for
the discharge any orders or directives as are necessary and appropriate.
Issuance of a show cause order shall not be a prerequisite to taking any other
action against a user.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 4-22-19)
§ 53.23 CEASE AND DESIST ORDERS.
   (A)   When the Wastewater Superintendent finds that a user is violating this
chapter, the user's discharge permit, any order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, or that the user's past violations are
likely to recur, the Wastewater Superintendent may issue an order to the user
directing it to cease and desist all such violations and directing the user to:
      (1)   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
      (2)   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be
needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including
halting operations and/or terminating the discharge.
   (B)   In an emergency, the order to cease and desist may be given by the
Wastewater Superintendent by telephone. In non-emergency situations, the cease
and desist order may be used to suspend or revoke discharge permits. Issuance
of a cease and desist order shall not be a prerequisite to taking any other
action against the user. Cease and desist orders are appealable to the Town
Council within 15 days of such order is issued.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 4-22-19)
§ 53.24 ADMINISTRATIVE FINES.
   (A)   When the Wastewater Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Wastewater Superintendent may impose a fine of not more than
$2,500 per day, per violation for a first violation nor more than $7,500 per
day, per violation for subsequent violations, in accordance with I.C. 36-1-3-8
(a)(10)(B).
   (B)   Unpaid charges, fines, and penalties shall, after 30 calendar days, be
assessed an additional penalty of 10% of the unpaid balance, and interest shall
accrue thereafter at a rate of 12% per month. A lien against the user's
property will be sought for unpaid charges, fines, and penalties.
   (C)   Users desiring to dispute such fines shall file a written request for
the Wastewater Superintendent to reconsider the fine along with full payment of
the fine amount within 30 days of being notified of the fine. The Wastewater
Superintendent may convene a hearing on the matter. In the event the user's
appeal is successful, the payment, together with any interest accruing thereto,
shall be returned to the user. The Wastewater Superintendent may add the costs
of preparing administrative enforcement actions, such as notices and orders, to
the fine.
   (D)   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 4-22-19)
§ 53.25 EMERGENCY SUSPENSIONS.
   (A)   The Wastewater Superintendent may immediately suspend a user's
discharge after formal notice to the user whenever such suspension is necessary
in the opinion of the Wastewater Superintendent in order to halt or prevent an
actual or threatened discharge which presents or may present an immediate or
substantial endangerment to human health, to the welfare of the public, or to
the environment, that threatens to interfere with the operation of the POTW, or
is causing or will cause the town to violate any condition of its NPDES permit.
   (B)   Any user notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment service
and/or the discharge permit shall immediately stop or eliminate the discharge.
In the event of a failure of the person to comply voluntarily with the
suspension order, the Wastewater Superintendent shall take such steps as deemed
necessary, including, but not limited to, immediate severance of the sewer
connection, to minimize damage to the POTW system or endangerment to any
individuals or to the environment.
   (C)   The Wastewater Superintendent shall allow the user to recommence its
discharge when the user has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the town that
the period of endangerment has passed, unless the termination proceedings set
forth in §
53.26 are initiated against the user.
   (D)   A user that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence to the Wastewater Superintendent prior to the
date of any show cause or termination hearing under §
53.22 and §
53.23.
   (E)   The Wastewater Superintendent may deny or condition new or increased
discharges by a user or changes in the nature of pollutants discharged by the
user if the discharge does not meet applicable pretreatment standards or will
cause the town to violate its NPDES permit.
   (F)   Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted as requiring a hearing
prior to any emergency suspension.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 4-22-19)
§ 53.26 TERMINATION OF DISCHARGE.
   (A)   In addition to the provisions of this chapter, any user who violates
the following conditions is subject to discharge termination:
      (1)   Violation of wastewater discharge permit conditions;
      (2)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
      (3)   Failure to report significant changes in operations or wastewater
volume, constituents, and characteristics prior to discharge;
      (4)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises for the purpose
of inspection, monitoring, or sampling; or
      (5)   Violation of the pretreatment standards or local limits in this
ordinance.
   (B)   Such user will be notified of the proposed termination of its
discharge and be offered an opportunity to show cause under §
53.17 why the proposed action should not be taken. Exercise of this option by
the Wastewater Superintendent shall not be a bar to, or a prerequisite for,
taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 4-22-19)
§ 53.27 WATER SUPPLY SEVERANCE.
   Whenever a user has violated or continues to violate any provision of this
chapter, or order issued hereunder, water service to the user may be severed.
Service will only recommence, at the user's expense, after it has
satisfactorily demonstrated its ability to the Wastewater Superintendent its
ability to comply.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 4-22-19)
§ 53.28 JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES.
   (A)   Injunctive relief. When the Wastewater Superintendent finds that a
user has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, a
wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, the Wastewater Superintendent may
petition the court of jurisdictional authority through the Town Attorney for
the issuance of a temporary or permanent injunction, as appropriate, which
restrains or compels the specific performance of the wastewater discharge
permit, order, or other requirement imposed by this chapter on activities of
the user. The Wastewater Superintendent may also seek such other action as is
appropriate for legal and/or equitable relief, including a requirement for the
user to conduct environmental remediation. A petition for injunctive relief
shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action
against a user.
   (B)   Remedies nonexclusive. The remedies provided for in this chapter are
not exclusive. The Wastewater Superintendent may take any, all, or any
combination of these actions against a noncompliant user.
(Ord, 2019-5, passed 4-22-19)
AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS
§ 53.30 UPSET.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, UPSET means an exceptional incident
in which there is unintentional and temporary noncompliance with categorical
pretreatment standards because of factors beyond the reasonable control of the
user. An upset does not include noncompliance to the extent caused by
operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities, inadequate
treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance, or careless or improper
operation.
   (B)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action brought
for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the requirements
of division (C) are met.
   (C)   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset shall
demonstrate through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or other
relevant evidence that:
      (1)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
      (2)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workmanlike manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
      (3)   The user has submitted the following information to the Wastewater
Superintendent within 24 hours of becoming aware of the upset (if this
information is provided orally, a written submission must be provided within
five days:
         (a)   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
         (b)   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times or,
if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
         (c)   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
   (D)   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
   (E)   Users will have the opportunity for a judicial determination on any
claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards.
   (F)   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standard upon
reduction, loss, or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost, or fails.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 4-22-19)
§ 53.31 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   A user shall have an affirmative defense to an enforcement action brought
against it for noncompliance with the general or specific prohibitions in §
53.05 if it can prove that it did not know, or have reason to know, that its
discharge, alone or in conjunction with discharges from other sources, would
cause pass through or interference and that either:
   (A)   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user was in
compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass through or
interference; or
   (B)   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change substantially
in nature or constituents from the user's prior discharge when the town was
regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit, and in the case of interference,
was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal requirements.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 4-22-19)
§ 53.32 BYPASS.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BYPASS. The intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of a
user's treatment facility.
      SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE. Substantial physical damage to property, damage
to the treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable, or
substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be
expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE does not
mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
   (B)   A user may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause pretreatment
standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it also is for essential
maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not subject to
the provision of divisions (C) and (D) of this section.
   (C)   (1)   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall
submit prior notice to the Wastewater Superintendent, at least ten days before
the date of the bypass, if possible.
      (2)   A user shall submit oral notice to the Wastewater Superintendent of
an unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards within
24 hours from the time it becomes aware of the bypass. A written submission
shall also be provided within five days of the time the user becomes aware of
the bypass. The written submission shall contain a description of the bypass
and its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times,
and, if the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected
to continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent
reoccurrence of the bypass the Wastewater Superintendent may waive the written
report on a case-by-case basis if the oral report has been received within 24
hours.
   (D)   Bypass is prohibited, and the Wastewater Superintendent may take an
enforcement action against a user for a bypass, unless:
      (1)   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury, or
severe property damage;
      (2)   There were feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the use of
auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or maintenance
during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not satisfied if
adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the exercise of
reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred during
normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
      (3)   The user submitted notices as required under division (C) of this
section.
   (E)   The Wastewater Superintendent may approve an anticipated bypass, after
considering its adverse effects, if the Wastewater Superintendent determined
that it will meet the three conditions listed in division (D) of this section.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 4-22-19)
CHAPTER 54: WATER CONSERVATION
Section
   
54.01   Application
   
54.02   Declaration of need
   
54.03   Conservation measures
   
54.04   Conservation levels
   
54.05   Level one voluntary conservation
   
54.06   Level two mandatory conservation
   
54.07   Level three prohibited water use
   
54.08   Level four water rationing
   
54.09   Exceptions
   
54.10   Notice
   
54.11   Enforcement
§ 54.01 APPLICATION.
   This chapter shall apply to all persons, firms, partnerships, corporations,
company or organizations connected to the town's municipal water utility or
using water therefrom ("users").
(Ord. 2013-5, passed 3-11-13)
§ 54.02 DECLARATION OF NEED.
   Upon determining that the town's municipal water utility is in a condition
of water shortage, the town shall declare a water conservation emergency and
establish the appropriate measures and duration thereof.
(Ord. 2013-5, passed 3-11-13)
§ 54.03 CONSERVATION MEASURES.
   Practices that conserve water should be used at all times. Examples of
conservation measures include:
   (A)   Judiciously sprinkling, watering, or irrigating shrubbery, trees,
grass, ground covers, plants, vines gardens, vegetables, or any other
vegetation; eliminating wasteful sprinkling of impervious surfaces, such as
streets and sidewalks;
   (B)   Limiting water use while washing trucks, trailers, mobile homes,
railroad cars or any other type of mobile equipment;
   (C)   Limiting water use while cleaning sidewalks, driveways, paved areas,
or other outdoor surfaces;
   (D)   Repairing or replacing leaking water fixtures and service lines; and
   (E)   Covering swimming pools when not in use to reduce evaporation.
(Ord. 2013-5, passed 3-11-13)
§ 54.04 CONSERVATION LEVELS.
   In order to implement a water conservation program appropriate to the needs
of the municipal water utility and its users, the following levels of
conservation are established:
   (A)   Level one: voluntary conservation;
   (B)   Level two: restricted water use;
   (C)   Level three: prohibited water use; and
   (D)   Lever four: water rationing.
(Ord. 2013-5, passed 3-11-13)
§ 54.05 LEVEL ONE VOLUNTARY CONSERVATION.
   This level should consist of a request by the town to the users to engage in
conscious efforts to reduce water consumption by practicing conservative
measures and suggesting meaningful action to be taken until such time as the
existing water problem is resolved.
(Ord. 2013-5, passed 3-11-13)
§ 54.06 LEVEL TWO MANDATORY CONSERVATION.
   (A)   Level two shall be comprised of methods of restriction water usage by
users to such times, terms and conditions as the town shall determine
appropriate. Level two does not contemplate a severe water shortage in the
immediate future, but rather that mandatory conservation methods must be
imposed to insure adequate water and pressure for future needs.
   (B)   The user shall be requested to cease or reduce water use for such
items, including but not limited to: sprinkling, irrigating, or watering lawns,
ground cover, gardens and other landscaping, washing of automobiles, trucks,
homes or other non-essential equipment, the operation of ornamental fountains,
wading and swimming pools (which do not employ a filter and recirculation
system) and other such non-essential uses as made, from time to time, be
determined by the town.
   (C)   Special considerations shall be given regarding those persons whose
businesses or livelihood require a constant supply of water on a regular basis.
These businesses include but are not limited to car washes, garden centers,
nursing homes and restaurants.
(Ord. 2013-5, passed 3-11-13)
§ 54.07 LEVEL THREE PROHIBITED WATER USE.
   (A)   Level three prohibitions shall preclude the use of water as announced
under any proceeding level to restriction(s). Additionally, users shall be
subjected to additional prohibitions which will be determined by the town as
needs and conditions dictate but shall not include water rationing.
   (B)   Unless an emergency exists, the town shall call a special meeting
prior to the town adopting a level three water conservation condition. In the
event that an emergency exists or it is impractical to call a special meeting,
the town may declare a level three water condition but shall convene the
special meetings as soon thereafter as possible.
(Ord. 2013-5, passed 3-11-13)
§ 54.08 LEVEL FOUR WATER RATIONING.
   (A)   Water rationing shall occur when the municipal water utility cannot
reliably provide water pressure to its users by any practical means other than
imposing specific allegations of waters on the users, in such amounts that are
determined equitable by the town.
   (B)   Unless an emergency exists, the town shall call a special meeting
prior to the town adopting a level four water condition. In the event that an
emergency exists or it is impractical to call a special session, the town may
declare a level four water condition, but, shall convene the special session as
soon thereafter as possible.
   (C)   After the establishment of the level four water condition, the town
shall advise the users of the amounts of water that will be permitted to the
user and the method of water distribution or control.
(Ord. 2013-5, passed 3-11-13)
§ 54.09 EXCEPTIONS.
   The town shall establish rationing exemption necessary to provide for the
maintenance of adequate health, safety, and sanitary conditions.
(Ord. 2013-5, passed 3-11-13)
§ 54.10 NOTICE.
   (A)   In order to inform users of the water conservation level in effect the
municipal water utility shall give its users notice as soon as it is practical.
The following guidelines shall be adhered to by the municipal water utility
unless otherwise provided, or an emergency exists making full advance notice
impossible or impractible:
      (1)   Level one: notice shall be given to the local newspapers, radio,
requesting user compliance in accordance with level one restrictions;
      (2)   Level two, three and four: written notice shall be sent by the
municipal water utility to each user, at their last known address, by first
class mail, postage pre-paid. In addition, the town shall advise the local
newspapers and radio stations of the declared conservation level.
   (B)   Contents of notice: each notice to a user or distributed to the press
shall contain at least the following information:
      (1)   The conservational level declared in water use prohibitions that
level imposes on the users;
      (2)   The enforcement remedies available to the town in the event a
person violated the restrictions of the declared conservation level;
      (3)   A telephone number or other information advising the user where
questions may be answered or more information obtained;
      (4)   Such other information that may be deemed relevant.
   (C)   Notice of mandatory conservation or rationing shall be by first class
United States mail, or by other door to door distribution to each current user,
and by electronic and print media. Notice shall be deemed effective at the
conclusion of door to door distribution or at noon of the third day after
depositing notice in the United States mail.
(Ord. 2013-5, passed 3-11-13)
§ 54.11 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Every user shall be subject to the enforcement provisions provided in
this chapter with the exception of the Albany Volunteer Fire Department and any
state license health care provider(s) which are or have been declared accepted
by the Town Council.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of a level two water conservation
shall be subject to a first time warning by the Town Marshal or such other
authorized and designated employee of the town. In the event the user continues
to violate or subsequently violates the water conservation restrictions imposed
by level two, that person shall be cited with a written citation and subject to
a fine of $250.00.
   (C)   A person who violates water conservation levels three or four shall be
cited by the Town Marshal or such other duly authorized and designated employee
of the town, with violation of this chapter. A fine may be imposed against the
violator in the sum of $250. Additionally, the municipal water utility shall
disconnect the water service to any such user or customer, at the time that the
citation is issued, or soon thereafter as possible. Water service shall be
reconnected upon the payment of the fine and a reconnection fee.
(Ord. 2013-5, passed 3-11-13)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
      
75.   TRUCK ROUTES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Vehicle accident report
   
70.03   Motor vehicle inspection prior to registration
Traffic Control Devices
   
70.20   Establishment and maintenance of traffic control devices
   
70.21   Obedience to signals
   
70.22   Interference with signals
   
70.23   Unauthorized signals or markings
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Excessive sound from a motor vehicle regulated, see §
92.25
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. The following vehicles:
      (1)   Fire Department vehicles;
      (2)   Police Department vehicles;
      (3)   Ambulances;
      (4)   Emergency vehicles operated by or for hospitals or health and
hospital corporations under I.C. 16-22-8;
      (5)   Vehicles designated as emergency vehicles by the State Department
of Transportation under I.C. 9-21-20-1;
      (6)   Motor vehicles that, subject to I.C. 9-21-20-2, are approved by the
state emergency medical services commission that are:
         (a)   Ambulances that are owned by persons, firms, limited liability
companies, or corporations other than hospitals; or
         (b)   Not ambulances and that provide emergency medical services,
including extrication and rescue services (as defined in I.C. 16-18-2-110); and
      (7)   Vehicles of the Department of Correction that, subject to I.C. 9-
21-20-3, are:
         (a)   Designated by the Department of Correction as emergency
vehicles; and
         (b)   Responding to an emergency as under I.C. 9-13-2-6.
   DRIVER. A person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-47)
   HIGHWAY or STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every
publicly maintained way when any part of the way is open to the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular travel in Indiana. The term includes an alley.
(I.C. 9-13-2-73)
   INTERSECTION.  
      (1)   The area embraced within:
         (a)   The prolongation or connection of the lateral curb lines, or if
none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of two highways that join
at, or approximately at, right angles; or
         (b)   The area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
      (2)   Where a highway includes two roadways at least 30 feet apart, every
crossing of each roadway of the divided highway by an intersecting highway is
regarded as a separate intersection. If the intersecting highway also includes
two roadways at least 30 feet apart, every crossing of two roadways of the
intersecting highway is regarded as a separate intersection.
(I.C. 9-13-2-84)
   MOTOR VEHICLE.   
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this definition, a vehicle that is
self-propelled. The term does not include a farm tractor or implement of
agriculture designed to be operated primarily in a farm field or on farm
premises, an electric bicycle, an electric foot scooter or an electric personal
assistive mobility device.
      (2)   MOTOR VEHICLE also means:
         (a)   A vehicle that is self-propelled; or
         (b)   A vehicle that is propelled by electric power obtained from
overhead trolley wires, but not operated upon rails.
(I.C. 9-13-2-105)
   MOTORCYCLE . A motor vehicle with motive power that has a seat or saddle for
the use of the rider; is designed to travel on not more than three wheels in
contact with the ground; and satisfies the operational and equipment
specifications described in 49 CFR 571 and I.C. 9-19. The term does not include
a farm tractor, an electric bicycle or a motor-driven cycle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-108)
   OPERATOR. An individual who operates a vehicle, watercraft, off-road
vehicle, or snowmobile.
(I.C. 9-13-2-118)
   OWNER. A person, other than a lienholder that:
      (1)   Holds the property in or title to, as applicable, a vehicle,
manufactured home, mobile home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile, or watercraft; or
      (2)   Is entitled to the use or possession of, as applicable, a vehicle,
manufactured home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile, or watercraft, through a lease
or other agreement intended to operate as a security.
(I.C. 9-13-2-121(a))
   RIGHT OF WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of a highway.
(I.C. 9-13-2-155)
   ROADWAY. That part of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel.
(I.C. 9-13-2-157)
   STREET. See HIGHWAY.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. A highway or portion of a highway at the entrance to which
vehicular traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to yield right
of way to vehicles on the through highway in obedience to either a stop sign or
a yield sign.
(I.C. 9-13-2-178)
   VEHICLE. A device in, upon, or by which a person or property is, or may be,
transported or drawn upon a highway. The term does not include:
      (1)   A device moved by human power;
      (2)   A device that runs only on rails or tracks;
      (3)   A wheelchair;
      (4)   An electric foot scooter.
(I.C. 9-13-2-196(a))
§ 70.02 VEHICLE ACCIDENT REPORT.
   (A)   The Police Department of the town is authorized to furnish upon demand
therefor to any person copies of any information or accident reports which it
has in its files. If the prosecuting attorney of the county wherein the
accident shall advise the Department that the information should not be
released to any person, then the Department shall withhold such information
until its release is approved by the prosecuting attorney.
   (B)   Before copies of any information or accident reports are made, the
Police Department shall collect a $5 fee, which shall be deposited by the
Clerk- Treasurer in the Police Department’s Police Continued Education Fund, to
be expended at the discretion of the Police Chief for any Department purpose
reasonably related to the keeping of accident reports and records or the
prevention of street and highway accidents.
   (C)   The Police Department shall charge a fee of $5 per disc, whenever
pictures of the accident are requested. Monies to be deposited in the Police
Continued Education Fund.
(Ord. 1985-1, passed 2-25-85; Am. Ord. 2006-14, passed 8-20-06)
§ 70.03 MOTOR VEHICLE INSPECTION PRIOR TO REGISTRATION.
   (A)   The Police Department of the town is authorized, pursuant to law I.C.
9-29-4-2 et seq. to inspect motor vehicles, semi-trailers and recreational
vehicles, the owner(s) of which have made application for certificates of title
and registration.
   (B)   Before any inspection shall be made, the Police Department shall
collect a $5 fee, which shall be deposited by the Clerk-Treasurer into the
Police Department’s Police Continued Education Fund, to be expended at the
discretion of the Police Chief for any Department purpose reasonably related to
the keeping of accident reports and records or the prevention of street and
highway accidents.
   (C)   The procedures and definitions contained in I.C. 9-29-4-2, as amended,
are adopted and incorporated by reference in this section.
(Ord. 1985-1, passed 2-25-85; Am. Ord. 2006-14, passed 8-29-06)
Editor’s note:
   I.C. 9-29-4-2 et seq. were repealed by P.L. 86-2018, sec. 149
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.20 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   The town may establish and maintain official traffic control devices
necessary within the town. All traffic control devices, including signs, shall
be employed to indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform,
and as far as possible shall be placed uniformly. All traffic-control devices
and signs shall conform to required state specifications.
§ 70.21 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the town, or any electric
signal, gate, or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for such
barrier or sign must be approved by the town.
   (B)   The sign, signal, marking, or barrier shall have the same authority as
the personal direction of a police officer.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.22 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person without authority to attempt to or in
fact alter, deface, injure, knock down, or remove any official control device
or any railroad sign or signal, or any inscription, shield, or insignia
thereon, or any part thereof.
Penalty see §
70.99
§ 70.23 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain, or display on
or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device
which purports to be, is an imitation of, or resembles an official traffic
device or railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct the
movement of traffic or which conceals or hides from view or interferes with the
effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or signal. No
person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority permit on any
street, any traffic sign or signal containing any commercial advertising.
Nothing in this section shall be construed as restricting any public department
or public utility of the town in any emergency or temporarily from marking or
erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been approved by the
town.
   (B)   Every such prohibited sign, signal, or marking is declared to be a
public nuisance and the town is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to
be removed.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this title
for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction,
be subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Trucks prohibited on certain streets
   
71.02   Stop intersections
   
71.03   One-way streets
   71.04   Use of parking lots to avoid traffic control devices prohibited
Cruising
   
71.20   Definitions
   
71.21   Cruising prohibited
   
71.22   Posting of signs
Use of Skateboards, Scooters, Roller Skates, In-line Skates, Roller Blades and
Bicycles
   
71.30   Prohibited
   
71.31   Fines
Off Road Vehicles
   
71.40   Definitions
   
71.41   Requirements for operation
   
71.42   Fines
   
71.43   Revocation or suspension of off-road vehicle registration
Statutory reference:
   Authority to enact local traffic regulations, see I.C. 9-21-1-3
   Authority to lower local speed limits, see I.C. 9-21-5-6
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 TRUCKS PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   No trucks, other than pick-up trucks and passenger trucks and vans, shall be
allowed to operate on any posted town streets unless they must use the
particular street in question for the purpose of local pick-up or delivery.
Posted streets are those which have signs on them indicating that their use by
through trucks is prohibited.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.02 STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The town may designate intersections as a stop intersection and
require all vehicles to stop at one or more entrances to such intersections.
   (B)   The town shall post signs at such designated intersections, giving
notice of the designation as a stop intersection.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to obey the markings or
signs posted under this section.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.03 ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   The town may designate streets or highways as one-way streets or
highways and require that all vehicles operated on the street or highway be
moved in one specific direction.
   (B)   The town shall post signs at the entrance to the street or part of the
street that is affected, giving notice of the designation as a one-way street.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to obey the markings or
signs posted under this section.
Penalty, see §
70.99
CRUISING
§ 71.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONGESTED TRAFFIC.
      (1)   Traffic on any public street, alley, or highway which is delaying
to the point that:
         (a)   Motor vehicles cannot move through a 100-yard approach corridor
to an intersection controlled by a traffic light within two complete green-
light cycles where the delay in forward movement is due to the position of
other motor vehicles;
         (b)   Motor vehicles cannot move through a 100-yard approach corridor
to an intersection controlled by a traffic light, stop sign, or yield sign
within a five-minute period of time where the delay in forward movement is due
to the position of other motor vehicles; or,
         (c)   Motor vehicles cannot readily move forward on portions of public
streets, alleys, or highways between intersections because traffic speed is
slowed to less than five miles per hour, and the delay in movement is due to
the position of other motor vehicles.
      (2)   The determination that a street, alley, or highway is congested
shall be made by the Town Marshal or ranking peace officer on duty within the
affected area.
   CRUISING. The repetitive driving of any motor vehicle past a traffic-control
point in traffic which is congested at or near the traffic-control point.
   GREEN LIGHT CYCLE. The period commencing upon the switching of a traffic
light from a red light to a green light through to the return of a red light.
   PEACE OFFICER. The Town Marshal, his or her designee, any member of the town
Police Department, or other town, county or state official designated to
enforce this subchapter.
   PROPERTY ON THE PROXIMITY OF ANY POSTED NO-CRUISING ZONE. Any property which
is both visible from and located within 300 feet of any portion of a street,
alley, or highway which is posted as a No-Cruising Zone pursuant to this
subchapter.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL POINT. A location along a public street, alley, or highway
utilized by the Town Marshal or a peace officer on duty within the affected
area as an observation point in order to monitor traffic conditions for
potential violations of this title.
§ 71.21 CRUISING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Conduct prohibited. It shall be unlawful to engage in the activity
known as CRUISING as defined in this subchapter on the public streets, alleys,
or highways of the town in any area which has been posted as a No-Cruising
Zone.
   (B)   First violation. Any person who violates division (A) of this section
may be given a written warning stating that any subsequent passage past that
traffic-control point within the next succeeding four hours will be a violation
of this subchapter.
   (C)   Subsequent violations. Any person who, after having received a written
warning under division (B) of this section, subsequently drives past or is a
passenger in a vehicle passing the same traffic-control point within the next
succeeding four hours shall be in violation of this subchapter.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.22 POSTING OF SIGNS.
   This subchapter may be enforced in any area which has been posted as a “No-
Cruising Zone.” “No Cruising” signs shall be posted at the beginning and the
end of any public street, alley, or highway, or portion thereof, which is a
“No-Cruising Zone.”
USE OF SKATEBOARDS, SCOOTERS, ROLLER SKATES, IN-LINE SKATES, ROLLER BLADES AND
BICYCLES
§ 71.30 PROHIBITED.
   Use of skateboards, scooters, roller skates, in-line skates, roller blades
and bicycles are prohibited on public sidewalks in the following areas:
   (A)   Along State Street, between Water Street and Delaware Street.
   (B)   Along Main Street, between Cedar Street and First Street.
   (C)   Along Broadway Street, between Cedar Street and First Street.
   (D)   Along Plum Street, between Railroad and First Street.
(Ord. 2005-22, passed 9-8-05)
§ 71.31 FINES.
   Any person violating any provisions of this subchapter shall be subject to
the following schedule of fines:
 
First offense                         Verbal warning
Second offense                        Written warning and parental notification
                                      to any person under 18 years of age.
Third offense and subsequent offenses Up to $50 plus court cost.
 
(Ord. 2005-22, passed 9-8-05)
OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
§ 71.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. A motorized, off- highway vehicle that:
      (1)   Is 50 inches or less in width;
      (2)   Has a dry weight of 1,200 pounds or less;
      (3)   Is designed for travel on at least three non-highway or off-highway
tires;
      (4)   Is designed for recreational use by one or more individuals;
      (5)   Has a seat or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator; and
      (6)   Has handlebars for steering control.
   The term includes parts, equipment or attachments sold with the vehicle.
   OFF-ROAD VEHICLE. A gas or electric motorized four wheeled vehicle capable
of cross country travel without benefit of a road and on or immediately over
land, water, snow, ice, marsh, swampland or other natural terrain. OFF-ROAD
VEHICLE includes the following:
      (1)   A multiwheel drive or low pressure tire vehicle;
      (2)   An amphibious machine;
      (3)   A ground effect air cushion vehicle;
      (4)   An all-terrain vehicle;
      (5)   A recreational off-highway vehicle;
      (6)   A utility terrain vehicle; and
      (7)   Other means of transportation deriving motive power from a source
other than muscle or wind.
   OFF-ROAD VEHICLE does not include the following:
      (1)   A farm vehicle used for farming, including, but not limited to, a
farm wagon;
      (2)   A vehicle used for military or law enforcement purposes;
      (3)   A construction, mining or other industrial related vehicle used in
performance of the vehicle's common function, including, but not limited to, a
farm wagon;
      (4)   A snowmobile;
      (5)   A registered aircraft;
      (6)   Any other vehicle property registered by the bureau of motor
vehicles;
      (7)   Any watercraft that is registered; or
      (8)   A golf cart vehicle.
   RECREATIONAL OFF-ROAD VEHICLE. A motorized, off-highway vehicle that:
      (1)   Is 64 inches or less in width;
      (2)   Has a dry weight of 2,000 pounds or less;
      (3)   Is designed for travel on at least four non-highway or off-highway
tires;
      (4)   Is designed for recreational use by one or more individuals;
      (5)   Has a nonstraddle seat or saddle; and
      (6)   Has a steering wheel for steering control.
   UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLE. A motorized, off-highway vehicle that:
      (1)   Is designed for travel on four non-highway or off-highway tires;
      (2)   Is designed for recreational use by one or more individuals;
      (3)   Has a nonstraddle seat; and
      (4)   Has a steering wheel for steering control.
(Ord. 2010-5, passed 6-14-10; Am. Ord. 2013-15, passed 5-28-13)
§ 71.41 REQUIREMENTS FOR OPERATION.
   The operation of off-road vehicles are permitted within the boundaries of
the town only upon compliance with the following requirements.
   (A)   No person shall operate an off-road vehicle within the town boundaries
without first completing each of the following provisions:
      (1)   The operator must have a valid identification card, operator’s
license, chauffeur’s license or public passenger chauffeur’s license issued by
the Indiana Bureau of Motor Vehicles;
      (2)   The operator shall allow the Town Marshal or a representative of
the office of the Town Marshal to inspect the off- road vehicle; and
      (3)   The operator shall provide the Town Marshal or a representative of
the office of the Town Marshal with proof of financial responsibility.
   (B)   Each off-road vehicle shall be equipped with two headlights and two
taillights; a slow-moving vehicle sign on the rear and a rear-view mirror.
   (C)   Registration.
      (1)   The operator must be at least 18 years of age and have a valid
identification car, operator’s license, chauffeur’s license or public passenger
chauffeur’s license issued by the Indiana Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
      (2)   The operator shall allow the Town Marshal or a representative of
the office of the Town Marshal to inspect the off- road vehicle to ensure that
it functions properly and has the required safety equipment.
      (3)   The operator of the golf cart shall provide the Town Marshal or
their representative with proof of insurance that covers the operation of the
golf cart.
      (4)   Pay a registration fee, annually each January, of $20 for each golf
cart operated.
   (D)   Registration fee; proof of registration.
      (1)   Upon satisfactory completion of the inspection of the off-road
vehicle by the Town Marshal or their representative, the Town Marshal shall
issue a three-digit identification number to the operator.
      (2)   The registration number shall be affixed to the off-road vehicle by
the operator on the rear of the off-road vehicle and in a location that is
readily visible to law enforcement.
      (3)   The operator of the off- road vehicle shall be responsible for
obtaining and renewing the registration on all off-road vehicles that operate
in the town.
   (E)   Off-road vehicles shall only be operated on the streets and roadways
of the town. Travel on Highways 28 and 67 shall be strictly restricted. The
off-road vehicles shall only travel across Highways 28 and 67. The off-road
vehicles shall only travel adjacent to Highways 28 and 67 for short distances
in order to gain access to town streets and highways.
   (F)   Off-road vehicles shall not be operated on any sidewalk located within
the town boundaries.
   (G)   The operator of the off-road vehicle shall abide by and follow all
Indiana motor vehicles laws.
   (H)   The operator of the off-road vehicle shall yield to all motor vehicle
traffic.
(Ord. 2010-5, passed 6-14-10; Am. Ord. 2013- 15, passed 5-28-13; Am. Ord. 2024-
12, passed 12-9-2024)
§ 71.42 FINES.
   A violation of this subchapter may result in the following penalties:
   (A)   A fine in the sum of $50 for the first offense;
   (B)   A fine in the sum of $75 for the second offense;
   (C)   A fine in the sum of $100 for the third or subsequent offenses.
(Ord. 2010-5, passed 6-14-10)
§ 71.43 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF OFF ROAD VEHICLE REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Registration required. Each owner of an off- road vehicle is required
to register their off road vehicle with the town and provide current proof of
financial responsibility every two years in order to be able to operate the
off-road vehicle within the corporate boundaries of the town.
   (B)   Registration fee. The town shall charge the sum of $20 to register and
re-register the off-road vehicle with the town. A registration form will be
provided and must be kept with the vehicle at all times.
   (C)   Revocation; suspension. The Town Marshal or their representative may
revoke or suspend the registration of the operator’s off- road vehicle
operation privileges in the town for the following reasons:
      (1)   Unsafe operation of the off-road vehicle;
      (2)   Issuance of more than three citations issued by the Albany Police
Department for violation of the town ordinances of the operation of the off-
road vehicle.
      (3)   The condition of the off-road vehicle is such that it is unsafe to
operate on the streets and alleys in the town.
      (4)   If any of the safety features are inoperable.
      (5)   The suspension, revocation of the operator’s driving privileges by
the State of Indiana.
      (6)   The failure to main proper insurance on the off-road vehicle.
      (7)   Any suspension of the operator’s privileges to operate an off-road
vehicle in the town may be for a period of time to correct any issue with the
vehicle or address any other concern of the Town Marshal.
   (D)   Appeal of revocation.
      (1)   Any person who has had their privileges suspended or revoked by the
Town Marshal may appeal the suspension or revocation to the Town Council within
ten days, in writing and delivered to the Clerk-Treasurer either in person or
via regular first-class mail.
      (2)   The Town Council shall schedule a meeting/hearing on the appeal at
the next Town Council meeting. If the person appealing the suspension or
revocation shall fail to appear at the Town Council meeting, then the appeal
shall automatically be denied.
      (3)   A decision of the Town Council to uphold the suspension or
revocation of the person’s off-road vehicle operating privileges may be
appealed to the Circuit Court of Delaware County within 15 days of the decision
of the Town Council.
(Ord. 2013-15, passed 5-28-13; Am. Ord. 2024-12, passed 12-9-2024)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   No parking where posted
   
72.02   Limited parking
   
72.03   Other parking restrictions
   
72.04   Parking for persons with physical disability
   
72.05   Trucks, buses, recreational vehicles and the like
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority to enact local parking regulations, see I.C. 9-21-1-3
§ 72.01 NO PARKING WHERE POSTED.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle upon the public streets of
the town at any place where official signs or where appropriate devices, marks,
or painting, either upon the surface of the street or the curb immediately
adjacent thereto, prohibit such acts.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 LIMITED PARKING.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle upon the public streets of
the town where official signs are erected limiting the parking time thereon for
a period of time in excess of the time as designated by the official signs.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 OTHER PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   The Town Council may order the placing of signs, or devices, or marks, or
the painting of streets or curbs prohibiting or restricting the stopping,
standing, or parking of vehicles on any street where, in its opinion, the
stopping, standing, or parking is dangerous to those using the highway, or
where the stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles would unduly interfere
with the free movement of traffic thereon. The signs, devices, marks, or
painting shall be official signs, devices, marks, or painting, and no person
shall stop, stand, or park any vehicle in violation of the restrictions thereon
or as indicated thereby.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 PARKING FOR PERSONS WITH PHYSICAL DISABILITY.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning:
      PERSON WITH A PHYSICAL DISABILITY. Any person who has been issued a
placard or special registration plate or decal for a motor vehicle by the State
Bureau of Motor Vehicles under I.C. 9-14-5, 9-18-18, 9-18-22 or the laws of
another state.
   (B)   Parking prohibited.  
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle,
motorcycle, moped, bicycle, or other vehicle of any nature, which does not have
displayed a placard for a person with a physical disability issued under the
laws of this state or the laws of another state, in a parking space reserved
for a vehicle of a person with a physical disability.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly park in a parking
space reserved for a person with a physical disability while displaying a
placard to which neither the person nor the person’s passenger is entitled.
   (C)   Violation. If any vehicle is parked unlawfully in violation of any of
the provisions of this section, and the identity of the driver cannot be
determined, the owner or person in whose name the vehicle is registered shall
be held, prima facie, responsible for the violation.
   (D)   Towing. In addition to any fines which may be given as a result of
violations of this section, any vehicle which is parked in a manner in
violation of this section may be towed to an area designated by the town at the
owner’s expense. The owner shall also be required to pay any and all storage
fees resulting from this action.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Editor’s note:
   I.C. 9-14-5, 9-18-18 and 9-18-22 expired 12-31-2016, P.L. 198-2016, sec. 262
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see I.C. 5-16-9
§ 72.05 TRUCKS, BUSES, RECREATIONAL VEHICLES AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   The following automobiles and/or vehicles shall not be permitted to
park or partially park upon the public streets, alleys and highways of the town
for a period of time exceeding 24 hours: semi trucks, box trucks, semi truck-
trailers, farm tractors, road tractors, semi trailers, oversize vehicles,
school buses, church buses, passenger buses, farm wagons, motor boats, water
craft, recreational vehicles, motorhomes, fifth wheels, campers, utility type
trailers and pop up camper trailers.
   (B)   In places and at hours when stopping for loading or unloading of
merchandise or materials is permitted, vehicles used for the transportation of
merchandise or materials may back into a curb or park on town roadways to take
or discharge loads.
   (C)   Individuals may obtain permission from the Town Police Department and/
or the Town Council to be able to park the vehicles or partially park the
vehicles upon the public streets, alleys and highways of the town for a period
of time exceeding 24 hours.
   (D)   The owner and/or operator of the vehicles prohibited from parking or
partially parking upon the public streets, alleys and highways of the town,
shall not remove the vehicle from the parking place and immediately return the
same to its original location and/or within a short distance of its original
location. The vehicle shall not be in the same general location as it was prior
to moving the same in order to be in compliance with this section.
   (E)   Any person violating any provision of this section commits a Class C
infraction and shall be fined not less than $50 and not more than $100 for
their first offense, and shall be fined not less than $100 and not more than
$200 for each subsequent violation of the section that occurs within 12 months
of the prior violation. Each 24 hour period of time in which the vehicle is
parked in violation of this section shall constitute a separate and subsequent
offense.
   (F)   In addition to the fine provided in division (E) for the violation of
this section, if any vehicle is found parked in such a manner as to constitute
a violation of this section and if it is further determined that such vehicle
as parked constitutes a safety hazard, interferes with the normal flow of
traffic, or blocks a street, alley or highway to the town, then and in that
event, the Town Police Department shall have the right to move or remove the
vehicle from its location by any reasonable means, including but not limited to
towing the vehicle to a storage facility or location. Any cost and expenses
incurred as a result of the moving or removal of a vehicle pursuant to this
section, including any storage costs, shall be charged to the owner of the
vehicle. If the removal of the vehicle results in storage of the vehicle, the
vehicle shall not be removed and released from storage until payment in full is
received by the town for the cost and expenses provided for and by this
section.
(Ord. 2011-6, passed 5-23-11)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction,
be subject to a fine not exceeding $100. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Stop intersections
   
II.   Operation of semi-tractor and trailer
   
III.   Yield intersections
   
IV.   Operation of motor vehicles
SCHEDULE I. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   Persons operating a vehicle on the followings street shall be required to
stop at the following intersections:
Street Intersection
Street              Intersection
Adams Street        Its intersection with Mississinewa Avenue
Adams Street        Its intersection with Dalton Avenue
Adams Street        Its intersection with Foster Avenue
Adams Street        Its intersection with Parker Avenue
Adams Street        Its intersection with Manor Avenue
Albany Court        Its intersection with Delaware Street
Broadway Street     Its intersection with Granville Avenue
Case Blvd.          Its intersection with State Road 167
Casterline Drive    Its intersection with Water Street
Casterline Drive    Its intersection with Elm Street
Cedar Avenue        Its intersection with Water and Broadway Streets
Crystal Court       Its intersection with Case Blvd.
Dalton Avenue       Its intersection with Oak Street
Dalton Avenue       Its intersection with Hamilton Avenue
Delaware Court      Its intersection with Delaware Street
Delaware Street     Its intersection with Second Street
Delaware Street     Its intersection with Granville Avenue
Delaware Street     Its intersection with First Street
Delaware Street     Its intersection with High Street
Delaware Street     Its intersection with Polk Street
Downy Lane          Its intersection with Meadow Lane
Downy Lane          Its intersection with St. John Road
Ellis Court         Its intersections with Richard’s Drive
Elm Street          Its intersection with Mississinewa Ave.
Elm Street          Its intersection with Water Street
First Street        Its intersection with Broadway and Second Streets
First Street        Its intersection with Water Street and Dowden Avenue
First Street        Its intersection with Plum Street
Franklin Street     Its intersection with Dalton Avenue
Franklin Street     Its intersection with Parker Avenue
Franklin Street     Its intersection with Manor Avenue
Franklin Street     Its intersection with Foster Avenue
Gleeson Court       Its intersection with Richard’s Drive
Granville Avenue    Its intersection with Delaware Street
Granville Avenue    Its intersection with Water Street
Gray Street         Its intersection with First Street
Gray Street         Its intersection with Second Street
Gray Street         Its intersection with Liberty Street
Green Street        Its intersection with Delaware Street
Green Street        Its intersection with Cleo Street
Green Street        Its intersection with Mound Street
High Street         Its intersection with Cleo Street (4-way stop)
High Street         Its intersection with Delaware Street
High Street         Its intersection with Main Street
High Street         Its intersection with Plum Street
High Street         Its intersection with Broadway Street
Jackson Street      Its intersection with Water Street
Jackson Street      Its intersection with Plum Street
Jackson Street      Its intersection with Delaware Street
Jackson Street      Its intersection with Main Street
Jackson Street      Its intersection with Broadway Street
Liberty Street      Its intersection with Cleo Street (4-way)
Liberty Street      Its intersection with Delaware Street
Liberty Street      Its intersection with Gray Street
Liberty Street      Its intersection with Mound Street (4-way)
Main Street         Its intersection with Second Street
Main Street         Its intersection with Cedar Avenue
Main Street         Its intersection with Granville Avenue
Main Street         Its intersection with First Street
Mann Avenue         Its intersection with Elm Street
Mann Avenue         Its intersection with Adams Street
Mann Avenue         Its intersection with Oak Street
Manor Avenue        Its intersection with Elm Street
Manor Avenue        Its intersection with Hamilton Avenue
Manor Avenue        Its intersection with Oak Street
Middle Drive        Its intersection with Polk Street
Middle Drive        Its intersection with Jackson Street
Miller Avenue       Its intersection with Elm Street
Mississinewa Avenue Its intersection with Elm Street
Mound Street        Its intersection with Second Street
Mound Street        Its intersection with First Street
Mound Street        Its intersection with High Street
North Street        Its intersection with Broadway Street
North Street        Its intersection with Main Street
North Street        Its intersection with Plum Street
North Street        Its intersection with Water Street
North Street        Its intersection with Delaware Street
Oak Street          Its intersection with Miller Avenue
Oak Street          Its intersection with Manor Avenue
Oak Street          Its intersection with Mississinewa Avenue
Parker Avenue       Its intersection with Hamilton Avenue
Plum Street         Its intersection with Second Street
Plum Street         Its intersection with Granville Avenue
Plum Street         Its intersection with High Street
Polk Street         Its intersection with Broadway Street
Polk Street         Its intersection with Plum Street
Polk Street         Its intersection with Delaware Street
Powers Street       Its intersection with Foster Avenue
Richard’s Drive   Its intersection with Case Blvd.
Riverwood Street    Its intersection with Second Street
Riverwood Street    Its intersection with Mound Street
Second Street       At the railroad tracks
Second Street       Its intersection with Water Street
Vine Street         Its intersection with Dowden Avenue
Vine Street         Its intersection with Washington Street
Washington Street   Its intersection with First Street
Wren Blvd.          Its intersection with Downy Lane
Wren Blvd.          Its intersection with Meadow Lane
 
(Ord. 1998-17, passed 10-12-98; Res. 1995-6, passed 4-24-95; Res. 1995-4,
passed 2-27-95; Res. 1994- 9, passed 7-11-94; Res. 1994-5, passed 4-11-94; Res.
2000-5, passed 4-24-00; Ord. 2006-24, passed 12-11-06; Am. Ord. 2018-13, passed
9-10-18; Am. Ord. 2024-4, passed 6-10-2024)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. OPERATION OF SEMI-TRACTOR AND TRAILER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate, or to cause to be operated, any semi-
tractor or semi-tractor and trailer on the following streets and roads within
the town:
      (1)   North Gray Street;
      (2)   South Gray Street;
      (3)   South Washington Street;
      (4)   North Water Street, between Highway 28 and Highway 67;
      (5)   State Street;
      (6)   Main Street;
      (7)   Plum Street; and
      (8)   North Delaware Street.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to machinery or
equipment used in street construction or maintenance.
   (C)   The public officials of the town shall erect and maintain signs
designating the provisions of this section, at each end of the street affected
thereby. This section shall not be effective until the signs are erected and
maintained.
(Res. 1995-7, passed 4-24-95; Am. Ord. 2017-9, passed 6-12-17; Am. Ord. 2021-9,
passed 6-28-21) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III. YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Persons approaching Oak Street from Mississinewa Avenue shall yield to
traffic on Oak Street.
   (B)   Persons operating a vehicle on Pittenger Court, Holly Drive, and Locke
Drive shall be required to stop at their intersections with Gregg Drive.
(Res. 1995-4, passed 2-27-95; Am. Ord. 2005-31, passed 12-27-05) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE IV. OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   No motor vehicle shall be driven or operated on the streets within the
town at a speed in excess of 20 miles per hour, except upon Indiana State
Highways No. 28, 67 and 167, wherein the speed limit shall be that posted at
the time by the State Highway Commission of the state.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) of this schedule shall not apply to the
operation of any emergency vehicle while the same is being driven and operated
upon an emergency mission and the driver is sounding a siren, bell or exhaust
whistle, as may be reasonably necessary, and the vehicle displays a lighted red
lamp visible from the front, as a warning to others.
   (C)   The driver of a motor vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway or
building shall stop such vehicle prior to entering onto a sidewalk or onto the
sidewalk area extending across an alleyway, yielding the right-of-way to any
pedestrian as may be necessary to avoid collision, and upon entering the
roadway, shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on such
roadway.
   (D)   The driver of a motor vehicle shall not drive within any sidewalk
area, except at a permanent or temporary driveway.
   (E)   No motor vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of a fire
department, when laid down on any street or private driveway for use at any
fire or alarm of fire without the consent of the fire department official in
command.
   (F)   No person shall stand or park a motor vehicle in a roadway, other than
parallel with the edge of the roadway, headed in the direction of lawful
traffic movement, and with the right hand wheels of the vehicle within 12
inches of the curb or edge of the roadway.
   (G)   No person shall stop, stand or park a motor vehicle, except when
necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in compliance with the law,
or in direction of a police officer, in any of the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
       (4)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance of any fire station and on
the sides of the street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of such entrance, when properly signposted;
      (7)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of the street.
(Ord. 1967-3, passed 2-6-67; Am. Ord. 2010-9, passed 9-27-10) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedules
   
I.   Parking along east side of South Manor Avenue
   
II.   Parking along sides of State Highway 28 East
   
III.   Parking along sides of Broadway Avenue
   
IV.   Parking along North Water Street
   
V.   Parking along east side of Cleo Street
   
VI.   Parking along the north side of Wren Boulevard
SCHEDULE I. PARKING ALONG EAST SIDE OF SOUTH MANOR AVENUE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle along the east side
of South Manor Avenue in the town for a distance of 150 feet south from the
intersection of the street with State Street (Highway 28) in the town.
(Res. 1995-11, passed 8-14-95) Penalty, see §
72.99
SCHEDULE II. PARKING ALONG SIDES OF STATE HIGHWAY 28 EAST.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle along the
north side of State Highway 28 East (known as East State Street), within the
town limits, between Dalton Avenue and Mann Avenue. “No Parking” signs are to
be posted in accordance.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle along the
south side of State Highway 28 East (known as East State Street), within the
town limits, between Manor Avenue and Mann Avenue. “No Parking” signs are to be
posted in accordance.
(Res. 1981-2, passed 3-9-81) Penalty, see §
72.99
SCHEDULE III. PARKING ALONG SIDES OF BROADWAY AVENUE.
   No parking shall be allowed within 75 feet of the intersections of Broadway
Avenue and State Road 67, Broadway Avenue and Jackson Street and Broadway
Avenue and Granville Avenue from 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. each day.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 5-27-08) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE IV. PARKING ALONG NORTH WATER STREET.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle along the east side
of North Water Street in the town for a distance of 75 feet north from the
intersection of the street with State Street (State Road 28) in the town.
(Ord. 2010-10, passed 9-27-10) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE V. PARKING ALONG EAST SIDE OF CLEO STREET.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle along the east side
of Cleo Street in the town for a distance of 150 feet south from the
intersection of the street with Liberty Street in the town.
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 4-24-17)
SCHEDULE VI. PARKING ALONG THE NORTH SIDE OF WREN BOULEVARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle along the entire
north side of Wren Boulevard from its intersection with Meadow Lane to its
intersection with Downey Lane in the town. ‘No Parking’ signs shall be posted
accordingly. Non compliance with this section shall result in a parking
violation with a fine of $25 per violation.
(Ord. 2020-3, passed 3-23-20; Ord. 2020-6, passed 6-8-20)
CHAPTER 75: TRUCK ROUTES
Section
   
75.01   Broadway Avenue truck route
   
75.02   Restricting traffic
§ 75.01 BROADWAY AVENUE TRUCK ROUTE.
   (A)   The truck route shall be located on Broadway Avenue from State Road 67
to Granville Avenue.
   (B)   The town shall have the ability to erect signs to reflect the location
of the truck route and to the establishment of the no parking area along
portions of the truck route.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 5-27-08) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.02 RESTRICTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   A truck shall be any vehicle with a combined length of 19 feet or a
vehicle that weighs and/or is licensed to carry over 26,000 pounds, as
evidenced by its gross vehicle weight when loaded or unloaded.
   (B)   Except for local deliveries, no truck traffic shall be permitted on
State Street from Mississinewa Avenue to Dowden Avenue.
   (C)   The town shall post a sign as to the restriction of truck traffic on
State Street.
   (D)   Any person that violates any provision of this section shall be fined
the sum of $100.
(Ord. 2015-37, passed 11-23-15)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   FAIR HOUSING
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
         
APPENDIX A: RIGHT-OF-WAY USE APPLICATION
      
94.   PARKS
         
APPENDIX A: PARK GROUNDS RENTAL AGREEMENT
      
95.   GOLF CARTS
      
96.   FIREWORKS
CHAPTER 90: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
90.01   Policy statement
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Unlawful practice
   
90.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
90.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
90.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
90.07   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
90.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
90.09   Exemptions
   
90.10   Enforcement
§ 90.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the Federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, the Federal Housing and
Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 1993-15, passed 9-27-93)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Any person who (I.C. 22-9.5-2-2):
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that the person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
   COMMISSION. (I.C. 22-9.5-2-3) The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created
pursuant to I.C. 22-9-1-4, et seq.
   COMPLAINANT.  (I.C. 22-9.5-2-4) A person, including the Commission, who
files a complaint under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   DISABLED. With respect to a person:
      (1)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one or
more of the person’s major life activities;
      (2)   A record of having such an impairment;
      (3)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
      (4)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the Federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990;
      (5)   Any other impairment defined under I.C. 22-9.5-5-10.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under this chapter
or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a
residence by one or more families (I.C. 22-9.5-2-8).
   FAMILIAL STATUS.  One or more individuals domiciled with an individual
younger than 18 years of age in regard to whom the person: either (1) is the
parent or legal custodian; or (2) has the written permission of the parent or
legal custodian for domicile with that person. The protections afforded against
discrimination on the basis of FAMILIAL STATUS shall also apply to any person
who is pregnant or is in the process of securing legal custody of any
individual who has not attained the age of 18 years. (I.C. 22-9.5-1-2)
   FAMILY.  A single individual (I.C. 22-9.5-2-9), with the status of the
family being further defined in the definition for FAMILIAL STATUS.
   PERSON. (I.C. 22-9.5-2-11) Includes one or more individuals, corporations,
partnerships, associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual
companies, joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations,
trustees, trustees in cases under Title 11 of the United States Code,
receivers, and fiduciaries.
   TO RENT.  (I.C. 22-9.5-2-13) Includes to lease, to sublease, to let, and
otherwise to grant for a consideration the right to occupy the premises owned
by the occupant.
(Ord. 1993-15, passed 9-27-93)
§ 90.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) of this section, §
90.09, and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale
or rental of housing set forth I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
90.04 shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) of this section and
I.C. 22-9.5-3.
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) of this section, nothing in
§
90.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three single-family houses at
any one time; provided that in the sale of the single-family house by a private
individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or who was not
the most recent resident of the house prior to the sale, the exemption shall
apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The private individual
owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or reserved on his or her
behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds from the sale
or rental of more than three single-family houses at any one time. The sale or
rental of any single-family house shall be excepted from application of this
section only if the house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent, or salesperson, or any person in
the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of
any such broker, agent or salesperson; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
90.04(C), but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies, and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title; or
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) of this section, a person shall be
deemed to be in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended
for occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 1993-15, passed 9-27-93)
§ 90.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
90.03 and except as exempted by §
90.03(B) and §
90.09, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, familial
status, or national origin.
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
familial status, or national origin.
   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or
published, any notice, statement, or advertisement, with respect to the sale or
rental of a dwelling, that indicates any preference, limitation, or
discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial
status, or national origin, or an intention to make any such preference,
limitation, or discrimination.
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status, or national origin that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale, or rental when the dwelling is in fact so
available.
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, disability, familial status, or national origin.
   (F)   (1)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a disability
of:
         (a)   That buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with the dwelling, because of a disability of:
         (a)   That person;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (3)   For purposes of this subsection, discrimination includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the disabled person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by the
person if the modifications may be necessary to afford the person full
enjoyment of the premises, except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modification, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services, when such accommodations may be necessary to afford the
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1988, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
            1.   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by disabled persons;
            2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
disabled persons in wheelchairs; and
            3.   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               a.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               b.   Light, switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
               c.   Reinforcements in bath- room walls to allow later
installation of grab bars; and
               d.   Usable kitchens and bath- rooms such that an individual in
a wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
      (4)    Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the Americans With
Disabilities Act of 1990 and of the American National Standard for Buildings
and Facilities Providing Accessibility and Usability for Physically Handicapped
People (commonly cited as “ANSI A117.1” suffices to satisfy the requirements of
subsection (3)(c)3.
      (5)   Nothing in this subsection requires that a dwelling be made
available to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to
the health or safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in
substantial physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 1993-15, passed 9-27-93)
§ 90.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, disability, or familial
status.
(Ord. 1993-15, passed 9-27-93)
§ 90.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’
organization or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status, or national
origin.
(Ord. 1993-15, passed 9-27-93)
§ 90.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
90.03 through
90.06.
(Ord. 1993-15, passed 9-27-93)
§ 90.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates, or interferes with, or attempts to
injure, intimidate, or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status, or national origin and because he or she is or has
been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing, or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization, or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to,
intimidate such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in §
90.06; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate; or
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage the citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging
other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in division (A) of
this section or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing
any denial of the opportunity to participate shall be fined not more than
$1,000 or imprisoned not more than one year, or both; and if bodily injury
results shall be fined not more than $10,000, or imprisoned for not more than
ten years, or both; and if death results shall be subject to imprisonment for
any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 1993-15, passed 9-27-93)
§ 90.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) of this section.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised, or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to the persons, unless
membership in the religion is restricted on account of race, color, or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   (1)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply
with respect to housing for older persons.
      (2)   As used in this section, HOUSING FOR OLDER PERSONS means housing:
         (a)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary
of the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the State Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly persons (as defined in the state or federal program); or
         (b)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age or
older; or
         (c)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55
years of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 1993-15, passed 9-27-93)
§ 90.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commission as set forth in
division (B) of this section shall be vested in the Chief Executive Officer of
the town.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the town, because
of a lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the sections of this
chapter by complainants to the Indiana Civil Rights Commission (“Commission”)
for administrative enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6, and the Chief
Elected Officer of the town shall refer all the complaints to the Commission as
provided for under division (A) of this section to the Commission for purposes
of investigation, resolution, and appropriate relief as provided for under I.C.
22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the town shall administer
their departments, programs, and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the Chief Executive Officer and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The Chief Executive Officer of the town, or his or her designee, shall
provide information on remedies available to any aggrieved person or
complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 1993-15, passed 9-27-93)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Superintendent of Animal Pound
Regulations
   
91.15   Animals running at large prohibited
   
91.16   Dangerous, vicious, or diseased animals; female animal in heat
   
91.17   Resisting or obstructing the Superintendent of the Animal Pound
   
91.18   Harboring or keeping any animal causing annoyances
   
91.19   Regulations regarding animals that may be rabid
   
91.20   Maliciously or mischievously injuring or killing animals prohibited
   
91.21   Capturing or enticing an animal
Cats
   
91.25   Definitions
   
91.26   Running at large prohibited
   
91.27   Impounding
   
91.28   Licenses and tags for cats
Administration and Enforcement
   
91.35   Impounding animals for running at large
   
91.36   Redemption of impounded animals
Keeping or Harboring of Livestock
   
91.45   Where livestock prohibited
   
91.46   Exemptions
   
91.47   Definition
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Both male and female.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner and not under the control of the
owner or a member of his or her immediate family either by leash, cord, chain,
or under the reasonable control of some competent person.
   DOG. Both male and female.
   HARBORING. Any person who shall suffer or permit any animal to frequent or
remain on or within his or her house, building, premises and enclosures shall
be deemed to be HARBORING the animal within the meaning of this chapter.
   OWNER. Any person keeping or harboring an animal.
(Ord. 1973-10, passed 6-10-73; Am. Ord. 2011-26, passed 11-28-11)
§ 91.02 SUPERINTENDENT OF ANIMAL POUND.
   There shall be appointed by the Town Council a Special Deputy Marshal to act
as Superintendent of the Animal Pound who shall be responsible for the
operation of the Pound and the collection and dispersal of animals housed
therein. The Superintendent shall serve at the pleasure of the Town Council.
(Ord. 1973-10, passed 6-10-73; Am. Ord. 2011-26, passed 11-28-11)
REGULATIONS
§ 91.15 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   No person owning or having charge, care, custody, or control of any animal
shall cause, permit, or allow the same to be or to run at large upon any
street, alley, or other public place or upon any private property or premises
other than those of the persons owning or having charge, care, custody, or
control of the animal within the town.
(Ord. 1973-10, passed 6-10-73; Am. Res. 1996-14, passed 12-9-96) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.16 DANGEROUS, VICIOUS, OR DISEASED ANIMALS; FEMALE ANIMAL IN HEAT.
   No animal of fierce, dangerous, or vicious propensities, nor diseased
animal, nor female animal in heat, shall be allowed to run at large but shall
at all times be confined in a building or fenced in area upon the premises of
the owner. Any such animal found running at large in violation of this
provision shall be taken up and impounded and shall not be released without the
approval of the Superintendent of the Animal Pound, after payment of the fees
provided in §
91.36; provided, that if any dangerous, fierce, or vicious animal found at
large cannot be safely taken up and impounded, the animal may be slain by any
law enforcement officer, the Superintendent of the Animal Pound, or any
employee of the Animal Pound.
(Ord. 1973-10, passed 6-10-73; Am. Res. 1996-14, passed 12-9-96; Am. Ord. 2011-
26, passed 11-28-11) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.17 RESISTING OR OBSTRUCTING THE SUPERINTENDENT OF THE ANIMAL POUND.
   No person shall resist or obstruct the Superintendent of the Animal Pound or
any employee of the Animal Pound in the exercise of their duties as
Superintendent or employee of the Animal Pound.
(Ord. 1973-10, passed 6-10-73; Am. Ord. 2011-26, passed 11-28-11) Penalty, see
§
91.99
§ 91.18 HARBORING OR KEEPING ANY ANIMAL CAUSING ANNOYANCES.
   No person shall harbor or keep any animal which, by loud and frequent or
habitual barking, howling, or yelping, shall cause serious annoyance or
disturbance for the neighborhood. If a complaint is received, the owner of the
animal or animals shall be notified by mail of the complaint, and the owner has
ten days to reply. Also, the person or persons reporting the barking, howling,
or yelping is to appear before the Council at the end of ten days or at the
next Council meeting if the meeting is more than ten days after the letter is
sent and is to report if the annoyance or disturbance has ceased. The fine will
be $100, plus any court costs that might be assessed.
(Ord. 1973-10, passed 6-10-73; Am. Ord. 1989-2, passed 2-27-89; Am. Ord. 2011-
26, passed 11-28-11)
§ 91.19 REGULATIONS REGARDING ANIMALS THAT MAY BE RABID.
   (A)   If an animal is believed to have rabies or have been bitten by an
animal suspected of having rabies, the animal shall be confined by a leash or
chain on the owner’s premises and shall be placed under the observation of a
veterinary at the expense of the owner for a period of two weeks. The owner
shall notify the Superintendent of the Animal Pound of the fact that his or her
animal has been exposed to rabies and at his or her discretion the
Superintendent of the Animal Pound is empowered to have the animal removed from
the owner’s premises to a veterinary hospital and there placed under
observation for a period of two weeks at the expense of the owner.
   (B)   No person knowing or suspecting an animal of having rabies shall allow
the animal to be taken off his or her premises or beyond the limits of the town
without the written permission of the Superintendent of the Animal Pound. Every
owner or other person, upon ascertaining an animal is rabid, shall immediately
notify the Superintendent of the Animal Pound or a law enforcement officer, who
shall either remove the animal to the Animal Pound or summarily destroy it.
(Ord. 1973-10, passed 6-10-73; Am. Ord. 2011-26, passed 11-28-11) Penalty, see
§
91.99
§ 91.20 MALICIOUSLY OR MISCHIEVOUSLY INJURING OR KILLING ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall maliciously or mischievously injure or kill any animal by
means of a deadly weapon or by administering poison or by any other manner.
(Ord. 1973-10, passed 6-10-73; Am. Ord. 2011-26, passed 11-28-11) Penalty, see
§
91.99
§ 91.21 CAPTURING OR ENTICING AN ANIMAL.
   No person shall invade the private premises of another to capture, entice,
or take any animal out of the enclosure or the person harboring the same;
molest or seize any such animal while the same is accompanied by its owner,
keeper, or custodian; or bring within the town any animal for the purpose of
impounding the same or collecting any reward for the return thereof, except as
provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 1973-10, passed 6-10-73; Am. Ord. 2011-26, passed 11-28-11) Penalty, see
§
91.99
CATS
§ 91.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner and not under the control of the
owner or a member of his or her immediate family either by leash, cord, chain
or under the reasonable control of some competent person.
(Ord. 2007-12, passed 7-23-07)
§ 91.26 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   No person owning or having charge, care, custody or control of any cat shall
cause, permit or allow the same to be or to run at large upon any street, alley
or other public place or upon any private property or premises other than those
of the persons owning or having charge, care, custody or control of the cat
within the town.
(Ord. 2007-12, passed 7-23-07) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.27 IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   Cats found to be running at large and not under restraint shall be
taken by the town employee who is responsible for the animal control within the
town to the animal shelter the town contracts with for animal control.
   (B)   Immediately upon the impounding of any cat, the town employee charged
with the responsibility of animal control shall make every effort possible to
notify the owner of the cat being so impounded and shall further notify the
owner as to the location of the cat.
(Ord. 2007-12, passed 7-23-07)
§ 91.28 LICENSES AND TAGS FOR CATS.
   (A)   All persons within the boundaries of the town are required to license
and tag the cats they own.
   (B)   All persons who own cats are required to purchase a tag from the
Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   The fee schedule for the tags is as follows:
      (1)   The cost for all spayed and/or neutered cats is in the sum of $2;
and
      (2)   The cost for all unspayed or unneutered cats is in the sum of $3.
   (D)   A violation of this section may result in the following penalties:
      (1)   The untagged cats will be impounded by the officer who enforces all
animal control regulations for the town;
      (2)   A fine in the sum of $10 per cat, court costs and attorney fees if
collection is necessary; and
      (3)   All costs associated with housing the cats.
(Ord. 2001-9, passed 7-9-01)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 91.35 IMPOUNDING ANIMALS FOR RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   Animals found to be running at large and not under restraint as
provided herein shall be taken by an agent of the Animal Pound and impounded at
the Animal Pound and there confined in a humane manner for a period of not less
than seven days or until such time as redeemed by the owner thereof within
seven days or less, and in the event the animal is not redeemed within the
period of time it may be sold or disposed of in a humane manner.
   (B)   Any animal so impounded under the provisions of this chapter and not
redeemed by the owner or agent thereof within the seven day period may be
placed in the custody of some suitable person who will pay the impounding and
maintenance fees then due and who will agree to provide a good home for the
animal. In the event that any animal is not redeemed by the owner or his or her
agent and is not placed in the custody of some suitable person within seven
days from the date of impoundment, the animal shall be humanely destroyed and
disposed of.
   (C)   When in the judgment of the Superintendent of the Animal Pound it is
deemed that an animal should be destroyed for humane, health or safety reasons,
it shall be his or her duty to see that the animal is destroyed and the animal
shall not be permitted to be redeemed by any person. Any appeal from the
judgment of the Superintendent of the Animal Pound may be taken in the next
regular meeting of the Town Council, during which time the animal shall not be
redeemed or destroyed, and it shall be the duty of the Council to affirm or
disaffirm the decision of the Superintendent of the Animal Pound as to whether
or not the animal shall be destroyed.
   (D)   Immediately upon the impounding of any animal, the agent of the Animal
Pound shall make every effort possible to notify the owner of the animal being
so impounded and shall further notify the owner of the conditions under which
he or she may redeem the animal and regain custody thereof.
(Ord. 1973-10, passed 6-10-73; Am. Res. 1996-14, passed 12-9-96; Am. Ord. 2011-
26, passed 11-28-11)
§ 91.36 REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   Any animal impounded under the terms of this chapter may be redeemed by the
owner or person redeeming such animal with payment to the town at the Town Hall
in a sum of $60. In addition to the impoundment fee, each owner or person
redeeming such animal shall pay a maintenance fee of $5 per day for each day or
portion thereof that the animal is impounded. All fees collected shall be
deposited in the town's General Fund.
(Ord. 1973-10, passed 6-10-73; Am. Ord. 1985-9, passed 9-23-85; Am. Ord. 1992-
2, passed 2-10-92; Am. Ord. 1996-14, passed 12-9-96; Am. Res. 1996-14, passed
12-9-96; Am. Res. 2004-4, passed 2-23-04; Am. Ord. 2011-26, passed 11-28-11)
KEEPING OR HARBORING OF LIVESTOCK
§ 91.45 WHERE LIVESTOCK PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm or corporation occupying real estate within the corporate
boundaries of the town shall keep or harbor any livestock or poultry on such
property, except where as stated in §
91.46.
(Ord. 2008-9, passed 5-27-08)
§ 91.46 EXEMPTIONS.
   A person, firm or corporation occupying real estate within the corporate
boundaries of the town whose real estate is zoned as Rural District under the
zoning regulations of the town shall have the ability to keep or harbor
livestock or poultry on such property. A person, firm or corporation occupying
real estate within the corporate boundaries of the town who currently keeps or
harbors livestock or poultry on such property shall have the ability to
continue to keep and harbor the livestock or poultry on such property and
whoever occupies the real estate in the future shall have the ability to keep
and harbor livestock or poultry on such property.
(Ord. 2008-9, passed 5-27-08)
§ 91.47 DEFINITION.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, LIVESTOCK shall mean:
   (A)   All cattle or animals of the bovine species;
   (B)   All horses, mules, burros and asses or animals of the equine species;
   (C)   All swine or animals of the porcine species;
   (D)   All goats or animals of the caprine species; and
   (E)   All poultry.
(Ord. 2008-9, passed 5-27-08)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any person in violation of these provisions shall be subject to a fine of
$50.
(Ord. 1973-10, passed 6-10-73; Am. Ord. 1996-14, passed 12-9-96; Am. Res. 2004-
4, passed 2-23-04; Am. Ord. 2007-12, passed 7-23-07; Am. Ord. 2008-9, passed 5-
27-08; Am. Ord. 2011-26, passed 11-28-11)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
Weeds and Rank Vegetation
   
92.01   Definition
   
92.02   Removal of weeds
   
92.03   Violation
   
92.04   Notice of removal of weeds
   
92.05   Appeal
   
92.06   Authority of town
Litter and Rubbish
   
92.15   Definitions
   
92.16   Duties of owner or occupant
   
92.17   Complaints
   
92.18   Orders to comply
   
92.19   Abatement lien
Noise
   
92.25   Noise limit; loud noises prohibited
Public Nuisances
   
92.35   Conditions
   
92.36   Duties of owner or occupant
   
92.37   Complaints
   
92.38   Inspections
   
92.39   Abatement notice
   
92.40   Failure to abate nuisance
   
92.41   Abatement by town
 
   
92.99   Penalty
WEEDS AND RANK VEGETATION
§ 92.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   WEEDS AND OR RANK VEGETATION. Any vegetable matter which exceeds the height
of six inches; provided however that such definitions does not include:
      (1)   Trees, bushes or shrubs which have planted or cultivated by the
landowner and which do not block sidewalks, streets and alleys;
      (2)   Agricultural crops, such as hay and pasture; or
      (3)   Vegetable manner cultivated in plant beds.
(Ord. 2004-29, passed 12-13-04)
§ 92.02 REMOVAL OF WEEDS.
   It shall be the duty of all owners of real property located within the
corporate limits of the town to cut and/or remove weeds and other rank
vegetation growing on the property that they own.
(Ord. 2004-29, passed 12-13-04)
§ 92.03 VIOLATION.
   It shall be the duty of the Town Marshal or his or her designated agent to
make a careful inspection of any lots, grounds and tracts of land situated
within the corporate limits of the town for the purpose of determining whether
there is a violation under this subchapter.
(Ord. 2004-29, passed 12-13-04)
§ 92.04 NOTICE OF REMOVAL OF WEEDS.
   (A)   Upon determination by the Town Marshal or his or her designated agent
that weeds and/or rank vegetation, as defined in §
92.01, exist on any lots, grounds, or tracts of land situated within the
corporate limits of the town, he or she shall issue a written violation notice
to the property owner that the weeds and/or rank vegetation must be removed
within ten calendar days. The written violation notice shall also state that in
the event that the weeds and/or rank vegetation is not removed within ten
calendar days that the property owner shall have the ability to file a written
notice appealing said alleged violation and that said written appeal notice
shall be delivered to the Albany Town Hall, 210 East State Street, Albany,
Indiana 47320. The property owner shall be assessed an administrative fee of
$40 for the first written notice. In the event that the Town Marshal or his or
her designated agent shall determine that a written violation notice is to be
issued more than one time for the same property in any given year, the property
owner shall be assessed an administrative fee of $50 for a second notice, and
an administrative fee of $75 for each and every subsequent violation notice
issued in the same calendar year. The assessment of such fees may be appealed
as provided in §
92.05, and provided a property owner does not prevail on appeal, may be
enforced as provided.
   (B)   The notice required by division (A) above shall be served by the Town
Marshal upon the property owner by mailing a copy of the same by first class
mail or certified mail to the last known address of the property owner of
record. The notice will state that the property owner has ten days from the
date of the notice to remove the weeds or rank vegetation growing upon that
property. The notice will also state that the failure to remove the weeds or
rank vegetation will result in the town proceeding to cut and remove the weeds
and rank vegetation on the property and charge the cost of clearing and
processing the same. The notice will also state that failure to pay the town
for their costs for removing the weeds and rank vegetation shall result in a
lien placed upon the real estate. Lastly, the notice will state that this is a
continuous abatement notice informing the property owner that each subsequent
violation during the same year for which the initial notice of the violation
was provided shall be abated by the town. A copy of this notice shall also be
posted upon the property.
(Ord. 2004-29, passed 12-13-04; Am. Ord. 2007-11, passed 6-11-07; Am. Ord.
2012-14, passed 6-25-12; Am. Ord. 2014-13, passed 7-28-14)
§ 92.05 APPEAL.
   Any violation notice issued under this subchapter may be appealed by the
property owner to the Town Council. The property owner will be sent an appeal/
hearing date with the property owner’s violation notice. If the property owner
wishes to appeal, the owner or the owner’s designee will be required to appear
before Town Council on the date assigned. The Town Council will conduct an
informal hearing and after considering the information provided by the Town
Marshal designated agent and by the property owner, the Town Council will
render a decision. If the property owner’s appeal is denied by a majority vote
of those present and voting at a duly constituted meeting of the Town Council,
the property owner shall be required to cut and/or remove the weeds and rank
vegetation by the date specified by the Board of Public Works.
(Ord. 2004-29, passed 12-13-04)
§ 92.06 AUTHORITY OF TOWN.
   (A)   If the property owner fails to cut and/or remove the weeds and rank
vegetation or appeal the violation notice received from the Town Marshal within
the time limits prescribed in this subchapter, the property owner shall be
deemed to have granted permission to the Town Marshal to enter the premises for
the purpose of cutting and/or removing such weeds and rank vegetation. The Town
Marshal shall then take all necessary actions to cut and/or remove such weeds
and rank vegetation from the subject property.
   (B)   If the town through its designated agent removes weeds and rank
vegetation to abate the violation of this subchapter, the Town Marshal shall
prepare and deliver to the Clerk-Treasurer a statement of costs listing the
actual cost of removing the weeds and rank vegetation, plus the administrative
expenses incurred by the town as a result of the enforcement of this
subchapter. The statement of costs and the citation shall be served on the
property owner by first class mail or certified mail, return receipt requested.
   (C)   An appeal of a violation notice must be presented on the date of the
Town Council meeting assigned. A property owner’s failure to appear at such
meeting will be deemed a waiver of the property owner’s right to appeal.
(Ord. 2004-29, passed 12-13-04; Am. Ord. 2007-11, passed 6-11-07; Am. Ord.
2014-13, passed 7-28-14)
LITTER AND RUBBISH
§ 92.15 DEFINITION.
   LITTER and RUBBISH are defined as debris, refuse, garbage, or any other
thing or substance of any kind, which is no longer usable for the purpose for
which it was manufactured, or which has been abandoned or discarded. It shall
include, but shall not be limited to motor vehicle parts or any motor vehicle
which does not bear a current registration plate or which cannot move under its
own power.
(Ord. 1990-3, passed 2-26-90)
§ 92.16 DUTIES OF OWNER OR OCCUPANT.
   It shall be the duty of any person owning or controlling any premises to
maintain the premises in a clean and orderly manner. It shall be a violation of
this section to permit the accumulation of litter on any premises. Every owner
or person in control of premises shall so maintain his or her property as to
prevent litter from being visible thereon from any public or private premises.
Persons owning, occupying, or in control of any premises shall keep the
sidewalks and alleys adjacent thereto free of litter.
(Ord. 1990-3, passed 2-26-90) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.17 COMPLAINTS.
   Any person may file a written complaint regarding a violation of this
chapter or regulations issued pursuant thereto. The complaint shall state the
name and address of the complainant and the alleged violator, the location and
nature of the alleged violation, and shall be filed at the Municipal Office in
the town. The Town Council shall cause the complaint to be investigated and
shall, if a violation appears to have occurred, refer the complaint to the
Legal Division who shall take appropriate action to enforce this chapter.
(Ord. 1990-3, passed 2-26-90)
§ 92.18 ORDERS TO COMPLY.
   (A)   Prior to the institution of any proceedings under §
92.18, the town shall cause the occupant, owner of record, or person in control
of the premises to be notified of the existence and nature of a violation and
give that person ten days from the date of notice to eliminate the violation
and comply with the terms of this chapter.
   (B)   The notice shall be delivered by certified mail, return receipt
requested, or by personal service. Proof of mailing shall be prima facie
evidence of receipt of the notice.
(Ord. 1990-3, passed 2-26-90)
§ 92.19 ABATEMENT LIEN.
   (A)   On the failure of the owner, occupant, or person in control of the
property to comply with the provisions of this subchapter, and after notice
thereof pursuant to §
92.18, the Town Council may cause this condition to be abated. For this
purpose, the Town Council or its agents may enter on the premises and do such
acts as are necessary to eliminate the nuisance, and every owner or person in
control of the premises who has received a notice shall give entry and free
access to the agents of the town for the purpose of abating the nuisance.
   (B)   The cost and expenses of abatement of violations of this chapter shall
became a lien an the premises in the same manner as Mechanic’s Liens become
liens against real estate, and the liens shall be enforced and foreclosed in
the same manner as Mechanic’s Liens are enforced and foreclosed.
(Ord. 1990-3, passed 2-26-90)
NOISE
§ 92.25 NOISE LIMIT; LOUD NOISES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      DECIBEL (dB). A unit for measuring the volume of a sound, equal to 20
times the logarithm to the base ten of the ratio of the pressure of the sound
measured to the reference pressure which is 20 micropascals (20) micronewtons
per square meter.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Any automobile, van, motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, motor
scooter, dune buggy, snowmobile, all terrain vehicle, go-cart, minibike, trail
bike, trucks with gross vehicular weight of less than 8,000 pounds, and trucks
with gross vehicle weight of more than 8,000 pounds.
      NOISE LEVEL. The A-weighted sound level produced by a motor vehicle.
      SOUND LEVEL METER. An instrument which includes a microphone, amplifier,
RMS detector, integrator or time average, output meter and weighing networks
used to measure sound pressure levels. Such instrument shall be used for
measurement of the intensity of sound and calibrated in decibels as
standardized by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI). Readings
shall be made on a dB(A) scale.
      WEIGHTED SOUND LEVEL. The sound pressure level in decibels as measured on
a sound level meter using the A-weighted network. The level so read is
designated dB(A).
   (B)   Noise limit.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause noise levels from the
operation or use of motor vehicles in excess of 83 dB(A) in any area within the
corporation limits of the town at any time. The noise level limit shall be
measured at a distance of not less than 15 feet from the noise source.
      (2)   The town shall use the sound level meter that it owns to measure if
a sound level exceeds that permitted by this section.
   (C)   Loud noises prohibited.
      (1)   Loud noises. No person shall make, continue, or cause to be made or
continued any loud, raucous, improper, unreasonable, offensive or unusual noise
which disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, or
safety of others within the town.
      (2)   Prohibited noises. The following acts, among others, are declared
to be loud, raucous, or disturbing noises in violation of this section, but the
enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
         (a)   The sounding of any horn or signaling device on any motor
vehicle on any street or public place except as a danger warning; the creation
by means of any signaling device of any unreasonably loud and raucous sound;
and any signaling device for an unreasonable period of time. The use of any
signaling device except one operated by hand, electricity or automatically when
a vehicle is in reverse; the use of any horn, whistle or other device operated
by engine exhaust; and the use of any signaling device when traffic is for any
reason held up.
         (b)   Using, operating, or permitting to be played, used, or operated,
any radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, or other machine or
device for the producing or reproducing of sound in such a manner as to disturb
the peace, quiet, and comfort of the neighboring inhabitants or at any time
louder volume than is necessary for convenient hearing for the person who is in
the room, vehicle, or chamber in which the machine or device is operated and
who is a voluntary listener. The operation of any set, instrument, phonograph,
machine, or device, in such a manner as to be plainly audible at a distance of
50 feet from the building, structure, person, or vehicle in which it is located
shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.
         (c)   Using, operating, or permitting to be played, used, or operated
any radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, loudspeaker, sound
amplifier, or other machine or device for the producing of sound which is cast
upon the public streets for the purpose of commercial advertising or attracting
the attention of the public to any building or structure.
         (d)   Yelling, hooting, whistling, or signaling on the public streets,
at any time or place, so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose
of persons in any office or in any dwelling, or other type of residence or of
any person in the vicinity.
         (e)   The keeping of an animal or bird which by causing frequent or
long-continued noise shall disturb the comfort or repose of any person in the
vicinity.
         (f)   The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam
engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motorboat, or motor vehicle
except through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or
explosive noises therefrom.
         (g)   The use of any motor vehicle so out of repair, so loaded, or in
such a manner as to create loud or unnecessary engine, grating, grinding,
rattling, or other noise.
         (h)   The operation of any motor vehicle in such a manner as to create
excessive noise such as squealing of tires or other noise unrelated to engine
noise or normal operation and noise created by unnecessary grinding, rattling,
or other vehicle disrepair.
         (i)   The operation between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of
any pile driver, steam shovel, pneumatic hammer, derrick, steam or electric
hoist or other appliance, the use of which is attended by loud or unusual
noise.
         (j)   The operation of any noise-creating blower or power fan or any
internal combustion engine, the operation of which causes loud and raucous
noise due to the explosion of operation gases or fluids, unless the noise from
the blower or fan is muffled and the engine is equipped with a muffler device
sufficient to deaden the noise.
         (k)   Any noise that exceeds a noise level of 83 dB(A) based on a
distance from the noise source of not less than 15 feet or any noise that can
be heard more than 50 feet from its source and is inherently obnoxious or
patently offensive shall be prima facie evidence of a noise prohibited by
division (B). Noise that creates less decibels than 83 dB(A) from 15 feet also
constitutes noise prohibited by division (B) if the noise otherwise constitutes
a prohibited noise stated at division (B). Further, there is not any decibel
measurement requirement to prove the existence of a noise prohibited by
division (B).
      (3)   No person shall keep an animal, other than a service animal
lawfully used by a handicapped person to accommodate his or her handicap,
which, by causing frequent or long-continued nosie that is audible 50 feet or
more from its source when the animal is on public property or 50 feet or more
outside of a private property line when the animal is on private property, and
disturbs the comfort or repose of any other person.
   (D)   Exemptions. The following are exempted from the provisions of this
section:
      (1)   Sounds emitted from authorized emergency vehicles.
      (2)   Lawn mowers, weed blowers, garden tractors, construction and repair
equipment, go-carts and power tools, when properly muffled, between the hours
of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. only.
      (3)   Burglar alarms and other warning devices when properly installed,
providing the cause for the alarm or warning device sound is investigated and
turned off within a reasonable period of time.
      (4)   Parades, festivals, carnivals, fairs, celebrations, concert
performances, band and drum corps performances, and artistic performances, as
well as any rehearsals for same, and all other events authorized by the Town
Council.
      (5)   Attendant noise connected with the actual performance of athletic
or sporting events and practices related thereto.
      (6)   In the performance of work to prevent or alleviate physical or
property damage threatened to cause by a public calamity or other emergency.
      (7)   The emission of sound for the purpose of alerting person to the
existence of an emergency, or for the performance of emergency construction,
repair, or other work.
      (8)   Sounds associated with the use of legal fireworks.
      (9)   Sounds associated with the normal conduct of legally established
non-transient businesses, organizations, and governmental entities, when such
sounds are customary, incidental, and within the normal range appropriate for
such use.
      (10)   Rubbish collection utilizing any mechanical equipment.
   (E)   Permits. The Town Council shall have the authority to issue permits
that allow alleviation from the requirements of division (B) for:
      (1)   Holidays, celebrations, concerns, parades or other special events,
public or personal; or
      (2)   Persons who demonstrate that bringing the source of sound or
activity for which the permit is sought and to compliance with the provisions
of division (B) would constitute an unreasonable hardship on the applicants,
the community, or other persons; and that the adverse impact of the health,
safety and welfare of persons effected by the permit has been outweighed by the
hardship. Permits may contain any conditions, including a time limit, that are
necessary to limit the adverse impact of the activity.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 4-26-04; Am. Ord. 2004-26, passed 11-8-04; Am. Ord. 2012-
4, passed 4-9-12) Penalty, see §
92.99
PUBLIC NUISANCES
§ 92.35 CONDITIONS.
   The following conditions shall constitute a public nuisance for the purpose
of this subchapter:
   (A)   Litter;
   (B)   Fallen trees, stumps or dead trees;
   (C)   Boxes, appliances, furniture, household items and tires;
   (D)   Construction demolition remains;
   (E)   Accumulated garbage and trash;
   (F)   Open excavations, uncovered or improperly covered holes, whether lined
or unlined, and dirt piles on any open or unfenced real estate property within
the town;
   (G)   Vehicle parts, lawn equipment parts, disassembled vehicles and lawn
equipment, vehicles and lawn equipment without engines, plumbing and piping
materials and parts, scrap metal, unseaworthy or dilapidated watercraft,
dilapidated, deteriorated or inoperable vehicles and lawn equipment, jet skis,
snowmobiles, motorcycles, bicycles, trailers or mopeds, provided, however, that
this category shall not be deemed to apply to duly licensed and properly zoned
junk yards, scrap recycling or vehicle impounding yards when said yards are
operating in compliance with state and local laws;
   (H)   Any portion of real property or any personal property which emits an
offensive or dangerous odor;
   (I)   Any trash, garbage, rubbish, wastewater, filth, offal, animal waste,
human excrement, which is deposited, allowed or caused to be accumulated upon
any public or private property;
   (J)   Any dead animal or animal parts;
   (K)   Any matter which attracts or may attract rodents, insects, domestic or
wild animals in such a manner as to create a health hazard or unsanitary or
dangerous condition;
   (L)   The storage of any explosive, combustible or other material which
creases a safety or health hazard;
   (M)   Any furniture, not originally designed or manufactured solely for
outdoor use which is placed outdoors, or any furniture, which was originally
designed or manufactured for outdoor use, which is now dilapidated or
deteriorated;
   (N)   Dilapidated buildings and structures where owner not required to
obtain building permit, including, but not limited to portable/temporary
greenhouses, animal houses/pens and tree houses;
   (O)   Deteriorated and unused above and below ground swimming pools; and
   (P)   Any condition including but not limited to smoke, dust, noxious odors
that emits from a premises which creates inconvenience, annoyance and/or
discomfort that interferes with the comfortable employment of the life and
property of the surrounding inhabitants.
(Ord. 2015-30, passed 10-26-15)
§ 92.36 DUTIES OF OWNER OR OCCUPANT.
   It shall be the duty of any person owning or controlling any premises to
maintain the premises in a clean and orderly manner. It shall be a violation of
this subchapter to permit the creation or maintenance of a public nuisance, or
by action or neglect to allow a public nuisance to exist on property. Every
owner or person in control of premises shall so maintain his property as to
prevent the public nuisance from being visible thereon from any public or
private premises. Persons owning, occupying, or in control of any premises
shall keep the sidewalks and alleys adjacent thereto free of litter.
(Ord. 2015-30, passed 10-26-15)
§ 92.37 COMPLAINTS.
   Any person may file a written complaint regarding a violation of this
subchapter. The complaint shall state the name and address of the complainant
and the alleged violator, the location and nature of the alleged violation, and
shall be filed at the Town Hall in the town.
(Ord. 2015-30, passed 10-26-15)
§ 92.38 INSPECTIONS.
   The Town Marshal, or any of the officers of the Albany Police Department, or
any other individual so designated by the Albany Town Council, shall be
authorized to visit, enter into or upon any building, lot, grounds, or premises
within the corporate boundaries of the town for the purpose of ascertaining and
discovering any nuisances or to investigate any complaint filed, and to make
examination thereof.
(Ord. 2015-30, passed 10-26-15)
§ 92.39 ABATEMENT NOTICE.
   (A)   Where, upon inspection, reasonable cause is found to believe that a
nuisance exists, the enforcement authority shall issue a written abatement
notice.
   (B)   Abatement notices shall be served upon all known holders of
substantial property interest in the real estate upon which the nuisance is
alleged to exist. If the resident of occupant of the premises is not the owner
of record of the real estate, the enforcement authority is authorized to serve
the owner of record as shown in the records of the County Auditor in addition
to other known holders of substantial property interests, including the
resident, or occupant.
   (C)   The abatement notice must contain:
      (1)   The name of the person to whom the order is issued;
      (2)   The legal description or address of the real estate where the
nuisance is located which is the subject of the notice;
      (3)   The action that the notice requires. The ordered action must be
reasonably related to abatement of the conditions constituting the nuisance;
      (4)   The period of time within which the action ordered is required to
be accomplished, measured from the time when the abatement notice is served.
The time allowed must allow a sufficient time, or at least 48 hours from the
time the abatement notice is served, to accomplish the required action. If the
notice allows more than 30 days to accomplish the action, the notice may
require that a substantially beginning be made in accomplishing the action
within the initial 30 day period following service of the notice;
      (5)   A statement that the order becomes final ten days after notice is
served, unless a hearing is requested in writing by the owner of record, the
tenant or occupant, or by a person holding a substantial property interest in
the private premises upon which the nuisance is alleged to exist. The request
for a hearing must be served upon the town prior to the expiration of the ten-
day calendar day period;
      (6)   A brief statement indicating what action can be taken by the town
if there is non-compliance with the orders contained in the abatement notice;
and
      (7)   The name, address and telephone number of the enforcement
authority.
   (D)   Service of abatement notices shall be made by any of the following
means:
      (1)   Sending a copy of the notice by registered or certified mail to the
residence or place of business or employment of the person to be notified, with
return receipt request;
      (2)   Delivering a copy of the notice personally to the person to be
notified;
      (3)   Leaving a copy of the notice at the dwelling or usual place of
abode of the person to be notified;
      (4)   Posting a copy of the notice in a prominent place upon the premises
where the nuisance is located; and
      (5)   If, after a reasonable effort, service cannot be obtained by any of
the means described above, service may be made by publishing the notice in a
newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the property subject to
the notice is located. Publication shall be made one time.
   (E)   When service is made by any of the means described in this section,
except by mailing or by publication, the person making service must make an
affidavit stating that he has made the service, the manner in which service was
made, to whom the order or statement was issued, the nature of the order or
statement, and the date of service. When service is made by mailing, proof of
service will be evidenced by the post service return receipt signed by the
recipient. Where service is made by publication, service shall be evidenced by
the publisher's affidavit.
(Ord. 2015-30, passed 10-26-15)
§ 92.40 FAILURE TO ABATE NUISANCE.
   Failure, neglect or refusal by the record owner or his/her agent, or the
tenant or occupant, to comply with the orders set out in the abatement notice
within the time periods set out or within any extended time periods agreed to
by the enforcement authority, shall constitute a violation of this subchapter
and shall render the individual upon whom the abatement notice was served
liable to a fine of $100. Each day's failure to abate the nuisance during the
time period allowed for compliance shall constitute a separate offense under
this subchapter.
(Ord. 2015-30, passed 10-26-15)
§ 92.41 ABATEMENT BY TOWN.
   (A)   In addition to the fines imposed under §
92.40, in non-emergency situations where abatement is not accomplished
immediately by the town, failure, neglect or refusal of any party to abate a
nuisance as required by the abatement notice shall authority the enforcement
authority to obtain the permission of the Albany Town Council to abate the
notice as set out in the abatement notice.
   (B)   Work may be accomplished by the town if the work is within its
capacity to accomplish or the work may be advertised for public bid and awarded
to the lowest responsible and responsive bidder. An accurate accounting shall
be kept of all costs incurred in abating the notice.
   (C)   Upon completion of the abatement, a statement for costs incurred,
including fees and penalties, shall be forwarded to the record owner by
certified mail. Should such costs remain unpaid 30 calendars after receipt by
the owner of record or upon return of the certified mail as undeliverable,
appropriate legal action may be taken to compel payment of costs incurred. Any
judgment for costs obtained shall be filed as a judgment lien against the real
estate upon which the nuisance was abated. In the alternative, the town may
file a lien for the unpaid statement of costs on the real estate which was the
subject of the nuisance.
(Ord. 2015-30, passed 10-26-15)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever shall violate any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is provided shall be punished as set forth in §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person convicted of a violation of §§
92.15 et seq. shall be punished by a fine of not more than $2,500. A separate
violation shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
      (2)   Procedure for enforcement of the criminal penalties contained
herein shall be governed by I.C. 35-4-32-1 et seq., as it applies to the town,
as from time to time amended, and applicable rules of criminal procedure.
      (3)   In addition to any other penalty provided for herein, the town may
take such civil action as provided by law, including, but not limited to,
injunctive relief, abatement of a nuisance, or imposition of a lien for
expenses.
   (C)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
92.25(B) or (C) shall be guilty of an infraction punishable by a fine of not
more than:
      (1)   A fine in the sum of $125 for the first offense;
      (2)   A fine in the sum of $250 for the second offense;
      (3)   A fine in the sum of $500 for the third or subsequent offenses.
      (4)   Nothing in §
92.25(B) or (C) shall be construed to limit any other rights or actions that
may exist in law or in equity.
(Ord. 1990-3, passed 2-26-90; Am. Ord. 2004-12, passed 4-26-04; Am. Ord. 2012-
4, passed 4-9-12)
Editor’s note:
   I.C. 35-4-32-1 et seq. were repealed by P.L. 1-1993, sec. 238
CHAPTER 93: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Closure of Streets or Alleys
   
93.01   Preventing or impeding traffic; permit for temporary closure of any
street or alley
   
93.02   Application for closure; fee
   
93.03   Decision of Town Council
Rights-of-Way
   
93.10   Right-of-way use permit
   
93.11   Plantings upon right-of-way
Sidewalks
   
93.15   Placing objects on sidewalks
 
   
93.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Right-of-way use application
CLOSURE OF STREETS OR ALLEYS
§ 93.01 PREVENTING OR IMPEDING TRAFFIC; PERMIT FOR TEMPORARY CLOSURE OF ANY
STREET OR ALLEY.
   No person shall be permitted to prevent or impede any traffic from using any
road or alley within the town. The person may obtain a permit for the temporary
closure of any street or alley subject to approval of the Town Council.
(Ord. 1998-15, passed 8-24-98) Penalty, see §
93.99 
§ 93.02 APPLICATION FOR CLOSURE; FEE.
   Any person may apply to the town for the closure of any street or alley. The
applicant must submit their request in writing to the Clerk-Treasurer of the
town, no less than one week prior to any Town Council meeting. The request must
specify the name and address of the person, firm, or entity that is making the
request, the name of all streets or alleys that the applicant desires to be
closed (or a description of the alley or area to be used by the applicant), the
length of time which the applicant is requesting that the road or alley be
closed, the purpose of the request, and a telephone number or numbers of a
person that may be contacted by the town for emergency questions. A fee of $10
shall accompany each and every application. Governmental entities and not-for-
profit organizations shall not be required to pay the permit fees.
(Ord. 1998-15, passed 8-24-98)
§ 93.03 DECISION OF TOWN COUNCIL.
   The Town Council may impose reasonable restrictions on the length of time,
method of closure, and extent of the closure from any applicant. The Town
Council shall be the sole determiner of the closure of any street or alley in
the town. The filing of an application to close a street or alley does not
guarantee that the applicant’s request shall be granted by the Town Council. A
copy of the application shall be provided to the Albany Emergency Medical
Services, Albany/Delaware Township Volunteer Fire Department, and the Albany
Police Department.
(Ord. 1998-15, passed 8-24-98)
RIGHTS-OF-WAY
§ 93.10 RIGHT-OF-WAY USE PERMIT.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BOND. The posting of required surety to guarantee prompt and satisfactory
replacement and repair of facilities damaged or disrupted by the permitted
operations.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of Albany, Indiana.
      INSPECTOR. The authorized representative of the Town Council assigned to
make detailed inspections of permitted performance.
      PERMIT. A form of written authorized to permit action to be done within
the right-of-way as per outlined specifications.
      PERSON. Shall include any natural person and any entity recognized by the
law.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. The boundaries established by a recorded plat, a duly
adopted thoroughfare plan or usage for the purpose of providing public
transportation or utility services.
      TOWN. The Town of Albany, Indiana.
      UTILITY FACILITIES. Either above-ground or below-ground utility
facilities including, without limitation, telephone, electronic, electric,
cable, fiber optic, gas, water, sewer, heating and cooling facilities.
         ABOVE-GROUND UTILITY FACILITIES. Includes, without limitation,
telephone, wireless communication, electronic, electric, cable, fiber optic,
gas, water, sewer, heating and cooling facilities existing at, or above ground
level.
         BELOW-GROUND UTILITY FACILITIES. Includes, without limitation,
telephone, electronic, electric, cable, fiber optic, gas, water, sewer, heating
and cooling facilities existing below ground level.
   (B)   Activities requiring a right-of-way use permit.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (D) below, no person shall undertake
any of the following activities within a public right-of-way without first
acquiring a right-of-way use permit to do so from the town:
         (a)   Any construction, altering or removing of any surface or
subsurface material, digging or excavating in a town right-of-way;
         (b)   Installation or repair of above-ground utility facilities,
below-ground utility facilities, private connections to public utility
facilities, or facilities of any other entity having the right to use the
public right-of-way; and
         (c)   Installation of mailbox approaches, sidewalks or any such object
of lawful encroachment, which would share right-of-way space with governmental
transportation needs, or to construct a temporary fence or barrier which may be
required for environmental or construction purposes.
      (2)   Exceptions. The following activities do not require a right-of-way
use permit:
         (a)   Maintenance of grass, drives or sidewalks within the right-of-
way;
         (b)   Any work or activities conducted in a right-of-way or public
grounds performed directly by the town or State of Indiana;
         (c)   Public road construction and maintenance done under a contract
with the town; and
   (C)   Unlawful activities within the right-of-way. Unless a special permit
to encroach is issued by the Town Council, it shall be unlawful for any person
to:
      (1)   Construct a parking area within a right-of-way;
      (2)   Construct a fence within a right-of-way other than a temporary
fence required for environmental or construction purposes;
      (3)   Place any advertising material within a right-of-way; and
      (4)   Perform any work not listed under division (B) of this section
within a right-of-way without a permit.
   (D)   Permit application. A person desiring to undertake any of the
activities set out in division (B) of this section shall sign and file an
application with the Clerk-Treasurer of the town, and secure a right-of-way use
permit before starting any work or activity inside the right-of-way, all as set
in the following sections. The Clerk-Treasurer and/or a Utility Supervisor are
the permit issuing authorities for all activities other than set forth in
division (B) of this section. The Clerk-Treasurer and/or Utility Supervisor
shall exercise its discretion in the issuance or denial of a permit and may
impose such reasonable conditions as it sees fit prior to the issuance of a
permit. No work shall be done or activity taken prior to the issuance of the
permit except in the event of an emergency requiring immediate remedial action
for utility facilities, in which case the utility shall comply with division
(G) of this section.
      (1)   Contents of permit application. The application for a right-of-way
use permit shall be submitted to the Clerk-Treasurer and/or a Utility
Supervisor of the town and shall, at a minimum, include the following
information and documents:
         (a)   The name, address and phone number of the person or entity for
whom the work is to be done or the activity is to be conducted, and the name,
title and phone number of the person responsible for the work or activity;
         (b)   The name and address of the contractor responsible for the work
or activity;
         (c)   The reason for, estimated cost of and an exact description of
the work to be done or activity to be taken;
         (d)   The precise location of the work or activity site and the
location and dimensions of any excavation;
         (e)   Whether all or a portion of a street will be closed and for how
long;
         (f)   The expected beginning and ending dates of the project;
         (g)   The method of traffic control to be used by the applicant at the
site; and
         (h)   Any other pertinent information requested by the Clerk-Treasurer
and/or Utility Supervisor.
      (2)   Insurance requirements. There shall be furnished to the Clerk-
Treasurer at the time of making application written proof that the applicant or
the contractor for the applicant is covered by public liability insurance in an
amount not less than $300,000 for property damage and $1,000,000 for injury to
any one person, and $2,000,000 for any one occurrence. The applicant shall
prove to the satisfaction of the Clerk-Treasurer the payment of a premium for
the insurance so that the town will be protected for a period of one year from
the date of the commencement of the work.
      (3)   Bond requirements. The applicant or contractor for the applicant,
shall file a bond in an amount not less than $5,000 or 10% of the estimated
cost of the project, whichever is greater, as determined by the Clerk-Treasurer
and/or Utility Supervisor, conditioned on the performance of the work and the
maintenance of the work for a period of two years from the completion of such
work, all in accordance with the terms of this section. Upon review of the
application, the Clerk-Treasurer and/or Utility Supervisor may exempt
individual property owners above stated bond requirement.
      (4)   Indemnity agreement. The applicant shall furnish a written
agreement to indemnify and hold harmless the town, its officials, agents and
employees from any liability due to loss, damage, injuries or other casualties
of any kind, or by whomsoever caused, to the person or property of anyone on or
off the right-of-way arising out of, or resulting from the issuance of the
permit or the work or activity connected therewith, or from the installation,
existence, use, maintenance, conditions, repairs, alteration or removal of any
equipment or material, whether due in whole or in part to the negligent acts or
omissions of:
         (a)   The town, its officials, agents or employees;
         (b)   The applicant, his or her agents, contractors or employees, or
other persons engaged in the performance of the work or activity; or
         (c)   The joint negligence of any of the above, including any claims
arising out of the Workman’s Compensation Act or any other law, ordinance,
order or decree, for a period of the applicable statute of limitations. The
indemnity shall also provide that the applicant shall pay for all costs
associated with the removal and/or moving of the public utility facility or
other object located within the right-of-way or reimburse the town for all
expenses it incurs in the event that the town removes and/or moves the public
utility facility or object on behalf of the applicant. The indemnity shall also
provide that the applicant shall pay all reasonable expenses and attorney fees
incurred by or imposed by the town in connection herewith in the event that the
applicant shall default under the provisions of the indemnity agreement.
      (5)   Installation and design of the facility. The applicant shall be
responsible for the installation and design of the facility to be installed
within the right-of-way. The town will only be responsible for the review and
approval of the proposal with respect to the locations of the facilities to be
installed and the manner of installation. Approval of the permit does not
relieve the applicant of responsibility for the design. The town does not alter
current regulations or authority for installing utility facilities nor for
determining financial responsibility for replacing or adjusting utility
facilities. The town limits itself to matters which preserve the safe
operation, maintenance and integrity of the town’s rights-of-way.
   (E)   Permit fees. A permit fee shall be paid at the time of filing the
application as set out below.
      (1)   Above-ground utility facilities. The permit fees for conducting any
work or other activities on above-ground utility facilities shall be $2,500 and
must be paid at the time of filing. Failure to comply with this requirement
shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $3,000.
      (2)   Below-ground utility facilities. The permit fees for conducting any
work or other activities on below-ground utility facilities shall be $500 and
must be paid at the time of filing. Failure to comply with this requirement
shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $750.
      (3)   All other work or activities. The permit fees for conducting any
other work or activity requiring a right-of-way permit shall be $25 and must be
paid at the time of filing. Failure to comply with this requirement shall be
punished according to § 93.99 of the Code of Ordinances.
      (4)   Violations. Any violation of the terms of this section or the
specifications and instructions adopted by the Town Council, Clerk/Treasurer,
and/or Utility Supervisor pursuant to this section shall be assumed to require
additional inspection and an additional inspection fee shall be assessed for
each such infraction.
   (F)   Town Council to establish rules and regulations. The Town Council is
hereby authorized to establish such specifications and procedural instructions
for work and activity within the right-of-way as may be necessary to accomplish
the purposes of this section. The specifications and procedural instructions
shall be kept on file in the office of the Town Hall and may be amended from
time to time by the Town Council.
   (G)   Emergencies. In the event of an emergency, work on a utility facility
within the public right-of-way may commence without submitting an application
for a right-of-way use permit. In such event, the person responsible for
completing the work or activity shall:
      (1)   Notify the town of the emergency and provide a brief description of
the work or activity to be done as soon as practicable after learning of the
emergency. Such emergency notification under this division (G)(1) must be
sufficient to notify the Town at the earliest time possible following the
discovery of the emergency and may be either written or oral;
      (2)   Submit an application, bond and indemnity agreement for a right-of-
way use permit within 24 hours of starting its work or the next working day to
the Clerk-Treasurer, whichever is sooner;
      (3)   Attach to the application a full and complete written explanation
concerning the emergency and its cause; and
      (4)   In the event that the Town Council shall determine that in its
judgment an emergency did not exist, he or she shall forward a copy of the
application and all attachments to the Town Attorney as a violation of this
section.
   (H)   Relocation. The town shall require relocation of public utility
facilities, private connections to public utility facilities or facilities of
any entity having the right to use the public right-of-way when the town is
installing utility facilities in the right-of-way. The costs for the relocation
of the utility facilities shall be paid by those entities or persons that have
installed the same in the town’s right-of-way.
   (I)   Written notice required. Unless specifically stated otherwise, all
notifications required under this Section shall be in writing. Any notification
other than an initial emergency notification, which is not made in writing will
be deemed to have never occurred.
(Ord. 2004-13, passed 4-24-04; Am. Ord. 2005-13, passed 6-13-05; Am. Ord. 2016-
9, passed 6-27-16) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.11 PLANTINGS UPON RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise allowed by permit as stated in division (C) below, it
shall be violation of this section to insert, plant or maintain the following
in any public rights-of-way in the Town of Albany:
      (1)   Any tree, shrub or bush over 12 inches in height;
      (2)   Any other plant life over 12 inches tall; and
      (3)   Any improvement, including without limitation, any improvement
designed to assist the growth of any plant life.
   (B)   Division (A) above shall not be construed to prohibit the insertion,
planting or maintenance of grass or plant life less then 12 inches tall in the
town’s rights-of-way.
   (C)   In the event a citizen of the Town of Albany desires to plant a tree,
shrub, or bush in the town’s rights-of-way, the citizen must:
      (1)   Pay a permit fee of $10 on a form provided by the town; and
      (2)   Attend a Town Board meeting to gain approval before planting the
tree, shrub or bush.
(Ord. 2003-17, passed 10-13-03) Penalty, see §
93.99
SIDEWALKS
§ 93.15 PLACING OBJECTS ON SIDEWALK.
   (A)   No item shall be placed in a sidewalk located within the corporate
boundaries if the same occupies more than one-third of the sidewalk.
   (B)   The town shall contact the business who placed the object on the
sidewalk to remove the object if the object exceeds more than one-third of the
width of the sidewalk. The town will instruct the business to remove the object
from the sidewalk.
   (C)   The town will remove or will cause to be removed the object from the
sidewalk if the same exceeds one-third of the width of the sidewalk and the
business has been contacted to remove the same and the same is not removed.
(Ord. 2006-25, passed 12-11-06) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever shall violate any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is set forth shall be punished as provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   The town may enforce §§
93.01 et seq. by use of an injunction or any other legal remedy, including a
fine.
      (2)   A violation of §§
93.01 et seq. may result in a fine from $0 up to $500. Each day that the
property owner is in violation of §§
93.01 et seq. shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   A person or entity who is guilty of a violation of any provision of §
93.10 shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000 nor less than $250. Each
day any portion of §
93.10 is violated shall constitute a separate offense.
   (D)   Any person who violates §
93.11 shall pay a fine equal to the sum of $25 and court costs or the cost of
the removal of any plant life and court costs, whichever is greater.
(Ord. 1998-15, passed 8-24-98; Am. Ord. 2003-17, passed 10-13-03; Am. Ord.
2004-13, passed 4-24-04; Am. Ord. 2005-13, passed 6-13-05)
APPENDIX A: RIGHT-OF-WAY USE APPLICATION
Town of Albany
210 East State Street
Albany, IN 47320
Telephone: 765-789-6112
Fax: 765-789-6961
Application Date:                                                       Phone
#:                                                               
Owner’s Name:                                                          Fax #:
                                                                 
Mailing Address:                                                        Cell
Phone #:                                                        
                                                                                 Utility
ID:                                                             
Contractor’s Name:                                                     Phone #:
                                                             
                                                                                 Fax
#:                                                                  
Mailing Address:                                                         Cell
Phone #:                                                        
                                                                                 Utility
ID:                                                             
                                                                                                                                                          
Location of Right-of-Way Use:
                                                                                                               
Type of Right-of-Way Use:
                                                                                                                    
            Be specific to the use as possible
                                                                                                                                                          
INVASIVE
[ ] Excavate or dismantle of town facilities drawing or specifications required
[ ] Restoration of the town facilities
[ ] Type of restoration
   [ ] Sod
   [ ] Sidewalk
   [ ] Pavement
   [ ] And the like
(A)   General information of contractor requesting permit.
(B)   A map of the proposed work to be performed. The map shall include street
address, where in the right-of-way work is being performed, north indicator
and/or cross road if possible. If service line is to be ran to the existing
structure, show where service line comes from the main line and goes to the
structure.
PERMIT QUESTION
Is work being performed in:
Grass                                     
Gravel                                   
Asphalt                                  
Cement                                  
All repairs shall be restored when finished, to same or better condition, as
before commencing work.
                                                                                                                                                          
THE PERMITTEE SHALL NOTIFY THE CLERK-TREASURER OFFICE 24 HOURS PRIOR TO THE
TIME HE OR SHE INTENDS TO REQUEST A FINAL INSPECTION.
                                                                                                                                                          
PERMIT INFORMATION
Start Date:                                                     Completion
Date:                                                               
                                                                                                                                                          
Print Applicant Name                        Sign Applicant Name
                                                                                                                                                            
Address                                 Phone
PERMIT FEES
                                 Permit fees - $25
(Ord. 2005-13, passed 6-13-05)
CHAPTER 94: PARKS
Section
   
94.01   Closing times
   
94.02   Hours posted
   
94.03   Violation
   
94.04   Rules and regulations
   
94.05   Park usage
 
   
94.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Park grounds rental agreement
§ 94.01 CLOSING TIMES.
   The town parks shall be closed to the public between the hours of 11:00 p.m.
and 6:00 a.m., local time, each and every day.
(Ord. 1971-22, passed 9-27-71)
§ 94.02 HOURS POSTED.
   The hours during which the parks are to be closed shall be posted at the
entrance to each town park.
(Ord. 1971-22, passed 9-27-71)
§ 94.03 VIOLATION.
   Any person violating this chapter by entering, using, or occupying any town
park during the hours same is closed shall be punished as set forth in §
94.99.
(Ord. 1971-22, passed 9-27-71) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to establish reasonable and responsible
rules for those individuals who use the parks and other recreational areas
owned and operated by the town. This section is necessary to insure that
residents fully enjoy leisure and recreational activities available in Albany
parks and other recreational areas and to protect health and safety of persons
using the parks and other recreational areas.
   (B)   The words “parks and other recreation areas” shall include, but not be
limited to, any lands, buildings, structures, waters, parks, trails, drives and
roadways in the town that are under the jurisdiction and control of the town
and the Albany Parks Department.
   (C)   Individuals listed on State of Indiana Sex Offenders Registry
published and disseminated by the Indiana Criminal Justice Institute are
prohibited from all parks and other recreational areas of the town.
(Ord. 2008-15, passed 11-10-08)
§ 94.05 PARK USAGE.
   (A)   The town shall allow the following park areas to be used by
individuals and organizations for events: Big Park, Depot, Water Street Park
and First Street Park.
   (B)   The town shall require individuals and organizations who want to use
the park areas for events to enter into an agreement with the town for the use
of the park area.
   (C)   The town may require the individuals and groups to provide a damage
deposit for the usage of the park area. The requirement of the damage deposit
and the amount of the damage deposit shall be determined by the Clerk-Treasurer
in a case-by-case manner.
   (D)   The town shall require the individuals and groups using the park area
to provide proof of insurance reflecting that the individuals or group holding
the event is covered by insurance.
   (E)   The town shall require the individuals and groups using the park for
events to sign a statement that they will hold the town harmless from any
injuries and damages that may occur as a result of what takes place at the
event.
   (F)   The town may deny the use of the park areas to individuals and groups
for events in the event that the individuals and groups refuse to comply with
the town’s requirements under this section.
(Ord. 2009-7, passed 6-8-09)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $10 per
violation.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
94.04(C) shall be fined $100 for the first offense and $200 for each offense
thereafter. A separate offense shall be deemed committed for each day during
which or on which a violation occurs or continues to occur.
(Ord. 1971-22, passed 9-27-71; Am. Ord. 2008-15, passed 11-10-08)
APPENDIX A: PARK GROUNDS RENTAL AGREEMENT
   THIS AGREEMENT, dated                                        , is by and
between the Town of Albany, Indiana, hereinafter referred to as “Owner,” and
                        of                            , Indiana, hereinafter
referred to as “Renter”, for the town’s park grounds, hereinafter referred to
as “Premises”, under the following terms and conditions:
   1.   The renter agrees to pay owner the sum of $                          
for rental of Big/Depot/Water Street/1st Street park grounds. (Please circle
which specific park ground this agreement applies to.) Said amount shall be
paid as follows: A damage deposit in the sum of $                  is due and
owing upon the signing of this Rental Agreement. The remainder of the amount
due and owing to the owner shall be paid on the                        day of
                            , 200    . Payment for all obligations shall be
made prior to the date of the event. Renter shall rent the park grounds on the
                                  day of                              , 20
                      from
                   a.m./p.m. to                               a.m./p.m.
   2.   Owner reserves the right to demand payments in the form of cash or
cashier’s check for the payment of any deposits or rental charges.
   3.   The damage deposit is payable prior to the event in the form of a
cashier’s check or cash. The damage deposit will be returned after inspection
of the facilities or contents and it has been determined by owner that no
damage has resulted from the event of the renter.
   4.   Renter shall obtain liability and property damage insurance covering
the proposed event. A certificate of insurance shall be delivered by the renter
to owner showing that renter has obtained insurance covering the proposed
event. The certificate of insurance shall list owner as a certificate holder
and shall state that the policy cannot be cancelled without one week prior
notification to owner by the insurer. The certificate of insurance shall be
delivered by renter to owner one week prior to the date of the event.
   5.   Renter shall not leave excessive refuse on the grounds. A charge will
be assessed for excessive refuse that requires additional cost for the
disposition to owner.
   6.   Renter assumes complete responsibility for the actions of themselves
and of any other person(s) involved in the activities or event.
   7.   Renter assumes all responsibility for loss or damage caused by anyone
that the renter assigns space to or sublets space for display, and the like.
   8.   Renter shall provide appropriate security and police services, as
required or necessary to properly control the activity or event.
   9.   The parties agree that this agreement does not constitute an agency
relationship between the parties.
   10.   The renter shall save, defend, hold harmless and indemnify the owner
from all claims (both threatened and asserted) for damages to persons or to
property arising from the renter’s occupancy of the premises, including, but
not limited to, all judgments, settlements or awards which might be entered for
such claims, and also including, but not limited to, all attorneys fees the
owner incurs as the result of the threat or the assertion of any claim.
   11.   This Rental Agreement, and the rights and obligations of the parties
hereto, shall be interpreted and construed in accordance with the laws of
Indiana.
DATED THIS                         DAY OF
                                     , 200                              .
OWNER                              RENTER
                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                  
TOWN OF ALBANY, INDIANA
                                                                                                         
By:                                                                     
Printed Name:                                                      
Renter Information:
Name:                                                                 
Address:                                                              
Telephone Number:                                               
Name of Contact Person:                                       
(Ord. 2009-7, passed 6-8-09)
CHAPTER 95: GOLF CARTS
Section
   
95.01   Operation of golf carts
   
95.02   Registration of golf carts
   
95.03   Revocation or suspension of golf cart registration
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS.
   (A)   A GOLF CART is a gas or electric motorized four wheeled cart designed
to carry people and/or materials.
   (B)   The operation of golf carts are permitted within the boundaries of the
town, only upon compliance with the requirements set forth in this chapter.
   (C)   No person shall operate a golf cart within the boundaries of the town
without first completing each of the following provisions:
      (1)   The operator must be 18 years of age or older;
      (2)   The operator must have a valid identification card, operator's
license, chauffeur's license or public passenger chauffeur's license issued by
the Indiana Bureau of Motor Vehicles;
      (3)   The operator shall allow the Town Marshal or a representative of
the office of the Town Marshal to inspect the golf cart; and
      (4)   The operator shall provide the Town Marshal or a representative of
the office of the Town Marshal with proof of financial responsibility.
   (D)   The Town Marshal or a representative of the office of the Town Marshal
shall issue a three-digit identification number to the operator of the golf
cart after all of the requirements of division (C) have been met. The
identification number shall be placed on all four sides of the golf cart in a
visible location, using three-inch numbers.
   (E)   The operator of the golf cart shall place a slow moving vehicle sign
on the rear of the golf cart.
   (F)   Golf carts shall be equipped with two headlights and two taillights.
These headlights and taillights shall be operated at all times during operation
of the golf cart.
   (G)   Golf carts shall be equipped with a rear-view mirror.
   (H)   Golf carts shall only be operated on the streets and roadways of the
town. Travel on Highways 28 and 67 shall be strictly restricted. The golf carts
shall only travel across Highways 28 and 67. The golf carts shall only travel
adjacent to Highways 28 and 67 for short distances in order to gain access to
town streets and highways.
   (I)   Golf carts shall not be operated on any sidewalk located within the
boundaries of the town.
   (J)   The operator of the golf cart shall abide by and follow all Indiana
motor vehicles laws.
   (K)   The operator of the golf cart shall yield to all motor vehicle
traffic.
(Ord. 2002-18, passed 11-25-02)
§ 95.02 REGISTRATION OF GOLF CARTS.
   (A)   Operation. All golf carts shall be operated under the following
requirements:
      (1)   The operator must be at least 18 years of age and have a valid
identification card, operator’s license, chauffeur’s license or public
passenger chauffeur’s license issued by the Indiana Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
      (2)   The operator shall allow the Town Marshal or a representative of
the office of the Town Marshal to inspect a golf cart to ensure that it
functions properly and has the required safety equipment.
      (3)   The operator of the golf cart shall provide the Town Marshal or
their representative with proof of insurance that covers the operation of the
golf cart.
      (4)   Pay a registration fee, annually each January, of $20 for each golf
cart operated.
   (B)   Registration fee; proof of registration.
      (1)   Upon satisfactory completion of the inspection of the golf cart by
the Town Marshal or their representative, the Town Marshal shall issue a three-
digit identification number to the operator.
      (2)   The registration number shall be affixed to the golf cart by the
operator on the rear of the golf cart and in a location that is readily visible
to law enforcement.
      (3)   The operator of the golf cart shall be responsible for obtaining
and renewing the registration on all golf carts that operate in the town.
(Ord. 2024-12, passed 12-9-2024)
§ 95.03 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF GOLF CART REGISTRATION.
   (A)   The Town Marshal or their representative may revoke or suspend the
registration of the operator’s golf cart operation privileges in the town for
the following reasons:
      (1)   Unsafe operation of the golf cart;
      (2)   Issuance of more than three citations issued by the Police
Department for violation of the town ordinances of the operation of the golf
cart;
      (3)   The condition of the golf cart is such that it is unsafe to operate
on the streets and alleys in the town;
      (4)   If any of the safety features are inoperable;
      (5)   The suspension, revocation of the operator’s driving privileges by
the State of Indiana;
      (6)   The failure to maintain proper insurance on the golf cart;
      (7)   Any suspension of the operator’s privileges to operate a golf cart
in the town may be for a period of time to correct any issue with the vehicle
or address any other concern of the Town Marshal.
   (B)   Appeal of revocation.
      (1)   Any person who has had their privileges suspended or revoked by the
Town Marshal may appeal the suspension or revocation to the Town Council within
ten days, in writing and delivered to the Clerk-Treasurer either in person or
via regular first-class mail.
      (2)   The Town Council shall schedule a meeting/hearing on the appeal at
the next Town Council meeting. If the person appealing the suspension or
revocation shall fail to appear at the Town Council meeting, then the appeal
shall automatically be denied.
      (3)   A decision of the Town Council to uphold the suspension or
revocation of the person’s golf cart operating privileges may be appealed to
the Circuit Court of Delaware County within 15 days of the decision of the Town
Council.
(Ord. 2024-12, passed 12-9-2024)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of this chapter may result in the following penalties:
   (A)   A fine in the sum of $50 for the first offense;
   (B)   A fine in the sum of $75 for the second offense;
   (C)   A fine in the sum of $100 for the third or subsequent offenses.
(Ord. 2002-18, passed 11-25-02)
CHAPTER 96: FIREWORKS
Section
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Regulation as to time and dates of use of consumer fireworks
   
96.03   Required cleanup of consumer fireworks
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates of requires a different meaning.
   CONSUMER FIREWORKS.  
      (1)   A small firework that is designed primarily to produce visible
effects by combustion, and that is required to comply with the construction,
chemical composition and labeling regulations promulgated by the United States
Consumer Product Safety Commission. The term also includes some small devices
designed to produce an audible effect, such as whistling devices, ground
devices containing 50 milligrams or less of explosive composition and aerial
devices containing 130 milligrams or less of explosive composition.
      (2)   CONSUMER FIREWORKS include:
         (a)   Aerial devices, which include sky rockets, missile type rockets,
helicopter or aerial spinners, roman candles, mines and shells; and
         (b)   Ground audible devices, which include firecrackers, salutes and
chasers.
(Ord. 2007-13, passed 7-23-07)
§ 96.02 REGULATION AS TO TIME AND DATES OF USE OF CONSUMER FIREWORKS.
   No person shall use and/or ignite any consumer fireworks inside the
corporate boundaries of the town during times other than:
   (A)   Between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and two hours after sunset on June 29,
June 30, July 1, July 2, July 3, July 5, July 6, July 7, July 8 and July 9;
   (B)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight on July 4; and
   (C)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. on December 31 and 1:00 a.m. on
January 1.
(Ord. 2007-13, passed 7-23-07)
§ 96.03 REQUIRED CLEANUP OF CONSUMER FIREWORKS.
   No person shall cause the used consumer fireworks products to remain on town
property or in the town rights-of-way. Any person who leaves used consumer
fireworks products on town property or in the town rights-of-way shall be fined
the sum of $50.
(Ord. 2007-13, passed 7-23-07)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS AND REGULATIONS
      
111.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
112.   CABLE REGULATIONS
      
113.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL PROVISIONS AND REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Handgun licenses
Rummage Sales
   
110.15   Definition
   
110.16   Limitations on days of sales
   
110.17   Conclusion of sale
   
110.18   Enforcement
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 HANDGUN LICENSES.
   (A)   The Police Department of the town is authorized pursuant to law, I.C.
35-47-2-3(b) et seq., to take applications for handgun licenses and to collect
an application fee as follows:
License Type Local Fee
License Type                                        Local Fee
Five year hunting and target                        $0/$0 refundable*
Five year personal protection                       $0/$0 refundable*
Lifetime hunting and target/ no current license     $50/$30 refundable*
Lifetime hunting and target/ current valid license  $40/$30 refundable*
Lifetime personal protection/ no current license    $50/$30 refundable*
Lifetime personal protection/ current valid license $40/$30 refundable*
* A portion of the local fee is refundable if a license is not issued
 
   (B)   The application fees collected shall be deposited by the Clerk-
Treasurer into the Police Department’s Police Continued Education Fund and
shall be used exclusively for that purpose and the training of law enforcement
officers in the proper use of firearms or other law enforcement duties and for
no other purpose.
   (C)   The application procedure and disbursement of funds shall be in
accordance with I.C. 35-47-2, as amended, and are adopted and incorporated by
reference in this section.
(Ord. 1985-1, passed 2-25-85; Am. Ord. 2006-14, passed 8-29-06; Am. Ord. 2020-
7, passed 7-27-20)
RUMMAGE SALES
§ 110.15 DEFINITION.
   (A)   A RUMMAGE SALE is the sale of personal property by an individual or
family at their own personal residence or the residence of others for the
purpose of the sale of surplus personal property, clothing, or other items
belonging to the person commonly known as the homeowner. The sale is only
conducted in an area that is zoned as “residential.”
   (B)   RUMMAGE SALE does not include the sale of one motor vehicle by an
individual or family at their own personal residence or the residence of others
for the purpose of the sale of the motor vehicle.
(Ord. 1998-5, passed 4-27-98; Am. Ord. 2004-2, passed 1-26-04)
§ 110.16 LIMITATIONS ON DAYS OF SALES.
   A person may only conduct a rummage sale for no more than four consecutive
days for any one sale. A person may conduct no more than three rummage sales
per year with a 90-day waiting period commencing after the completion of the
prior rummage sale.
(Ord. 1998-5, passed 4-27-98; Am. Ord. 2019- 16, passed 11-11-19) Penalty, see
§
110.99
§ 110.17 CONCLUSION OF SALE.
   Any rummage sale shall be concluded at the end of the fourth day, and all
property not sold shall be either discarded or stored inside a structure or
building. The owner may not cover the property with a cloth, plastic, or other
type of covering and await the end of the 90-day period for the next rummage
sale to commence.
(Ord. 1998-5, passed 4-27-98; Am. Ord. 2019- 16, passed 11-11-19) Penalty, see
§
110.99
§ 110.18 ENFORCEMENT.
   The town may enforce this subchapter by use of an injunction or any other
legal remedy, including a fine.
(Ord. 1998-5, passed 4-27-98)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates a provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is provided shall be punished as set forth in §
10.99.
   (B)   A violation of §§
110.15 et seq. may result in a fine from $0 up to $500. Each day that the
property owner is in violation of §§
110.15 et seq. shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 1998-5, passed 4-27-98)
CHAPTER 111: TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License requirement
   
111.03   Application procedure
   
111.04   Standards for issuance
   
111.05   Revocation procedure
   
111.06   Standards for revocation
   
111.07   Appeal procedure
   
111.08   Exhibition of identification
Statutory reference:
   Local regulation authorized, see I.C. 25-37-1-11
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is a transient merchant
as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever and includes, but is not
limited to, wares and foodstuffs.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT.  
      (1)   All persons, firms, limited liability companies, and corporations,
both as principals and agents, who engage in, do, or transact any temporary or
transient business in the corporate boundaries of the town offering for sale or
selling goods, wares, or merchandise and those who, for the purpose of carrying
on such business, hire, lease, or occupy any permanent or mobile building,
structure, or real estate for the exhibition by means of samples, catalogs,
photographs, and price lists for sale of such goods, wares, or merchandise.
      (2)   TRANSIENT MERCHANT does not include the following:
         (a)   Any person, individual, co-partner, limited liability company or
corporation which grows the goods, wares, or merchandise that are sold or
offered for sale;
         (b)   A person who makes crafts or items by hand and sells them or
offers them for sale;
         (c)   An auctioneer who is licensed under the law of the State of
Indiana;
         (d)   A resident of the Town of Albany who conducts a sale of tangible
personal property for no more than four work days per calendar year;
         (e)   An organization that is exempt from the Indiana gross retail
tax;
         (f)   A person who:
            1.   Sells merchandise;
            2.   Offers to sell merchandise; and
            3.   Provides proof that the sale is being conducted as part of an
activity sponsored by an organization that is exempt from the Indiana gross
retail tax;
         (g)   A person who;
            1.   Organizes;
            2.   Sells merchandise at;
            3.   Offers to sell merchandise at; or
            4.   Exhibits at a trade show or conventions.
         (h)   A person who holds a registered retail merchants certificate.
         (i)   Residents of the Town of Albany who wish to conduct temporary or
transient business within the corporate boundaries.
(Am. Ord. 2004-6, passed 2-23-04)
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is a transient merchant shall obtain a license before
engaging in such activity within the corporate boundaries of the Town of
Albany.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be $25.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire six months after
the date of issuance thereof. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to
sales made to dealers or commercial travelers or selling agents in the usual
course of business nor to bona fide sales of goods, wares or merchandise by
sample for future delivery, or sheriffs, constables or other public officers
selling goods, wares and merchandise according to law, nor to bona fide
assignees or receivers appointed in the State of Indiana selling goods, wares
and merchandise for the benefit of creditors.
(Am. Ord. 2004-6, passed 2-23-04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the Clerk. This application shall be signed by the applicant
if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the president if a
corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide information concerning
the following items:
      (1)   The name, residence and post office address of the person, firm,
limited liability company or corporation making the application;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the town;
         (b)   The local address of such individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of such individual; and
         (d)   The capacity in which such individual will act.
      (3)   If the applicant is a corporation or limited liability company, the
state of incorporation or organization, the date of incorporation or
organization, and if the applicant is a corporation or a limited liability
company formed in a state other than the State of Indiana, the date on which
such corporation or limited liability company qualified to transact business as
a foreign corporation or foreign limited liability company in the State of
Indiana.
      (4)   The time period or periods in which it is proposed to carry on
applicant's business.
      (5)   A statement showing the kind of business purposed to be conducted
and if for the purpose of transacting such business any permanent mobile
building, structure or real estate is to be used for the exhibition by means of
samples, catalogs, photographs and price lists or sales of goods, wares or
merchandise, the location of such proposed place of business.
      (6)   A detailed inventory and description of such goods, wares, and
merchandise to be offered for sale or sold, the manner in which the same is to
be advertised for sale and the representations to be made in connections
therewith, the names of the persons from whom the goods, wares, merchandise so
to be advertised or represented were obtained, the date of such receipt of such
goods, wares and merchandise by the applicant for the license, the place from
which the same were last taken and any and all details necessary to locate and
identify all goods, wares and merchandise to be sold.
      (7)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted
of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense and the
penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   The applicant shall attach to the application a receipt showing that
personal property taxes on the goods, wares, merchandise to be offered for sale
or sold have been paid.
   (C)   The applicant shall attach to the application a criminal history
report completed by the Delaware County Sheriff’s Department or any other
Sheriff’s Department for the applicant if the applicant is an individual, each
partner if the applicant is a partnership and each officer if the applicant is
a corporation or limited liability company.
(Am. Ord. 2004-6, passed 2-23-04; Am. Ord. 2010-7, passed 8-23-10) Penalty, see
§
10.99
§ 111.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, the Town Marshal or his or her
representatives shall review the applicant’s criminal history report.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless the review of the applicant’s
criminal history discloses tangible evidence that the conduct of the
applicant’s business would pose a substantial threat to the public health,
safety, morals, or general welfare. In particular, tangible evidence that the
applicant has done any of the following will constitute valid reasons for
disapproval of an application:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant or transient merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts.
   (C)   There shall be a seven-day waiting period from the date the completed
application is submitted to the Clerk and the date on which the decision to
approve or disapprove the application is made.
(Am. Ord. 2004-6, passed 2-23-04; Am. Ord. 2010-7, passed 8-23-10)
§ 111.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the Clerk
after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
111.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. The notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or her last known
address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 111.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony or conviction of the licensee
of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare
of the public.
§ 111.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
111.04 or
111.06 shall have the right to appeal to the Town Council. The appeal shall be
taken by filing with the Town Council, within 14 days after notice of the
decision has been mailed to such person’s last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The Town Council shall set the
time and place for a hearing, and notice for the hearing shall be given to the
person in the same manner as provided in §
111.05.
   (B)   The order of the Town Council after the hearing shall be final.
§ 111.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   Any license issued to a transient merchant under this chapter shall be kept
on file at the Albany Town Hall.
(Am. Ord. 2004-6, passed 2-23-04)
CHAPTER 112: CABLE REGULATIONS
Section
   
112.01   FCC rules and regulations adopted
   
112.02   Public hearing
   
112.03   Rate review period
   
112.04   Review of basic service tier and necessary equipment
   
112.05   Town Council’s decision
   
112.06   Confidentiality of information
   
112.07   Refunds
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 FCC RULES AND REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   (A)   The Town Council and Council members adopt the rules and regulations
set forth by the Federal Communications Commission pursuant to Section 623(b)
of the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992 (47 USC
543 (b)) for the review of the basic service tier of cable television services
and equipment necessary for the provision of the service tier.
   (B)   For the purposes of this chapter, the basic service tier of cable
television services shall mean a separately available service tier to which
subscription is required for access to any other tier of service, including as
a minimum, but not limited to, all signals of domestic television broadcast
stations provided to any subscriber, (except a signal secondarily transmitted
by satellite carrier beyond the local service area of the station, regardless
of how the signal is ultimately received by the cable system) any public,
educational, and governmental programming required by the franchise to be
carried on the basic tier, and any additional video programming signals or
service added to the basic tier by the cable operator. Equipment necessary to
provide the basic tier of service shall be defined as those items of associated
equipment necessary for the reception of basic cable service by a subscriber,
including, but not limited to converter boxes, remote control units, additional
outlets and installations.
(Ord. 1993-19, passed 11-8-93) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.02 PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   The town shall provide the grantee of the cable television franchise,
the public, and interested parties with an opportunity to be heard at a public
hearing before the Town Council, upon 14 days written notice to the grantee of
the cable television franchise of the time and place of the public hearing;
provided further, that the notice shall indicate that the purpose of the public
hearing is to receive the views of the grantee and interested parties on issues
pertaining to regulation of the basic service tier of cable television services
and equipment necessary to provide the basic tier of service; and provided
further, that notice of the public hearing shall be published in a local
newspaper of general circulation at least ten days before the date of this
hearing; and provided further, that an agenda for the public hearing shall be
posted in a public place at the Albany Municipal Office at least seven days
prior to the public hearing.
   (B)   Upon the adoption of this chapter and the certification of the town by
the Federal Communications Commission, the town shall immediately notify the
cable operator by certified mail, return receipt requested, that the town
intends to regulate subscriber rates charged for the basic service tier and
associated equipment as authorized by the Cable Television Consumer Protection
and Competition Act of 1992. Upon receipt of the notice by the town, the cable
operator shall, within 30 days, file with the town its current rates for the
basic service tier and associated equipment along with any additional
documentation justifying the reasonableness of its rates.
(Ord. 1993-19, passed 11-8-93)
§ 112.03 RATE REVIEW PERIOD.
   (A)   The town shall establish that the period for review of rates of the
basic service tier of cable television services and the equipment necessary to
provide the basic tier of service shall be 30 days from the submission by the
grantee of the cable television franchise of Federal Communications Commission
Form 393. If the Town Council takes no action within 30 days from the date the
cable operator files its basic cable rates with the town, the proposed rates
will continue in effect.
   (B)   In the event that additional time for review of the Federal
Communications Commission Form 393 submitted by grantee is necessary, the Town
Council or their designee shall issue a brief written order prior to the end of
the 30-day review period, with a copy of the order to be sent by certified
United States Mail to the grantee, providing for an additional 90-day period
for review of rates of the basic service tier and the equipment necessary to
provide the basic tier of service. During the extended review period and before
taking action on the proposed rate, the Town Council shall hold at least one
public hearing in which interested citizens may express their views and record
objections.
(Ord. 1993-19, passed 11-8-93)
§ 112.04 REVIEW OF BASIC SERVICE TIER AND NECESSARY EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The town shall establish that, after a cable operator has submitted
for review its existing rates for the basic service tier and associated
equipment costs, or a proposed increase in these rates (including increases in
the baseline channel change that results from reductions in the number of
channels in a tier), the existing rates will remain in effect or the proposed
rates will become effective after 30 days from the date of submission; provided
however, that the town may toll this 30-day deadline for an additional time by
issuing a brief written order as described in division (B) of this section
within 30 days of the rate submission explaining that it needs additional time
to review the rates.
   (B)   If the town is unable to determine, based upon the material submitted
by the cable operator, that the existing or proposed rates are within the
Commission’s permitted basic service tier charge or actual cost of equipment,
or if a cable operator has submitted a cost-of-service showing seeking to
justify a rate above the Commission’s basic service tier charge, the town may
toll the 30-day deadline in division (A) of this section to request and/or
consider the comments from interested parties as follows:
      (1)   For an additional 90 days in cases not involving cost-of-service
showings; or
      (2)   For an additional 150 days in cases involving cost-of-service
showings.
(Ord. 1993-19, passed 11-8-93; Am. Ord. 1995-9, passed 6-12-95)
§ 112.05 TOWN COUNCIL’S DECISION.
   (A)   Upon completion of its review of the proposed rates for the basic
service tier of cable television services and the equipment necessary to
provide the basic tier of service, the Town Council shall adopt its decision by
formal resolution. The resolution shall indicate the reasons for the decision.
Upon passage of the resolution, the Town Council shall publish the resolution
in pamphlet form.
   (B)   In the event that the cable operator’s proposed rates exceed the
reasonable rate standard as established by the Federal Communications
Commission in its rules and regulations attached hereto, the Town Council may
order the rates reduced by roll backs or refunds to subscribers in the manner
so prescribed by the Federal Communications Commission.
(Ord. 1993-19, passed 11-8-93)
§ 112.06 CONFIDENTIALITY OF INFORMATION.
   In considering information provided by the grantee as a part of review of
his or her rates for the basic service tier of cable television services and
the equipment necessary to provide the basic tier of service, the town shall
not disclose to the public the content of any records, forms, reports,
calculations, or other documents as provided which the grantee has indicated as
being of a proprietary interest or constituting a trade secret in nature. The
municipal officer responsible for administration of the Indiana Freedom of
Information Act shall retain the right to determine the validity of the
grantee’s claim of proprietary interest or trade secrecy in accordance with the
provisions of the Indiana Freedom of Information Act.
(Ord. 1993-19, passed 11-8-93)
§ 112.07 REFUNDS.
   The town may order the cable operator to refund to subscribers a portion of
previously paid rates under the following circumstances:
   (A)   A portion of the previously paid rates have been determined to lie in
excess of the permitted basic cable service tier charge or above the actual
cost of equipment; or
   (B)   The cable operator has failed to comply with a valid rate order issued
by the town.
(Ord. 1993-19, passed 11-8-93)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Failure by the cable operator to comply with the terms and conditions
established by this chapter shall constitute a violation of this chapter. The
penalty for the violations of this section are subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
(Ord. 1993-19, passed 11-8-93)
CHAPTER 113: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
General Provisions
   
113.01   Purpose and intent
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   Establishment and classification of business regulated
   
113.04   Measurement of distance
   
113.05   Exemptions
   
113.06   Immunity from prosecution
Permit
   
113.20   Permit required
   
113.21   Investigation and application
   
113.22   Issuance of permit
   
113.23   Annual permit fee
   
113.24   Inspection
   
113.25   Expiration of permit
   
113.26   Suspension of permit
   
113.27   Revocation of permit
   
113.28   Judicial review of permit denial, suspension or revocation
   
113.29   Transfer of permit
Regulations
   
113.40   Location of sexually oriented businesses
   
113.41   Existing sexually oriented businesses
   
113.42   Prohibitions regarding minors
   
113.43   Advertising regulations
   
113.44   Hours of operation
   
113.45   Nudity at sexually oriented business not offering for sale alcoholic
beverages subject to prohibition pursuant to U.S. Supreme Court decision
   
113.46   Additional criminal prohibitions for the operation of a sexually
oriented business without a valid permit
   
113.47   Prohibition of distribution of sexual devices
 
   
113.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is the purpose and intent of this chapter to regulate sexually oriented
businesses to promote the health, safety, morals, and general welfare of the
citizens of the town and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to
prevent any deleterious location and concentration of sexually oriented
businesses within the town, thereby reducing or eliminating the adverse
secondary effects from the sexually oriented businesses. The provisions of this
chapter have neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or
restriction on the content of any communicative materials, including sexually
oriented materials. Similarly, it is not the intent nor effect of this chapter
to restrict or deny access by adults to sexually oriented materials protected
by the First Amendment or to deny access by the distributors or exhibitors of
sexually oriented entertainment to their intended market. Neither is it the
intent or effect of the chapter to condone or legitimize the distribution of
obscene material.
(Ord. 1999-6, passed 5-24-99)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMPLOYEE. A person who works or performs in and/or for a sexually oriented
business, regardless of whether or not the person is paid a salary, wage, or
other compensation by the operator of the business.
   ESTABLISHMENT.  Any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any such business as a new business
after the adoption of this chapter;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, if not a sexually oriented
business, to any of the sexually oriented businesses defined in this chapter;
      (3)   The addition of the sexually oriented businesses defined in this
chapter to any existing sexually oriented business; or
      (4)   The relocation of any such sexually oriented business.
   NUDITY or STATE OF NUDITY.  This term means the following:
      (1)   The appearance of human bare buttock, anus, male genitals, female
genitals, or the areola or nipple of the female breast; or
      (2)   A state of dress which fails to opaquely and fully cover a human
buttocks, anus, male or female genitals, pubic region, areola, or nipple of the
female breast.
   OPERATOR.  The owner, permit holder, custodian, manager, operator, or person
in charge of any permitted or licensed premises.
   PERMITTED OR LICENSED PREMISES.  Any premises that requires a license and/or
permit and that is classified as a sexually oriented business.
   PERMITTEE and/or LICENSEE.  A person in whose name a permit and/or license
to operate a sexually oriented business has been issued, as well as the
individual listed as an applicant on the application for a permit and/or
license.
   PUBLIC BUILDING.  Any building owned, leased or held by the United States,
the state, the county, the town, any special district, school district, or any
other agency or political subdivision of the state or the United States, which
building is used for governmental purposes.
   PUBLIC PARK or RECREATION AREA.  Public land which has been designated for
park or recreational activities, including, but not limited to a park,
playground, nature trails, swimming pool, reservoir, athletic field, basketball
or tennis courts, pedestrian/bicycle paths, open space, wilderness areas, or
similar public land within the town which is under the control, operation, or
management of the town park and recreation authorities.
   RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION.  Any church, synagogue, mosque, temple, or building
which is used primarily for religious worship and related religious activities.
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT OR USE.  A single family duplex, townhouse, multiple
family, or mobile park or subdivision and campground.
   SCHOOL.  Any public or private educational facility, including, but not
limited to child day care facilities, nursery schools, preschools,
kindergartens, elementary schools, primary schools, intermediate schools,
junior high schools, middle schools, high schools, vocational schools,
secondary schools, continuation schools, special education schools, junior
colleges, and universities. SCHOOL includes the school grounds, but does not
include the facilities used primarily for another purpose and only incidentally
as a school.
   SEMI-NUDE.  A state of dress in which clothing covers no more than the
genitals, pubic region, and areola of the female breast, as well as portions of
the body covered by supporting straps or devices.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult novelty
shop, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture
theater, adult theater, massage parlor, sexual encounter establishment, escort
agency or semi-nude model studio.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.  Those businesses defined as follows:
      (1)   ADULT ARCADE. An establishment where, for any form of
consideration, one or more still or motion picture projectors, slide
projectors, or similar machines, or other image producing machines, for viewing
by five or fewer persons each, are regularly used to show films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions which
are characterized by the depiction or description of “specified sexual
activities” or “specified anatomical areas.”
      (2)   ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, or ADULT VIDEO STORE.  A
commercial establishment which has a significant or substantial portion of its
stock-in-trade or derives 25% or more of its revenues to sale, rental for any
form of consideration, or any one or more of the following:
         (a)   Books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other visual
representations which are characterized by the depiction or description of
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas.”
         (b)   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed for
use or marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of themselves or others.
         (c)   An establishment may have other principal business purposes that
do not involve the offering for sale, rental, or viewing of materials depicting
or describing “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas,”
and still be categorized
as ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, or ADULT VIDEO STORE. Such other
business purposes will not serve to exempt the establishments from being
categorized as an ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, or ADULT VIDEO STORE so
long as one of its principal business purposes is offering for sale or rental,
for some form of consideration, the specified materials which depict or
describe “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas.”
         (d)   Regardless of the percentage of revenues from adult materials
defined herein, any business which devotes any portion of its interior business
space or advertising, for any form of consideration or viewing of any of the
adult materials defined herein, shall be considered to be an ADULT BOOKSTORE,
ADULT NOVELTY STORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE as defined by and governed by this
chapter.
      (3)   ADULT CABARET.  A nightclub, bar, restaurant, bottle club, or
similar commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages are
served, which regularly features:
         (a)   Persons who appear semi-nude or in the state of semi-nudity;
         (b)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas” or by pictures,
video cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions which are
characterized by the depiction or description of “specified sexual activities”
or “specified anatomical areas.”
      (4)   ADULT MOTEL. A motel, hotel, or similar commercial establishment
which:
         (a)   Offers public accommodations, for any form of consideration,
which provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films,
motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions
which are characterized by the depiction or description of “specified sexual
activities” or “specified anatomical area” and which advertises the
availability of this sexually oriented type of material by means of a sign
visible from the public right-of-way, or by means of any off premises
advertising, including, but not limited to, newspapers, magazines, pamphlets or
leaflets, radio or television;
         (b)   Offers of a sleeping room for rent for a period of time less
than ten hours; or
         (c)   Allows a tenant or occupant to sub- rent the sleeping room for a
time period of less than ten hours.
      (5)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar photographic
reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or description of
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas” are regularly
shown for any form of consideration.
      (6)   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar
commercial establishment which, for any form of consideration, regularly
features persons who appear in a state of semi-nudity or live performances
which are characterized by exposure of “specified anatomical areas” or by
“specified sexual activities.”
      (7)   ESCORT.  A person who, for any form of consideration, agrees or
offers to act as a companion, guide, or date for another person, or who agrees
or offers to privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for
another person.
      (8)   ESCORT AGENCY.  A person or business association who furnishes,
offers to furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary
business purposes for a fee, tip, or other consideration.
      (9)   MASSAGE PARLOR.  Any place where, for any form of consideration or
gratuity, massage, alcohol rub, administration of fomentation, electric or
magnetic treatments, or any other treatment manipulation of the human body
which occurs as a part of or in connection with “specified sexual activities”
or where any person providing such treatment, manipulation, or service related
thereto, exposes his or her “specified anatomical areas.” The definition of
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES shall not include the practice of massage in any
licensed hospital, nor by a licensed hospital, nor by a licensed physician,
surgeon, chiropractor, osteopath, or certified massage therapist, nor by
trainers for any amateur, semiprofessional, or professional athlete, or
athletic team or school athletic program.
      (10)   SEMI-NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person who regularly
appears in a state of semi-nudity is provided for money or any form of
consideration to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured,
photographed, or similarly depicted by other persons.
      (11)   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER ESTABLISHMENT.  A business or commercial
establishment that as one of its primary business purposes, offers for any form
of consideration, a place where two or more persons may congregate, associate,
or consort for the purposes of “specified sexual activities” when one or more
of the persons is semi-nude. The definition of sexually oriented businesses
shall not include any establishment where a medical practitioner, psychologist,
psychiatrist, or similar professional person licensed by the state engages in
medically approved and recognized sexual therapy.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. As used in this chapter, means and includes any
of the following:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus, or female breast below a point immediately above the
top of the areola; or
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernible turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.  As used in this chapter, means and includes
any of the following:
      (1)   The fondling or other intentional touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttock, anus, or female breasts;
      (2)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, or sodomy;
      (3)   Masturbation, actual or simulated; or
      (4)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal, or
tumescence;
      (5)   Excretory functions as a part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in subdivisions (1) through (4) of this subsection.
   SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.  Increase in the
floor areas occupied by the business by more than 150, as the floor areas exist
on May 10, 1999.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Any of the
following:
      (1)   The sale, lease, or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means;
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal device
which transfers ownership or control of the business, except for transfer by
bequest or other operation of law upon the death of a person possessing the
ownership or control.
(Ord. 1999-6, passed 5-24-99)
§ 113.03 ESTABLISHMENT AND CLASSIFICATION OF BUSINESS REGULATED.
   (A)   The establishment of a sexually oriented business shall be permitted
only in the appropriately designated zoning category and shall be subject to
the following restrictions.
   (B)   No person shall cause or permit the establishment of any of the
following sexually oriented business, as defined in §
113.02, within 1,000 feet of another such business or within 1,000 feet of any
religious institution, school, boys club, girls club, or similar existing youth
organization, public park or public building, or within 1,000 feet of any
property zoned for residential use or used for residential purposes and are
classifies as follows:
      (1)   Adult arcade;
      (2)   Adult bookstore, adult novelty store, or adult video store;
      (3)   Adult cabaret;
      (4)   Adult motel;
      (5)   Adult motion picture theater;
      (6)   Adult theater;
      (7)   Massage parlor;
      (8)   Sexual encounter establishment;
      (9)   Escort agency; or
      (10)   Nude model studio.
(Ord. 1999-6, passed 5-24-99)
§ 113.04 MEASUREMENT OF DISTANCE.
   As regarding §
113.03, distance between any two sexually oriented businesses shall be measured
in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures, from the closest
exterior structural wall of each business. The distance between any sexually
oriented business and any religious institution, public or private elementary
or secondary school, boys club, girls club, or similar existing youth
organization, public park or public building, or any properties zoned for
residential use or used for residential purposes shall also be measured in a
straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects from the
nearest portion of the building or structure used as a part of the premises
where the sexually oriented business is conducted, to the nearest property line
of the premises of the religious institution, public or private elementary or
secondary school, boys club, girls club, or similar existing youth
organization, public park or public building, or any properties zoned for
residential use or use for residential purposes.
(Ord. 1999-6, passed 5-24-99)
§ 113.05 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   It is a defense to prosecution for any violation of this chapter that
a person appearing in a state of nudity did so in a modeling class operated;
      (1)   By a college, junior college, or university supported entirely or
partly by taxation;
      (2)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
      (3)   In a structure:
         (a)   Which has a sign visible from the exterior of the structure and
no other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing;
         (b)   To participate in a class a student must enroll at least three
days in advance of the class; and
         (c)   Where no more than one nude model is on the premises at any one
time.
   (B)   It is a defense to prosecution for a violation of this chapter that an
employee of a sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or not it is
permitted under this chapter, exposed any specified anatomical area during the
employee’s bona fide use of a restroom or during the employee’s bona fide use
of a dressing room which is accessible only to employees.
   (C)   Schools and libraries are exempt from the regulations of this chapter.
   (D)   This chapter is not applicable to any community theater that shows
films rated G, PG, or R by the motion picture industry and where no more than
5% of its revenues are derived from films not covered by these ratings.
   (E)   It is defense to this chapter that a sexually oriented business is
lawfully in operation prior to the date of enactment of this chapter.
(Ord. 1999-6, passed 5-24-99)
§ 113.06 IMMUNITY FROM PROSECUTION.
   The town and its designee, the Albany Police Department, all other
departments and agencies, and all other town officers, agents, and employees
charged with enforcement of state and local laws and codes shall be immune from
prosecution, civil or criminal, for reasonable good faith trespass upon a
sexually oriented business while acting within the scope of authority conferred
by this chapter.
(Ord. 1999-6, passed 5-24-99)
PERMIT
§ 113.20 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No sexually oriented business not already established at the time of
enactment of this chapter shall be permitted to operate without a valid
sexually oriented business permit issued by the town for the particular type of
business. It shall be unlawful and a person commits an infraction if he or she
operates or causes to be operated a nonexempt sexually oriented business
without the permit.
   (B)   (1)   The Town Council President or his or her designee is responsible
for granting, denying, revoking, renewing, suspending, and canceling sexually
oriented business permits for proposed or existing sexually oriented
businesses. The Town Council President or his or her designee is also
responsible for ascertaining whether a proposed sexually oriented business for
which a permit is being applied for complies with all location requirements of
§§
113.03,
113.40, and
113.41, all applicable zoning laws and/or regulations now in effect or as
amended or enacted subsequent to the effective date of this chapter in the
town, and the town Comprehensive Plan.
      (2)   The Albany Police Department is responsible for providing
information on whether an applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal
act during the time period set forth.
      (3)   The town’s Code Enforcement Office is responsible for inspecting a
proposed, permitted or non-permitted sexually oriented business in order to
ascertain whether it is in compliance with applicable statutes and ordinances.
   (C)   An application for a permit must be made on a form provided by the
town. Any person desiring to operate a sexually oriented business shall file
with the town an original and two copies of a sworn permit application on the
standard application form supplied by the town or designee.
   (D)   The completed application shall contain the following information and
shall be accompanied by the following documents:
      (1)   If the applicant is:
         (a)   An individual, the individual shall state his or her legal name
and any aliases and submit satisfactory proof that he or she is 18 years of
age;
         (b)   A partnership, the partnership shall state its complete name,
the names of all partners, whether the partnership is general or limited, and a
copy of the partnership agreement, if any;
         (c)   A corporation, the corporation shall state its complete name,
the date of its incorporation, evidence that the corporation is in good
standing under the laws of Indiana, the names and addresses of all officers,
directors, and principal stockholders, and the name of the registered corporate
agent and the address of the registered office for service of process.
      (2)   If the applicant intends to operate the sexually oriented business
under a name other than that of the applicant, he or she must state:
         (a)   The sexually oriented business’s fictitious name; and
         (b)   Submit the required Indiana registration documents.
      (3)   Whether the applicant or any of the other individuals listed
pursuant to §
113.21 has, within the two- or five-year period as specified in §
113.22 immediately preceding the date of the application, been convicted of a
specified criminal act, and if so, the specified criminal act involved, the
date of conviction, and the place of conviction.
      (4)   Whether the applicant or any of the other individuals pursuant to §
113.21 and/or licenses of this chapter has had a previous permit under this
chapter or other similar sexually oriented business ordinances from another
town or county denied, suspended, or revoked, including the same and location
oriented business for which the permit was denied, suspended, or revoked, as
well as the date of the denial, suspension, or revocation, and whether the
applicant or any other individuals listed pursuant to §
113.21 has been a partner in a partnership or an officer, director, or
principal stockholder of a corporation that is permitted under this chapter
whose permit has previously been denied, suspended, or revoked, including the
name and location of the sexually oriented business for which the permit was
denied, suspended, or revoked as well as the date of denial, suspension, or
revocation.
      (5)   Whether the applicant or any other individual listed pursuant to §
113.21 holds any other permits and/or licenses under this chapter or other
similar sexually oriented business ordinances from another town or county and,
if so, the names and locations of such other permitted businesses.
      (6)   The single classification permit for which the applicant is filing.
      (7)   The location of the proposed sexually oriented business, including
a legal description of the property, street address, and telephone number(s),
if any.
      (8)   The applicant’s mailing addresses and residential address.
      (9)   A recent photograph of the applicant(s).
      (10)   The applicant’s driver’s permit number, social security number,
and/or his or her state or federally issued tax identification number.
      (11)   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared, but it must be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches.
      (12)   A current certificate and straight-line drawing prepared within 30
days prior to application by an Indiana registered land surveyor depicting the
property lines and the structures containing any established existing uses
regulated by this chapter within 1,000 feet of the property to be certified;
the property lines of any established religious institution/ synagogue, school,
or public park or recreation area within 1,000 feet of the property to be
certified; and the property lines of any residentially zoned area or
residential property within 1,000 feet of the property to be certified. For
purposes of this section, a use shall be considered existing or established if
it is in existence at the time an application is submitted.
      (13)   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is
an individual, he or she must sign the application for a permit as applicant.
If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is other than an
individual, each individual who has a 10% or greater interest in the business
must sign the application for a permit as applicant. If a corporation is listed
as owner of a sexually oriented business or as the entity which wishes to
operate such a business, each individual having a 10% or greater interest in
the corporation must sign the application for a permit as applicant.
      (14)   If a person wishes to operate a sexually oriented business which
shall exhibit on the premises films, video cassettes, or other video
reproductions which depict specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas, then the person shall comply with the application requirements stated in
this chapter.
   (E)   Applicants for a permit under this section shall have a continuing
duty to promptly supplement application information required by this section in
the event that the information changes in any way from what is stated on the
application. The failure to comply with the continuing duty within 30 days from
the date of the change, by supplementing the application on file with the
Council President or his or her designee, shall be grounds for suspension of a
permit.
   (F)   In the event that the Town Council President or his or her designee
determines or learns at any time that the applicant has improperly completed
the application for a proposed sexually oriented business, he or she shall
promptly notify the applicant of such fact and allow the applicant ten days to
properly complete the application. (The time period for granting or denying a
permit shall be stayed during the period in which the applicant is allowed an
opportunity to properly complete the application.)
   (G)   The applicant must be qualified according to the provisions of this
chapter and the premises must be inspected and found to be in compliance with
health, fire, and building codes and laws.
   (H)   The applicant shall be required to pay a non- refundable application
fee of $100 at the time of filing an application under this section of this
chapter.
   (I)   Prior to obtaining any permit or license to operate any sexually
oriented business defined in this chapter, and as part of any application for a
permit under this section, the applicant shall obtain from the town or its
designee a certification that the proposed location of the business complies
with the locational requirements of §§
113.40 and
113.41 of this chapter.
   (J)   The fact that a person possesses other types of state or town permits
and/or licenses does not exempt him or her from the requirement of obtaining a
sexually oriented business permit.
   (K)   By applying for a permit under this chapter, the applicant shall be
deemed to have consented to the provisions of this chapter and to the exercise
by the Town Council President or his or her designee, the Albany Police
Department, and all other town agencies charged with enforcing the laws,
ordinances, and codes applicable in the town of their respective
responsibilities under this chapter.
   (L)   The applicant shall be required to provide the town with the names of
any and all employees who are required to be licensed under Indiana law
pursuant to §
113.43. The applicant also agrees to allow a representative of the town to
conduct an inspection of the names, ages, and dates of birth of all employees
who are working at any reasonable time while the establishment is open. This
shall be a continuing requirement even after a permit is granted or renewed.
(Ord. 1999-6, passed 5-24-99) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.21 INVESTIGATION AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application properly filed with the town and upon
payment of the nonrefundable application fee, the town or its designee shall
immediately stamp the application as received and shall immediately thereafter
send photocopies of the application to the Albany Police Department and any
other town agencies responsible for enforcement of health, fire, and building
codes and laws. Each department or agency shall promptly conduct an
investigation of the applicant, application, and the proposed sexually oriented
business in accordance with its responsibilities under law and as set forth in
this chapter. The investigation shall be completed within 20 days of receipt of
the application by the town or its designee. At the conclusion of its
investigation, each department or agency shall indicate on the photocopy of the
application its approval or disapproval of the application, date it, sign it,
and in the event it disapproves, state the reasons therefore. The Albany Police
Department shall only be required to certify the NCIC records request check
mentioned at §
113.23. The Albany Police Department shall not be required to approve or
disapprove applications.
   (B)   A department or agency shall disapprove an application if it finds
that the proposed sexually oriented business will be in violation of any
provision of any statute, code, ordinance, regulation, or other law in effect
in the town. After its indication of approval or disapproval, each department
or agency shall immediately return the photocopy of the application to the town
or its designee.
(Ord. 1999-6, passed 5-24-99)
§ 113.22 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Council’s decision to grant or deny application. The Town Council
President, or his or her designee, shall grant or deny an application for a
permit within 30 days from the date of its proper filing. Upon the expiration
of the thirtieth day, unless the applicant requests and is granted a reasonable
extension of time, the applicant shall be permitted to begin operating the
business for which the permit is sought, unless and until the town or its
designee notifies the applicant of a denial of the application and states the
reason(s) for the denial.
   (B)   Grant of application for permit.
      (1)   The Town Council President, or his or her designee, shall grant the
application unless one or more of the criteria set forth in division (C) of
this section is present.
      (2)   The permit, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the
person or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date, and the address
of the sexually oriented business. The permit shall also indicate that the
sexually oriented business, whether permitted or not, may be subject to
indecency pursuant to the United States Supreme Court decision in Barnes v.
Glen Theatre, Inc. 501 U.S., 111 S. Ct. 2456 (June 21, 1991). The permit shall
be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the entrance to the sexually
oriented business so that it can be read easily at any time.
   (C)   Denial of application for permit.
      (1)   The Town Council President, or his or her designee, shall deny the
application for any of the following reasons:
         (a)   An applicant is under 18 years of age;
         (b)   An applicant or an applicant’s spouse is overdue on his or her
payment to the town of taxes, fees, fines, or penalties assessed against him or
her or imposed upon him or her in relation to a sexually oriented business;
         (c)   An applicant is residing with a person who has been denied a
permit by the town to operate a sexually oriented business within the preceding
12 months, or residing with a person whose permit to operate a sexually
oriented business has been revoked within the preceding 12 months;
         (d)   An applicant has failed to provide information required by this
section or permit application for the issuance of the permit or has knowingly
falsely answered a question or request for information on the application form;
         (e)   The premises to be used for the sexually oriented business has
not been approved as being in compliance with health, fire, and building codes
by the department or agency responsible under law for investigating the
compliance;
         (f)   The application or permit fees required by this chapter have not
been paid;
         (g)   An applicant of the proposed business is in violation of, or is
not in compliance with, any of the provisions of this chapter, including, but
not limited to the zoning locational requirements for a sexually oriented
business under §§
113.03,
113.40, and
113.41;
         (h)   The granting of the application would violate a statute,
ordinance, or court order;
         (i)   The applicant has a permit under this chapter which has been
suspended or revoked;
         (j)   An applicant has been convicted of a “specified criminal act”
for which:
            1.   Less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement, whichever is the later date, if the
conviction is of an infraction offence for the “specified criminal acts” which
are sexual crimes against children, sexual abuse, rape, or crimes connected
with another sexually oriented business, including, but not limited to
distribution of obscenity or material harmful to minors, prostitution,
pandering, or tax violations;
            2.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement, whichever is the later date, if the
conviction is of a felony offence; for the “specified criminal acts” which are
sexual crimes against children, sexual abuse, rape, or crimes connected with
another sexually oriented business, including, but not limited to distribution
of obscenity or material harmful to minors, prostitution, pandering, or tax
violations;
            3.   Less than five years elapsed since the date of conviction or
the date, if the convictions are of two or more misdemeanor offenses for
“specified criminal acts” which are sexual crimes against children, sexual
abuse, rape, or crimes connected with another sexually oriented business,
including, but not limited to distribution of obscenity or materials harmful to
minors, prostitution, pandering or tax violations, offenses occurring within
any 24- month period;
            4.   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no
effect on the disqualification of the applicant;
            5.   An applicant who has been convicted by above described
“specified criminal acts” may qualify for a sexually oriented business permit
only when the time period required in subsection (j) has elapsed.
         (k)   An applicant knowingly has in his or her employ an employee who
does not have a valid license as required by this chapter.
      (2)   If the Town Council President, or his or her designee, denies the
application, he or she shall notify the applicant of the denial and state the
reason(s) for the denial. The denied applicant shall have an opportunity for
appeal of the Council President or his or her designee’s decision as set forth
on §
113.29.
      (3)   If a person applies for a permit for a particular location within a
period of 12 months from the date of denial of a previous application for a
permit at the location, and there has not been an intervening change in the
circumstances which could reasonably be expected to lead to a different
decision regarding the former reasons for denial, the application shall be
denied.
(Ord. 1999-6, passed 5-24-99)
§ 113.23 ANNUAL PERMIT FEE.
   The annual fee for a sexually oriented business permit is $1,000.
(Ord. 1999-6, passed 5-24-99)
§ 113.24 INSPECTION.
   (A)   An applicant or permittee shall permit representatives of the Code
Enforcement Office, the County Health Department, and the Fire Department to
inspect the premises of a sexually oriented business for the purpose of
insuring compliance with the law at any time it is occupied or open for
business.
   (B)   A person who operates a sexually oriented business, regardless of
whether or not a permit has been issued for the business under this chapter, or
his or her agent or employee, commits an infraction if he or she refuses to
permit the lawful inspection of the premises at any time that it is occupied or
open for business.
(Ord. 1999-6, passed 5-24-99) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.25 EXPIRATION OF PERMIT.
   Each permit shall expire one year from the date of issuance and may be
renewed only by making application as provided in §
113.22 (for renewals, filing of the original survey (if applicable) shall be
sufficient) of this chapter. Application for renewal shall be made at least 30
days before the expiration date, and when made less than 30 days before the
expiration date, the expiration of the permit will not be affected.
(Ord. 1999-6, passed 5-24-99)
§ 113.26 SUSPENSION OF PERMIT.
   The Town Council President, or his or her designee, shall suspend a permit
for a period not to exceed 30 days if he or she determines that a permittee, or
his or her designee or employee, has:
   (A)   Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this chapter;
   (B)   Been charged with or convicted of being under the influence of
alcoholic beverages while working in the sexually oriented business premises;
   (C)   Refused to allow an inspection of sexually oriented business premises
as authorized by this chapter;
   (D)   Knowingly permitted gambling by any person on the sexually oriented
business premises;
   (E)   Operated the sexually oriented business in violation of a building,
fire, health, or zoning statute, code, ordinance, or regulation, whether
federal, state, or local, the determination being based on investigation by the
division, department, or agency charged with enforcing the rules or laws. In
the event of the statute, code, ordinance, or regulation violation, the town or
its designee shall promptly notify the permittee of the violation and shall
allow the permittee a seven-day period in which to correct the violation. If
the permittee fails to correct the violation before the expiration of the
seven-day period, the town or its designee shall forthwith suspend the permit
and shall notify the permittee of the suspension;
   (F)   Engaged in permit transfer contrary to §
113.42. In the event that the town or its designee suspends a permit on the
ground that the permittee engaged in a permit transfer contrary to §
113.42, the Council President or his or her designee shall forthwith notify the
permittee of the suspension. The suspension shall remain in effect until the
applicable section of this chapter has been satisfied;
   (G)   Operated the sexually oriented business in violation of the hours
stipulated by Indiana law which pertain to the sale or consumption of alcoholic
beverages. The suspension shall remain in effect until the violation of the
statute, code, ordinance, or regulation in question has been corrected;
   (H)   Knowingly employees a person who does not have a valid license as
required in §
113.43.
(Ord. 1999-6, passed 5-24-99)
§ 113.27 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The Town Council President, or his or her designee, shall revoke a
permit if a cause of suspension in §
113.27 occurs and the permit has been suspended for any reason within the
preceding 12 months.
   (B)   The Town Council President, or his or her designee, shall revoke a
permit upon determining that:
      (1)   A permittee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process which was intended to enhance the
applicant’s opportunity for obtaining a permit;
      (2)   A permittee or employee has knowingly allowed possession, use, or
sale of controlled substances in or on the premises;
      (3)   A permittee or an employee has knowingly allowed prostitution on
the premises;
      (4)   A permittee or an employee knowingly operated the sexually oriented
business during a period of time when the permittee’s permit was suspended;
      (5)   A permittee has been convicted of a “specified criminal act” for
which the time period required in §
113.22 has not elapsed;
      (6)   On two or more occasions within a 12- month period a person or
persons committed an offense, occurring in or on the permitted premises,
constituting a specified criminal act for which a conviction has been obtained,
and the person or persons were employees of the sexually oriented business at
the time the offenses were committed. The fact that a conviction is being
appealed shall have no effect on the revocation of the permit;
      (7)   A permittee is convicted of tax violations for any taxes or fees
related to a sexually oriented business;
      (8)   A permittee or an employee has knowingly allowed any act of sexual
intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation, or any other specified
sexual activities to occur in or on the permitted premises;
      (9)   A permittee has been operating more than one sexually oriented
business under a single roof, without proper permit, within the territorial or
zoning jurisdiction of the town.
   (C)   When the Town Council President, or his or her designee, revokes a
permit, the revocation shall continue for one year and the permittee shall not
be issued a sexually oriented business permit for one year from the date
revocation became effective. If, subsequent to revocation, the Council
President , or his or her designee, finds that the basis for revocation under §
113.28 has been corrected, the applicant shall be granted a permit if at least
90 days have elapsed since the date revocation became effective. If the permit
was revoked under §
113.28, an applicant may not be granted another permit until the number of
years required under §
113.28 have elapsed.
(Ord. 1999-6, passed 5-24-99)
§ 113.28 JUDICIAL REVIEW OF PERMIT DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   After denial of an application, denial of a renewal of an application, or
suspension or revocation of a permit, the applicant or permittee may seek
prompt review of such administrative action through the Town Council or special
town Review Board if one is established by the town. If the denial, suspension,
or revocation is affirmed upon review, the administrative action shall be
promptly reviewed by a court having jurisdiction over the parties.
(Ord. 1999-6, passed 5-24-99)
§ 113.29 TRANSFER OF PERMIT.
   (A)   A permittee shall not operate a sexually oriented business under the
authority of a permit at any place other than the address designated in the
application for permit.
   (B)   A permittee shall not transfer his or her permit to another person
unless and until the other person satisfies the following requirements:
      (1)   Obtains an amendment to the permit from the Town Council President,
or his or her designee, which provides he or she is now the permittee, which
amendment may be obtained only if he or she has completed and properly filed an
application with the Town Council President or his or her designee, setting
forth the information called for under §
113.22 in the application; and
      (2)   Pays the transfer fee of 20% of the annual permit fee set by this
chapter.
   (C)   No permit may be transferred when the Council President, or his or her
designee, has notified the permittee that suspension or revocation proceedings
have been or will be brought against the permittee.
   (D)   A permittee shall not transfer his or her permit to another location.
   (E)   Any attempt to transfer a permit either directly or indirectly in
violation of this section is declared void, and the permit shall be deemed
revoked.
(Ord. 1999-6, passed 5-24-99)
REGULATIONS
§ 113.40 LOCATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   The town’s zoning ordinance shall designate those areas in which
sexually oriented businesses are permitted and this chapter shall govern their
location and land use.
   (B)   In addition, any sexually oriented business not already in operation
at the time of adoption of this chapter shall be subject to the following
restrictions:
      (1)   The person commits an infraction if he or she operates or causes to
be operated a sexually oriented business, except as provided by this chapter.
      (2)   The person commits an infraction if he or she operates or causes to
be operated a sexually oriented business within 1,000 feet of:
         (a)   Any religious institution;
         (b)   Any school;
         (c)   The boundary of any residential district;
         (d)   A public park adjacent to any residential district;
         (e)   A property line of a lot devoted to residential use; or
         (f)   A boys club, girls club, or similar existing youth organization.
      (3)   A person commits an infraction if he or she operates or causes to
be operated a sexually oriented business within 1,000 feet of another such
business, which will include, any adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult video
store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture theater, adult theater,
massage parlor or any sexual encounter establishment.
      (4)   A person commits an infraction if he or she causes or permits the
operation, establishment, or maintenance of more than one sexually oriented
business within the same building, structure, or portion thereof, or causes the
substantial enlargement of any sexually oriented business in any building,
structure, or portion thereof containing another sexually oriented business.
      (5)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section if the person
appearing in a state of nudity did so a modeling class operated:
         (a)   By a proprietary school, licensed by the State of Indiana; a
college, junior college, or university supported entirely or partly by
taxation.
         (b)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credit are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
         (c)   Or in a structure;
            1.   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure
and no other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing;
            2.   Where, in order to participate in a class a student must
enroll at least three days in advance of the class; and
            3.   Where no more than one nude model is on the premises at any
one time.
(Ord. 1999-6, passed 5-24-99) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.41 EXISTING SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   A sexually oriented business already in operation at the time of
adoption of this chapter is exempt from this chapter and must comply only with
those laws established in the state for the ownership and operation of sexually
oriented businesses, establishments which serve alcoholic beverages, or any
other law of general application. If a sexually oriented business already in
operation at the time of adoption of this chapter should ever change locations,
or add to its present location so as to change the facade or frontage of the
building from which it operated at the time of adoption of this chapter, or to
increase the size of the building it currently inhabits, it will be subject to
the ordinance upon the opening of its new location and will be required to
submit to the permit process as would any other sexually oriented business.
   (B)   A sexually oriented business lawfully operating as a conforming use is
not rendered a nonconforming use by the location, subsequent to the grant or
renewal of a sexually oriented business permit and/or license, of a church,
public or private elementary or secondary school, public park, public building,
residential district, or residential lot within 1,000 feet of the sexually
oriented business. This provision applies only to the renewal of a valid permit
and/or license and does not apply when an application for a permit and/or
license is submitted after a permit and/or license has expired or has been
revoked.
   (C)   Any establishment subject to the provision of this section shall apply
for the permit provided for by §
113.22 within 30 days of the effective date of this chapter.
   (D)   Upon the adoption of this chapter, the following establishment shall
be the only exemption from the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1999-6, passed 5-24-99)
§ 113.42 PROHIBITIONS REGARDING MINORS.
   A person commits an infraction if he or she operates or causes to be
operated a sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or not a permit
has been issued for the business under this chapter and knowingly or with
reasonable cause to know, permit, suffer, or allow:
   (A)   Admittance of a person under 18 years of age to the business premises
unless accompanied by a parent or guardian;
   (B)   A person under 18 years of age to remain at the business premises
unless accompanied by a parent or guardian;
   (C)   A person under 18 years of age to purchase goods or services at the
business premises without the specific consent of a parent or guardian; or
   (D)   A person who is under 18 years of age to work at the business premises
as an employee.
(Ord. 1999-6, passed 5-24-99) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.43 ADVERTISING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and a person commits an infraction if he or she
operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business, regardless of
whether or not a permit has been issued for the business under this chapter and
advertises the presentation of any activity prohibited by any applicable state
statute or local ordinance.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful and a person commits an infraction if he or she
operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business, regardless of
whether or not a permit has been issued for the business under this chapter,
and displays or otherwise exhibits the materials and/or performances at the
sexually oriented business in any advertising which is visible outside the
premises. This prohibition shall not extend to advertising of the existence or
location of the sexually oriented business.
   (C)   The permittee shall not allow any portion of the interior premises
germane to adult entertainment to be visible from outside the premises.
   (D)   All off-street parking areas and premises entries of the sexually
oriented business shall be illuminated from dusk to closing hours of operation
with a lighting system which provides an average maintained horizontal
illumination of one foot candle of light on the parking surface and/or
walkways. This required lighting level is established in order to provide
sufficient illumination of the parking areas and walkways serving the sexually
oriented business for the personal safety of patrons and employees and to
reduce the incidence of vandalism and criminal conduct. The lighting shall be
shown on the required sketch or diagram of the premises.
   (E)   Nothing contained in this section shall relieve the operator(s) of a
sexually oriented business from complying with the requirements of this
chapter, as it may be amended from time to time, or any subsequently enacted
town ordinance or regulations.
(Ord. 1999-6, passed 5-24-99) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.44 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and a person commits an infraction if he or she
operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business, regardless of
whether or not a permit has been issued for the business under this chapter,
and allows the business to remain open for business, or to permit any employee
to engage in a performance, solicit a performance, make a sale, solicit a sale,
provide a service, or solicit a service, between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 9:
00 a.m. of any particular day.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful and a person commits an infraction if, working as
an employee of a sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or not a
permit has been issued for the business under this chapter, the employee
engages in a performance, solicits a performance, makes a sale, solicits a
sale, provides a service, or solicits a service, except during lawful hours of
operation as provided by the Indiana Alcoholic Beverage Commission.
(Ord. 1999-6, passed 5-24-99) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.45 NUDITY AT SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS NOT OFFERING FOR SALE ALCOHOLIC
BEVERAGES SUBJECT TO PROHIBITION PURSUANT TO U.S. SUPREME COURT DECISION.
   (A)   The United States Supreme Court decision in Barnes v. Glen Theatre,
Inc., 501 U.S., 111 S. Ct. 2456, (June 21, 1991) which upheld the rights of
cities to prohibit live public exposure of a person(s) private parts,
specifically applies to sexually oriented businesses (regardless of whether or
not a permit has been issued to the businesses under this chapter),including
the businesses where no alcoholic beverages are sold, served, or consumed at
the premises.
   (B)   Public nudity is prohibited within the town, including any sexually
oriented business. Any sexually oriented business which is found in violation
of this section shall have its permit suspended pursuant to the provisions of §
113.27.
(Ord. 1999-6, passed 5-24-99) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.46 ADDITIONAL CRIMINAL PROHIBITIONS FOR THE OPERATION OF A SEXUALLY
ORIENTED BUSINESS WITHOUT A VALID PERMIT.
   (A)   In addition to the criminal provisions found at other sections of this
chapter, the following additional criminal provisions shall also apply to
sexually oriented businesses.
   (B)   If a sexually oriented business is subject to this chapter, it shall
be unlawful and a person commits an infraction if he or she operates or causes
to be operated a sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or not a
permit has been issued for the business under this chapter, and the person
knows or should know that:
      (1)   The business does not have a sexually oriented business permit
under this chapter for any applicable classification;
      (2)   The business has a permit which is under suspension;
      (3)   The business has a permit which has been revoked; or
      (4)   The business has a permit which has expired.
(Ord. 1999-6, passed 5-24-99) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.47 PROHIBITION OF DISTRIBUTION OF SEXUAL DEVICES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for anyone to distribute, for commercial purposes,
sell, or offer for sale any device, instrument, or paraphernalia designated or
marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of themselves or others.
   (B)   The devices, instruments, or paraphernalia include, but are not
limited to: phallic shaped vibrators, dildos, muzzles, whips, chains, leather
restraints, racks, non-medical enema kits, body piercing implements (excluding
earrings or other decorative jewelry) or other tools of sadomasochistic abuse.
   (C)   A violation of this section is an infraction punishable by a fine of
up to $1,000 for each day that the violator is found to be in violation.
(Ord. 1999-6, passed 5-24-99)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business subject to this chapter, without having a valid permit due to location
restrictions, is subject to a suit for injunction as well as prosecution for
the criminal violation. The violation shall be punishable by a fine of $1,000
and/or 30-day imprisonment, and if any injunction must be sought, attorneys
fees and costs will be assessed at the discretion of the court against the
sexually oriented business.
   (B)   (1)   In addition to whatever penalties are applicable under the State
of Indiana Penal Code, if any person fails or refuses to obey or comply with or
violates any of the provisions of this chapter, the person, upon conviction of
the offense, shall be guilty of an infraction and shall be punished by a fine
not to exceed $2,000 in the discretion of the court. Each violation or
noncompliance shall be considered a separate and distinct offense. Further,
each day of continued violation or noncompliance shall be considered as a
separate offense.
      (2)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent or restrict the town from
taking such other lawful action in any court of competent jurisdiction as is
necessary to prevent or remedy any violation or noncompliance. The other lawful
actions shall include, but shall not be limited to, an equitable action for
injunctive relief or an action at law for damages.
      (3)   All remedies and penalties provided for in this section shall be
cumulative and independently available to the town, and the town shall be
authorized to pursue any and all remedies set forth in this section to the full
extent allowed by law.
(Ord. 1999-6, passed 5-24-99)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   WEAPONS
      
132.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Curfew for Minors
   
130.01   Curfew hours
   
130.02   Exceptions
 
   
130.99   Penalty
CURFEW FOR MINORS
§ 130.01 CURFEW HOURS.
   (A)   It is a curfew violation for a child 15, 16 or 17 years of age to be
in a public place:
      (1)   After 12:00 midnight Friday or Saturday or before 5:00 a.m. on
Saturday or Sunday;
      (2)   After 10:00 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday;
or
      (3)   Before 5:00 a.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or
Friday.
   (B)   It is a curfew violation for a child under 15 years of age to be in a
public place after 10:00 p.m. or before 5:00 a.m. on any day.
(Ord. 2000-11, passed 7-24-00)
§ 130.02 EXCEPTIONS.
   Section 130.05 of this subchapter does not apply to a child who is:
   (A)   Accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or custodian;
   (B)   Accompanied by an adult specified by his or her parent, guardian or
custodian;
   (C)   Participating in, going to or returning from:
      (1)   Lawful employment;
      (2)   A school-sanctioned activity;
      (3)   A religious event;
      (4)   An organized sporting event; or
   (D)   Participating in, going to or returning from any activity in which the
child is engaging in exercise of First Amendment rights protected by the United
States Constitution, such as free exercise of religion, freedom of speech,
freedom of assembly or freedom of association.
(Ord. 2000-11, passed 7-24-00)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of this chapter for which a specific penalty is not
provided shall be subject to the provision of §
10.99.
   (B)   A parent, guardian or custodian whose child violates the curfew
provisions set forth in §§
130.01 and
130.02 shall be fined:
      (1)   Not less than $50 nor more than $100 plus court costs for that
child’s first violation of this provision;
      (2)   Not less than $100 nor more than $200 plus court costs for that
child’s second violation of this provision; and
      (3)   Not less than $200 nor more than $1,000 plus court costs for that
child’s third violation of this provision, and for each subsequent violation of
this provision.
(Ord. 2000-11, passed 7-24-00)
CHAPTER 131: WEAPONS
Section
Firearms on Town Property
   
131.01   Prohibition
   
131.02   Signs required
   
131.03   Exemptions
Statutory reference:
   Local authority to regulate firearms on town property, see I.C. 35-47-11.1
FIREARMS ON TOWN PROPERTY
§ 131.01 PROHIBITION.
   No person shall carry a concealed firearm in or on any property, park,
building, or portion of a building now or hereafter owned, leased as lessee,
operated, occupied, managed, or controlled by the town, as well as the
appurtenant premises to such buildings, upon which appropriate signage has been
placed indicating that concealed firearms are prohibited therein.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.02 SIGNS REQUIRED.
   Signs shall be visibly posted on the exterior of each entrance by which the
general public can access the building, appurtenant premises, or park. The town
shall exercise discretion in determining the necessity and appropriate location
for other signs posted on the interior of the building, appurtenant premises,
or park.
§ 131.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The prohibitions set forth in this chapter shall not apply to persons
who are exempt from concealed weapons prohibitions under state or federal law
or to any duly authorized local, state, or federal law enforcement officer
while on duty.
   (B)   The prohibitions set forth in this chapter shall not apply to highways
or public highways owned or administered by the town.
CHAPTER 132: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
132.01   Definitions
   
132.02   Abandonment of vehicles
   
132.03   Leaving an abandoned vehicle on the streets
   
132.04   Vehicles deemed not to be abandoned
   
132.05   Tagging abandoned vehicle or parts
   
132.06   Officer’s abandoned vehicle report
   
132.07   Disposition of abandoned vehicles
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and the
enforcement of this chapter:
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.
      (1)   A vehicle located on public property illegally;
      (2)   A vehicle left on public property without being moved for three
days;
      (3)   A vehicle located on public property in such a manner as to
constitute a hazard or objection to the movement of pedestrians or vehicular
traffic on a public right-of-way;
      (4)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without the consent
of the owner or person in control of that property for more than 48 hours;
      (5)   A vehicle from which the engine, transmission, or differential has
been removed or that is otherwise partially dismantled or inoperable and left
on public property;
      (6)   A vehicle that has been removed by a towing service or public
agency upon request of an officer enforcing this chapter if the impounded
vehicle is not claimed or redeemed by the owner or the owner's agent within 20
days after the vehicle's removal; and
      (7)   A vehicle that is at least three model years old, is mechanically
inoperable and is left on private property continuously in a location visible
from public property for more than 20 days.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or
organization of any kind.
   PROPERTY. Any real property within the corporate boundaries of the town
which is not a street or highway.
   STREET OR HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every
public way maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public
for purposes of vehicular travel.
   VEHICLE. A machine propelled by power other than human power designed to
travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners, or slides and
transport persons or property or pull machinery and shall include, without
limitation, automobile truck, trailer, motorcycle and tractor.
(Ord. 2002-8, passed 4-8-02; Am. Ord. 2007-14, passed 7-23-07)
§ 132.02 ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLES.
   No person shall abandon any vehicle within the corporate boundaries of the
town and no person shall leave any vehicle at any place within the town for
such time and under such certain circumstances as to cause such vehicle
reasonably to appear to have been abandoned.
(Ord. 2002-8, passed 4-8-02; Am. Ord. 2007-14, passed 7-23-07)
§ 132.03 LEAVING AN ABANDONED VEHICLE ON THE STREETS.
   No person shall leave any abandoned, partially dismantled, non-operating,
wrecked or junked vehicle on any street or highway within the town.
(Ord. 2002-8, passed 4-8-02; Am. Ord. 2007-14, passed 7-23-07)
§ 132.04 VEHICLES DEEMED NOT TO BE ABANDONED.
   This chapter shall not apply to the following:
   (A)   A vehicle in an enclosed building;
   (B)   A vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a
lawful place and manner when necessary to the operating of such business
enterprise; or
   (C)   A vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in
a lawful place and manner in the town.
(Ord. 2002-8, passed 4-8-02; Am. Ord. 2007-14, passed 7-23-07)
§ 132.05 TAGGING ABANDONED VEHICLE OR PARTS.
   The Town Marshal or any member of his or her department designated by him or
her who finds or is notified that a vehicle or parts believed to be abandoned
shall attach in a prominent place a notice tag containing the following
information:
   (A)   The date, time, officer's name, public agency and address and
telephone number to contact for more information;
   (B)   That the vehicle or parts are considered abandoned;
   (C)   That the vehicle or parts will be moved after 72 hours;
   (D)   That the person who owns the vehicle will be held responsible for all
costs incidental to the removal, storage and disposal of the vehicle; and
   (E)   That the person who owns the vehicle may avoid costs by removal of the
vehicle or parts within 72 hours.
(Ord. 2002-8, passed 4-8-02; Am. Ord. 2007-14, passed 7-23-07)
§ 132.06 OFFICER'S ABANDONED VEHICLE REPORT.
   If a vehicle or part tagged under §
132.05 is not removed within the 72-hour period, the Town Marshal or any member
of his or her department designated by him or her shall prepare a written
abandoned vehicle report of the vehicle or parts, including information on the
condition, missing parts, and other facts that might substantiate the estimated
market value of the vehicle or parts. Photographs shall be taken to describe
the condition of the vehicle or parts. The report shall contain a description
of the vehicle, including: the make, model, identification number, number of
the license plate. The Town Marshal or any member of his or her department
designated by him shall conduct a search of national data bases, including a
data base of vehicle information numbers, to attempt to obtain the name and
address of the person who owns or holds a lien on the vehicle.
(Ord. 2002-8, passed 4-8-02; Am. Ord. 2007-14, passed 7-23-07)
§ 132.07 DISPOSITION OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   If in the opinion of the Town Marshal or any member of his or her
department designated by him or her, market value of an abandoned vehicle or
parts is less than $100, the Town Marshal, or any member of his or her
department designed by him or her, shall immediately dispose of the vehicle to
an automobile scrapyard. A copy of the abandoned vehicle report and photographs
relating to the abandoned vehicle shall be forwarded to the Indiana Bureau of
Motor Vehicles.
   (B)   If in the opinion of the Town Marshal, or any member of his or her
department designated by him or her, the market value of the abandoned vehicle
or parts is at least $100, the Town Marshal, or any member of his or her
department designated by him or her, before placing a notice tag on the vehicle
or parts, shall make a reasonable effort to ascertain the person who owns the
vehicle or parts or who may be in control of the vehicle or parts. After 72
hours, the Town Marshal or any member of his or her department designated by
him or her, shall require the vehicle or parts to be towed to a storage area.
   (C)   The vehicle shall be impounded until lawfully claimed and reasonable
towing and storage charges are paid, or otherwise disposed of in accordance
with state law.
(Ord. 2002-8, passed 4-8-02; Am. Ord. 2007-14, passed 7-23-07)
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined an
amount not exceeding $50 per violation. Any person violating any provision of
this chapter shall also be responsible for paying all costs and expenses for
removing, towing and storing said abandoned vehicle. Each day any portion of
this chapter is violated shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2002-8, passed 4-8-02; Am. Ord. 2007-14, passed 7-23-07)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
152.   MOBILE HOMES
      
153.   SUBDIVISIONS
         
APPENDIX A: STREET STANDARDS
         
APPENDIX B: FIGURES
      
154.   ZONING REGULATIONS
      
155.   SIGN REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Uniform Numbering System
   
150.01   Standards: posting
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.20   Adoption and supplementation; notice of violation
   
150.21   Definition
Statutory Reference:
   Indiana Building Code, see 675 IAC 13-1-1 et seq.
UNIFORM NUMBERING SYSTEM
§ 150.01 STANDARDS: POSTING.
   (A)   The owner or occupant of a house or structure located within the
corporate limits of the town shall post officially assigned numbers in a
location providing easy identification from the abutting street or streets.
   (B)   The assigned numbers may be located above the front door, on a house
column, attached to the mail box, on a decorative stone, post, or outside
light, or in any other prominent place on the house or structure or in their
immediate proximity.
   (C)   Any house or structure that sits back from the center of the abutting
street more than 75 feet must have the assigned numbers posted at or near the
abutting street.
(Ord. 2002-6, passed 3-25-02)
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.20 ADOPTION AND SUPPLEMENTATION; NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   The town hereby adopts I.C. 36-7-9.
   (B)   The town hereby supplements I.C. 36-7-9-5 as follows:
      (1)   The Albany Planning Commission is the enforcement authority for the
provisions set forth in this subchapter.
      (2)   Prior to the issuance of an order requiring action relative to any
unsafe building, whenever the administration officer of the Albany Planning
Commission determines that any building or structure, or any part of a building
or structure, fails to meet the requirements set forth in this subchapter or
any applicable rules and regulations issued pursuant thereto, they shall issue
a notice setting forth the alleged failures advising the owner that such
failures must be corrected. This notice shall:
         (a)   Be in writing;
         (b)   Set forth the alleged violations of this subchapter or of
applicable rules and regulations issued pursuant thereto;
         (c)   Describe the dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit or structure
where the violations are alleged to exist or to have been committed;
         (d)   Provide a reasonable time, not to exceed 60 days, for the
correction of any violation alleged;
         (e)   1.   Be served upon the owner, of the dwelling, dwelling unit,
rooming unit or structure personally by the Town Marshal to the last know place
of residence of the owner. If one or more persons to whom such notice is
addressed cannot be found after diligent effort to do so, service may be made
upon such person or persons by posting a notice in or about the dwelling,
dwelling unit, rooming unit or structure described in this notice, or by
causing such notice to be published in a newspaper of general circulation for a
period of two consecutive days.
            2.   At the end of the time allowed for the correction of any
violation alleged, the administration officer of the Albany Planning Commission
shall re-inspect the dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit or structure
described in the notice.
            3.   If upon re-inspection the violations alleged are determined by
the administration officer of the Albany Planning Commission to have been
corrected, they shall issue a second notice of violation, which shall
constitute an order as required under I.C. 36-7-9-5.
   (C)   The Town of Albany designates the Albany Board of Zoning Appeals as
the hearing authority with regard to unsafe building matters pursuant to I.C.
36-7-9.
(Ord. 2004-5, passed 2-23-04)
Statutory Reference:
   Indiana Building Code, see 675 IAC 13-1-1 et seq.
§ 150.21 DEFINITION.
   The town adopts by reference the definition of SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST
as defined in I.C. 36-7-9-2.
(Ord. 2004-5, passed 2-23-04)
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Statutory authorization
   
151.02   Findings of fact
   
151.03   Statement of purpose
   
151.04   Objectives
   
151.05   Definitions
   
151.06   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
151.07   Basis for establishing regulatory flood data
   
151.08   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
151.09   Compliance
   
151.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
151.11   Discrepancy between mapped floodplain and actual ground elevations
   
151.12   Interpretation
   
151.13   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
151.30   General standards
   
151.31   Specific standards
   
151.32   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
151.33   Critical facility
   
151.34   Standards for identified floodways
   
151.35   Standards for identified fringe
   
151.36   Standards for SFHAs without established base flood elevation and/or
floodways/fringes
   
151.37   Standards for flood prone areas
Variance Procedures
   
151.50   Designation of Variance and Appeals Board
   
151.51   Duties of Variance and Appeals Board
   
151.52   Variance procedures
   
151.53   Conditions for variances
   
151.54   Variance notification
   
151.55   Historic structure
   
151.56   Special conditions
Administration
   
151.70   Designation of administrator
   
151.71   Permit procedures
   
151.72   Duties and responsibilities of the floodplain administrator
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Indiana Legislature has in I.C. 36-7-4 granted the power to local
government units to control land use within their jurisdictions. Therefore, the
Town Council of the Town of Albany does hereby adopt the following floodplain
management regulations.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 3-27-17)
§ 151.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the town are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities, and by the
occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to
other lands which are inadequately elevated, inadequately flood-proofed, or
otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 3-27-17)
§ 151.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards, which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   (B)    Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage;
   (E)    Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands; and
   (F)   Make federal flood insurance available for structures and their
contents in the Town by fulfilling the requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 3-27-17)
§ 151.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To protect human life and health;
   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone, and sewer lines, streets, and bridges
located in floodplains; and
   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood blight
areas.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 3-27-17)
§ 151.05 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in town usage and
to give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   A ZONE. Portions of the SFHA in which the principal source of flooding is
runoff from rainfall, snowmelt, or a combination of both. In A ZONES,
floodwaters may move slowly or rapidly, but waves are usually not a significant
threat to buildings. These areas are labeled as Zone A, Zone AE, Zones A1-A30,
Zone AO, Zone AH, Zone AR and Zone A99 on a FIRM. The definitions are presented
below:
      ZONE A. Areas subject to inundation by the one-percent annual chance
flood event. Because detailed hydraulic analyses have not been performed, no
base flood elevation or depths are shown.
      ZONE AE AND A1-A30. Areas subject to inundation by the one-percent annual
chance flood event determined by detailed methods. Base flood elevations are
shown within these zones. (Zone AE is on new and revised maps in place of Zones
A1-A30.)
      ZONE AO. Areas subject to inundation by one-percent annual chance shallow
flooding (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain) where average depths are
between one and three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed
hydraulic analyses are shown within this zone.
      ZONE AH. Areas subject to inundation by one-percent annual chance shallow
flooding (usually areas of ponding) where average depths are between one and
three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed hydraulic analyses are
shown within this zone.
      ZONE AR. Areas that result from the decertification of a previously
accredited flood protection system that is determined to be in the process of
being restored to provide base flood protection.
      ZONE A99. Areas subject to inundation by the one-percent annual chance
flood event, but which will ultimately be protected upon completion of an
under-construction Federal flood protection system. These are areas of special
flood hazard where enough progress has been made on the construction of a
protection system, such as dikes, dams, and levees, to consider it complete for
insurance rating purposes. ZONE A99 may only be used when the flood protection
system has reached specified statutory progress toward completion. No base
flood elevations or depths are shown.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (appurtenant structure). A structure with a floor area
400 square feet or less that is located on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should constitute a minimal initial
investment, may not be used for human habitation, and be designed to have
minimal flood damage potential. Examples of accessory structures are detached
garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns, and hay sheds.
   ADDITION (to an existing structure). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a town load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the floodplain administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on the community’s
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation of the one-percent annual chance
flood.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a structure having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BOUNDARY RIVER. The part of the Ohio River that forms the boundary between
Kentucky and Indiana.
   BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY. The floodway of a boundary river.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity that has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives for those communities in the Regular
Program that have gone beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to
develop extra measures to provide protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire, and emergency response
installations, installations which produce, use or store hazardous materials or
hazardous waste.
   D ZONE. Unstudied areas where flood hazards are undetermined, but flooding
is possible. Flood insurance is available in participating communities but is
not required by regulation in this zone.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including but not limited to:
      (1)   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a structure or any
addition to a structure;
      (2)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
      (3)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction of
roads, or similar projects;
      (4)   Construction of flood control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements, and the like;
      (5)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation, or drilling
operations;
      (6)   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
      (7)   Storage of materials; or
      (8)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance of existing
structures and facilities such as painting, re-roofing; resurfacing roads; or
gardening, plowing, and similar agricultural practices that do not involve
filling, grading, excavation, or the construction of permanent structures.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. Anon-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, filled stem wall foundations (also called chain walls), pilings, or
columns (posts and piers).
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A certified statement that verifies a structure’s
elevation information. This certification must be signed and sealed by a land
surveyor, engineer, or architect authorized by law to certify elevation
information.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The first phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP. It is intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at
subsidized rates on all insurable structures in that community before the
effective date of the initial FIRM.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). means an official map on which the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration
(FIA) has delineated the areas of flood hazards and regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official hydraulic and hydrologic report
provided by FEMA. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the FIRM, FBFM
(where applicable), and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD PRONE AREA. Any land area acknowledged by a community as being
susceptible to inundation by water from any source. (See FLOOD).
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPG). The elevation of the regulatory flood plus two
feet at any given location in the SFHA. (See FREEBOARD).
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining any wetland, lake, or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory
flood. The FLOODPLAIN includes both the floodway and the fringe districts.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited
to emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances, and other applications of police power which control development in
flood-prone areas. This term describes federal, state, or local regulations in
any combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing and reducing
flood loss and damage. Floodplain management regulations are also referred to
as floodplain regulations, floodplain ordinance, flood damage prevention
ordinance, and floodplain management requirements.
   FLOODPROOFING (DRY FLOODPROOFING). A method of protecting a structure that
ensures that the structure, together with attendant utilities and sanitary
facilities, is watertight to the floodproofed design elevation with walls that
are substantially impermeable to the passage of water. All structural
components of these walls are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy, and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form used to certify compliance for non-
residential structures as an alternative to elevating structures to or above
the FPG. This certification must be by a Registered Professional Engineer or
Architect.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flood flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood.
   FRINGE. Those portions of the floodplain lying outside the floodway.
   HARDSHIP (as related to variances of this chapter). The exceptional hardship
that would result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The Town of
Albany Board of Zoning Appeals requires that the variance is exceptional,
unusual, and peculiar to the property involved. Mere economic or financial
hardship alone is NOT exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations,
physical handicaps, personal preferences, or the disapproval of one’s neighbors
likewise cannot, as a rule, qualify as an exceptional hardship. All of these
problems can be resolved through other means without granting a variance, even
if the alternative is more expensive, or requires the property owner to build
elsewhere or put the parcel to a different use than originally intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to the start of construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURES. Any structures individually listed on the National
Register of Historic Places or the Indiana State Register of Historic Sites and
Structures.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC). The cost to repair a substantially
damaged structure that exceeds the minimal repair cost and that is required to
bring a substantially damaged structure into compliance with the local flood
damage prevention ordinance. Acceptable mitigation measures are elevation,
relocation, demolition, or any combination thereof. All renewal and new
business flood insurance policies with effective dates on or after June 1,
1997, will include ICC coverage.
   LETTER OF FINAL DETERMINATION (LFD). A letter issued by FEMA during the
mapping update process which establishes final elevations and provides the new
flood map and flood study to the community. The LFD initiates the six-month
adoption period. The community must adopt or amend its floodplain management
regulations during this six-month period unless the community has previously
incorporated an automatic adoption clause.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). is a general term used to refer to the several
types of revisions and amendments to FEMA maps that can be accomplished by
letter. They include LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA), LETTER OF MAP REVISION
(LOMR), and LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). The definitions are
presented below:
      LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment by letter to the currently
effective FEMA map that establishes that a property is not located in a SFHA
through the submittal of property specific elevation data. A LOMA is only
issued by FEMA.
      LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official revision to the currently
effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones, delineations,
and elevations.
      LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). An official revision by
letter to an effective NFIP map. A LOMR-F provides FEMA’s determination
concerning whether a structure or parcel has been elevated on fill above the
BFE and excluded from the SFHA.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The lowest elevation, after completion of
construction, of the ground, sidewalk, patio, deck support, or basement
entryway immediately next to the structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest elevation described among the following:
      (1)   The top of the lowest level of the structure.
      (2)   The top of the basement floor.
      (3)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level of
the structure.
      (4)   The top of the first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or
pillars.
      (5)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure, other than a basement,
below an elevated structure where the walls of the enclosure provide any
resistance to the flow of flood waters unless:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood waters by
providing a minimum of two openings (in addition to doorways and windows) in a
minimum of two exterior walls; if a structure has more than one enclosed area,
each shall have openings on exterior walls;
         (b)   The total net area of all openings shall be at least one square
inch for every one square foot of enclosed area; the bottom of all such
openings shall be no higher than one foot above the exterior grade or the
interior grade immediately beneath each opening, whichever is higher; and
         (c)   Such enclosed space shall be usable solely for the parking of
vehicles and building access.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle”.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, excluding the land (as agreed to between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. MARKET VALUE can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of building (actual cash value), or
adjusted assessed values.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of mitigation
is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the cost of
disaster response and recovery.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the Federal Government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD) OF 1929 as corrected in 1929. A
vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within
the floodplain.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the start of construction
commenced after the effective date of the community’s first floodplain
ordinance.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   NON-BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY. The floodway of any river or stream other than
a boundary river.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 (NAVD 88) as adopted in 1993. A
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, canalization,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation, or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water; or due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
   ONE-PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. The flood that has a 1% chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with the
letter A is subject to the one-percent annual chance flood. See REGULATORY
FLOOD.
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR). An official republication of a community’s FEMA
map to effect changes to base (1% annual chance) flood elevations, floodplain
boundary delineations, regulatory floodways, and planimetric features. These
changes typically occur as a result of structural works or improvements,
annexations resulting in additional flood hazard areas, or correction to base
flood elevations or SFHAs.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community, neighborhood or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
quarters for recreational camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. means the phase of the community’s participation in the
NFIP where more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed
and higher amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and
elevations determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure that is acceptable
to and approved by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The regulatory flood elevation at any location is
as defined in §
151.07 of this chapter. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the term “Base
Flood”, “One-Percent Annual Chance Flood”, and “100-Year Flood”.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on the average, equaled or exceeded 25% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SECTION 1316. That section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new flood insurance coverage shall be provided
for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a duly
constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public body to
be in violation of state or local laws, regulations, or ordinances that
intended to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy in
flood-prone areas.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). Those lands within the jurisdiction of the
Town subject to inundation by the regulatory flood. The SFHAs of the town are
generally identified as such on the Delaware County, Indiana and Incorporated
Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map dated August 2, 2017 as well as any future
updates, amendments, or revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency with the most recent date. (These areas are shown on a FIRM as Zone A,
AE, A1- A30, AH, AR, A99, or AO).
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of
a structure on a site, such as the pouring of a slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers,
foundations, or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home, or a prefabricated building. The term also includes
recreational vehicles to be installed on a site for more than 180 days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred “repetitive loss”
or “substantial damage” regardless of the actual repair work performed. The
term does not include improvements of structures to correct existing violations
of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code requirements.
   SUSPENSION. The removal of a participating community from the NFIP because
the community has not enacted and/or enforced the proper floodplain management
regulations required for participation in the NFIP.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter, which
permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter where
specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A structure or other development without the
elevation, other certification, or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   X ZONE. means the area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
Shaded X zones shown on recent FIRMs (B zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% chance of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500year flood). Unshaded X zones (C zones on older FIRMs)
designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is less
than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a FIRM that reflects the severity or type
of flooding in the area.
   ZONE A. See definition for A ZONE.)
   ZONE B, C, and X. Areas identified in the community as areas of moderate or
minimal hazard from the principal source of flood in the area. However,
buildings in these zones could be flooded by severe, concentrated rainfall
coupled with inadequate local drainage systems. Flood insurance is available in
participating communities but is not required by regulation in these zones.
(Zone X is used on new and revised maps in place of Zones B and C.)
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 3-27-17)
§ 151.06 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all SFHAs and known flood prone areas within the
jurisdiction of the town.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 3-27-17)
§ 151.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING REGULATORY FLOOD DATA.
   This chapter’s protection standard is the regulatory flood. The best
available regulatory flood data is listed below.
   (A)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for the
studied SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the Town shall be as delineated on the
one-percent annual chance flood profiles in the Flood Insurance Study of
Delaware County, Indiana and Incorporated Areas dated August 2, 2017 and the
corresponding Flood Insurance Rate Map dated August 2, 2017 as well as any
future updates, amendments, or revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency with the most recent date.
   (B)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for each
of the SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the Town, delineated as an “A Zone” on
the Delaware County, Indiana and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map
dated August 2, 2017 as well as any future updates, amendments, or revisions,
prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most recent date,
shall be according to the best data available as provided by the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources, provided the upstream drainage area from the
subject site is greater than one square mile. Whenever a party disagrees with
the best available data, the party needs to replace existing data with better
data that meets current engineering standards. To be considered, this data must
be submitted to the Indiana Department of Natural Resources for review and
subsequently approved.
   (C)   In the absence of a published FEMA map, or absence of identification
on a FEMA map, the regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits of
any watercourse in the community’s known flood prone areas shall be according
to the best data available as provided by the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources, provided the upstream drainage area from the subject site is greater
than one square mile.
   (D)   Upon issuance of a Letter of Final Determination (LFD), any more
restrictive data in the new (not yet effective) mapping/study shall be utilized
for permitting and construction (development) purposes, replacing all
previously effective less restrictive flood hazard data provided by FEMA.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 3-27-17)
§ 151.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in areas of special flood hazard.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 3-27-17)
§ 151.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure shall hereafter be located, extended, converted or structurally
altered within the SFHA without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. No land or stream within the SFHA shall
hereafter be altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 3-27-17)
§ 151.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 3-27-17)
§ 151.11 DISCREPANCY BETWEEN MAPPED FLOODPLAIN AND ACTUAL GROUND ELEVATIONS.
   (A)   In cases where there is a discrepancy between the mapped floodplain
(SFHA) on the FIRM and the actual ground elevations, the elevation provided on
the profiles shall govern.
   (B)   If the elevation of the site in question is below the base flood
elevation, that site shall be included in the SFHA and regulated accordingly.
   (C)   If the elevation (natural grade) of the site in question is above the
base flood elevation and not located within the floodway, that site shall be
considered outside the SFHA and the floodplain regulations will not be applied.
The property owner shall be advised to apply for a LOMA.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 3-27-17)
§ 151.12 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 3-27-17)
§ 151.13 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Therefore, this chapter does not create any
liability on the part of the Town of Albany, the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources, or the State of Indiana, for any flood damage that results from
reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision made lawfully
thereunder.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 3-27-17)
PROVISIONS FOR
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 151.30 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs and known flood prone areas the following provisions are
required:
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage below the FPG.
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, utility meters, and other service facilities shall be located at/
above the FPG or designed so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components below the FPG. Water and sewer pipes, electrical and
telephone lines, submersible pumps, and other waterproofed service facilities
may be located below the FPG.
   (F)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (G)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (H)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (I)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure
that is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of "new construction" as contained in this chapter.
   (J)   Parking lots, driveways, and sidewalks within the SFHA shall be
constructed with permeable materials.
   (K)   Whenever any portion of the SFHA is authorized for use, the volume of
space which will be occupied by the authorized fill or structure below the BFE
shall be compensated for and balanced by an equivalent volume of excavation
taken below the BFE. The excavation volume shall be at least equal to the
volume of storage lost (replacement ratio of 1 to 1) due to the fill or
structure.
      (1)   The excavation shall take place in the floodplain and in the same
property in which the authorized fill or structure is located.
      (2)   Under certain circumstances, the excavation may be allowed to take
place outside of but adjacent to the floodplain provided that the excavated
volume will be below the regulatory flood elevation, will be in the same
property in which the authorized fill or structure is located, will be
accessible to the regulatory flood water, will not be subject to ponding when
not inundated by flood water, and that it shall not be refilled.
      (3)   The excavation shall provide for true storage of floodwater but
shall not be subject to ponding when not inundated by flood water.
      (4)   The fill or structure shall not obstruct a drainage way leading to
the floodplain.
      (5)   The grading around the excavation shall be such that the excavated
area is accessible to the regulatory flood water.
      (6)   The fill or structure shall be of a material deemed stable enough
to remain firm and in place during periods of flooding and shall include
provisions to protect adjacent property owners against any increased runoff or
drainage resulting from its placement.
      (7)   Plans depicting the areas to be excavated and filled shall be
submitted prior to the actual start of construction or any site work; once site
work is complete, but before the actual start of construction, the applicant
shall provide to the Floodplain Administrator a certified survey of the
excavation and fill sites demonstrating the fill and excavation comply with
this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 3-27-17)
§ 151.31 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   In addition to the requirements of §§
151.30 et seq., all structures to be located in the SFHA shall be protected
from flood damage below the FPG. This building protection requirement applies
to the following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of any structure having a floor area
greater than 400 square feet.
      (2)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure where the
cost of the addition or improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the
existing structure (excluding the value of the land).
      (3)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged structure where the
costs of restoring the structure to it’s before damaged condition equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure (excluding the value of the
land) before damage occurred.
      (4)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days.
      (5)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. This Chapter does not apply to returning the existing
manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it was removed
to avoid flood damage.
      (6)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive loss structure.
      (7)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure with a
previous repair, addition or improvement constructed since the community’s
first floodplain ordinance.
   (B)   Residential structures. New construction or substantial improvement of
any residential structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest floor;
including basement, at or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood
elevation). Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a
structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of
floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of §
151.31(D).
   (C)   Non-residential structures. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or non-residential structure (or
manufactured home) shall either have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated to or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood elevation) or be
floodproofed to or above the FPG. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be
used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded
movements of floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of
§
151.31(D). Structures located in all “A Zones” may be floodproofed in lieu of
being elevated if done in accordance with the following:
      (1)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the structure has been designed so that below the FPG, the structure and
attendant utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the
effects of the regulatory flood. The structure design shall take into account
flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures, and impacts
from debris or ice. Such certification shall be provided to the floodplain
administrator as set forth in §
151.72(B)(12).
      (2)   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human intervention
and without an outside source of electricity.
   (D)   Elevated structures. 
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvements of elevated structures
shall have the lowest floor at or above the FPG.
      (2)   Elevated structures with fully enclosed areas formed by foundation
and other exterior walls below the flood protection grade shall be designed to
preclude finished living space and designed to allow for the entry and exit of
floodwaters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior
walls. Designs must meet the following minimum criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings located in a minimum of two
exterior walls (having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area);
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot above
the exterior grade or the interior grade immediately beneath each opening,
whichever is higher;
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions;
         (d)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to
allow for parking for vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator);
         (e)   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms;
         (f)   The interior grade of such enclosed area shall be at an
elevation at or higher than the exterior grade;
         (g)   Openings are to be not less than 3 inches in any direction in
the plane of the wall. This requirement applies to the hole in the wall,
excluding any device that may be inserted such as typical foundation air vent
device;
         (h)   Property owners shall be required to execute a flood openings/
venting affidavit acknowledging that all openings will be maintained as flood
vents, and that the elimination or alteration of the openings in any way will
violate the requirements of §
151.31(D). Periodic inspections will be conducted by the Floodplain
Administrator to ensure compliance. The affidavit shall be recorded, along with
the deed, in the office of the Delaware County Recorder; and
         (i)   Property owners shall be required to execute and record with the
structure’s deed a non-conversion agreement declaring that the area below the
lowest floor (where the interior height of the enclosure exceeds six feet)
shall not be improved, finished or otherwise converted; the community will have
the right to inspect the enclosed area. The non-conversion agreement shall be
recorded in the office of the Delaware County Recorder.
   (E)   Structures constructed on fill. A residential or nonresidential
structure may be constructed on a permanent land fill in accordance with the
following:
      (1)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than 1 foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the
Standard or Modified Proctor Test method. The results of the test showing
compliance shall be retained in the permit file.
      (2)   The fill shall extend 10 feet beyond the foundation of the
structure before sloping below the BFE.
      (3)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or bulkheading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than 3 horizontal to 1 vertical.
      (4)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
      (5)   The top of the lowest floor including basements shall be at or
above the FPG.
      (6)   Fill shall be composed of clean granular or earthen material.
   (F)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles to be installed or substantially
improved on a site for more than 180 days must meet one of the following
requirements:
      (1)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on
a site outside a manufactured home park or subdivision; in a new manufactured
home park or subdivision; in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision; or in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on
which a manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as a result of a
flood:
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor shall be at or above the FPG and securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in §
151.31(D).
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (2)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on
a site in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision that has not been
substantially damaged by a flood:
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated so that the lowest floor
of the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other
foundation elevations that are no less than 36 inches in height above grade and
be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in §
151.31(D).
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (3)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site shall either:
         (a)   Be on site for less than 180 days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use (defined as being on
its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions); or
         (c)   Meet the requirements for “manufactured homes” as stated earlier
in this section.
   (G)   Accessory structures. Relief to the elevation or dry floodproofing
standards may be granted for accessory structures. Such structures must meet
the following standards:
      (1)   Shall not be used for human habitation.
      (2)   Shall be constructed of flood resistant materials.
      (3)   Shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the minimum
resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
      (4)   Shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation.
      (5)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall
be elevated or floodproofed to or above the FPG.
      (6)   Shall be designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required
for elevated structures in §
151.31(D).
   (H)   Above ground gas or liquid storage tanks. All above ground gas or
liquid storage tanks shall be anchored to prevent flotation or lateral
movement.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 3-27-17)
§ 151.32 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions), which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five acres.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals shall minimize development in the SFHA and/
or limit density of development permitted in the SFHA.
   (F)   All subdivision proposals shall ensure safe access into/out of SFHA
for pedestrians and vehicles (especially emergency responders).
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 3-27-17)
§ 151.33 CRITICAL FACILITY.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA. Construction of new critical facilities
shall be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated to or above the FPG at the site. Floodproofing and
sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be
displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above
the FPG shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 3-27-17)
§ 151.34 STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   Located within SFHAs, established in §
151.07 are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters, which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and has erosion potential. If the site is in an
identified floodway, the Floodplain Administrator shall require the applicant
to forward the application, along with all pertinent plans and specifications,
to the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and apply for a permit for
construction in a floodway. Under the provisions of I.C. 14-28-1 a permit for
construction in a floodway from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources is
required prior to the issuance of a local building permit for any excavation,
deposit, construction, or obstruction activity located in the floodway. This
includes land preparation activities such as filling, grading, clearing and
paving etc. undertaken before the actual start of construction of the
structure. However, it does exclude non-substantial additions/improvements to
existing (lawful) residences in a non-boundary river floodway. (I.C. 14-28-1-26
allows construction of a non-substantial addition/ improvement to a residence
in a non-boundary river floodway without obtaining a permit for construction in
the floodway from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources. Please note that
if fill is needed to elevate an addition above the existing grade, prior
approval for the fill is required from the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources).
   (B)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until a
permit or letter of authorization (when applicable) has been issued by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources granting approval for construction in
the floodway. Once a permit for construction in a floodway or letter of
authorization has been issued by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources,
the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local Floodplain Development Permit,
provided the provisions contained in §§
151.30 et seq. have been met. The Floodplain Development Permit cannot be less
restrictive than the permit for construction in a floodway issued by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources. However, a community’s more
restrictive regulations (if any) shall take precedence.
   (C)   No development shall be allowed, which acting alone or in combination
with existing or future development, that will adversely affect the efficiency
of, or unduly restrict the capacity of the floodway. This adverse affect is
defined as an increase in the elevation of the regulatory flood of at least
fifteen-hundredths (0.15) of a foot as determined by comparing the regulatory
flood elevation under the project condition to that under the natural or pre-
floodway condition as proven with hydraulic analyses.
   (D)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill (including
levees) the Town shall submit the data and request that the Federal Emergency
Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data per mapping standard
regulations found at 44 CFR §
65.12.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 3-27-17)
§ 151.35 STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FRINGE.
   If the site is located in an identified fringe, then the Floodplain
Administrator may issue the local Floodplain Development Permit provided the
provisions contained in §§
151.30 et seq. have been met. The key provision is that the top of the lowest
floor of any new or substantially improved structure shall be at or above the
FPG.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 3-27-17)
§ 151.36 STANDARDS FOR SFHAS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION AND/OR
FLOODWAYS/ FRINGES.
   (A)   Drainage area upstream of the site is greater than one square mile:
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage area
upstream of the site is greater than one square mile, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources for review and comment.
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
either a permit for construction in a floodway (including letters of
authorization) or a floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment citing the one-
percent annual chance flood elevation and the recommended Flood Protection
Grade has been received from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources.
      (3)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper permit
for construction in a floodway (including letters of authorization) or
floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment approving the proposed development, a
floodplain development permit may be issued provided the conditions of the
floodplain development permit are not less restrictive than the conditions
received from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and the provisions
contained in §§
151.30 et seq. of this chapter have been met.
   (B)   Drainage area upstream of the site is less than one square mile:
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area upstream
of the site is less than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator shall
require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the limits of
the floodplain and 1% annual chance flood elevation for the site.
      (2)   Upon receipt, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
Floodplain Development Permit, provided the provisions contained in §§
151.30 et seq. of this chapter have been met.
   (C)   The total cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined
with all other existing and anticipated development shall not adversely affect
the efficiency of, or unduly restrict the capacity of the floodway. This
adverse effect is defined as an increase in the elevation of the regulatory
flood of at least fifteen-hundredths (0.15) of a foot as determined by
comparing the regulatory flood elevation under the project condition to that
under the natural or pre-floodway condition as proven with hydraulic analyses.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 3-27-17)
§ 151.37 STANDARDS FOR FLOOD PRONE AREAS.
   All development in known flood prone areas not identified on FEMA maps, or
where no FEMA published map is available, shall meet applicable standards as
required per §§
151.30 et seq.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 3-27-17)
VARIANCE PROCEDURES
§ 151.50 DESIGNATION OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD.
   The Town of Albany Board of Zoning Appeals shall hear and decide appeals and
requests for variances from requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 3-27-17)
§ 151.51 DUTIES OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD.
   The Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged an error in any
requirement, decision, or determination is made by the Floodplain Administrator
in the enforcement or administration of this chapter. Any person aggrieved by
the decision of the board may appeal such decision to the Delaware County
Circuit.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 3-27-17)
§ 151.52 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   In passing upon such applications, the board shall consider all technical
evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other sections of
this chapter, and:
   (A)   The danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
   (B)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
   (C)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
   (D)   The necessity of the facility to a waterfront location, where
applicable;
   (E)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
   (F)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
   (G)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
   (H)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
   (I)   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment of
transport of the floodwaters at the site; and
   (J)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and bridges.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 3-27-17)
§ 151.53 CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variances shall only be issued when there is:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship; and
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public,
or conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
   (B)   No variance for a residential use within a floodway subject to §
151.34 or §
151.36(A) of this chapter may be granted.
   (C)   Any variance granted in a floodway subject to §
151.34 or §
151.36(B) of this chapter will require a permit from the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources.
   (D)   Variances to the Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction of §
151.34, may be granted only when a new structure is to be located on a lot of
one-half acre or less in size, contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the flood protection grade.
   (E)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (F)   Variances may be granted for the reconstruction or restoration of any
structure individually listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the Indiana State Register of Historic Sites and Structures. (Refer to §
151.55.)
   (G)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the Flood Protection Grade and the
elevation to which the lowest floor is to be built and stating that the cost of
the flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from
the reduced lowest floor elevation (See §
151.54).
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency or
the Indiana Department of Natural Resources upon request (See §
151.54).
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 3-27-17)
§ 151.54 VARIANCE NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted that allows the lowest
floor of a structure to be built below the flood protection grade shall be
given written notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the flood
protection grade will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
      (2)   Such construction below the flood protection grade increases risks
to life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the Office of the County Recorder and shall be recorded in a
manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 3-27-17)
§ 151.55 HISTORIC STRUCTURE.
   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of “historic
structures” upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation
will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as an "historic
structure" and the variance is the minimum to preserve the historic character
and design of the structure.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 3-27-17)
§ 151.56 SPECIAL CONDITIONS.
   Upon the consideration of the factors listed in §
151.52 herein and the purposes of this chapter, the Board of Zoning Appeals may
attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to
further the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 3-27-17)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.70 DESIGNATION OF ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Town Council hereby appoints the Zoning Administrator to administer and
implement the provisions of this chapter and is herein referred to as the
Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 3-27-17)
§ 151.71 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be made to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her prior to any
development activities, and may include, but not be limited to, the following:
plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and
elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed structures, earthen
fill, storage of materials or equipment, drainage facilities, and the location
of the foregoing. Specifically the following information is required:
   (A)   Application stage.
      (1)   A description of the proposed development.
      (2)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structure(s) in relation to existing roads and streams.
      (3)   A legal description of the property site.
      (4)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed development
locations and existing and proposed land grades.
      (5)   Elevation of the top of the planned lowest floor (including
basement) of all proposed buildings. Elevation should be in NAVD 88 or NGVD.
      (6)   Elevation (in NAVD 88 or NGVD) to which any non-residential
structure will be floodproofed.
      (7)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development. A hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering study is required and any watercourse changes submitted to DNR for
approval and then to FEMA as a Letter of Map Revision. (See §
151.72(B)(6) for additional information.)
   (B)   Construction stage.
      (1)   Upon establishment of the lowest floor of an elevated structure or
structure constructed on fill, it shall be the duty of the applicant to submit
to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the NAVD 88 or NGVD
elevation of the lowest floor, as built. Said certification shall be prepared
by or under the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor, professional
engineer or architect and certified by the same. The Floodplain Administrator
shall review the lowest floor elevation survey data submitted. The applicant
shall correct deficiencies detected by such review before any further work is
allowed to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or failure to make said
corrections required hereby shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the
project. Any work undertaken prior to submission of the elevation certification
shall be at the applicant’s risk.
      (2)   Upon establishment of the floodproofed elevation of a floodproofed
structure, it shall be the duty of the applicant to submit to the Floodplain
Administrator a floodproofing certificate. Certification shall be prepared by
or under the direct supervision of a registered professional engineer or
architect and certified by same. (The Floodplain Administrator shall review the
floodproofing certification submitted.) The applicant shall correct any
deficiencies detected by such review before any further work is allowed to
proceed. Failure to submit the floodproofing certification or failure to make
correction required shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
   (C)   Finished construction. Upon completion of construction, an elevation
certification (FEMA Elevation Certificate Form 81-31 or any future updates)
which depicts the “as-built” lowest floor elevation is required to be submitted
to the Floodplain Administrator. If the project includes a floodproofing
measure, floodproofing certification (FEMA Floodproofing Certificate Form 81-65
or any future updates) is required to be submitted by the applicant to the
Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 3-27-17)
§ 151.72 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or designated staff is hereby
authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The
administrator is further authorized to render interpretations of this chapter,
which are consistent with its spirit and purpose.
   (B)   Duties and Responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development permits to assure that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
      (2)   Inspect and inventory damaged structures in the SFHA and complete
substantial damage determinations;
      (3)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources for all development projects subject to
§§
151.34 and
151.36(1) of this chapter, and maintain a record of such authorization (either
copy of actual permit/authorization or floodplain analysis/regulatory
assessment);
      (4)   Ensure that all necessary federal or state permits have been
received prior to issuance of the local floodplain development permit. Copies
of such permits/authorizations are to be maintained on file with the floodplain
development permit;
      (5)   Maintain and track permit records involving additions and
improvements to residences located in the floodway;
      (6)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Floodplain Coordinator
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit copies of
such notifications to FEMA;
      (7)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request local
permit documents, damaged structure inventories, substantial damage
determinations, regulatory flood data, SFHA maps, Letters of Map Change (LOMC),
copies of DNR permits, letters of authorization, and floodplain analysis and
regulatory assessments (letters of recommendation), federal permit documents,
and “as-built” elevation and floodproofing data for all buildings constructed
subject to this chapter;
      (8)   Utilize and enforce all Letters of Map Change (LOMC) or Physical
Map Revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently effective SFHA maps of the
community;
      (9)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished;
      (10)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance;
      (11)   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, in
accordance with §
151.71;
      (12)   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new or
substantially improved structures have been floodproofed in accordance with §
151.71;
      (13)   Perform a minimum of three inspections to ensure that all
applicable ordinance and floodplain development requirements have been
satisfied. The first upon the establishment of the Flood Protection Grade
reference mark at the development site; the second upon the establishment of
the structure’s footprint/establishment of the lowest floor; and the final
inspection upon completion and submission of the required finished construction
elevation certificate. Authorized Town officials shall have the right to enter
and inspect properties located in the SFHA;
      (14)   Stop work orders.
         (a)   Upon notice from the floodplain administrator, work on any
building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease.
         (b)   Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner
of the property, or to his agent, or to the person doing the work, and shall
state the conditions under which work may be resumed; and
      (15)   Revocation of permits.
         (a)   The floodplain administrator may revoke a permit or approval,
issued under the provisions of this chapter, in cases where there has been any
false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application
or plans on which the permit or approval was based.
         (b)   The floodplain administrator may revoke a permit upon
determination by the floodplain administrator that the construction, erection,
alteration, repair, moving, demolition, installation, or replacement of the
structure for which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in
conformity with, the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 3-27-17)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit in the SFHA or failure to
comply with the requirements of a floodplain development permit or conditions
of a variance shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter. All violations
shall be considered a town nuisance and be treated as such in accordance with
the provisions of the town’s zoning code. All violations shall be punishable by
a fine not exceeding $2,500.
   (A)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the violation
continues to exist.
   (B)   The Town Council shall inform the owner that any such violation is
considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore may cause
coverage by a Standard Flood Insurance Policy to be suspended.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall prevent the town from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 3-27-17)
2017 S-11
CHAPTER 152: MOBILE HOMES
Section
   
152.01   Livable space and foundation requirements
   
152.02   Continuance of setbacks, lot size, safety and general use regulations
   
152.03   Mobile homes and manufactured houses of less than 950 square feet
   
152.04   A-A manufacture housing
§ 152.01 LIVABLE SPACE AND FOUNDATION REQUIREMENTS.
   All houses built, moved to, or in any other method placed on land (excluding
licensed mobile home parks) within the corporation limits of the town, after
the passing of this chapter, must:
   (A)   Have a minimum of 950 square feet of enclosed livable space; and
   (B)   Have the dwelling affixed to a permanent foundation.
(Ord. 1982-2, passed 6-28-82)
§ 152.02 CONTINUANCE OF SETBACKS, LOT SIZE, SAFETY, AND GENERAL USE
REGULATIONS.
   All other ordinances relating to set backs, lot size, safety, and general
use shall continue to be in force.
(Ord. 1982-2, passed 6-28-82)
§ 152.03 MOBILE HOMES AND MANUFACTURED HOUSES OF LESS THAN 950 SQUARE FEET.
   Mobile homes and manufactured houses of less than 950 square feet shall be
placed in licensed mobile home parks only.
(Ord. 1982-2, passed 6-28-82)
§ 152.04 A-A MANUFACTURE HOUSING.
   Manufactured homes, as scattered-site residences, shall meet the following
requirements:
   (A)   Each unit or module of a mobile home shall bear a label certifying
that it is built in compliance with the Federal Manufactured Home Construction
and Safety Standards or the Standard for Mobile Homes, NFPA-501 ANS1-119.1.
   (B)   Minimum over-all size shall be 980 square feet of occupied space.
   (C)   Installation shall be permanent, with all mobile or hauling devices,
such as tongue and axles, removed.
   (D)   Supporting piers shall be constructed on concrete footing to a minimum
depth of 31 inches and be located to the manufacturers specifications for
proper support of frame-bearing load.
   (E)   Tie-down and anchoring shall be done to the manufacturers
specifications to resist all vertical uplift and horizontal wind loads.
   (F)   Perimeter of the mobile homes underpinning shall be of solid
construction such as mortared masonry, stone, or other materials having the
appearance of a permanent load-bearing foundation characteristic of site-
constructed homes. Foundation of permanent enclosure to extend to a depth below
frost level.
   (G)   All plumbing, electrical, and gas connections are to be made to comply
with all local, state, and federal codes.
(Am. Ord. 1989-17, passed 12-11-89)
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Title
   
153.002   Authority
   
153.003   Policy
   
153.004   Purposes
   
153.005   Jurisdiction
   
153.006   Interpretation
   
153.007   Definitions
   
153.008   Combining of permits
   
153.009   Amendments
   
153.010   Resubdivision (replat)
   
153.011   Vacation
   
153.012   Variances
   
153.013   Appeals
   
153.014   Application and interpretation
   
153.015   Consumer protection
Subdivision Application and Approval Process
   
153.030   General procedure
   
153.031   Sketch plat
   
153.032   Final plat
Provisions for Completion and Maintenance of Improvements
   
153.050   Assurance for completion
   
153.051   Assurance for maintenance
   
153.052   Deferral or waiver of improvements
Improvement Standards
   
153.070   General requirements
   
153.071   Subdivision and lot layout
Design Standards and Specifications
   
153.090   Monuments
   
153.091   Traffic control devices
   
153.092   Streets and roads
   
153.093   Drainage facilities
   
153.094   Water facilities
   
153.095   Sewage facilities
   
135.096   Nonresidential subdivisions
Specifications for Documents
   
153.110   Sketch plat
   
153.111   Construction plans
   
153.112   Final plat
   
153.998   Violations
 
   
153.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Street Standards
   
Appendix B: Figures
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 TITLE.
   These regulations shall be known and cited as the Subdivision Regulations of
the town.
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
§ 153.002 AUTHORITY.
   These regulations are authorized by I.C. 18-7-4-101 to 1213.
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
§ 153.003 POLICY.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the town to consider the
subdivision of land and the subsequent development of the subdivided plat as
subject to the control of the town pursuant to the official Comprehensive Plan
of the town for the orderly, planned, efficient, and economical development of
the town.
   (B)   Land to be subdivided shall be of such character that it can be used
safely for building purposes without danger to health or peril from fire,
flood, or other menace, and land shall not be subdivided until proper provision
has been made for drainage, water, sewerage, schools, recreation facilities,
transportation facilities, and other elements of a viable community
infrastructure.
   (C)   The existing and proposed public improvements shall conform to and be
properly related to the proposals of the Comprehensive Plan, and the capital
budget and program of the town.
   (D)   It shall be the policy to guide major development of land and
construction by encouraging planned unit developments (PUD) to achieve the
following:
      (1)   A maximum choice of living environments by allowing a variety of
housing and building types and permitting an increased density per acre and
reduction in lot dimensions, yards, building setbacks, and area requirements;
      (2)   A more useful pattern of open space and recreation areas and, if
permitted as part of the subdivision, more convenience in the location of
accessory commercial uses, industrial uses, and services;
      (3)   A development pattern which preserves and utilizes natural
topography and geologic features, scenic vistas, trees and other vegetation,
and prevents the disruption of natural drainage patterns;
      (4)   A more efficient use of land than is generally achieved through
conventional development resulting in substantial savings through shorter
utilities and streets;
      (5)   A development pattern in harmony with land use density,
transportation facilities, and community facilities’ objectives of the
Comprehensive Plan.
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
§ 153.004 PURPOSES.
   The purposes of these regulations are to protect and promote the public
health, safety, and general welfare, and to provide for:
   (A)   Guidance of future growth and development in accordance with the
comprehensive planning process;
   (B)   Adequate air, light, and privacy, and to prevent overcrowding of the
land and undue congestion;
   (C)   Protection of the character and the social and economic stability of
all parts of the area, and to encourage the orderly and beneficial development
of all parts;
   (D)   Protection and conservation of the value of land, buildings, and other
improvements upon the land, and to minimize the conflicts among the uses of
land and buildings;
   (E)   Guidance of public and private policy and action in order to assure
adequate and efficient transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks,
drainage, and other public requirements and facilities;
   (F)   Avoidance of scattered and uncontrolled subdivision of land that would
result in the unnecessary imposition of an excessive expenditure of public
funds for the supply of services that are a part of community infrastructure;
   (G)   Establishment of reasonable standards of design and minimum
requirements for the creation, installation, and improvement of physical
facilities which are, or will be, maintained for the benefit of general public;
   (H)   Establishment of reasonable standards and procedures for subdivisions
and resubdivisions, in order to further the orderly layout and use of land; and
to insure proper legal descriptions and monumenting of subdivided land;
   (I)   Prevention of the pollution of air and water; provision of drainage
facilities and the safeguarding of the water table; and the encouragement of
wise use and management of natural resources in order to preserve the
integrity, stability, natural beauty and topography, and the value of land;
   (J)   Administration of these regulations by defining the powers and duties
of approval authorities; and the manner and form of making, filing and
processing of any plat.
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
§ 153.005 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   These subdivision regulations shall apply to all subdivisions of land,
as defined herein, located within the boundaries of the town.
   (B)   No land shall be subdivided within these boundaries until:
      (1)   The subdivider or his agent shall submit a sketch plat of the
parcel to the Plan Commission, through its Administrator;
      (2)   Obtain approval of the sketch plat and final plats from the
Commission;
      (3)   The approved plat is filed with the County Recorder.
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
§ 153.006 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   All subdivisions as defined herein shall comply with the provisions of
these regulations.
   (B)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of these
regulations shall be held to be minimum requirements.
   (C)   These regulations shall supplement all other regulations, and where at
variance with other laws, regulations, ordinances, or resolutions, the more
restrictive requirements shall apply.
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
§ 153.007 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The person designated by the Planning Commission to enforce
the zoning regulations. If no person is appointed to administer these
subdivision regulations, the Administrator shall administer these regulations.
   APPLICANT.  The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or his
representative. Consent shall be required from the legal owner of the premises.
   AREA OF CRITICAL CONCERN.  A geographic area or site, regardless of its
size, that is significantly affected by, or has a significant effect upon
natural, man-made, historic or environmental resources, or is in limited supply
and is of local, regional, statewide or national importance.
   BLOCK.  A tract of land bounded by streets, or a combination of streets and
public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, shorelines of waterways, or
boundary lines of municipalities.
   BOND.  Any form of security including a cash deposit, surety bond,
collateral, property, or instrument of credit in an amount and form
satisfactory to the town. All bonds shall be approved by the Town Board
whenever a bond is required by these regulations.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls for the
housing or enclosure of persons or property of any kind.
   BUILDING SITE. An area proposed or provided and improved by grading,
filling, excavation or other means for erecting pads or foundations for
buildings.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROGRAM.  A proposed schedule of all future projects in
order of construction priority together with cost estimates and the anticipated
means of financing each project. All major projects requiring the expenditure
of public funds, over and above the annual Town Board’s operating expenses, for
the purchase, construction, or replacement of the physical assets for the
community are included.
   CENTRAL SEWERAGE SYSTEM. A community sewer system including collection and
treatment facilities established by the developer to serve a new subdivision in
an outlying or generally rural area.
   CENTRAL WATER SYSTEM.  A private water company formed by a developer to
serve a new community development in an outlying or generally rural area. It
includes water treatment and distribution facilities.
   CHANNEL. A natural or artificial watercourse of perceptible extent, with
definite bed and banks to confine and conduct continuously or periodically
flowing water.
   CLASSIFICATION OF STREETS.  
      (1)   For the purpose of providing for the development of the streets,
highways, roads, and rights-of-way in the town, and for their future
improvement, reconstruction, realignment, and necessary widening, including
provision for curbs and sidewalks, each existing street, highway, road, and
right-of-way, and those located on approved and filed plats, have been
designated on the Thoroughfare Plan (Map) of the Town Board and classified
therein. The classification of each street, highway, road, and right- of-way is
based upon its location in the respective zoning districts of the town and its
present and estimated future traffic volume and its relative importance and
function as specified in the Comprehensive Plan (Master Plan) of the Town
Board. The required improvements shall be measured as set forth for each street
classification on the Thoroughfare Plan (Map).
      (2)   FUNCTIONAL CLASSIFICATION is defined as the process by which
streets and roads are grouped into classes, or systems, according to the
character of service they are intended to provide. FUNCTIONAL CLASSIFICATION
can be applied in planning street and road system development, determining the
jurisdictional responsibility for particular systems, and in fiscal planning.
Three main classes are generally accepted under the functional classification
scheme: arterials, collectors, and locals.
   COMMISSION. The Albany Plan Commission, appointed by the Town Board, in
accordance with the appropriate planning enabling act.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN or MASTER PLAN. A document that herein may be referred to
as a Comprehensive Plan, Comprehensive Development Plan, or Master Plan. It is
a plan for development of the town, prepared and adopted by the Commission,
pursuant to state law, and including any part of such plan separately adopted
and any amendment to such plan, or parts thereof. The document shall show the
general location and extent of present and proposed development, including, but
not limited to, housing, industrial and commercial uses, streets, parks,
schools and other community facilities.
   CONDOMINIUM.  An estate consisting of an undivided interest in common and
real property, in an interest or interests in real property, or in any
combination thereof; together with a separate interest in real property, in an
interest or interests in real property, or in any combination thereof.
   CONSTRUCTION PLAN.  The maps, drawings and textual descriptions accompanying
a subdivision plat and showing the specific location and design of improvements
to be installed in the subdivision in accordance with the requirements of the
Commission as a condition of the approval of the plat.
   COUNTY RECORDER. The office of the County Recorder.
   COVENANT.  A written promise or pledge.
   CULVERT. A drain that channels water under a bridge, street, or driveway.
   DEDICATION. The setting apart of land or interests in land for use by the
public by ordinance, resolution, or entry in the official minutes as by the
recording of a plat.
   DENSITY. A unit of measurement; the number of dwelling units per acre of
land.
      (1)   CROSS DENSITY.  The number of dwelling units per acre of the total
land to be developed, including public right-of-way.
      (2)   NET DENSITY.  The number of dwelling units per acre of land when
the acreage involved includes only the land devoted to residential uses,
excluding public right-of-way.
   DENSITY, HIGH. Any subdivision with a density greater than six dwelling
units per acre of gross land.
   DENSITY, MEDIUM.  Any subdivision with a density of two to six dwelling
units per acre of gross land area.
   DENSITY, LOW. Any subdivision with a density less than two dwelling units
per acre of gross land area.
   DEVELOPER. Authorized agent(s) of a subdivider or the subdivider himself.
The developer may be the owner of land proposed to be subdivided or his
representative, the subdivider.
   DWELLING.  A building or portion thereof designed or used exclusively for
residential occupancy, including one-, two-, and multiple- dwelling units, home
trailers, mobile homes, portable homes, hotels, motels, boarding and lodging
houses, tourist courts or tourist homes.
   DWELLING UNIT. A room or group of rooms designed and equipped exclusively
for use as living quarters for only one family and its household employees,
including provisions for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating. The term shall
include mobile homes but shall not include house trailers or recreational
vehicles.
   EASEMENT. An authorization or grant by a property owner to specific person
(s) or to the public to use land for specific purposes.
   ENGINEER.  Any person who is licensed in the State of Indiana to practice
professional engineering.
   ESCROW. A deposit of cash with the local government in lieu of an amount
required and still in force on a performance or maintenance bond.
   FLEXIBLE ZONING. Zoning which permits uses of land and density of buildings
and structures different from those which are allowed as of right within the
zoning district in which the land is situated. Flexible zoning applications
shall include, but not be limited to, all special permits and special uses,
group housing projects and planned unit development.
   FLOOD or FLOODWATER. The temporary inundation of land adjacent to and
inundated by overflow from a river, stream, lake or other body of water. I.C.
13-2-22 as amended by Public Law 123, Acts of 1973, defines flood as “the water
of any river or stream in the State of Indiana or upon or adjoining any
boundary line of the State of Indiana, which is above the bank and/or outside
the channel and banks of such river or stream; and also means the water of any
lake which is above and outside the banks thereof”; see Indiana Code for
additional definitions.
Editor’s Note:
   The statute cited in this definition has been repealed. For purposes of
flood control, “flood” is defined by I.C. 14-8-2-93. Additional definitions are
contained in I.C. 14-8-2.
   FLOOD CONTROL. The prevention of floods, the control, regulation, diversion
or confinement of flood water or flood flow, and the protection therefrom,
according to sound and accepted engineering practice, to minimize the extent of
floods, and the death, damage and destruction caused thereby, and, all things
incidental thereto or connected therewith.
   FLOOD HAZARD AREA. A flood plain, or portion thereof, which has not been
adequately protected from floodwater by means of dikes, levees, reservoirs, or
other works approved by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources Commission.
   FLOOD PLAIN. The relatively flat area or low land adjoining the channel of a
river or stream which has been or may be covered by flood water. The flood
plain includes the channel, floodway and floodway fringe.
   FLOOD, REGULATORY or REGIONAL. A flood having a peak discharge which can be
expected to be equaled or exceeded on the average of once in a hundred-year
period, as calculated by a method and procedure which is acceptable to and
approved by the Indiana Natural Resources Commission. The 100-year frequency
flood is equivalent to a flood having a probability of occurrence of 1% in any
given year (a flood magnitude which has a 1% chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year).
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the flood
plain adjoining the channel, which are reasonably required to carry and
discharge the flood water or flood flow of any river or stream.  (See
Appendix B, § 17 for FLOODWAY illustration.)
   FLOODWAY FRINGE.  Those portions of the flood hazard areas lying outside the
floodway. See the State of Indiana Model Zoning Ordinance for Flood Hazard
Areas for guidelines concerning zoning and management of these lands.
   FRONTAGE.  All of the property on one side of a street between two
intersecting streets (crossing or terminating), measured along the line of the
street, or if the street is dead-ended, then all of the property abutting on
one side between an intersecting street and the dead end of the street.
   GRADE. The average level of the finished surface of the ground for buildings
more than five feet from a street line, the grade is the sidewalk elevation at
the center of the building. If there is more than one street, the average
sidewalk elevation shall be used. If there is no sidewalk, the Administrative
Officer shall establish the sidewalk grade.
   HIGHWAY. See STREET.
   IMPROVEMENT. Any alteration to the land or other physical constructions
associated with subdivision and building site development.
   IMPROVEMENT, LOT. Any building, structure, place, work of art, or other
object, or improvement of the land on which they are situated constituting a
physical betterment of real property, or any part of such betterment. Certain
lot improvements shall be properly bonded as provided in these regulations.
   IMPROVEMENT, PUBLIC. Any drainage ditch, roadway, sidewalk, tree, lawn, off-
street parking area, lot improvement, or other facility for which the Town
Board or state government may ultimately assume the responsibility for
maintenance and operation, or which may affect an improvement for which Town
Board or state government responsibility is established. All such improvements
shall be properly bonded.
   IMPROVEMENT, TEMPORARY.  Improvements built and maintained by a subdivider
during construction of the subdivision and prior to release of the performance
bond.
   INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. A septic tank, seepage tile sewage
disposal system, or any other approved sewage treatment device.
   INFRASTRUCTURE. The fixed public works and facilities necessary in a
community, such as sewers, water systems and streets.
   JURISDICTION. Jurisdiction of the town means all land within its boundaries
and any land outside its boundaries over which it is authorized to exercise
powers under these regulations.
   LAND.  The earth, water and air, above, below or on the surface, and
includes any improvements or structures customarily regarded as land.
   LAND USE.  The development existing on land.
   LAND SURVEYOR. Any person who is licensed in the State of Indiana to
practice professional land surveying.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied or intended for occupancy by a use permitted
in this chapter, including one main building together with its accessory
buildings, the open spaces and parking spaces required by this chapter, and
having its principal frontage upon a public street or upon an officially
approved private street. LOT includes the words “plot,” “parcel,” and “tract.”
   LOT AREA. The area of any lot shall be determined exclusive of street,
highway, alley, road, or other rights-of-way.
   LOT TYPES. Terminology used in this chapter with reference to different
types of lots is as follows:
      (1)   CORNER LOT.  A lot located at the intersection of two or more
streets. A lot abutting on a curved street or streets shall be considered a
corner lot if tangent projections of the front lines drawn perpendicular at the
side lot lines meet at an interior angle of less than 135 in front of the lot.
      (2)   INTERIOR LOT. A lot with only one frontage on a street.
      (3)   RESERVED FRONTAGE LOT. A lot on which frontage is at right angles
to the general pattern in the area. A reversed frontage lot may also be a
corner lot.
      (4)   THROUGH LOT. A lot other than a corner lot with frontage on more
than one street. Through lots abutting two streets may be referred to as double
frontage lots.
   MASTER PLAN.  See COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   MAY. Is a permissive requirement.
   MOBILE HOME. A factory-fabricated dwelling unit built on a chassis and
designed for transportation on public thoroughfares and also designed to be
used for year-round living when connected to the required utilities. It shall
exceed the dimensions of 8 feet or more wide and 30 feet or more long. A
recreational vehicle is not to be considered a mobile home.
   MOBILE HOME PARK.  Any lot, parcel or tract of land used for the parking of
two or more mobile homes.
   MODEL HOME.  A dwelling unit used initially for display purposes which
typifies the type of units that will be constructed in the subdivision. Such
dwelling units may be erected, at the discretion of the Planning Commission, by
permitting a portion of a major subdivision involving no more than three lots
to be created according to the procedures for minor subdivisions, as set in
these regulations.
   MONUMENT. Any permanent marker either of concrete, galvanized iron pipe, or
iron or steel rods, used to identify any tract, parcel, lot or street lines.
   NONRESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION.  A subdivision whose intended use is other than
residential, such as commercial or industrial.
   OCCUPIED. Includes the words “intended, arranged, or designed to be used or
occupied.”
   OFF-SITE.  Any premises not located within the area of the property to be
subdivided, whether or not in the same ownership of the applicant for
subdivision approval.
   OPEN SPACE. A public or private outdoor area expressly set aside for the use
and benefit of many unrelated people.
   ORDINANCE. Any legislative action, however denominated, of the town which
has the force of law, including any amendment or repeal of any ordinance.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, association, syndicate, partnership, corporation,
or any other legal entity having legal title to or sufficient proprietary
interest in the land sought to be subdivided under these regulations.
   PERFORMANCE BOND.  An amount of money or other negotiable security paid by
the subdivider or his surety to the Clerk and Recorder which guarantees that
the subdivider will perform all actions required by the Town Board regarding an
approved plat, and provides that if the subdivider defaults and fails to comply
with the provisions of an approved plat, the subdivider or his surety will pay
damages up to the limit of the bond, or the surety will itself complete the
requirements of the approved plat.
   PERSON. Includes an individual, firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company, corporation, or any other legal entity.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A subdivision designed as a combination of
residential, commercial and industrial uses planned for a tract of land to be
developed as a unit under single ownership or control, which is developed for
the purpose of selling individual lots or estates, whether fronting on private
or dedicated streets, which may include two or more principal buildings.
   PLAT. The drawing, map, or plan of a subdivision or other tract of land or a
replat of such including certifications, descriptions and approvals.
   PLAT, FINAL. The final and formal presentation of the map, plan or record of
a subdivision and any accompanying material, as described in these regulations.
   PLAT, SKETCH. A sketch preparatory to the preparation of the final plat to
enable the subdivider to save time and expense in reaching general agreement
with the Commission as to the form of the plat and the objectives of these
regulations.
   RESERVE STRIP. A strip of land between a partial street and adjacent
property, which is reserved or held in public ownership for future street
extension or widening.
   RESUBDIVISION (REPLAT). A change in a map of an approved or recorded
subdivision plat if such change affects any street layout on such map or area
reserved thereon for public use, or any lot line; or if it affects any map or
plan legally recorded prior to the adoption of any regulations controlling
subdivisions.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by
transportation facilities, public utilities or other special public uses.
Rights-of- way intended for any use involving maintenance by a public agency
shall be dedicated to the public use by the marker of the plat on which such
right-of-way is established.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY WIDTH, STREET. The distance between property lines measured at
right angles to the center line of the street.
   ROAD. See STREET.
   SALE or LEASE. Any immediate or future transfer of ownership, or any
possessory interest in land, including contract of sale, lease, devise,
interstate succession, or transfer, of an interest in a subdivision or part
thereof, whether by deed, metes and bounds, contract, or other written
instrument.
   SAME OWNERSHIP. Ownership by the same person, corporation, firm, entity,
partnership, or unincorporated associations, in which a stockholder, partner,
or associate, or a member of his family owns an interest in each corporation,
firm, partnership, entity, or unincorporated association.
   SCREENING. Any means of protecting an area of land from the adverse visual
and audible effects of another area. The specific requirements for screening
are set forth in Chapter 154.
   SETBACK. The distance between a building and the nearest street right-of-way
line or property line regardless of whether it is the front, side or rear of
the building. It is an imaginary line established by the zoning regulations
that requires all buildings to be set back a certain distance from property
lines.
   SETBACK, FRONT. The distance between a building and the street right-of-way
line nearest thereto.
   SHALL. Is a mandatory requirement.
   SHOULD. Is a preferred requirement.
   STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS.  The specifications as specified in this chapter or
as officially adopted by the town.
   STATE. The State of Indiana.
   STREET. A public right-of-way or a private street which affords the
principal means of access to abutting property.
   SUBDIVIDER. A subdivider shall be deemed to be the individual, firm,
corporation, partnership, association, syndicate, trust or other legal entity
that executes the application and initiates proceedings for the subdivision of
land in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The subdivider need not
be the owner of the property; however, he shall be an agent of the owner or
have sufficient proprietary rights in the property to represent the owner.
   SUBDIVISION. Any land, vacant, or improved, which is divided or proposed to
be divided into two or more lots, parcels, sites, units, plots, or interests
for the purpose of offer, sale, lease, or development either on the installment
plan or upon any and all other plans, terms, and conditions, including
resubdivision. Subdivision includes the division or development of residential
and nonresidential zoned land, whether by deed, metes and bounds description,
or other recorded instrument. However, this chapter shall not apply to any of
the following:
      (1)   An adjustment of lot lines as shown on a recorded plat which does
not reduce the area, frontage, width, depth, or building setback lines of each
building site below the minimum zoning requirements, and does not change the
original number of lots in any block of the recorded plat.
      (2)   An allocation of land in the settlement of an estate of a decedent
or a court decree for the distribution of property.
      (3)   The unwilling sale of land as a result of legal condemnation as
defined and allowed in the Indiana State Law.
      (4)   Widening of existing streets to conform to the Comprehensive Plan.
      (5)   The acquisition of street rights-of-way by a public agency in
conformance with the Comprehensive Plan.
      (6)   The exchange of land for the purpose of straightening property
boundaries which does not result in the change of the present land usage.
   SUBDIVISION. Any subdivision containing lots fronting on an existing street,
not involving any new street or road, or the extension of municipal facilities,
or the creation of any public improvements, and not adversely affecting the
remainder of the parcel or adjoining property, and not in conflict with any
provision or portion of the Comprehensive Plan, Thoroughfare Plan, zoning
regulations, or these regulations.
   SUBDIVISION PLAT. The final map or drawing, described in these regulations,
of which the subdivider’s plan of subdivision is presented to the Commission
for approval and which, if approved, may be submitted to the County Clerk or
Recorder for filing.
   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS or SUBDIVISION CONTROL ORDINANCE.  An ordinance for
ensuring the orderly development of land by requiring coordination of new
public facilities with existing facilities; and providing standards for lot
layout, street design, utilities and easements to assure compatibility with
long-range Comprehensive Plan.
   TERRAIN CLASSIFICATION. For purposes of these regulations and to guide the
application of geometric design criteria, terrain has been classified as
follows:
      (1)   LEVEL.  That condition where street sight distances, as governed by
both horizontal and vertical restrictions, are generally long or could be made
to be so without construction difficulty or major expense.
      (2)   ROLLING. That condition where the natural slopes consistently rise
above and fall below
the street grade line and where occasional steep slopes offer some restriction
to normal street horizontal and vertical alinement.
   THOROUGHFARE PLAN. A plan and maps established by the town, pursuant to law
as a portion of the Comprehensive Plan, showing the location of streets and
roads functionally classified into systems. Such a plan generally includes the
location of public facilities, utilities and the desirable future
infrastructure. The plan is approved, adopted and established by law and any
amendments or additions, including those resulting from the approval and filing
of subdivision plats, are adopted by the Town Board as a continuous updating of
the plan.
   TOWN ATTORNEY. An attorney licensed in the State of Indiana and designated
by the governing body to furnish legal assistance for the administration of
these regulations.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.  All signs, signals, markings and devices placed or
erected by authority of a public body or official having jurisdiction, for the
purpose of regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
   USED.  Includes the words “intended, arranged, or designed to be used or
occupied.”
   UTILITIES. Installations for transmission of water, sewage, gas,
electricity, telecommunications and storm water; and similar facilities
providing service to and used by the public.
   VARIANCE. A modification of the strict terms of the relevant regulations of
this chapter where such modification will not be contrary to the public
interest and where, owing to conditions peculiar to the property and not the
result of the action of the applicant, a literal enforcement of this chapter
would result in unnecessary and undue hardship.
   VICINITY MAP. A small scale map showing the location of a tract of land in
relation to a larger area.
   ZONING ORDINANCE or ZONING REGULATIONS. A legal tool for accomplishing the
objectives of a land use plan. It is an effective regulatory measure designed
to encourage high standards of development and to foster the most efficient use
of land.
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
§ 153.008 COMBINING OF PERMITS.
   The Commission is hereby required to coordinate with other town departments
and agencies concerning all permits which may be required in this subdivision
regulations chapter and previously or subsequently adopted ordinances.
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
§ 153.009 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of protecting and promoting public health, safety, and
general welfare, the Plan Commission may from time to time amend the provisions
imposed by these regulations.
   (B)   Public hearings on all proposed amendments shall be held by the Plan
Commission, except for minor changes of §§
153.090 to 153.096, in which case the Commission shall act upon a
recommendation from the Administrator.
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
§ 153.010 RESUBDIVISION (REPLAT).
   (A)   For any change in a map of an approved or recorded subdivision plat,
if such change affects any street layout shown on such map, or area reserved
thereon for public use, or any lot line, or if it affects any map or plan
legally reached prior to the adoption of any regulations controlling
subdivisions, such parcel shall be approved by the Plan Commission by the same
procedure, rules, and regulations as for a subdivision.
   (B)   Whenever a parcel of land is subdivided and the subdivision plat shows
one or more lots containing more than one acre of land and there are
indications that such lots will eventually be resubdivided, the Plan Commission
may require that such parcel of land allow for the future opening of streets
and the ultimate extension of adjacent streets. Easements providing for the
future opening and extension of such streets may be made a requirement of the
plat.
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
§ 153.011 VACATION.
   (A)   Any plat or any part of any plat may be vacated by the owner of the
premises, at any time before the sale of any lot therein, by a written
instrument, to which a copy of such plat shall be attached, declaring the same
to be vacated.
   (B)   Such an instrument shall be approved by the Plan Commission in like
manner as plats of subdivisions. The Town Board may reject any such instrument
which abridges or destroys any public rights in any of its public uses,
improvements, streets, or alleys.
   (C)   Such an instrument shall be executed, acknowledged or approved, and
recorded or filed, in like manner as plats of subdivisions; and being duly
recorded or filed shall operate to destroy the force and effect of the
recording of the plat so vacated, and to divest all public rights in the
streets, alleys, and public grounds, and all dedications laid out or described
in such plat.
   (D)   When lots have been sold, the plat may be vacated in the manner herein
provided by all the owners of lots in such plat joining in the execution of
such writing.
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
§ 153.012 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Where the Plan Commission finds that extraordinary hardships or
practical difficulties may result from strict compliance with these regulations
and/or the purposes of these regulations may be served to a greater extent by
an alternative proposal, it may approve variances to these subdivision
regulations so that substantial justice may be done and the public interest
secured, provided that such variance shall not have the effect of nullifying
the intent and purpose of these regulations and further provided the Plan
Commission shall not approve variances unless it shall make findings based upon
the evidence presented to it in each specific case that:
      (1)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
safety, health, or welfare, or injurious to other property;
      (2)   The conditions upon which the request for a variance is based are
unique to the property for which the variance is sought and are not applicable
generally to other property;
      (3)   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape or
topographical conditions of the specific property involved, a particular
hardship to the owner would result, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience,
if the strict letter of these regulations are carried out;
      (4)   The variance will not in any manner vary the provisions of the
zoning regulations, Comprehensive or Master Plan, or Thoroughfare or Major
Street Plan;
      (5)   Where the variance impacts on design and construction of public
facilities, all appropriate public agencies have been given ample time to
comment in writing to the Commission.
   (B)   In approving variances, the Plan Commission may require such
conditions as will, in its judgement, secure substantially the objectives of
the standards or requirements of these regulations.
   (C)   A petition for any such variance shall be submitted in writing by the
subdivider at the time when the sketch plat is filed for the consideration of
the Commission. The petition shall state fully the grounds for the application
and all of the facts relied upon by the petitioner.
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
§ 153.013 APPEALS.
   Any person or aggrieved party who appeared in person or writing before the
Commission or the subdivider may appeal in writing the decision of the
Commission relative to the final action taken by the Commission. Such appeal
shall be filed by a petition for certiorari in the circuit court of the county
in which the land is located and within 30 days after the date of that
decision.
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
§ 153.014 APPLICATION AND INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   For the purpose of these regulations, certain numbers, abbreviations,
terms, words, and phrases used herein shall be used, interpreted, and defined
as set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   Whenever any words and phrases used herein are not defined herein but
are defined in the state laws regulating the creation and function of various
planning agencies, any such definition therein shall be deemed to apply to such
words and phrases used herein, except when the context otherwise requires.
   (C)   For the purpose of these regulations, certain words and phrases used
herein shall be interpreted as follows:
      (1)   The masculine includes the feminine; and
      (2)   The present tense includes the past and future tense, the singular
number includes the plural.
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
§ 153.015 CONSUMER PROTECTION.
   (A)   No building permit shall be granted or issued if a developer or his
authorized agent shall have violated any federal, state or local law pertaining
to consumer protection of real estate land sales, promotion, or practices, or
any applicable conflict of interest legislation with respect to the lot or
parcel of land which is the subject of the permit, until so ordered by a court
of competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   Any violation of a federal, state, or local consumer protection law
(including but not limited to: Postal Reorganization Act of 1970; the Federal
Trade Commission Act of 1970; the Interstate Land Sales Full Disclosure Act;
the Truth in Lending Act; the Uniform Commercial Credit Code; and the like) or
conflicts of interest statute, law, or ordinance shall be deemed a violation of
these regulations and subject to all of the penalties and proceedings as set
forth in this chapter.
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
SUBDIVISION APPLICATION AND APPROVAL PROCESS
§ 153.030 GENERAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person desiring to create a subdivision as herein defined shall
submit all necessary applications to the Administrator.
   (B)   No contract shall be made for the sale of any part of the subdivision
and no improvement or building shall be made on the property, until the
subdivider applies for and secures approval of such proposed subdivision in
accordance with the procedures set forth in this subchapter. No final plat
shall be filed with the County Recorder until the plat has been acted upon by
the Plan Commission.
   (C)   No improvement, or building permits shall be issued until the approved
plat is filed with the County Recorder.
   (D)   The applicant is required to follow a basic two-step procedure: sketch
plat and final plat.
   (E)   For the purpose of these regulations, the date of the regular monthly
meeting of the Commission at which the public hearing on final approval of the
subdivision plat is closed shall constitute the official submittal date of the
plat at which the statutory period required for formal approval or disapproval
of the plat shall commence to run.
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
§ 153.031 SKETCH PLAT.
   (A)   Discussion of requirements.  Before preparing the sketch plat for a
subdivision, the applicant should discuss with the Administrator the procedure
for adoption of a subdivision plat and the requirements as to general layout of
streets and for reservations of land, street improvements, drainage, sewerage,
fire protection, and similar matters, as well as the availability of existing
services. The Administrator shall also advise the applicant, where appropriate,
to discuss the proposed subdivision with those officials who must eventually
approve these aspects of the subdivision plat coming within their jurisdiction.
   (B)   Application.  The subdivider shall file an application with the
Administrator for approval of a sketch plat. The application shall:
      (1)   Be made on forms available at the office of the Administrator;
      (2)   Include all contiguous holdings of the owner including land in the
“same ownership” as defined herein, with an indication of the portion which is
proposed to be subdivided, accompanied by an affidavit of ownership, which
shall include the dates the respective holdings of land were acquired, together
with the book and page of each conveyance to the present owner as recorded in
the County Recorder’s office. The affidavit shall advise as to the legal owner
of the property, the contract owner of the property, the date contract of sale
was executed, and, if any corporations are involved, a complete list of all
directors, officers, and stockholders of each corporation owning more than 5%
of any class of stock;
      (3)   Be accompanied by a minimum of four copies of the sketch plat which
shows the entire developmental scheme of the proposed subdivision, including
the general layout and approximate dimensions of streets, rights-of-way,
blocks, and lots in sketch form; the existing conditions and characteristics of
the land on and adjacent to the proposed subdivision site; and the areas set
aside for schools, parks and other public facilities, and for commercial and
other non-residential uses;
      (4)   Be presented to the Administrator in duplicate;
      (5)   Be accompanied by a fee of $2 per lot;
      (6)   Include an address and telephone number of an agent located within
the territory of the local government who shall be authorized to receive all
notices required by these regulations.
   (C)   Planning Commission Administrator’s action. The Administrator may
transmit the sketch plat for review to appropriate officials or agencies of the
Town Board adjoining counties or municipalities, school and special districts,
and other official bodies as it deems necessary or as mandated by law,
including any review required by town, regional, or state bodies. The
Administrator may request that all officials and agencies, to whom a request
for review has been made, submit their report to the Administrator within 15
days after receipt of the request. The Administrator will consider all reports
submitted by the officials and agencies concerning the sketch plat and shall
submit a report for proposed action to the Plan Commission. The Administrator
shall place the matter on the next available regular meeting agenda of the Plan
Commission for formal approval of the sketch plat. After such approval by the
Commission, the Administrator shall notify the applicant that:
      (1)   If no further changes are required, the applicant may proceed
directly to the filing of an application for approval of a final subdivision
plat as provided in these regulations.
      (2)   Based on reviews completed of the sketch plat, the applicant is
required to comply with additional requirements when he submits the final plat,
as provided in these regulations. Such requirement may include compliance of
the proposed development with local or state policies, goals and objectives or
comprehensive plans; need for special permits or variance; consideration of any
unique environmental features or hazardous concerns that may be directly or
indirectly associated with the subject property, such as designated areas of
critical concern, unique plant or animal life, flood plain, aviation sensitive
areas and the like.
   (D)   Plan Commission action.  
      (1)   The Commission shall study the sketch plat and the report, taking
into consideration the requirements of these regulations and the best use of
the land being subdivided. Particular attention will be given to the
arrangement, location, width of streets, and their relation to the topography
of the land, sewage disposal, drainage, lot sizes and arrangement, the further
development of adjoining lands as yet unsubdivided, and the requirements of any
official maps and plans as adopted by the Commission.
      (2)   After reviewing the sketch plat, the Administrator’s report and
other reports, the Commission will advise the applicant, through the
Administrator, of the specific changes or additions, if any, it will require in
the layout. The character and extent of any such changes, additions,
improvements and reservations shall be noted as a prerequisite to the approval
of the subdivision sketch plat. The Commission may require additional changes
as a result of further study of the proposed subdivision in revised form.
      (3)   An approval shall constitute authorization to prepare and submit a
final plat.
      (4)   Such approval or disapproval shall be made by the Commission within
30 days after receiving the report from the Administrator.
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
§ 153.032 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Discussion of requirements.  Following the approval of the sketch
plat, the applicant, if he wishes to proceed with the subdivision, shall file
with the Plan Commission an application for final approval of a subdivision
plat.
   (B)   Application.  The application shall:
      (1)   Be presented to the Administrator at least four weeks prior to a
regular meeting of the Commission in order that a public hearing may be
scheduled and the required 15-day notice given. The date of the regular meeting
of the Commission at which the public hearing is held for final approval,
including any adjourned date thereof, shall constitute the official submittal
date of the plat for the purposes of these regulations;
      (2)   Be made in duplicate on forms available at the office of the
Administrator;
      (3)   Be accompanied by a fee of $100;
      (4)   Be accompanied by a minimum of four copies of the final plat which
shall comply in all respects with the sketch plat, as approved;
      (5)   Be accompanied by a minimum of three copies of complete final
construction plans, as described in these regulations;
      (6)   Be accompanied by all formal irrevocable offers of dedication to
the public of all streets, utilities, parks, easements, and other town
government uses, in a form approved by the Town Attorney. In addition, the
subdivision plat shall be marked with a notation indicating the formal offers
of dedication as follows:
   The owner, or his representative, hereby irrevocably offers for dedication
to the Town of Albany all the streets, local government uses, easements, parks
and required utilities shown on the subdivision plat and construction plans.
Signature______________________
Date____________
      (7)   Be accompanied by a full covenant and warranty deed to all lands
offered for dedication in proper form for recording, together with a title
policy for the Town Board in the sum to be determined by the Town Attorney
before signing of the final subdivision plat;
      (8)   Be accompanied by a performance bond in a form satisfactory to the
Town Attorney and in an amount established by the Plan Commission upon
recommendation of the Town Board. It shall include a provision that the
principal of the bond shall comply with all the terms of the resolution of
final subdivision plat approval as determined by the Commission and shall
include, but not be limited to, the performance of all required subdivision and
off-site improvements, and that all improvements and land included in the
irrevocable offer of dedication shall be dedicated to the town free and clear
of all liens and encumbrances on the premises;
      (9)   Be accompanied by stamped No. 10 envelopes addressed to each owner
of property immediately adjacent extending 100 feet therefrom, or of that
directly opposite thereto extending 100 feet from the street frontage of such
opposite property owners as are correct within the knowledge of the applicant
as shown on the latest tax assessment roll;
      (10)   Be accompanied by an inspection fee in an amount to be determined
on the basis of the provisions of these regulations;
      (11)   Be accompanied by a written assurance that street name signs shall
be installed by the applicant according to the approved standards set forth in
these regulations, or accompanied by a fee of $40 for each street sign shown in
the construction plans, in which case the street signs shall be installed by
the town.
   (C)   Endorsements by other public authorities.  The final subdivision plat
shall be properly endorsed by appropriate health and housing authorities to
assure the Commission that the plan is in compliance with all rules,
regulations, and requirements of local, state and federal authorities.
   (D)   Notice of public hearing. Upon receipt of formal application and all
accompanying material, the Administrator shall:
      (1)   Call a public hearing for the next scheduled meeting of the Plan
Commission to be held at least two weeks after the date of the application;
      (2)   Submit a notice for publication in one newspaper of general
circulation to be published at least 15 days prior to the public hearing and
mail notice to all property owners; and
      (3)   Maintain file copies of the plat and construction plans for public
review prior to the hearing.
   (E)   Public hearing and determination.  
      (1)   At the public hearing, the Commission will give an opportunity to
any interested persons to examine or comment upon the plat and construction
plans.
      (2)   After the public hearing, the Commission shall, within 30 days
after closing of the public hearing, approve, modify and approve, or disapprove
the subdivision application by resolution which shall set forth in detail any
conditions to which the approval is subject, or reasons for disapproval. In the
final resolution the Commission shall stipulate the period of time when the
performance bond shall be filed or the required improvements installed,
whichever is applicable. In no event shall a performance bond be submitted
later than 30 days from the date of final resolution, together with all
required documents. In no event shall the period of time stipulated by the
Commission for completion of required improvements exceed two years from the
date of the final resolution.
      (3)   One copy of the final subdivision plat shall be returned to the
subdivider with the date of approval, conditional approval, or disapproval,
noted thereon, and the reasons therefore, in writing, accompanying the plat.
   (F)   Submission for final review.  
      (1)   Subsequent to the resolution of the Plan Commission, three paper
copies of the construction plans, three copies of the subdivision plat on
tracing cloth, reproduction mylar, or sepia paper, and two copies of the
subdivision plat on paper shall be submitted to the Administrator for final
review.
      (2)   A check payable to the County Recorder in the amount of the current
filing fee shall be provided.
      (3)   No final approval shall be endorsed on the plat until a review has
indicated that all requirements of the resolution have been met.
   (G)   Vested rights.  
      (1)   No vested rights shall accrue to any plat by reason of final
approval until the actual signing of the plat by the Chairman of the Plan
Commission.
      (2)   All requirements, conditions, or regulations adopted by the
Commission applicable to the subdivision, or on all subdivisions generally,
shall be deemed a condition for any subdivision prior to the time of signing of
the final plat by the Chairman and Administrator.
      (3)   Where the Commission has required the installation of improvements
prior to signing of the final plat, the Commission shall not unreasonably
modify the conditions set forth in the final approval.
   (H)   Signing of plat.  
      (1)   When a bond is required, after the inspection fee has been paid,
the Plan Commission shall endorse approval on the plat upon approval of the
bond by the Town Board, provided all the conditions of the resolution
pertaining to the plat have been satisfied.
      (2)   When installation of improvements is required, the Plan Commission
shall endorse approval on the plat after all conditions of the resolution have
been satisfied and all improvements satisfactorily completed. There shall be
written evidence that the required public facilities have been installed in a
manner satisfactory to the Town Board as shown by a certificate signed by the
Town Engineer and Town Attorney that the necessary dedication of public lands
and improvements has been accomplished.
   (I)   Recording of plat.  
      (1)   The Administrator will sign the reproducible mylar, tracing cloth
or sepia prints of the subdivision plat and return two copies to the applicant.
A signed copy of the construction plans shall also be returned.
      (2)   It shall be the responsibility of the Administrator to file the
plat with the County Recorder within 30 days of the date of signature.
Simultaneously with the filing of the plat, the Administrator shall record the
agreement of dedication together with such legal documents as shall be required
to be recorded by the Town Attorney.
   (J)   Sectionalizing of plats.  
      (1)   Prior to granting final approval of a plat, the Commission may
permit the plat to be divided into two or more sections and may impose such
conditions upon the filing of the sections as it may deem necessary to assure
the orderly development of the plat. The Commission may require that the
performance bond be in such amount as is commensurate with the section or
sections of the plat to be filed and may defer the remaining required
performance bond principal amount until the remaining sections of the plat are
offered for filing.
      (2)   The developer may also file in irrevocable offers to dedicate
streets and public improvements in the sections offered to be filed and defer
filing offers of dedication for the remaining sections until such sections,
subject to any conditions imposed by the Commission, shall be granted
concurrently with final approval of the plat.
      (3)   In the event of approval of sectionalizing, the entire approved
subdivision plat including all sections shall be filed within 90 days after
date of final approval with the Administrator and such sections as have been
authorized by the Commission shall be filed with the County Recorder. Such
sections must contain at least 10% of the total number of lots contained in the
approved plat.
      (4)   The approval of all remaining sections not filed with the County
Recorder shall automatically expire unless such sections have been approved for
filing by the Commission, all fees paid, all instruments and offers of
dedication submitted, and performance bonds approved and actually filed with
the County Recorder within three years of the date of final approval of the
subdivision plat.
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
PROVISIONS FOR COMPLETION AND MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS
§ 153.050 ASSURANCE FOR COMPLETION.
   (A)   General requirement. Before the final plat is signed by the Chairman
the Plan Commission, all applicants shall be required to complete, in
accordance with the Administrator’s decision and to the satisfaction of the
Town Engineer, all the street, sanitary and other improvements including lot
improvements on the individual lots of the subdivision as required in these
regulations, specified in the final subdivision plat, and as approved by the
Commission, and to dedicate same to the local government, free and clear of all
liens and encumbrances on the property and public improvements thus dedicated.
Written notice shall be given to the Town Engineer within a minimum of three
days in advance of start of construction. Where construction has ceased for 90
days, renotification is required.
   (B)   Posting of performance bond.
      (1)   The Plan Commission, at its discretion, may waive the requirement
that the applicant complete and dedicate all public improvements prior to the
signing of the subdivision plat, and that, as an alternative, the applicant
post a bond at the time of application for final subdivision approval in an
amount estimated by the Commission as sufficient to secure to the town the
satisfactory construction, installation, and dedication of the incompleted
portion of required improvements. The performance bond shall also secure all
lot improvements on the individual lots of the subdivision as required in these
regulations.
      (2)   Such performance bond shall comply with all statutory requirements
and shall be satisfactory to the local Town Attorney as to form, sufficiency,
and manner of execution as set forth in these regulations.
      (3)   The period within which required improvements must be completed
shall be specified by the Commission in the resolution approving the final
subdivision plat and shall be incorporated in the bond and shall not in any
event exceed two years from the date of final approval.
      (4)   The Plan Commission may, upon proof of difficulty, recommend to the
Town Board extension of the completion date set forth in such bond for a
maximum period of one additional year. The Town Board may at any time during
the period of such bond accept a substitution of principal or sureties on the
bond upon recommendation of the Plan Commission.
   (C)   Completion of improvements.
      (1)   The applicant shall build and pay for all costs of temporary
improvements required by the Plan Commission and shall maintain same for the
period specified by the Commission. Prior to construction of any temporary
facility or improvement, the developer shall file with the local government a
separate suitable bond for temporary facilities, which bond shall insure that
the temporary facilities will be properly constructed, maintained, and removed.
      (2)   All required improvements shall be made by the applicant, at his
expense, without reimbursement by the local government or any improvement
district therein.
      (3)   The Town Board may file in lieu of the bond or contract a certified
resolution or ordinance from officers or agencies authorized to act in their
behalf, agreeing to comply with the provisions of this subchapter.
      (4)   For subdivisions for which no performance bond has been posted, if
the improvements are not completed within the period specified by the Plan
Commission in the resolution approving the plat, the approval shall be deemed
to have expired.
      (5)   In those cases where a performance bond has been posted and
required improvements have not been installed within the terms of such
performance bond, the town may thereupon declare the bond to be in default and
require that all the improvements be installed regardless of the extent of the
building development at the time the bond is declared to be in default.
   (D)   Inspection of improvements.
      (1)   The Plan Commission shall provide for inspection of required
improvements during construction and insure their satisfactory completion.
      (2)   The applicant may pay to the town an inspection fee as shown below
based on the amount of the performance bond, and the subdivision plot shall not
be signed by the Chairman of the Plan Commission, unless such fee has been paid
at the time of application. These fees shall be due and payable upon demand of
the Town Board and no building, improvement or driveway permits shall be issued
unless all fees are paid.
Construction cost Fee percentage
Construction cost Fee percentage
Below $100,000    Negotiated
200,000           7.9
300,000           7.2
400,000           6.4
500,000           5.9
600,000           5.6
700,000           5.3
800,000           5.0
900,000           4.8
1,000,000         4.6
2,000,000         4.0
3,000,000         3.3
4,000,000         3.1
5,000,000         2.9
Greater           Negotiated
      (3)   If the Town Engineer finds upon inspection that any of the required
improvements have not been constructed in accordance with the Town Board’s
construction standards and specifications, the applicant shall be responsible
for completing the improvements. Wherever the cost of improvements is covered
by a performance bond, the applicant and the bonding company shall be severally
and jointly liable for completing the improvement according to specifications.
   (E)   Acceptance of dedication offers. 
      (1)   Acceptance of formal offers of dedication of streets, public areas,
easements, and parks shall be by ordinance of the Town Board.
      (2)   The approval by the Plan Commission of a subdivision plat shall not
be deemed to constitute or imply the acceptance by the town of any street,
easement, or other public areas shown on the plat.
   (F)   Release or reduction of performance bond. 
      (1)   The Town Board shall not accept dedication of required
improvements, nor release nor reduce a performance bond, until the Town
Engineer has submitted a certificate stating that all required improvements
have been satisfactorily completed and until the applicant’s engineer has
certified to the Town Engineer, that the layout of all public improvements is
in accordance with construction plans for the subdivision and that a title
insurance policy has been furnished to and approved by the Town Attorney
indicating that the improvements shall have been completed, are ready for
dedication to the town, and are free and clear of any and all liens and
recommendation. The Town Board shall thereafter accept the improvements for
dedication in accordance with the established procedure.
      (2)   A performance bond may be reduced upon actual dedication and
acceptance of public improvements and then only to the ratio that the public
improvements dedicated bear to the total public improvements for the plat. In
no event shall a performance bond be reduced below 25% of the principal amount.
(Ord. - -, passed - -80; Am. Ord. 2005-9, passed 5-9-05)
§ 153.051 ASSURANCE FOR MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   General requirement.  The applicant shall be required to maintain all
improvements on the subdivided lots and, if required, provide for snow removal
and traffic control on streets and sidewalks until acceptance of the
improvements by the Town Board.
   (B)   Posting of maintenance bond.  The applicant may be required to file a
maintenance bond with the Town Board, prior to dedication, in an amount
considered adequate by the Town Engineer, in order to assure the satisfactory
condition of the required improvements, including all lot improvements on the
individual subdivided lots for a period of three years after the date of their
acceptance by the Town Board and dedication of same to the town.
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
§ 153.052 DEFERRAL OR WAIVER OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   General conditions. The Plan Commission may defer or waive at the time
of final approval, subject to appropriate conditions, the provisions of any or
all such improvements as, in its judgement, are not requisite in the interest
of public health, safety, and general welfare, or which are inappropriate
because of inadequacy or lack of connecting facilities.
   (B)   Assurance for future completion.  Whenever it is deemed necessary by
the Plan Commission to defer the construction of any improvements required
herein because of incompatible grades, future planning, inadequate or lack of
connecting facilities, or for other reasons, the applicant shall pay his share
of the costs of the future improvements to the town prior to signing of the
final subdivision plat, or the applicant may post a bond insuring completion of
the improvements upon demand of the Town Board.
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS
§ 153.070 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Plats. In addition to the requirements established herein, all
subdivision plats shall comply with the following rules, laws, and regulations:
      (1)   All applicable statutory provisions;
      (2)   The town zoning ordinances, building and housing codes, and all
other applicable laws of the town;
      (3)   The official Comprehensive or Master Plan, Public Utilities Plan,
Thoroughfare Plan, and Capital Improvements Program of the town, including all
public facilities, open space and recreation plans as adopted;
      (4)   The rules and regulations of State Board of Health, Department of
Natural Resources, Aeronautics Commission and other appropriate state agencies;
      (5)   The rules, regulations and standards of the Indiana State Highway
Commission if the subdivision or any lot contained therein abuts a state
highway;
      (6)   All applicable planning and regulatory guidelines, including access
control or driveway manuals, parking and traffic control ordinances, and other
applicable guides published by the local governmental units;
      (7)   The Indiana Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for
installation of traffic control devices. (See §
153.091).
   (B)   Construction plans. Plat approval may be withheld if a subdivision is
not in conformity with the above plan requirements or with the following
requirements for construction plans:
      (1)   It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider of every proposed
subdivision to have prepared by an engineer, a complete set of construction
plans, including profiles, cross-sections, specifications, and other supporting
data for all required public streets, utilities and other facilities.
      (2)   The final construction plans shall be based on preliminary plans
which have been approved with the preliminary plat, and shall be prepared and
submitted in conjunction with the final plat.
      (3)   Construction plans shall be prepared in accordance with the local
government’s standards and specifications.
   (C)   Material and construction control.  To assure compliance with good
engineering practice, the subdivider, contractor, or developer is required to
follow the latest issue of the Indiana State Highway - Standard Specifications
for material and construction control, except when different specifications are
explicitly described in these regulations, or adopted by the local Town
Engineer and approved by all appropriate boards, commissions, agencies, and
officials of the town.
   (D)   Political and jurisdictional boundaries. To eliminate potential
jurisdictional disputes and to facilitate effective coordination and control of
development, the Plan Commission shall be guided by the following policy:
      (1)   Whenever access to the subdivision is required across land in
another local government, the Commission shall request assurance from that
local Town Attorney that access is legally established, and from the Town
Engineer that the access road is adequately improved, or that a performance
bond has been duly executed and is sufficient in amount to assure the
construction of the access road.
      (2)   Lot lines shall be laid out so as not to cross boundary lines
between adjacent units of local government which have separate governing bodies
for the purpose of regulation and control of land use and development.
   (E)   Public improvements. Every subdivider shall be required to install the
following public and other improvements in accordance with the conditions and
specifications in these regulations:
      (1)   The applicant shall place permanent reference monuments in the
subdivision in accordance with §§
153.090 to
153.096 and as approved by a land surveyor.
      (2)   All streets and alleys shall be constructed in accordance with the
standards and specifications of §§
153.090 to
153.096 and as adopted and approved by the Town Board.
      (3)   Bicycle pathways may be provided within all subdivisions, as part
of the public right-of- way or separate easement, if such facilities have been
specified in an overall bicycle plan as adopted by the town.
      (4)   All bridges and culverts shall be constructed in accordance with
applicable engineering standards as approved by the local engineer.
      (5)   All driveways, and when approved or required, all median openings
and auxiliary lanes shall be constructed as specified in the local regulations
covering the construction of such elements of the streets.
      (6)   Underground installation of communication and electric utilities is
encouraged and may be required subject to the adopted policies of the Plan
Commission.
      (7)   All public water supply and sewer systems shall be constructed in
accordance with the adopted local plans and specifications.
      (8)   The placement of fire hydrants and water mains for adequate fire
protection shall be in accordance with the appropriate fire district standards.
      (9)   Street name signs shall be installed in the appropriate locations
at each street intersection in accordance with the local standards. (See §
153.032(B)(11)).
      (10)   Pedestrian walkways, when required, shall have easements at least
ten feet in width and include a paved walk at lease five feet in width.
      (11)   Greenbelts or landscape screening may be required for the
protection of residential properties from adjacent major arterial streets,
railroad rights-of- way, commercial or industrial areas, or other features.
      (12)   Street lights may be required to be installed at intersections
throughout the subdivision and such installations shall conform to the
requirements of the Town Board and the public utility providing such lighting.
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
§ 153.071 SUBDIVISION AND LOT LAYOUT.
   (A)   Street location and arrangements. Within a proposed subdivision,
arterial and collector streets, as shown on the Comprehensive Plan, shall be
dedicated to the public in all cases. In general, all other streets, including
new collectors and locals, shall also be dedicated to public use. The street
layout shall conform to the following:
      (1)   When an official street plan or Comprehensive Plan has been
adopted, subdivision streets shall conform to such plans.
      (2)   Local streets shall be so arranged as to discourage their use by
through traffic.
      (3)   The construction of stub streets shall not be permitted except
where the adjoining areas are under the same ownership as the area proposed to
be subdivided. In such a case the arrangement of streets in new subdivisions
may be such that the streets extend to the boundary line of the tract to make
provisions for the future extension of the streets into adjacent areas. The
Commission shall require a reserve strip to be held in public ownership or
other assurances from the developer to assure the future extension of such
temporary stub streets. The developer shall install a guard rail across the
stub end of the street and post markings and signs as required in the Manual on
Uniform Traffic Control Devices, Indiana. (See §
153.091).
      (4)   Local streets shall be arranged in proper relation to topography in
a manner which results in usable lots, safe streets and acceptable gradients
without unnecessary destruction of drainage courses, trees and other natural
features of land.
      (5)   Alleys shall be provided in multiple- dwelling or commercial
subdivisions unless other provisions are made for service access and off-street
loading and unloading. Dead-end alleys shall be prohibited.
      (6)   Where a subdivision abuts or contains an arterial street, it shall
be required that frontage roads be constructed approximately parallel to and on
each side of such arterial street. The Commission may require such other
treatment as is necessary for the adequate protection of residential properties
and to separate through traffic from local traffic.
      (7)   No intersection shall be constructed with more than four approach
legs and the development of three-legged intersections is encouraged due to the
increased safety of such intersections.
      (8)   Half streets shall be prohibited except where unusual circumstances
make such necessary to the reasonable development of a tract in conformance
with these regulations and where satisfactory assurance for dedication of the
remaining part of the street is provided. Whenever a tract to be subdivided
borders on an existing half or partial street, the other part of the street
shall be dedicated within such tract.
      (9)   Whenever a proposed subdivision borders an existing street, the
Commission may require the reconstruction or widening of such street as a
condition of plat approval. Additional dedication of right-of-way may also be
required.
      (10)   Private streets and roads shall be prohibited except within
flexible zoning subdivisions and mobile home subdivisions.
   (B)   Lot arrangements.
      (1)   The lot arrangements shall be such that there will be no
foreseeable difficulties, for reasons of topography or other conditions, in
securing building permits to build on all lots in compliance with the zoning
regulations and other regulations and in providing safe driveway access to
buildings on such lots from an approved street.
      (2)   Lot dimensions shall comply with the minimum standards of the
zoning regulations.
      (3)   Double frontage and reversed frontage lots shall be avoided except
where necessary to provide separation of residential development from arterial
streets or to overcome specific disadvantages of topography and orientation.
      (4)   Lots shall not, in general, derive access exclusively from an
arterial or major collector street. Where driveway access from an arterial or
major collector street may be necessary for several adjoining lots, the Plan
Commission may require that such lots be served by a common and combined
driveway in order to limit possible traffic hazards on such street.
      (5)   Lots shall be laid out so as to provide positive drainage away from
all buildings and individual lot drainage shall be coordinated with the general
storm drainage pattern for the area.
      (6)   Topsoil shall not be removed from residential lots or used as
spoil, but shall be redistributed so as to provide at least six inches of cover
on the lots and at least four inches of cover between the sidewalks and curbs,
and shall be stabilized by seeding or planting.
      (7)   No cut trees, timber, debris, earth, rocks, stones, soil, junk,
rubbish, or other waste materials of any kind shall be buried in any land, or
left deposited on any lot or street at the time the buildings are ready for
occupancy.
      (8)   Where individual septic tanks have been authorized, sufficient area
shall be provided for a replacement sewage disposal system as determined by the
Town Engineer.
   (C)   Block arrangements.
      (1)   Blocks shall have sufficient width to provide for two tiers of lots
of appropriate depth. Exceptions to this prescribed block width shall be
permitted in blocks adjacent to major transportation facilities, water courses,
and industrial and commercial areas.
      (2)   Whenever practicable, blocks along arterials and major collector
streets shall not be less than 1,000 feet in length. As a general rule, blocks
in other residential areas shall not be more than 1,000 nor less than 400 feet
in length.
      (3)   In long blocks, the Plan Commission may require an easement through
the block to accommodate utilities, drainage facilities, or pedestrian
walkways.
   (D)   Subdivision and street names.
      (1)   The proposed name of the subdivision shall not duplicate, or too
closely approximate phonetically, the name of any other subdivision in the area
covered by these regulations. The Plan Commission shall have final authority to
approve the name of the subdivision which shall be determined at the time of
sketch plat approval.
      (2)   Street names shall not duplicate any existing name within the area
covered by these regulations except where a new street is a continuation of an
existing street. Street names that may be spelled differently but sound the
same as existing streets shall not be used.
      (3)   The Plan Commission shall have final authority to name all streets
(in case of conflict) upon recommendation of the Administrator at the time of
sketch plat approval.
   (E)   Public sites and open spaces.
      (1)   Where it is determined that a proposed park, playground, school or
other public use as shown on the local government’s plan is located in whole or
in part within a proposed subdivision, sufficient area for such public use
shall be dedicated to the public or reserved and offered for public purchase.
If within three years of plat recording, the purchase is not agreed on, the
reservation shall be cancelled or shall automatically cease to exist.
      (2)   Existing natural features which add value to residential
development and enhance the attractiveness of the community shall be preserved
in the design of the subdivision.
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
DESIGN STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS
§ 153.090 MONUMENTS.
   (A)   General.  All monuments shall be properly set flush with the ground
and approved by a registered land surveyor prior to the time the Plan
Commission recommends approval of the final plat.
   (B)   External boundaries.  
      (1)   The external boundaries of a subdivision shall be monumented in the
field by monuments of stone or concrete, not less than 30 inches in length, not
less than 4 inches square or 5 inches in diameter, and marked on top with a
cross, brass plug, iron rod, or other durable material securely embedded; or if
approved by the Town Board having jurisdiction over these regulations, by iron
rods or pipes at least 30 inches long and 2 inches in diameter.
      (2)   The spacing and exact location requirements shall be established by
the Town Engineer and Surveyor. The Plan Commission may amend these
requirements.
   (C)   Internal boundaries. All internal boundaries and those corners and
points not covered by the preceding paragraph shall be monumented in the field
by like monuments as described above. These monuments shall be placed at all
block corners, at each end of all curves, and at all internal angle points as
required by the Town Engineer.
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
§ 153.091 TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Regulatory signs. The applicant may be required to deposit with the
Town Board at the time of final subdivision approval the sum of $50 for each
sign required by the Town Engineer at all road intersections. The town shall
install all such signs in accordance with the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices of Indiana. No fee shall be charged for other regulatory signs.
   (B)   Warning signs and other devices. The town shall be responsible for the
installation of all warning signs and other traffic control devices, except
when warranted in industrial and commercial areas, the developer may be
required to pay the cost of traffic signal installation and interconnection.
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
§ 153.092 STREETS AND ROADS.
   (A)   General.  In order to provide for streets of suitable location, width,
and improvement to accommodate expected traffic and afford satisfactory access
to police, firefighting, snow removal, sanitation, and road-maintenance
equipment, and to coordinate street development so as to compose a convenient
system, avoid undue hardships to adjoining properties and assure compatibility
with long range and comprehensive plans, all streets shall be designed
according to the geometric standards set forth in these regulations.
   (B)   Principles of design.  
      (1)   Subdivision street design, as a general rule, deals with the design
of local and minor collector streets which are part of a functionally
classified overall street and road system of an area (see
Appendix A, Tables 1 and 2 and
Appendix B, (Figure 1) for average dimensions by Functional Classification). In
designing and approving subdivision streets, the following factors shall
receive consideration:
         (a)   Safety for both vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
         (b)   Efficiency of service for all users;
         (c)   Livability or amenities as affected by traffic elements in the
circulation system;
         (d)   Economy of both construction and use of land.
      (2)   Design of major collector and arterial streets shall require
special design and approval of the Town Engineer and the following design
guidelines are therefore specifically intended for streets within the
subdivision: minor collectors and locals.
   (C)   Interpretation of design tables. Tables 1 and 2 (See
Appendix A) and Figure 1 (See
Appendix B) represent average conditions and are included in these regulations
to illustrate the hierarchy of functional classification. Tables 3 and 4 (See
Appendix A) represent specific design standards for minor collectors and local
streets respectively. Design variation or control is based on “terrain
classification” and “development density” as described below:
      (1)   Definitions of terrain classification are:
         (a)   LEVEL. Cross slopes range of 0% to 8%.
         (b)   ROLLING. Cross slopes range of 8.1 % and over.
      (2)   Definitions of density classification in terms of gross land area
are:
         (a)   LOW. Two or less dwelling units per acre.
         (b)   MEDIUM. Two and one-tenth or six dwelling units per acre.
         (c)   HIGH. Over six dwelling units per acre.
   (D)   Design traffic volumes. The design hourly volume, DHV, or average
daily traffic, ADT, is accepted basis for design. In rural areas the Town
Engineer may amend the design standards as determined by traffic demand
analysis. However, the traffic volume usually is not a major criterion in
determining the geometric values to be used in designing low volume residential
local and minor collector streets. Traffic volumes are a major factor to be
considered for streets serving commercial and industrial areas and the Town
Engineer is required to give special attention to these areas.
   (E)   Design speed. Design speeds are not a major factor for urban
residential local and minor collector design. As a general rule, the same rule
can be applied to rural low volume roads in subdivision design. The slight
distances and curve radii in Tables 3 and 4 (See
Appendix A) are commensurate with average acceptable design speeds.
   (F)   Vertical grades.  
      (1)   Drainage design may become critical where grades exceed 4%. For
this reason, grade slower than the suggested tabular values are encouraged.
Commercial and industrial streets shall be held to a maximum grade of 4%.
Residential streets shall in no case exceed the tabular values. In order to
provide for proper drainage the minimum grade should be held to 0.5%.
      (2)   The maximum grade on the approach leg of any intersection shall not
exceed 2% in level terrain.
   (G)   Superelevation. Superelevation is usually not required in residential
areas. It should be considered in commercial and industrial areas and for
collector streets where operating speeds may exceed 30 to 55 miles per hour.
Where superelevation is used, street curves should be designed for a maximum
superelevation rate of:
      (1)   Urban: 0.04 to 0.06 foot per foot; and
      (2)   Rural: 0.08 to 0.12 foot per foot.
   (H)   Horizontal alinement. Minimum centerline radii for horizontal curves
shall be as specified in Tables 3 and 4 (See
Appendix A). The minimum tangent between reverse curves shall be:
      (1)   Residential Local: 100 feet;
      (2)   Residential Minor: 150 feet; and
      (3)   Commercial/Industrial Collector: 200 feet.
   (I)   Intersections.  
      (1)   Intersections, including median openings, should be designed with
adequate corner sight distance. The recommended minimum corner sight distance
is 200 feet for local streets and 300 feet for minor collectors. In order to
maintain these distances the local Town Engineer or the Administrator may
recommend regulations to restrict the height of embankment, location of
buildings and screening fences and landscaping, and other provisions necessary
for intersection sight control.
      (2)   The minimum intersection angle shall be 75.
      (3)   Closely spaced offset intersections are undesirable. The minimum
intersection centerline offset (jog) shall be 150 feet. To accommodate
transitional tapers, turning lanes and other potential roadway design
requirements where needed, the Town Engineer may recommend longer offsets.
      (4)   The minimum curb return radius at local streets shall be 15 feet
and at residential collector streets 20 feet. The desirable radius is 25 and 30
feet respectively. On commercial and industrial streets the radius shall be 30
feet except where traffic conditions may warrant a smaller radius. The use of
three- centered curves may be required in commercial and industrial areas to
accommodate the largest vehicles expected.
   (J)   Culs-de-sac.  
      (1)   The maximum length of a residential local street cul-de-sac shall
be 600 feet. Wherever a minor collector street serves exclusively an industrial
or commercial area, a cul-de-sac may be allowed and the length may be increased
to 1,000 feet. This special provision shall be allowed only in areas which have
difficult access or are otherwise unsuitable for normal subdividing. However, a
48-foot pavement shall be required in all cases under this special provision.
No culs-de-sac are allowed on residential collectors.
      (2)   The minimum radii for culs-de-sac shall be as follows:
         (a)   Local: right-of-way or outside, 50 feet; back-to-back of curb,
38 feet;
         (b)   Commercial/Industrial: right-of- way or outside, 60 feet; back-
to-back of curb, 50 feet.
   (K)   Auxiliary lanes. The Town Engineer shall require construction of
parking and turning lanes and transitional tapers where warranted.
   (L)   Sidewalks. Sidewalks shall be provided along both sides of streets
used for pedestrian access to schools located in commercial areas. In medium
density residential areas, the Commission may allow for a sidewalk on one side
only. Minimum thickness shall be four inches portland cement concrete.
   (M)   Subgrades and pavements.
      (1)   Specifications for construction and materials shall be as set forth
in the applicable sections of Standard Specifications of the Indiana State
Highway Commission. All pavements shall be constructed on compacted subgrade.
      (2)   Rigid pavements (air-entrained plain cement concrete) shall meet
the following minimum requirements:
         (a)   Pavement thickness: 6 inches on local streets; 7 inches on
residential collector streets; 8 inches on commercial/industrial collector
streets;
         (b)   Contraction joints: placed at a spacing of 20 feet or less;
placed at every catch basin and manhole in line of pavement; extend throughout
side strips and curbs to full width of pavement.
         (c)   Expansion joints: with approved dowel bar assembly, shall be
placed at intersections; where shown on plans.
      (3)   (a)   Flexible pavements may be used. For full depth hot asphaltic
concrete or hot asphalt emulsion, the minimum pavement thickness shall be:
            1.   Seven and one-half inches on local streets;
            2.   Nine and one-half inches on residential collector streets;
            3.   Eleven and one-half inches on commercial/industrial collector
streets; and
            4.   Special design on all other streets.
         (b)   In lieu of full depth asphalt construction, conventional
flexible pavements may be used, provided, however, that they meet the following
minimum requirements:
            1.   In no case shall the maximum lift exceed 32 inches;
            2.   Local Streets: 3 inches HAC on 8 inches of compacted aggregate
base;
            3.   Collector Streets: 3 inches HAC on 8 inches of compacted
aggregate base. Commercial and Industrial Collectors may require higher
standards.
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
§ 153.093 DRAINAGE FACILITIES.
   (A)   General.  The Plan Commission shall not recommend for approval any
plat of subdivision which does not make adequate provision for storm or flood
water runoff. The drainage systems shall be separate and independent of any
sanitary sewer system. Storm sewers, where required, shall be designed
according to the methods recommended by the Town Engineer, endorsed by the
Administrator, and approved by the Plan Commission, and a copy of the design
computations shall be submitted along with plans. Inlets shall be provided so
that surface water is not carried across or around any intersection, nor for a
distance of more than 400 feet in any gutter. Surface water drainage patterns
shall be shown for each and every lot and block.
   (B)   Requirements for storm sewers.  
      (1)   The applicant may be required by the Plan Commission to carry away
by pipe or open ditch any spring or surface water that may exist either
previously to, or as a result of, the subdivision. Such drainage facilities
shall be located in the road right-of- way where feasible, or in perpetual
unobstructed easements of appropriate width.
      (2)   Where a public storm sewer is accessible, the applicant shall
install storm sewer facilities, or if no outlets are within a reasonable
distance, adequate provision shall be made for the disposal of storm waters
subject to the specifications of the local Town Engineer.
      (3)   Where conditions exist that would require a sewer size larger than
what is normally required for a particular size subdivision, the town may bear
the additional cost for the oversized facility, over and above what would be
required for the subdivision alone.
      (4)   In subdivisions containing lots less than 15,000 square feet in
area and in commercial and industrial districts, the Commission shall require
that underground storm sewer systems be constructed throughout the subdivisions
and be conducted to an approved out-fall regardless of the distance of public
sewer facilities.
      (5)   If the Commission determines that a connection to a public storm
sewer will eventually be provided as shown in existing local plans and
programs, the developer shall make arrangements for future storm water disposal
in the subdivision by a public utility system at the time the plat receives
final approval. Provision for such connection shall be incorporated by
inclusion in the performance bond required for the subdivision plat.
   (C)   Poor drainage areas.  Whenever a plat is submitted for an area which
is subject to flooding, the Plan Commission may approve such application
provided that the applicant fills the affected area of the subdivision to an
elevation as determined by the Town Engineer.
   (D)   Flood plain areas. The Plan Commission may, when it deems it necessary
for the health, safety, or welfare of the present and future population of the
area and necessary to the conservation of water, drainage, and sanitary
facilities, prohibit the subdivision or any portion of the property which lies
within the flood plain. Any approvals within the flood plain shall, at a
minimum, meet the requirements of the Indiana Department of Natural Resources.
   (E)   Drainage easements. Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse,
drainage way, channel, or stream, the subdivider shall provide a storm water
easement or drainage right-of-way conforming substantially to the lines of such
watercourse, and of such width and construction as will be acceptable to the
Town Engineer. Such easement shall be adequately monumented and wherever
possible, it is desirable that the drainage be maintained by open channel with
landscaped banks.
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
§ 153.094 WATER FACILITIES.
   (A)   General.  
      (1)   Necessary action shall be taken by the applicant to extend or
create a water-supply district for the purpose of providing a water supply
system capable of providing water for domestic use and fire protection.
      (2)   Where a public water main is accessible the subdivider shall
install adequate water facilities, including fire hydrants, subject to the
specification of state and local authorities.
      (3)   The location of all fire hydrants, all water supply improvements,
and the boundary lines of proposed districts, shall be shown on the sketch
plat, and the cost of installing same shall be included in the performance
bond.
   (B)   Individual wells and central water systems. In low-density zoning
districts and in outlying or rural areas, at the discretion of the Plan
Commission, if a public water system is not available, individual wells may be
used or a central water system provided in such a manner that an adequate
supply of potable water will be available to every lot in the subdivision.
Individual wells and central water systems shall be sampled and approved by the
appropriate health authorities.
   (C)   Fire hydrants.  Fire hydrants shall be required for all subdivisions
except those coming under §
153.094(B) of this subchapter. Unless otherwise specified by local fire
regulations, fire hydrants shall be located no more than 1,000 feet apart and
within 500 feet of any structure and shall be approved by the local fire
protection unit.
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
§ 153.095 SEWAGE FACILITIES.
   (A)   General. The applicant shall install sanitary sewer facilities in a
manner prescribed by the Town Board’s construction standards as approved by the
Town Engineer. All plans shall be designed, and sewer facilities (including
laterals in the right-of-way) installed, subject to the specifications, rules,
regulations, aid guidelines of the Town Engineer and appropriate health and
other officials. Necessary action shall be taken by the applicant to extend or
create a sanitary sewer district for the purpose of providing sewer facilities
to the subdivision where no facilities exist for the land to be subdivided.
Where conditions exist that would require a sewer size larger than what is
normally required for a particular size subdivision, the town may bear the
additional cost between what would normally be required for the subdivision and
the oversized facility.
   (B)   High-Density Residential and Nonresidential Districts. Sanitary sewer
facilities shall connect with public sanitary sewer systems. Sewers shall be
installed to serve each lot and to grades and sizes required by appropriate
local officials and agencies. No individual disposal system or treatment plants
(private or group disposal systems) shall be permitted.
   (C)   Low- and Medium-Density Residential Districts. Sanitary sewer systems
shall be constructed as follows:
      (1)   Where a public sanitary sewer system is reasonably accessible (as
determined by the Plan Commission) the applicant shall connect with it and
provide sewers to each lot in the subdivision.
      (2)   Where public sanitary sewer systems are not reasonably accessible
but will become available within a reasonable time not to exceed 15 years, the
applicant may choose to install one of the following alternatives:
         (a)   Central sewerage system with the maintenance cost to be assessed
against each property benefitted. Where plans for future public sanitary sewer
systems exist, the applicant shall install the sewer lines, laterals, and mains
in conformance with such plans and ready for connection to such future sewer
mains; or
         (b)   Individual sewage disposal systems, provided the applicant shall
install sanitary sewer lines, laterals, and mains to a point in the subdivision
boundary where a future connection with the public sewer main shall be made.
Sewer lines shall be laid from the individual dwellings to the street line, and
a connection shall be available in each dwelling to connect from the individual
disposal system to the sewer system when the public sewers become available.
Such sewer systems shall be appropriately capped until ready for use.
      (3)   Where sanitary sewer systems are not reasonably accessible and will
not become available within an estimated 15-year period, the applicant may
install sewerage systems as follows:
         (a)   Medium-Density Residential Districts shall have a central
sewerage system. No individual disposal system will be permitted. The
Commission may, however, where plans exist for a public sewer system to be
built beyond a period of 15 years, require that the applicant install all sewer
lines, laterals, and mains in conformance with such plans and ready for
connection to such public sewer mains.
         (b)   Low-Density Residential Districts may have individual sewage
disposal systems or a central sewerage system can be used.
   (D)   Mandatory connections to public sewers.  If a public sanitary sewer is
accessible and a sanitary sewer is placed in a street or alley abutting upon a
property, the owner thereof shall be required to connect to the sewer for the
purpose of disposing of waste. It shall be unlawful for any such owner or
occupant to maintain upon any such property an individual sewage disposal
system.
   (E)   Individual disposal system requirements. Minimum lot areas shall
conform to the requirements of the zoning regulations and percolation tests and
test holes shall be made as directed by the Town Engineer in conformance with
health department regulations.
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
§ 153.096 NONRESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   General.  
      (1)   If a proposed subdivision includes land that is zoned for
commercial or industrial purposes, the layout of the subdivision with respect
to such land shall make such provision as the Plan Commission may require.
      (2)   A nonresidential subdivision shall be subject to all the
requirements of site plan and approval set forth in the zoning regulations.
Site plan approval and nonresidential subdivision plat approval may proceed
simultaneously at the discretion of the Commission. A nonresidential
subdivision shall also be subject to all the requirements of these regulations,
as well as such additional standards required by the Commission, and shall
conform to the proposed land use and standards established in the Comprehensive
Plan and other plans of the town.
   (B)   Standards. In addition to the principles and standards in these
regulations, which are appropriate to the planning of all subdivisions, the
applicant shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Commission that the
street, parcel, and block pattern proposed is specifically adapted to the uses
anticipated and takes into account other uses in the vicinity. The following
principles and standards shall be observed.
      (1)   Each nonresidential area or parcel shall be shown, and marked on
the plat as to its intended use.
      (2)   Proposed parcels shall be suitable in area and dimensions to the
types of development anticipated.
      (3)   Special requirements shall be imposed by the local government with
respect to street, curb, driveway, and sidewalk design and construction.
      (4)   The Town Engineer shall approve in writing prior to final plat
approval that the proposed non-residential development will not conflict with
traffic circulation patterns, and requirements for driveway location and
design, and can reasonably be implemented at no cost to the town.
      (5)   Special requirements may be imposed by the Town Board with respect
to the installation of public utilities, including water, sewer, and storm
water facilities.
      (6)   Every effort shall be made to protect adjacent residential areas
from potential nuisance from a proposed nonresidential subdivision, including
the provision of extra depth in parcels backing up on existing or potential
residential development and provisions for a permanently landscaped buffer
strip when necessary.
      (7)   Streets carrying nonresidential traffic shall not be extended to
the boundaries of adjacent existing or potential residential areas. No
residential local street shall terminate at a proposed or existing
nonresidential area.
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
SPECIFICATIONS FOR DOCUMENTS
§ 153.110 SKETCH PLAT.
   (A)   General. All sketch plats submitted to the Plan Commission, prepared
in pen or pencil, shall be drawn to a convenient “engineer’s” scale of not more
than 100 feet to an inch and shall show all information described in this
section.
   (B)   Name.
      (1)   Name of subdivision if property is within an existing subdivision.
      (2)   Proposed name if not within a previously platted subdivision.
   (C)   Ownership.
      (1)   Name and address, including telephone number, of legal owner or
agent of property involved giving grantor, grantee, date, and land records
reference.
      (2)   Citation of any existing legal rights-of- way or easements
affecting the property.
      (3)   Existing covenants on the property, if any.
      (4)   Name and address, including telephone number, of the professional
engineers and surveyors responsible for subdivision design, for the design of
public improvements, and for surveys.
   (D)   Description. Location of property by lot, section, township, range and
county, and it shall include a graphic scale, north arrow and date.
   (E)   Features.
      (1)   Location of property lines, existing easements, burial grounds,
railroad rights-of-way, watercourses, and existing wooded areas or trees eight
inches or more in diameter, measured four feet above ground level; location,
width, and names of all existing or platted streets or other public ways within
or immediately adjacent to the tract.
      (2)   Location, sizes, elevations, and slopes of existing sewers, water
mains, culverts, and other underground structures within the tract and
immediately adjacent thereto; existing permanent buildings and utility poles on
or immediately adjacent to the tract, and utility rights-of-way.
      (3)   Approximate topography at the same scale as the sketch plat.
      (4)   The approximate location and widths of proposed streets.
      (5)   Preliminary proposals for connection with existing water supply and
sanitary sewer systems, or alternative means of providing water supply and
sanitary waste disposal and treatment; preliminary provisions for collecting
and discharging surface water drainage.
      (6)   The approximate location, dimensions, and areas of all proposed or
existing lots.
      (7)   The approximate location, dimensions, and area of all parcels of
land proposed to be set aside for park or playground use or other public use,
or for the use of property owners in the proposed subdivision.
      (8)   The location of temporary stakes to enable the Town Engineer to
find and appraise features of the sketch plat in the field, if needed.
      (9)   Whenever the sketch plat covers only a part of an applicant’s
contiguous holdings, the applicant shall submit, at the scale of no more than
200 feet to the inch, a sketch in pen or pencil of the proposed subdivision
area, together with its proposed street system, and an indication of the
probable future street and drainage system of the remaining portion of the
tract.
      (10)   A vicinity map showing streets and other general development of
the surrounding area. The sketch plat shall show all school and improvement
district lines with the districts (or zones) properly designated.
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
§ 153.111 CONSTRUCTION PLANS.
   (A)   General.  Construction plans shall be prepared for all required
improvements. Plans shall be drawn on standard 24 by 36 inch sheets at a scale
of no more than 1 inch equals 50 feet.
   (B)   Features.  The plans shall show the following:
      (1)   Profiles showing existing and proposed elevations along center
lines of all streets. Where a proposed street intersects an existing street or
streets within 100 feet of the intersection. Approximate radii of all curves,
lengths of tangents, and central angles on all streets.
      (2)   The Plan Commission may require, where steep slopes exist, that
cross-sections of all proposed streets at 100-foot stations shall be shown at
five points as follows: On a line at right angles to the center line of the
street, and the elevation points shall be at the center line of the street,
each property line, and points 25 feet inside each property line.
      (3)   Plans and profiles showing the location and typical cross-section
of streets including curbs and gutters, sidewalks, rights-of-way, drainage
facilities, manholes, and catch basins; the location, size and invert
elevations of existing and proposed sanitary sewers, storm water drains, and
fire hydrants, showing connection to any existing or proposed utility systems;
the location of street trees, street lighting standards, and street signs; and
exact location and size of all water, gas, or other underground utilities or
structures.
      (4)   Location, size, elevation and other appropriate description of any
other existing physical and natural features or facilities, including features
noted on the official maps of the town, trees with a diameter of eight inches
or more (measured four feet above ground level), the points of connection to
proposed facilities and utilities, and the approximate high- and low-water
elevations of all ponds, lakes and streams. All elevations shall be referred to
the U.S.G.S. datum plane.
      (5)   Topography at the same scale as the sketch plat, with contour
intervals at two and/or five feet, depending on the terrain type.
      (6)   All specifications and references required by the town’s
construction standards and specifications, including a site-grading plan for
the entire subdivision, and a traffic control and barricading plan, where
required.
      (7)   Space for notation of approval as follows:
APPROVED BY:
Owner_______________ Date____________
Plan Commission Chairman_______________
   Date___________
      (8)   Title, name, registration number (seal), address, and signature of
professional engineer and surveyor, and date.
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
§ 153.112 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   General. The final subdivision plat shall be presented as required in
§
153.031(D), and at the same scale and contain the same information (except for
any changes or additions required by resolution of the Plan Commission) as
shown on the preliminary plat. All revision dates must be shown as well as the
following:
      (1)   Notation of any self-imposed restrictions, and locations of any
buildings and litres proposed to be established in this manner, if required by
the Commission in accordance with these regulations. The Commission may require
that restrictive covenants be recorded with the County Recorder in a form to be
approved by the Town Attorney.
      (2)   Lots numbered as approved by the Plan Commission.
      (3)   All monuments erected and noted.
   (B)   Preparation. The final subdivision plat shall be prepared and sealed
by a registered land surveyor.
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
§ 153.998 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Administrator to periodically research the
County Assessor’s records and perform other necessary investigation to detect
any violations of these regulations.
   (B)   The Administrator shall enforce these regulations and bring to the
attention of the prosecuting attorney any violations or lack of compliance
herewith.
   (C)   No owner, or agent of the owner, of any parcel of land located in a
proposed subdivision shall transfer or sell any such parcel before a plat of
the subdivision has been approved by the Plan Commission, in accordance with
the provisions of these regulations, and filed with the County Recorder.
   (D)   No public board, agency, commission, official or other authority shall
proceed with the construction of or authorize the construction of any of the
public improvements required by these regulations until the proposed
subdivision has been approved by the Plan Commission in accordance with these
regulations.
   (E)   No building permit shall be issued for the construction of any
building or structure located on a lot or plat subdivided or sold in violation
of the provisions of these regulations.
   (F)   The prosecuting attorney shall, in addition to taking whatever
criminal action deemed necessary, take steps to civilly enjoin any violation of
these regulations.
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Penalties for failure to comply with the provisions of these
regulations shall be as follows: Violation of any of the provisions of these
regulations or failure to comply with any of its requirements shall constitute
a misdemeanor. Each day a violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense. The land owner, tenant, subdivider, builder, public official or any
other person who commits, participates in, assists in, or maintains such
violation may be found guilty of a separate offense. Nothing herein contained
shall prevent the Town Board or any other public official or private citizen
from taking such lawful action as is necessary to restrain or prevent any
violation of these regulations.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any of these regulations
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less
than $10 and not more than $300.
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
APPENDIX A: STREET STANDARDS
Tables
   1.   Rural geometric design standards by functional classification
   2.   Urban geometric design standards by functional classification
   3.   Collector street standards
   4.   Local street standards
TABLE 1. RURAL GEOMETRIC DESIGN STANDARDS BY FUNCTIONAL CLASSIFICATION.
Functional Major Arterial Minor Arterial Major Collector Minor Collector Local
Class
Functional     Major Arterial Minor Arterial Major     Minor     Local
Class                                        Collector Collector
Aver. Daily    5,000—7,000  1,500—5,000  750—1,50400—750 Less than 400
Volume, ADT
Operating      50—55        50—55        45        30—45   30
Speed
No. of Traffic Initial: 2@12
lanes & Width, (a)            2 @ 2(a)       2 @ 2(a)  2 @ 2(a)  2 @ 2(a)
ft.            Ultimate: 4@12
Shoulder       11(c)          11(c)          11(c)     8         6
Width, ft.
Median Width,  Initial: None  None           None      None      None
ft.            Ultimate: 60
Min. Right-of- 250 or more    160            100       80        60
way, ft.
Gradient, Max, 3              4              4         5         8
ft.
Curvature,     2              3              4         8         12
Max, Percent
Min. Stopping
Sight Dist.,   600            600            475       350       200
ft.
Min. Passing
Sight Dist.,   2,300          2,300          2,000     1,700     800
ft.
Access Control Partial        Partial where  None      None      None
                              feasible
(a)   Through traffic lanes only. Auxiliary lanes, including parking, are not
included. For parking lanes on Urban Section add ten feet on either or both
sides as required.
(c)   Shoulder may be reduced two feet in cut sections in difficult terrain.
Shoulder width shown includes stabilized portion, if any.
 
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
TABLE 2. URBAN GEOMETRIC DESIGN STANDARDS BY FUNCTIONAL CLASSIFICATION.
Functional Major Arterial Minor Arterial Major Collector Minor Collector Local
Class
Functional    Major      Minor Arterial Major     Minor         Local
Class         Arterial                  Collector Collector
Design Hour   Over 2,000 Less than      900—1,80Less than 900 Generally Less
Volume, DHV              2,000                                  than 500
Operating     25—35    25—35        20—30   20—30       2 @ 15(b)
Speed, mph.
No. of
Traffic Lanes 6 @ 12(a)  4 @ 12(a)      4 @ 12(a) 2 @ 18(b)     2 @ 15(b)
& Width, ft.
Median Width, 4' Min.    4' Min.        None      None          None
ft.           30' Des.   30' Des.
Min. Right-   120—160  120—160      100       80            60
of-Way, ft.
Gradient,     4          4              5         5             8
Max, Percent
Min.
Centerline    475        350            250       200           150
Radius, ft.
Min. Stopping
Sight Dist.,  275        275            275       200           150
ft.
Curbing       Barrier    Barrier        Barrier   Barrier or    Mountable
                                                  Mountable
Min. Curb
Return        30         30             30        20(d)         15
Radius, ft.
Min.
Intersection  75         75             75        75            75
Angle, Deg.
Min. Street   NA         NA             NA        150           150
Jog, ft.
Min. Width of
Sidewalks,    5          5              5         5             5
ft.
Max. Cul-de-
Sac Length,   NA         NA             NA        1,000(e)      600
ft.
Min. Cul-de-
Sac Radius,   NA         NA             NA        50(e)         40
ft.
Access        None       None           None      None          None
Control
(a)   Through traffic lanes only. Auxiliary lanes, including parking, are not
included. For parking lanes on Urban Section add ten feet on either or both
sides as required.
(b)   Lane Width includes two-foot curb and gutter section.
(c)   Twenty-foot radius for residential areas only. For Industrial-Commercial
areas radius is a minimum of 30 feet.
(d)   Culs-de-sac allowed for Industrial-Commercial areas only to encourage
development in otherwise unsuitable plats.
 
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
TABLE 3. COLLECTOR STREET STANDARDS.
Terrain Classification Level Rolling
Terrain Classification                         Level          Rolling
Development Density                            Low Med High   Low Med High
Right-of-Way Width, ft.                        80  80  80—1080  80  80
(a) Pavement Width, ft.                        36  36  40—4836  36  40—48
Type of Curb                                   Barrier
Sidewalk Width, ft.                            5’ min.
Sidewalk Distance from Curb Face, ft., Min.    10’ min.
Minimum Sight Distance, ft.                    275            200
Maximum Grade (%)                              4              6
Minimum Spacing Along Higher Class Street, ft. 1,320
Minimum Centerline Radius, ft.                 275            200
(a)   Width measured face-to-face of curbs.
 
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
TABLE 4. LOCAL STREET STANDARDS.
Terrain Classification Level Rolling
Terrain Classification                     Level        Rolling
Development Density                        Low Med High Low Med High
Right-of-Way Width, ft.                    50  60       60
(a) Pavement Width, ft.                    24  28  36   24  30  36
Type of Curb (O = None;                    O   R   B    O   R   B
B = Barrier; R = Roll-type)
Sidewalk Width, ft.                        0   5   5    0   5   5
Sidewalk Distance from Curb Face, ft, Min. — 5   5    — 5   5
Minimum Sight Distance, ft.                200          150
Maximum Grade (%)                          — 4   —  — 8   —
Minimum Centerline Radius, ft.             250          175
(a)   Width measured back-to-back of curbs except where no curbs are
required.
 
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
APPENDIX B: FIGURES
Figures
   
1.   Typical cross-sectional design
   
2.   Length of vertical curves
   
3.   Culs-de-sac
   
4.   Sidewalk next to property line
   
5.   Sidewalk next to curb
   
6.   Concrete roll curb and gutter
   
7.   Combined concrete curb and gutter: Type II
   
8.   Combined concrete curb and gutter: Type III
   
9.   Integral concrete curb
   
10.   Monolithic concrete curbs
   
11.   Monolithic concrete curb replacement
   
12.   Straight concrete curb
   
13.   Straight concrete curb replacement
   
14.   Pipe underdrain
   
15.   Warp pattern curb and gutter into casting
   
16.   Typical street name sign assembly
   
17.   Floodway
§ 1. TYPICAL CROSS-SECTIONAL DESIGN.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f9912f789c30152a2de5caf7a444ba21e50c0f38/
IMAGES/0-0-0-19.jpg]
 
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
§ 2. LENGTH OF VERTICAL CURVES.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f9912f789c30152a2de5caf7a444ba21e50c0f38/
IMAGES/0-0-0-21.jpg]
 
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
§ 3. CULS-DE-SAC.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f9912f789c30152a2de5caf7a444ba21e50c0f38/
IMAGES/0-0-0-23.jpg]
 
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
§ 4. SIDEWALK NEXT TO PROPERTY LINE.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f9912f789c30152a2de5caf7a444ba21e50c0f38/
IMAGES/0-0-0-25.jpg]
 
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
§ 5. SIDEWALK NEXT TO CURB.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f9912f789c30152a2de5caf7a444ba21e50c0f38/
IMAGES/0-0-0-27.jpg]
 
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
§ 6. CONCRETE ROLL CURB AND GUTTER.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f9912f789c30152a2de5caf7a444ba21e50c0f38/
IMAGES/0-0-0-29.jpg]
 
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
§ 7. COMBINED CONCRETE CURB AND GUTTER: TYPE II.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f9912f789c30152a2de5caf7a444ba21e50c0f38/
IMAGES/0-0-0-31.jpg]
 
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
§ 8. COMBINED CONCRETE CURB AND GUTTER: TYPE III.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f9912f789c30152a2de5caf7a444ba21e50c0f38/
IMAGES/0-0-0-33.jpg]
 
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
§ 9. INTEGRAL CONCRETE CURB.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f9912f789c30152a2de5caf7a444ba21e50c0f38/
IMAGES/0-0-0-35.jpg]
 
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
§ 10. MONOLITHIC CONCRETE CURB.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f9912f789c30152a2de5caf7a444ba21e50c0f38/
IMAGES/0-0-0-37.jpg]
 
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
§ 11. MONOLITHIC CONCRETE CURB REPLACEMENT.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f9912f789c30152a2de5caf7a444ba21e50c0f38/
IMAGES/0-0-0-39.jpg]
 
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
§ 12. STRAIGHT CONCRETE CURB.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f9912f789c30152a2de5caf7a444ba21e50c0f38/
IMAGES/0-0-0-41.jpg]
 
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
§ 13. STRAIGHT CONCRETE CURB REPLACEMENT.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f9912f789c30152a2de5caf7a444ba21e50c0f38/
IMAGES/0-0-0-43.jpg]
 
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
§ 14. PIPE UNDERDRAIN.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f9912f789c30152a2de5caf7a444ba21e50c0f38/
IMAGES/0-0-0-45.jpg]
 
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
§ 15. WARP PATTERN CURB AND GUTTER INTO CASTING.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f9912f789c30152a2de5caf7a444ba21e50c0f38/
IMAGES/0-0-0-47.jpg]
 
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
§ 16. TYPICAL STREET NAME SIGN ASSEMBLY.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f9912f789c30152a2de5caf7a444ba21e50c0f38/
IMAGES/0-0-0-49.jpg]
 
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
§ 17. FLOODWAY.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f9912f789c30152a2de5caf7a444ba21e50c0f38/
IMAGES/0-0-0-51.jpg]
 
(Ord. - -, passed - -80)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Purpose
   
154.02   Title
   
154.03   Definitions
   
154.04   General regulations and district maps
   
154.05   Board of Zoning Appeals
   
154.06   Administration
   
154.07   Fees
   
154.08   Interpretation, purpose and conflict
   
154.09   Amendments
   
154.10   Remedies
District Regulations
   
154.20   RA: Rural District regulations
   
154.21   R1: Single-Family District regulations
   
154.22   R2: Two-Family District regulations
   
154.23   R3: Income Property District regulations
   
154.24   M1: Multiple-Family Residence— apartments
   
154.25   C1: Neighborhood Commercial
   
154.26   C2: General Commercial District regulations
   
154.27   I1: Industrial District regulations
   
154.28   IR: Industrial Reserve District regulations
   
154.29   SX: Special Reserve: for public use
General Lot Regulations
   
154.40   Height, yard and lot width requirements
   
154.41   Height, yard and lot width exceptions and modifications
   
154.42   Lot area requirements
   
154.43   Lot area exceptions and modifications
   
154.44   Off-street parking and loading requirements
   
154.45   Special use regulations
   
154.46   Nonconforming uses
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted for the purpose of insuring that adequate light,
air, convenience of access, and safety from fire, flood and other dangers be
secured; that congestion in the public streets may be lessened or avoided; that
the public health, safety, comfort, morals, convenience and general public
welfare may be promoted within the town and the contiguous unincorporated
territory within the jurisdiction of the Albany Plan Commission.
(Ord. - -, passed 11-24-80; Am. Ord. 2006-5, passed 3-27-06)
§ 154.02 TITLE.
   This chapter and all official maps now or hereafter in force and effect, and
any ordinance hereafter enacted amending this chapter, shall collectively be
known as the “Zoning Regulations of Albany, Indiana - 1980.”
(Ord. - -, passed 11-24-80; Am. Ord. 2006-5, passed 3-27-06)
§ 154.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter certain words and phrases are herein
defined. Words and phrases defined herein shall be given the defined meaning.
Words and phrases which are not defined herein shall be given their usual
meanings except where the context clearly indicates a difference or specific
meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING or USE. A building or use which is customary or necessary
but subordinate to the main use of the building or land, and which is located
on the same lot or parcel of land as the main building or use.
   ALLEY. A public or private thoroughfare which affords only a secondary means
of access to abutting property.
   BASEMENT. A story having at least two feet, but not more than one-half of
its height below grade. A basement is counted as a story for the purpose of
height regulations if subdivided and used for any purpose other than storage,
parking, heating, cooling and similar accessory purposes or for the dwelling of
a janitor employed on the premises.
   BILLBOARD. A sign which directs attention to a business, commodity, service
or entertainment conducted, sold or offered elsewhere than upon the same lot.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A building, other than a hotel where, for compensation and
by prearrangement for definite periods, lodging, meals, or lodging and meals
are provided for three or more persons but not exceeding 12 persons.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls for the
housing or enclosure of persons or property of any kind. The word BUILDING
includes the word STRUCTURE.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance from the grade to (a) the highest
point of a flat roof, (b) the deck line of a mansard roof, or (c) the average
height between eaves and ridge for gable, hip and gambrel roofs.
   BUILDABLE WIDTH. The width of the lot left to be built upon after the side
yards are provided.
   CELLAR. A story having more than one-half of its height below grade and not
used for dwelling purposes. A CELLAR is not included in computing the number of
stories for the purpose of height measurement.
   CLINIC. An establishment where patients are not lodged overnight, but are
admitted for examination and treatment by a group of physicians or dentists
practicing medicine together.
   CLUB. Buildings and facilities owned or operated by a corporation,
association, person or persons for a social, educational or recreational
purpose, but not primarily for profit which inures to any individual and not
primarily to render a service which is customarily carried on as a business.
   DISTRICT. A section or sections of the town or of the contiguous
unincorporated territory within the jurisdiction of the Albany Plan Commission
for which the requirements governing the use of buildings and premises, the
height of buildings, the size of yards, the requirements for off-street parking
and the intensity of use are uniform.
   DWELLING. A building or portion thereof designed or used exclusively for
residential occupancy, including one-, two-, and multiple- dwelling units, home
trailers, mobile homes, portable homes, hotels, motels, boarding and lodging
houses, tourist courts or tourist homes. The word DWELLING includes the word
RESIDENCE.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building designed for or occupied exclusively
by three or more families.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building designed for or occupied exclusively by
one family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building designed for or occupied exclusively by two
families.
   FAMILY. An individual or two or more persons living together as a single
housekeeping unit in a dwelling.
   FENCE. A free standing device made of metal, masonry, masonry or stucco
wall, PVC/vinyl, composition or wood or any combination thereof, resting on, or
partially buried in the ground and rising above ground level, and used for
confinement, screening protection or partition purposes.
   FILLING or SERVICE STATION. Any land, building structure or premises used
for the sale at retail of motor vehicle fuels, oils or accessories or for
servicing or lubricating motor vehicles or installing or repairing parts and
accessories but not including the repairing or replacing of motors, bodies or
fenders of motor vehicles or painting motor vehicles and excluding public
garages.
   FRONTAGE. All of the property on one side of a street between two
intersecting streets (crossing or terminating), measured along the line of the
street, or if the street is dead-ended, then all of the property abutting on
one side between an intersecting street and the dead end of the street.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building housing vehicles owned and used by
occupants of the main building. A PRIVATE GARAGE may not house more than one
commercial vehicle.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. A building or portion thereof other than a private or
storage garage designed or used for equipping, servicing, repairing, hiring,
selling or storing of motor driven vehicles are not equipped, repaired, hired
or sold.
   GARAGE, STORAGE. See SUBDIVISION.
   GRADE. The average level of the finished surface of the ground for buildings
more than five feet from a street line, the grade is the sidewalk elevation at
the center of the building. If there is more than one street, the average
sidewalk elevation shall be used. If there is no sidewalk, the Administrative
Officer shall establish the sidewalk grade.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An activity carried on by a member of a family residing on
the premises but excluding a beauty shop, barber shop, music school,
convalescent or nursing home, professional office, tourist home or other
establishment offering services to the general public. A home occupation will
show no signs or display to indicate from the exterior of the building that it
is being utilized, in whole or in part, for any purpose other than a member of
the family residing on the premises, and uses no mechanical equipment except as
is customary for domestic or household purposes.
   IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT. A permit stating that the proposed erection,
construction enlargement or moving of a building or structure referred to
therein complies with the provisions of this chapter.
   INSTITUTION. A nonprofit establishment for public use.
   JUNK. Metal, glass, paper, cordage or other waste or discarded material
which may be treated or prepared so as to be used again in some form.
   JUNK YARD INCLUDING AUTOMOBILE WRECKING. A lot or portion thereof used for
the storage, dismantling, keeping or abandonment of junk, including non-
operating motor vehicles.
   KENNELS. A use of land or buildings for the purpose of selling, breeding,
boarding or training dogs or cats or both, or the keeping of four or more dogs
over four months of age, or keeping six or more cats over four months of age,
or the keeping of more than five dogs and cats.
   LANDING FIELD or STRIP. A facility for the takeoff and landing of aircraft
which does not offer service, fuel or lubricants to the public.
   LOADING BERTH. A space within a main building or on the same lot, providing
for the standing, loading or unloading of trucks, having a minimum dimension of
12 by 35 feet and vertical clearance of at least 14 feet.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied or intended for occupancy by a use permitted
in this chapter, including one main building together with its accessory
buildings, the open spaces and parking spaces required by this chapter, and
having its principal frontage upon a public street or upon an officially
approved private street.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting on two or more streets at their intersection.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot having frontage on two nonintersecting streets,
as distinguished from a corner lot.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision, the map of which has
been recorded in the office of the County Recorder of Delaware or Randolph
Counties prior to the adoption of this chapter; or a parcel of land described
by metes and bounds, the description of which has been recorded in the office
of the County Recorder prior to the adoption of this chapter.
   LOT WIDTH. The width of the lot at the required building line.
   MANUFACTURED HOUSING. Any housing unit or units factory assembled in whole
or in part, designed to be transported to a construction site and intended
primarily for permanent occupancy as a residence.
   MOBILE HOME. A factory-fabricated dwelling unit built on a chassis and
designed for transportation on public thoroughfares and also designed to be
used for year-round living when connected to the required utilities. It shall
exceed the dimensions of 8 feet or more wide and 30 feet or more long. A
recreational vehicle is not to be considered a MOBILE HOME.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Any lot, parcel or tract of land used for the parking of
two or more mobile homes.
   MOBILE PROPERTY-PORTABLE HOME. Any dwelling, structure or vehicle, so
designed to permit living quarters or shelter for people, that could be
conceivably moved over the public streets or highways, shall be considered
mobile property.
   MODULAR HOME. A factory-fabricated transportable module designed to be used
along or to be incorporated with similar modules at a building site and
designed and constructed with a perimeter frame to become a permanent structure
on a site, with all outside walls supported by a permanent foundation.
   MODULE. A factory fabricated sub-unit designed to be transported to a
building site for incorporation with other modules into a building.
   MOTEL. A building or group of buildings used primarily for the temporary
residence of motorists or travelers.
   NONCONFORMING USE. Any building or land lawfully occupied by a use at the
time of passage of this chapter or amendment hereto which does not conform
after the adoption of this chapter or amendments hereto with the use
regulations of the district in which it is located.
   NURSING HOME. A home for the aged, chronically ill or incurable persons
except mental or alcoholic patients in which three or more persons are
received, kept or provided with food and shelter and care for compensation; but
not including hospitals, clinics, or similar institutions devoted primarily to
the diagnosis, treatment or care of the sick or injured.
   PARKING LOT. Any place, lot, parcel or yard used in whole or in part for
storage or parking of two or more vehicles where such usage is not incident to
or in conjunction with a dwelling, or other use permitted in dwelling districts
and located on the same tract.
   PARKING SPACE. A surfaced area, enclosed in the main building or in an
accessory building, or unenclosed, having an area of not less than 180 square
feet, exclusive of driveways, permanently reserved for temporary storage of one
automobile and connected with a street or alley by a surface driveway which
affords satisfactory ingress and egress for automobiles.
   PRIVATE CLUB. A recreational or social facility operated by a nonprofit
organization, which is operated only for the membership of the organization and
shall not be open to the public.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A temporary dwelling for travel, recreation and
vacation use including but not limited to: travel trailer, pick-up coach, motor
home, and camping trailer.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK. Any lot, parcel or tract of land used for the
placement of two or more recreational vehicles.
   SHALL. Mandatory and not permissive.
   SIGN. An identification, description, illustration or device which is
affixed to, or represented directly or indirectly upon a building, structure or
land, and which directs attention to a product, place, activity, person,
institution or business.
   STORY. That portion of a building, other than a cellar, included between the
surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it, then the space
between the floor and the ceiling next above it.
   STORY, HALF. A space under a sloping roof which has the line of intersection
of roof decking and exterior wall face not more than three feet above the top
floor level and in which space not more than two- thirds of the finished floor
area is finished for use.
   STREET. A public right-of-way or a private street which affords the
principal means of access to abutting property.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change except those required by law or
ordinance, which would prolong the life of the supporting members of a building
or structure, such as bearing walls, columns, beams, or girders, not including
openings in bearing walls as permitted by other ordinances.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected the use of which requires
permanent location on the ground or attached to something having a permanent
location on the ground; including, but without limiting the generality of the
foregoing, advertising signs, billboards, back stops for tennis courts and
pergolas.
   SWIMMING POOL. A pool, pond, lake or open tank containing at least 1 feet of
water at any point and maintained by an owner or manager.
   TEMPORARY HOUSING (TRAVEL TRAILER or CAMPER). A vehicle or other portable
structure designed to move on the highway, not under its own power, and
designed or used as a temporary dwelling.
   TOURIST HOME. An establishment used for dwelling purposes in which rooms,
with or without meals, are offered to transient guests for compensation.
   YARD. An open space on the same lot with a building, unobstructed by any
portion of a structure or building from the ground upward, except as otherwise
provided herein.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard across the front of a lot between the side lot lines.
The FRONT YARD of a corner lot shall be adjacent to that street on which the
lot has its least dimension.
   YARD, REAR. A yard across the rear of a lot between the side lot lines. The
REAR YARD shall, in all instances, be opposite end of the lot from the front
yard.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard between the front and rear yards.
(Ord. - -, passed 11-24-80; Am. Ord. 2006-5, passed 3-27-06; Am. Ord. 2012-20,
passed 9-10-12)
§ 154.04 GENERAL REGULATIONS AND DISTRICT MAPS.
   (A)   In order to classify, regulate and restrict the locations of trades,
industries and the location of buildings designed for specified uses to
regulate and limit the height and bulk of buildings hereafter erected or
structurally altered, to regulate and limit the intensity of the use of land
and lot areas, to regulate and determine the areas of yards and other open
spaces within and surrounding such buildings, and to regulate off-street
parking spaces and loading spaces, the town, and the contiguous unincorporated
territory within the jurisdiction of the Albany Plan Commission is hereby
divided into districts of which there shall be ten in number, known as:
      (1)   RA: Rural District;
      (2)   R1: Single-Family District;
      (3)   R2: Two-Family District - Duplex;
      (4)   R3: Income Property - Sleeping - Boarding;
      (5)   M1: Multiple-Family - Residence or Apartments;
      (6)   C1: Neighborhood Commercial - Shops - Grocery;
      (7)   C2: General Commercial - Business Operation;
      (8)   I1: Industrial - Manufacturing;
      (9)   IR: Industrial Reserve Potential Industry;
      (10)   SX: Special Reserve - Public Use - City - School - Church.
   (B)   The boundaries of the districts are shown upon the map made a part of
this chapter, which map is designated as the District Map: The District Map and
all the notations, references and other information shown thereon, are a part
of this chapter and have the same force and effect as if the District Map and
all the notations, references and other information shown thereon were all
fully set forth or described herein, which District Map is properly attested
and is on file with the Town Clerk.
   (C)   Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of the various
districts shown on the District Map, the following rules apply:
      (1)   The district boundary lines on the Map are intended to follow
either streets or alleys or lot lines, and where the districts designated on
the Map are bounded approximately by such streets, alleys, or lot lines, the
street or alley or lot line shall be construed to be the boundary of the
district unless such boundary is otherwise indicated on the map.
      (2)   In the case of unsubdivided property, the district boundary lines
shall be determined by the use of the scale appearing on the District Map or by
dimensions.
      (3)   Where the boundary of a district follows a railroad line, such
boundary shall be deemed to be located midway between the main track or tracks
of the railroad line.
   (D)   All unincorporated territory which may hereafter come within the
zoning jurisdiction of the Albany Plan Commission shall be considered as being
in the RA Rural District until otherwise changed after public hearing thereon
and by chapter.
   (E)   Whenever any street, alley or other public way is vacated by an
official agency, the zoning district adjoining such-street, alley or public way
shall be automatically extended in accordance with the ownership thereof
following such vacation and all area included in the vacation shall then and
thenceforth be subject to all appropriate regulations of the extended district.
   (F)   Except as hereinafter provided:
      (1)   No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or
structurally altered, nor shall any building or land be used, except for a
purpose permitted in the district in which the building or land is located.
      (2)   No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or
structurally altered to exceed the height limit herein established for the
district in which the building is located.
      (3)   No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or
structurally altered except in conformity with the area regulations, including
minimum floor area requirements, of the district in which the building is
located.
      (4)   No building shall be erected or structurally altered to the extent
specifically provided hereinafter except in conformity with the off-street
parking and loading regulations of the district in which such building is
located.
      (5)   Minimum yards, parking spaces and other open spaces, including lot
area per family, required by this chapter for each and every building existing
at the time of passage of this chapter, or for any building hereinafter
erected, shall not be encroached upon or considered as yard or parking space or
open space requirements for any other building, nor shall any yard, or open
space or parking space be reduced below the requirements of this chapter for
the district in which such lot is located.
      (6)   Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall be
located on a lot as herein defined and in no case shall there be more than one
main building on one lot except as specifically provided hereinafter.
      (7)   For the purpose of this chapter, utility poles, wires, transformers
attached to poles, pipes, and all underground utility mains, conduits,
manholes, and similar facilities shall not be subject to any use, height, or
yard requirements of the district in which they are located.
   (G)   The Board of Appeals, in accordance with the rules and regulations
governing district boundary determinations, shall determine all questions
concerning the exact location of district boundary lines.
   (H)   All fences shall meet the following requirements:
      (1)   Improvement location permit. No fence shall be erected without
first being issued an improvement location permit pursuant to §
154.06(B).
      (2)   Location and height limitations; residential districts. No fence
exceeding the height of three feet shall be located upon a lot within 30 feet
of a street intersection. No fence shall be erected in a public right-of-way or
in a utility easement. Fences shall be limited to a minimum height of three
feet and a maximum height of six feet. Fences shall have a set-off of one foot
from property line.
      (3)   Location and height limitations; non-residential districts. No
fence exceeding the height of six feet shall be located upon a lot within 30
feet of a street intersection. No fence shall be erected in a public right-of-
way or in a utility easement. Fences shall be limited to a minimum height of
six feet and a maximum height of eight feet. Fences shall have a set-off of one
foot from property line.
(Ord. - -, passed 11-24-80; Am. Ord. 2006-5, passed 3-27-06; Am. Ord. 2012-20,
passed 9-10-12)
§ 154.05 BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   (A)   Creation, membership and organization.
      (1)   A Board of Zoning Appeals is hereby established with membership and
appointments provided in accordance with I.C. 18-7-4-114. Whenever the word
“board” is used in this section it shall be construed to mean the Board of
Appeals. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall consist of five members appointed by
the Town Board President to serve respectively for the following terms: one for
a term of one year; one for a term of two years; one for a term of three years;
and one for a term of four years. The terms shall expire on the first day of
January of the first, second, third or fourth year, respectively, following
their appointment. Thereafter, as the terms expire, each new appointment shall
be for a term of four years. All members of the Board shall be residents of
Albany, Indiana, and two members shall also be members of the Plan Commission
and none of the members shall hold elective or appointive office. Vacancies
shall be filled by the appointing authority for the unexpired term of any
member whose place has become vacant.
      (2)   At the first meeting of each year, the Board shall elect a Chairman
and a Vice Chairman from among its members and it may appoint and fix the
compensation of a secretary and such employees as are necessary for the
discharge of its duties, all in conformity to and compliance with salaries and
compensation theretofore fixed by the legislative authority.
      (3)   The Board may adopt such rules and regulations as it may deem
necessary to effectuate the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Meetings. All meetings of the Board shall be held at the call of the
Chairman or at such times as the Board may determine. All hearings conducted by
the Board shall be open to the public. The Board shall keep minutes of its
proceedings showing the vote of each member upon every question, or if, absent
or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall also keep records of its
hearings and other official actions. Findings of fact shall be included in the
minutes of each case of a requested interpretation, exception or variation and
the reasons for recommending or denying same shall be specified. Every rule or
regulation, every amendment or repeal thereof, and every order, requirement,
decision or determination of the Board shall be filed immediately in the office
of the Board and shall be a public record.
   (C)   Appeal.  
      (1)   An appeal may be taken to the Board by any person or by any
officer, department, board or bureau of the town affected by a decision of the
Administrative officer. Such appeal shall be taken within such time as shall be
prescribed by the Board by general rule, by filing with the Administrative
Officer and with the Board a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof.
The Administrative Officer shall forthwith transmit to the Board all of the
papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
      (2)   The Board shall select a reasonable time and place for the hearing
of the appeal and give due notice thereof to the parties and shall render a
decision on the appeal without unreasonable delay. Any person may appear and
testify at the hearing either in person or by duly authorized agent or
attorney.
   (D)   Duties and jurisdiction. The Board of Appeals shall have the following
powers, and it shall be its duty to:
      (1)   Hear and determine appeals from and review any order, requirement,
decision or determination made by the Administrator in the enforcement of the
chapter.
      (2)   Permit and authorize exceptions to the District regulations only in
the classes of cases or in particular situations as specified in the chapter.
      (3)   Hear and decide on permits for Special Uses, Development Plans or
other uses upon which the Board is required to act under the provisions of this
chapter.
      (4)   Authorize upon appeal in specific cases such variances from the
terms of this chapter as will not be contrary to the public interest, where
owing to special conditions, fully demonstrated on the basis of the facts
presented, a literal enforcement of the provisions of the chapter will result
in unnecessary hardship and so that the spirit of this chapter shall be
observed and substantial justice done.
   (E)   Miscellaneous. No order of the Board permitting the erection or
alteration of a building shall be valid for a period longer than one year
unless a building permit for such erection or alteration is obtained within
such period and such erection or alteration is started and proceeds to
completion in accordance with the terms of such permit.
(Ord. - -, passed 11-24-80; Am. Ord. 2006-5, passed 3-27-06)
Editor’s note:
   I.C. 18-7-4-114 was repealed by Acts 1982, P.L.127, sec. 2(b)
§ 154.06 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Enforcement. An Administrative Officer to be appointed by the Town
Board is hereby designated and authorized to enforce this chapter.
   (B)   Improvement location permit application.
      (1)   Permit required. No building or other structure shall be erected,
moved, added to or structurally altered nor shall any building structure or
land be established or changed in use without a location permit issued by the
Plan Commission. No improvement location permit shall be issued by the Plan
Commission except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, unless by
written order of the Board of Zoning Appeals in the form of an administrative
appeal, review, special exception use or variance as provided by this chapter.
      (2)   Application for an improvement location permit. All applications
for improvement location permits shall be accompanied by plans drawn to scale
showing the following items: the actual dimensions and shapes of the lot to be
built upon; the exact sizes and locations of the lot of buildings already
existing, if any; and the location and dimensions of the proposed building or
alteration. The application should include any other information as lawfully
may be required by the Plan Commission, including existing or proposed building
or alteration; existing or proposed uses of the building and land; number of
families, number of units or rental units the building is designed to
accommodate; conditions existing on the lot; building setback distances from
property lines, and other matters as may be necessary to determine conformance
with and provide the enforcement of this chapter. The plans shall be retained
by the Plan Commission.
      (3)   Floodplain development permit required. No improvement location
permit shall be issued for the erection, extension, conversion or structure
alteration of a building located with special flood hazard area without
compliance with the Town of Albany's Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance,
including, but not limited to obtaining a floodplain development permit.
      (4)   Expiration of permit.
         (a)   Initiation of work. If the work described in any improvement
location permit has not begun within 12 months from the date of issuance
thereof, the permit shall expire and shall be cancelled by the Commission. If
visible work has not begun in one year, the permit is void.
         (b)   Completion of work. If the work described in any improvement
location permit has not been completed within two years of the date of issuance
thereof, the permit shall expire and be cancelled by the Planning Commission or
the Administrative Officer and written notice thereof shall be given to the
persons affected, together with notice that future work as described in the
cancelled permit or an extension shall not proceed unless and until a new
permit has been obtained.
         (c)   Failure to obtain an improvement location permit. Failure to
obtain an improvement location permit is required by this chapter shall be
deemed a violation of this chapter and shall be subject to the fine of $100.
         (d)   Limitation on improvement location permit. Improvement location
permits issued on the basis of plans and applications approved by the
Administrative Officer authorize only the use for arrangements set forth in
such approved applications or amendments, and no other use, arrangements or
construction is permitted. Any use, arrangement or construction contrary to
that authorized shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and shall be
subject to a $100 fine.
         (e)   Records of improvement location permits. Every improvement
location permit issued pursuant to this section shall be kept on file in the
Town Hall for the period as specified by the Indiana Code and shall be
available as public record.
      (5)   Official schedule of fees.
         (a)   The Plan Commission shall maintain the official schedule fees,
charges and expenses, as set forth periodically by the Town Council, and a
collection procedure for permits, appeals and other petitions pertaining to
this chapter. Schedule of fees shall be available to the public in the Town
Hall and may be altered or amended only by ordinances of the Town Council.
         (b)   All applicable fees, charges and expenses shall be paid in full
by the applicant or owner when the improvement location permit is issued.
         (c)   Any person or persons who initiate construction of a structure
prior to obtaining an improvement location permit or any other required permit
shall be subject to the fees and penalties of $100.
   (C)   Certificate of Occupancy.
      (1)   It shall hereby be declared unlawful and in violation of provisions
of this chapter for any builder or property owner to allow for any structure
(for which an improvement location permit has been legally obtained) to become
occupied prior to the following:
         (a)   Passing a final inspection by the Administrative Officer; and
         (b)   Receiving a Certificate of Occupancy permit from the town.
      (2)   A Certificate of Occupancy shall be required for:
         (a)   New construction or improvement. It shall be unlawful to use or
occupy, or to permit the use for occupancy of, any building or premises, or
both, are part thereof hereafter created, erected, changed, converted or wholly
or partly altered or enlarged in its use or structure until a Certificate of
Occupancy has been issued by the Administrative Officer. The Certificate of
Occupancy shall state that the proposed use of the building and/or land
conforms to the requirements of this chapter and that the Administrative
Officer or his or her representative has inspected the property and attested to
that fact.
         (b)   Change of occupancy. No persons, firms or corporations shall
move into or occupy any nonresidential structure or land, new or existing,
without first obtaining a Certificate of Occupancy from the Administrative
Officer.
         (c)   Issuance of Certificate of Occupancy. Certificates of Occupancy
may be issued by the Administrative Officer within ten days after notification
by the applicant that the lawful erection, reconstruction or structural
alteration of the building or other improvement of the land have been
completed, or that the use of the building or premises will change, or that the
occupancy of the building or premises will change; and the finding of the
Administrative Officer that such construction, change of use, or change of
occupancy conforms to the requirements of this chapter.
         (d)   Records of Certificate of Occupancy. Every Certificate of
Occupancy issued pursuant to this section shall be kept on file in the Town
Hall for the period as specified by the Indiana Code and shall be available as
public record.
   (D)   Inspection for compliance. All permits shall be subject to inspection
for compliance after issuance of permit.
(Ord. - -, passed 11-24-80; Am. Ord. 2006-5, passed 3-27-06; Am. Ord. 2015-29,
passed 10-26-15)
§ 154.07 FEES.
   (A)   Applications and petitions filed pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter shall be accompanied by the filing fees hereafter specified:
      (1)   For an Improvement Location Permit the fee shall be as follows:
         (a)   Residential Building: $75;
         (b)   Commercial Building: $100;
         (c)   Industrial Building: $150;
         (d)   Detached garages, storage sheds, fences, patios, swimming pools,
remodeling, alterations, and moving of buildings: $50;
         (e)   Demolition of buildings: $25.
      (2)   For each application for a Certificate of Occupancy, the sum of
$20.
      (3)   For each petition for an appeal from the division of the
Administrative Officer to the Board, a fee of $35.
      (4)   For each petition for approval of a Special Use, a fee of $45.
      (5)   For each petition for an amendment to this chapter, a fee of $45.
   (B)   All of the above fees shall be paid to the Administrative Officer who
shall forthwith deposit them with the Town Treasurer to the credit of the
General Revenue Fund of Albany, Indiana.
   (C)   No part of any filing fee paid pursuant to this section shall be
returnable to the applicant or petitioner.
   (D)   One-half of the fees collected shall be paid to the Administrative
Officer for the work performed by the Administrative Officer on behalf of the
town.
(Ord. - -, passed 11-24-80; Am. Ord. 2000-21, passed 12-27-00; Am. Ord. 2001-
14, passed 12-10-01; Am. Ord. 2006-5, passed 3-27-06; Am. Ord. 2011-34, passed
1-9-12; Am. Ord. 2015-29, passed 10-26-15)
§ 154.08 INTERPRETATION, PURPOSE AND CONFLICT.
   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, they shall be
held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public safety,
health, convenience, comfort, morals, prosperity and general welfare. It is not
intended by this chapter to interfere with or abrogate or annul any ordinance,
rules, regulations or permits previously adopted or issued and not in conflict
with any of the provisions of this chapter, or which shall be adopted or issued
pursuant to law relating to the use of buildings or premises, and likewise not
in conflict with this chapter; nor is it intended by this chapter to interfere
with or abrogate or annul any easements, covenants or other agreements between
parties except that if this chapter imposes a greater restriction, this chapter
shall control.
(Ord. - -, passed 11-24-80; Am. Ord. 2006-5, passed 3-27-06)
§ 154.09 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   All amendments to this chapter shall be in conformance with I.C. 18-7-
5-67 and 18-7-5-39 to 18-7-5-44 or of appropriate amendments thereto, and shall
be acted on only after the prescribed ten-day public notice by Delaware County
newspapers.
   (B)   A party shall not initiate action for a zoning amendment affecting the
same lot or tract more often than once every 12 months.
   (C)   Should a petitioner to whom a zoning amendment is granted for a
specific use fail to begin construction or installation of the use within one
year after the passage of the amendment, the Administrative Officer shall so
inform the Town Board, which may initiate proceedings to re-zone the subject
properly to its original classification.
(Ord. - -, passed 11-24-80; Am. Ord. 1986-13, passed 12-29-86; Am. Ord. 2006-5,
passed 3-27-06)
Editor’s Note:
   The statutes cited in division (A) of this section have been repealed.
Corresponding provisions are currently set forth in I.C. 36-7-4-607 through 36-
7-4-611 and I.C. 36-7-4-507 through 36-7-4-511.
§ 154.10 REMEDIES.
   (A)   Investigation and enforcement.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator, on receipt of information of a possible
violation of the zoning ordinance, shall make investigation to establish
reasonable belief that a violation has occurred.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator may issue a citation for violation of the
zoning ordinance.
      (3)   The Town Attorney may file a complaint against the person and
prosecute the alleged violation.
   (B)   Violations. The following actions may be instituted when violations
occur:
      (1)   The Plan Commission or Board of Zoning Appeals may institute a suit
for injunction to restrain any person from violating the provisions of the
zoning ordinance.
      (2)   The Plan Commission or Board of Zoning Appeals may institute a suit
for mandatory injunction directing any person to cease an illegal use, or
remove a structure erected in violation of the provisions of the zoning
ordinance.
      (3)   In the event a condition constituting a violation of the town
zoning ordinance exists on real property, the Zoning Administrator may enter
onto the property and take action to bring the property into compliance with
the zoning ordinance if all persons with a substantial interest in the property
have been given notice of the violation and have failed to bring the property
into compliance after being provided with a reasonable opportunity to do so.
The property owner of record shall be liable for the costs of the action and
the costs may be made a lien on the property.
   (C)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the town from taking other
lawful action necessary to prevent, remedy or issue a fine for any violation.
(Ord. - -, passed 11-24-80; Am. Ord. 2006-5, passed 3-27-06; Am. Ord. 2015-29,
passed 10-26-15)
DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 154.20 RA: RURAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Use regulations.  A building, lot or tract within the RA Rural
District shall be used only for the following purposes unless otherwise
provided in this chapter:
      (1)   Farming, including the usual farm buildings and structures;
      (2)   Truck and flower gardening, nurseries, orchards and greenhouses;
      (3)   Single-family dwellings but only when located at an elevation above
high water;
      (4)   Publicly owned and operated property;
      (5)   Country clubs and golf courses except a lighted golf course,
miniature courses and practice driving tees;
      (6)   Riding stables or the keeping of small animals; provided that any
building housing animals be located at least 100 feet from all property lines;
      (7)   Pumping or booster stations along a pipe line or substations along
an electric transmission line;
      (8)   Home occupation;
      (9)   Landing strips;
      (10)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incident to any of the
above uses;
      (11)   Temporary signs not exceeding 15 square feet in area, appertaining
only to the lease, hire or sale of a building or premises, or the sale of
products grown and sold on the premises; provided, however, that not more than
one sign of the above character shall be permitted on any lot or tract.
   (B)   Height, yard and lot width regulations.  The height, yard and lot
width requirements within the RA Rural District shall be as required by §
154.40.
   (C)   Lot area regulations.  The lot area requirements within the RA Rural
District shall be as required by §
154.42.
   (D)   Parking regulations. The off-street parking requirements within the RA
Rural District shall be as required by §
154.44.
(Ord. - -, passed 11-24-80; Am. Ord. 2006-5, passed 3-27-06)
§ 154.21 R1: SINGLE-FAMILY DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Use regulations. A building, lot or tract within the R1 Single-Family
District shall be used only for the following purposes, unless otherwise
provided in this chapter:
      (1)   Single-family dwelling.
      (2)   Park, playground or community building owned or operated by a
public agency.
      (3)   Public library.
      (4)   Public school, elementary or high, or a private or parochial school
having a curriculum similar to that ordinarily given in a public school.
      (5)   Country club and golf course, except a lighted golf course,
miniature course or a driving tee operated for commercial purposes.
      (6)   Nursery, truck gardening and the raising of farm crops, but not the
raising of poultry, pets and livestock for strictly commercial purposes or on a
scale that would be objectionable because of noise or odor to surrounding
residences, and provided further that no products shall be sold on the premises
except those that are raised thereon; and, no building or stand shall be
erected for the exclusive use of such sale.
      (7)   Church or other place of worship.
      (8)   Home occupation.
      (9)   Accessory building or use customarily incident to any of the above
uses, when located on the same lot and not involving the conduct of a business,
including a private garage when located not less than 60 feet from the front
lot line, or a private garage constructed as part of the main building.
      (10)   Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work,
which buildings shall be removed upon the completion or abandonment of the
construction work.
      (11)   Church or public bulletin boards not exceeding 20 square feet in
area, or temporary sign appertaining to the lease, hire or sale of a building
or premises, not exceeding ten square feet in area.
   (B)   Height, yard and lot width regulations.  The height, yard and lot
width requirements within the R1 Single-Family District shall be as required by
§
154.40.
   (C)   Lot area regulations. The lot area regulations in the R1 Single-Family
District shall be as required in §
154.42.
   (D)   Parking regulations. The off-street parking regulations in the R1
Single-Family District shall be as required in §
154.44.
(Ord. - -, passed 11-24-80; Am. Ord. 2006-5, passed 3-27-06)
§ 154.22 R2: TWO-FAMILY DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Use regulations. A building or premises shall be used only for the
following purposes:
      (1)   Any use permitted in the R1 Single- Family District.
      (2)   Two-family dwelling, but only when 30% or more of the frontage is
occupied by two- family dwellings.
      (3)   Any lot or tract on which it is feasible, and permitted by the
Albany Plan Commission, to build more than one dwelling.
      (4)   Accessory building or use customarily incidental to any of the
above uses, including a storage garage, where the lot is occupied by an
institutional building. If a storage garage is not a part of the main building,
it shall be located not less than 60 feet from the front line and not less than
5 feet from any side lot line.
   (B)   Height, yard and lot width regulations.  The height, yard and lot
width requirements within the R2 Two-Family District shall be as required in §
154.40.
   (C)   Lot area regulations.  The lot area regulations in the R2 Two-Family
District shall be as required in §
154.42.
   (D)   Parking regulations. The off-street parking regulations in the R2 Two-
Family District shall be as required in §
154.44.
(Ord. - -, passed 11-24-80; Am. Ord. 2006-5, passed 3-27-06)
§ 154.23 R3: INCOME PROPERTY DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Use regulations. A building or premises shall be used only for the
following purposes:
      (1)   Any use permitted in the R2 Two- Family District.
      (2)   Boarding or lodging house.
      (3)   Fraternal or sorority house, or dwelling for student housing.
      (4)   Housing for temporary employees, trainees, or migrates.
      (5)   Institution of a religious, educational, eleemosynary or
philanthropic nature, including penal and mental institutions.
      (6)   Nursing or convalescent home.
      (7)   Accessory building or use customarily incidental to any of the
above uses, including a storage garage, where the lot is occupied by an
institutional building. If a storage garage is not a part of the mail building,
it shall be located not less than 60 feet from the front line and not less than
5 feet from any side lot line.
   (B)   Height, yard and lot width regulations.  The height, yard and lot
width requirements within the R3 Income Property District shall be as required
in §
154.40.
   (C)   Lot area regulations.  The lot area regulations in the R3 Income
Property District shall be as required in §
154.42.
   (D)   Parking regulations. The off-street parking regulations in the R3
Income Property District shall be as required in §
154.44.
(Ord. - -, passed 11-24-80; Am. Ord. 2006-5, passed 3-27-06)
§ 154.24 M1: MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE—APARTMENTS.
   (A)   Use regulations.  A building or premises, lot or tract within the M1
Multiple-Family Residence District shall be used only for the following
purposes, unless otherwise permitted by this chapter:
      (1)   Any use permitted in the R3 Income Property District.
      (2)   Any dwelling housing more than two separate families.
      (3)   Apartment houses.
      (4)   Condominiums.
      (5)   Town houses.
      (6)   Cooperative dwelling.
      (7)   Accessory building or use customarily incidental to any of the
above uses, including a storage garage, where the lot is occupied by a
multiple-family dwelling. If a storage garage is not a part of the main
building, it shall be located no less than 60 feet from the front line and not
less than 5 feet from any side lot line.
   (B)   Height, yard and lot width regulations.  The height, yard and lot
width requirements within the M1 Multiple-Family Residence District shall be as
required in §
154.40.
   (C)   Lot area regulations. The lot area regulations in the M1 Multiple-
Family Residence District shall be as required in §
154.42.
   (D)   Parking regulations. The off-street parking regulations in the M1
Multiple-Family Residence District shall be as required in §
154.44.
(Ord. - -, passed 11-24-80; Am. Ord. 2006-5, passed 3-27-06)
§ 154.25 C1: NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL.
   (A)   A building, lot or tract within the C1 Neighborhood Commercial
District shall be used only for the following purposes, unless otherwise
permitted by this chapter:
      (1)   Any use permitted in the R3 Income Property District.
      (2)   Antique or souvenir shop.
      (3)   Bakery, whose products are sold at retail on the premises.
      (4)   Bank branch.
      (5)   Barber shops and beauty parlors.
      (6)   Cottage grocery.
      (7)   Display room for merchandise to be sold at wholesale, where
merchandise sold is stored elsewhere.
      (8)   Dressmaking and tailor shop.
      (9)   Nursery school.
      (10)   Painting and decorating shop.
      (11)   Professional and business office.
      (12)   Repair shops and services.
      (13)   Taxicab station.
      (14)   Telephone exchange or answering service.
      (15)   Other personal service uses of a similar character to those
specifically listed in this section.
      (16)   Accessory building or use customarily incidental to any of the
above uses, including advertising signs and billboards when their location is
approved by the Plan Commission after written petition.
   (B)   Height and yard regulations. The height and yard requirements within
the C1 Neighborhood Commercial District shall be as required in §
154.40.
   (C)   Lot area regulations.  The lot area regulations in the C1 Neighborhood
Commercial District shall be as required in §
154.42.
   (D)   Parking and loading regulations. The off- street parking and loading
regulations in the C1 Neighborhood Commercial District shall be as required in
§
154.44.
(Ord. - -, passed 11-24-80; Am. Ord. 2006-5, passed 3-27-06)
§ 154.26 C2: GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   A building, lot or tract with the C2 General Commercial District shall
be used only for the following purposes, unless otherwise permitted by this
chapter:
      (1)   Any use permitted in the C1 Neighborhood Commercial District or the
R3 Income Property District.
      (2)   Automobile parking lot.
      (3)   Automobile repair or body shop.
      (4)   Boat sales and services.
      (5)   Catering establishment.
      (6)   Clinics.
      (7)   Commercial or trade school.
      (8)   Filling or service station.
      (9)   Garages, public and storage.
      (10)   Grain elevators and feed mills.
      (11)   Hardware.
      (12)   Implements and equipment.
      (13)   Laundromat and laundry and cleaning plants.
      (14)   Lumber yards.
      (15)   Mortuary.
      (16)   Motel.
      (17)   Newspaper, messenger or telegraphic service station and
broadcasting stations.
      (18)   Printing shops containing not more than 7,500 square feet of floor
space.
      (19)   Recreation building or structure including bowling alleys.
      (20)   Repair shops and services.
      (21)   Restaurants and taverns.
      (22)   Theatre, including outdoor drive-in theatres.
      (23)   Other personal service uses of a similar character to those
specifically listed in this section.
      (24)   Accessory building or use customarily incidental to any of the
above uses, including advertising signs and billboards when their location is
approved by the Albany Plan Commission after written petition.
   (B)   Height and yard regulations.  The height and yard requirements with
the C2 General Commercial District shall be as required in §
154.40.
   (C)   Lot area regulations.  The lot area regulations in the C2 General
Commercial District shall be as required in §
154.42.
   (D)   Parking and loading regulations.  The off- street parking and loading
regulations in the C2 General Commercial District shall be as required in §
154.44.
(Ord. - -, passed 11-24-80; Am. Ord. 2006-5, passed 3-27-06)
§ 154.27 I1: INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Use regulations. A building, lot or tract within the I1 Industrial
District shall be used only for the following purposes, unless otherwise
provided in this chapter:
      (1)   Any use permitted in the C2 General Commercial District, except as
follows: After the passage of this chapter, a new dwelling may be located or
erected within the I1 Industrial District only on a street whose frontage is at
least 30% occupied by lots containing dwellings.
      (2)   Assembly plants, using prefabricated parts of household appliances,
electronic products and similar products or the processing or the assembling of
parts for production of finished equipment.
      (3)   Bottling works.
      (4)   Canning factory.
      (5)   Carting, express, hauling or storage yard.
      (6)   Contractor’s supply yard.
      (7)   Coal, coke or wood yard.
      (8)   Disposal plant.
      (9)   Gas storage or bulk plant.
      (10)   Locker plant.
      (11)   Lumber yards and millwork plants.
      (12)   Manufacturing plants, any manufacturing process used in making or
building of any part or product.
      (13)   Paper mill or paper processing.
      (14)   Petroleum storage, but only after the location and treatment of
the premises have been approved by the Albany Plan Commission.
      (15)   Printing, publishing, or engraving.
      (16)   Fruit and food processing and storage.
      (17)   Salvage yard.
      (18)   Service industry, such as laundry, cleaning or dyeing plant.
      (19)   Sporting and athletic equipment manufacture.
      (20)   Truck or transfer terminal or freight house.
      (21)   Utilities.
      (22)   Warehouse or wholesale establishment.
      (23)   Industrial manufacturing plants where the process of manufacturing
or the treatment of materials is such that only a nominal amount of dust, gas,
odor, smoke or noise is emitted.
      (24)   Normal accessory structures and uses, including advertising signs
and billboards.
   (B)   Height and yard regulations. Height and yard regulations in the I1
Industrial District shall be as required by §
154.40.
   (C)   Lot area regulations. The lot regulations in the I1 Industrial
District shall be as required in §
154.42.
   (D)   Parking and loading regulations. The off- street parking and loading
regulations in I1 Industrial District shall be as required in §
154.44.
(Ord. - -, passed 11-24-80; Am. Ord. 2006-5, passed 3-27-06)
§ 154.28 IR: INDUSTRIAL RESERVE DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Use regulations. A building, lot or tract within the IR Industrial
Reserve District shall be used only for the following purposes, unless
otherwise provided in this chapter.
      (1)   Any use permitted in the I1 Industrial District, except as follows:
No new dwelling shall be located or erected within the IR Industrial Reserve
District unless on a street whose frontage is at least 30% occupied by lots
containing dwellings.
      (2)   Potential location for new industry, any other use must be approved
by the Albany Plan Commission after written petition.
   (B)   Height and yard regulations.  The height and yard regulations in the
IR Industrial Reserve District shall be as required in §
154.40.
   (C)   Lot area regulations.  The lot area regulations in the IR Industrial
Reserve District shall be as required in §
154.42.
   (D)   Parking and loading regulations. The off- street parking and loading
regulations in the IR Industrial Reserve District shall be as required in § 
154.44.
(Ord. - -, passed 11-24-80; Am. Ord. 2006-5, passed 3-27-06)
§ 154.29 SX: SPECIAL RESERVE: FOR PUBLIC USE.
   (A)   Use regulations. A building, lot or tract within the SX Special
Reserve District shall be used only for the following purposes, unless
otherwise provided in this chapter:
      (1)   Any use permitted in the R3 Income Property District.
      (2)   Schools.
      (3)   Church or place of worship.
      (4)   Parks, playgrounds.
      (5)   Recreation areas.
      (6)   Municipally operated.
      (7)   Government property.
      (8)   State educational or institutional.
      (9)   Accessory building or use customarily incidental to any of the
above uses, including advertising signs and billboards when their location is
approved by the Albany Plan Commission, after written petition.
      (10)   Any use of building or structure other than the above set out
shall be first approved by the Albany Plan Commission after written petition.
   (B)   Height and yard regulations. The height and yard requirements of the
SX Special Reserve District shall be as required in §
154.40.
   (C)   Lot area regulations. The lot area regulations within the SX Special
Reserve District shall be as required in §
154.42.
   (D)   Parking and loading regulations. The off- street parking and loading
regulations in the SX Special Reserve District shall be as required in §
154.44.
(Ord. - -, passed 11-24-80; Am. Ord. 2006-5, passed 3-27-06)
GENERAL LOT REGULATIONS
§ 154.40 HEIGHT, YARD AND LOT WIDTH REQUIREMENTS.
   The required height, yard and lot width regulations are established and
shown in the accompanying table below.
                                                                     Minimum
         Maximum Height of Minimum    Either    Aggregate  Minimum   Lot Width
         Buildings         Depth of   Side Yard Side Yards Depth of  at
                           Front Yard                      Rear Yard Building
                                                                     Line
District Stories Feet      (in feet)  (in feet) (in feet)  (in feet) (in feet)
                             Minimum                                 Minimum
             Maximum Height  Depth of  Either    Aggregate Minimum   Lot Width
             of Buildings    Front     Side Yard Side      Depth of  at
                             Yard                Yards     Rear Yard Building
                                                                     Line
District     Stories Feet    (in feet) (in feet) (in feet) (in feet) (in feet)
RA Rural     2       45      30        15        30        30        130
R1 Single    2       30      30        6         15        30        80
Family
R2 Two       2       30      25        5         12        25        60
Family
R3 Income    2       30      25        5         10        25        60
Property
M1 Multiple- 3       40      30        (1)                 (2)
Family
C1
Neighborhood 2       40      25        5         10        (2)       60
Comm.
C2 General   3       40      25        (1)                 (2)       60
Commercial
I1           6       120 (3) 30        (1)                 (2)
Industrial
IR
Industrial   6       60 (3)  30        (1)                 (2)
Reserve
SX Special   3       60 (3)            (1)                 (2)
Reserve
(1)   Five feet for a residence. No side yard required for any other use
except on the side of a lot adjoining an “R” District in which case a side
yard of not less than five feet shall be provided in any “M” or “C” District
and not less than ten feet in any “I” District.
(2)   Twenty-five feet for any residence. No rear yard required for any other
use except on the rear of a lot adjoining an “R” District, in which case a
rear yard of not less than 25 feet shall be provided.
(3)   Whenever a building in an “I” or “SX” District adjoins or abuts within
100 feet of an “R” District, such building shall not exceed three stories or
40 feet in height unless it is set back one foot from the required side and
rear yard lines for each foot of additional height above 40 feet.
 
(Ord. - -, passed 11-24-80; Am. Ord. 2006-5, passed 3-27-06)
§ 154.41 HEIGHT, YARD AND LOT WIDTH EXCEPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Height.  
      (1)   The height regulations prescribed herein shall not apply to
television and radio towers, silos, church-spires, belfries, monuments, tanks,
water and fire towers and spires, chimneys, elevator bulkheads, smoke stacks,
conveyors and flag poles.
      (2)   Public, semi-public or public service buildings, hospitals,
institutions or schools, where permitted, may be erected to a height not
exceeding 60 feet and churches and temples may be erected to a height not
exceeding 75 feet when the required side and rear yards are each increased by
one foot of additional building height above the height regulations for the
district in which the building is located.
      (3)   The limitation on number of stories shall not apply to buildings
used exclusively for storage purposes, provided such buildings do not exceed
the height in feet permitted in the district in which they are located.
   (B)   Front yards.
      (1)   When 40% or more of the frontage on one side of the street between
two intersecting streets is improved with buildings that have observed a front
yard line having a variation in depth of not more than ten feet, no building
shall project beyond the average front yard so established; provided, however,
that a front yard depth shall not be required to exceed 50 feet.
      (2)   On lots having double frontage the required front yard shall be
provided on both streets.
      (3)   No fence and no shrubbery exceeding three feet shall be located
upon a lot within 30 feet of a street intersection.
      (4)   An open, uncovered porch or paved terrace may project into a
required front or rear yard for a distance of not more than ten feet, but this
shall not be interpreted to include or permit fixed canopies.
      (5)   Filling station pumps and pump islands may be located within a
required yard provided that they are not less than 15 feet from any street line
and not less than 50 feet from the boundary of any residential district.
      (6)   Off-street parking facilities may be located within the required
front yard of any M, C or I District but shall not be nearer than 50 feet to
any R District and no off-street parking shall be permitted in the required
front yard of any other R District.
   (C)   Side yards.
      (1)   On a corner lot, the width of the yard along the side street shall
not be less than the required front yard on such street, provided, however,
that the buildable width of a lot of record shall not be reduced to less than
32 feet. No accessory building shall project beyond the required yard line
along either street.
      (2)   Where dwelling units are erected above a commercial establishment,
no side yard is required except when required for the commercial building on
the side of a lot adjoining a residential district.
      (3)   A porte-cochere or canopy may project into a required side yard
provided every part of such porte-cochere or canopy is unenclosed and is not
less than five feet from any side lot line.
      (4)   Where a lot of record at the time of the effective date of this
chapter is less than 50 feet in width, the required side yard may be reduced to
10% of the width of the lot, provided, however, that no side yard shall be less
than three feet.
   (D)   Rear yards.
      (1)   Where a lot abuts on an alley, one-half of the alley width may be
considered as a part of the required rear yard.
      (2)   An accessory building not exceeding 20 feet in height may occupy
not to exceed 30% and unenclosed parking spaces may occupy not to exceed 90% of
the area of a required rear yard, but no accessory building shall be closer
than ten feet to the main building nor closer than three feet to any lot line.
      (3)   The ordinary projections of sills, belt courses, cornices and
ornamental features may extend to a distance not to exceed 18 inches into a
required yard.
      (4)   Open or, lattice-enclosed fire escapes, outside stairways and
balconies opening upon fire towers, and the ordinary projections of chimneys
and flues into a rear yard may be permitted by the Building Commissioner for a
distance not to exceed five feet when these are so placed as not to obstruct
light and ventilation.
   (E)   General yards and areas.
      (1)   More than one main building may be erected upon a lot in the case
of commercial or industrial buildings or of hospitals, institutions and public
buildings, where such uses are permitted, provided that all yards otherwise
required on the lot for a single building are observed.
      (2)   Where a lot of record at the time of the effective date of this
chapter has less width than herein required in the district in which it is
located and the owner of such lot does not own any other parcel or tract
adjacent thereto, the lot may nonetheless be used for a one-family dwelling.
(Ord. - -, passed 11-24-80; Am. Ord. 2006-5, passed 3-27-06)
§ 154.42 LOT AREA REQUIREMENTS.
   Lot area requirements are shown as follows:
Minimum Lot Area Per Family District
(in square feet or acres)
Minimum Lot Area Per Family                          District
(in square feet or acres)
1 Acre                                               RA Rural
10,000 Sq. Ft.—One family                          R1 Single Family
3,750 Sq. Ft.—Two Family                           R2 Two Family
1,875 Sq. Ft.—Income Property                      R3 Income Property
1,200 Sq. Ft.—Multiple-Family                      M1 Multiple-Family
5,000 Sq. Ft.—Neighborhood Comm.                   C1 Neighborhood Comm.
5,000 Sq. Ft.—General Commercial                   C2 General Commercial
5,000 Sq. Ft.—(Where new living units are permittedI1 Industrial
5,000 Sq. Ft.—(Where new living units are permittedIR Industrial Reserve
1,200 Sq. Ft.—(Where new living units are permittedSX Special Reserve
 
(Ord. - -, passed 11-24-80; Am. Ord. 2006-5, passed 3-27-06)
§ 154.43 LOT AREA EXCEPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Lot area.  Where a lot of record at the time of the effective date of
this chapter has less area than herein required in the district in which it is
located, and the owner of such lot does not own any other parcel or tract
adjacent thereto, the lot may nonetheless be used for a one-family dwelling.
   (B)   Reducing size of lots in new subdivisions.  
      (1)   The area of lots in new single-family developments may be reduced
in conformance with the following requirements:
         (a)   The maximum number of lots that can be created by a subdivision
for single-family residential purposes within a single-family residence
district or districts shall be computed by subdividing 15% of the total area
being subdivided for street right- of-way and dividing the remaining area by
the minimum lot area requirements or the single-family district of districts
within which the new subdivision is located. This method shall apply regardless
of the amount of land actually required for street right-of- way and regardless
of the amount of land, if any, to be set aside for common use.
         (b)   Common land for open space or recreation use within any
subdivision which can accommodate a minimum of 25 or more lots may be set aside
for use by the owners of residential lots or some of the lot sizes in the
subdivision may be reduced below the normal requirements of the district so
that other lots can be enlarged, but the maximum number of lots to be created
shall be determined as set out in division (B)(1)(a) above, and the area and
frontage of any lot that is reduced beyond the normal requirements of the
district shall not be less than the following minimum standards as shown in the
following table.
 
District Normal Lot Area Minimum Lot Area                 Frontage
RA       One Acre        One-half Acre                    130 ft.
R1       10,000 sq. ft.  7,500 sq. ft.                    60 ft.
R2       7,500 sq. ft.   5,000 sq. ft. (at least 2 stor.) 40 ft.
R3       7,500 sq. ft.   5,000 sq. ft. (at least 2 stor.) 40 ft.
 
         (c)   The location, extent and purpose of common land proposed to be
set aside for open space or recreational use within any subdivision must be
reviewed and approved by the Albany Plan Commission before the provision of
division (B)(1)(b) above shall apply. A private recreation use, such as a golf
course or swimming pool which use is reserved to owners or occupants of lots
located within the development may qualify as common land as well as historic
buildings or sites, parkway areas and ornamental parks. Agricultural land, low
land along streams, or areas of rough terrain may also be included when such
areas are extensive, continuous and have natural features worth preserving.
         (d)   The maintenance of common land for open space or recreation use
shall be guaranteed by trust agreement, approved by an attorney selected by the
Plan Commission. Such common land shall be set aside by deed restrictions for a
minimum period of 20 years.
      (2)   All of the above exceptions shall be subject to the approval of the
Albany Plan Commission exercised through their review of preliminary and final
subdivision plats. The Commission shall consider the topography, tree cover and
other natural features of the site, as well as the standards of this chapter
and recognized principles of landscape architecture and land use planning in
administering these exceptions.
(Ord. - -, passed 11-24-80; Am. Ord. 2006-5, passed 3-27-06)
§ 154.44 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In all districts there shall be provided at the time any building or
structure is erected or structurally altered (except as hereinafter provided)
off-street parking spaces in accordance with the following requirements:
      (1)   Dwellings, including single- and two- family and multiple: One
parking space for each dwelling unit.
      (2)   Rooming or boarding house: One parking space for each two sleeping
rooms.
      (3)   Fraternity or sorority: One parking space for each six beds.
      (4)   Private club or lodge: One parking space for every ten members.
      (5)   Church or temple: One parking space for each ten seats in the main
auditorium.
      (6)   School (except high school or college): One parking space for each
ten seats in the auditorium or main assembly room, or one space for each
classroom, whichever is greater.
      (7)   College or high school: One parking space for each eight seats in
the main auditorium or three spaces for each classroom whichever is greater.
      (8)   Country club or golf club: One parking space for each five members.
      (9)   Community center, library or museum: Ten parking spaces plus one
additional space for each 300 square feet of floor area in excess of 2,000
square feet.
      (10)   Hospital: One parking space for every two beds.
      (11)   Sanitorium, nursing home, home for the aged or similar
institution: One parking space for each six beds.
      (12)   Theatre or auditorium (except school): One parking space for each
five seats or bench seating spaces.
      (13)   Sports arena, stadium or gymnasium: One parking space for each
five seats or seating spaces.
      (14)   Motor court, motel or tourist court: One parking space for each
sleeping room or suite.
      (15)   Dance hall, assembly or exhibition hall without fixed seats: One
parking space for each 100 square feet of floor area used therefor.
      (16)   Business or professional office, studio, bank, medical or dental
clinic: Three parking spaces plus one additional parking space for each 300
square feet of floor area over 1,000.
      (17)   Bowling alley: Five parking spaces for each alley.
      (18)   Mortuary or funeral home: One parking space for each 50 square
feet of floor space in slumber rooms, parlors or individual funeral service
rooms.
      (19)   Restaurant, night club, café or similar recreation or amusement
establishment: One parking space for each 100 square feet of floor area.
      (20)   Furniture or appliance store, hardware store, wholesale
establishments, machinery or equipment sales and service, clothing or shoe
repair or service shop: Two parking spaces plus one additional parking space
for each 400 square feet of floor area over 1,000.
      (21)   Printing or plumbing shop or similar service establishment: One
parking space for each three persons employed therein.
      (22)   Manufacturing or industrial establishment, research or testing
laboratory, creamery, bottling plant, warehouse or similar establishment: One
parking space for each two employees on the maximum working shift plus space to
accommodate all trucks and other vehicles used in connection therewith.
      (23)   Retail store or personal service establishment except as otherwise
specified herein: One parking space for each 200 square feet of floor area.
   (B)   In computing the number of such parking spaces required, the following
rules shall govern:
      (1)   FLOOR AREA shall mean the gross floor area of a specified use.
      (2)   Where fractional spaces result, the parking spaces required shall
be construed to be the nearest whole number.
      (3)   The parking space requirements for a use not specifically mentioned
herein shall be the same as required for a use of a similar nature.
      (4)   Whenever a building or use construed or established prior to the
effective date of this chapter is changed or enlarged in floor area, number of
employees, number of dwelling units, seating capacity or otherwise, to create a
need for an increase of 10% or more in the number of existing parking spaces,
such spaces shall be provided on the basis of the enlargement or change.
Whenever a building or use existing prior to the effective date of this chapter
is enlarged to the extent of 50% or more in floor area or in the area used, the
building or use shall then and thereafter comply with the parking requirements
set forth herein.
   (C)   The parking spaces required herein for residential buildings or uses
shall be located on the same lot with the building or use served. The parking
spaces required for any other building or use may be located on an area within
300 feet of the building or two or more owners of buildings may join together
in providing required parking spaces. Where the required parking spaces are not
located on the same lot with the building or use served, the use of the lot or
tract upon which the parking spaces are provided shall be restricted by an
instrument of record describing the premises for which the parking is provided
and assuring the retention of such parking so long as required by this chapter.
   (D)   Every building of the type described below which is hereafter built,
relocated or is structurally altered to the extent of more than 50% addition in
floor area, shall provide one or more off-street truck loading berths, in
accordance with the following requirements:
      (1)   A building whose dominant use is handling and selling goods at
retail shall provide loading berths in relation to floor area used for retail
purposes as follows:
 
Floor Area            Loading Berths Required
5,000—10,000 sq. ft.One
10,000—20,000 sq. ftTwo
20,000—30,000 sq. ftThree
Over 30,000 sq. ft.   Four
 
      (2)   Manufacturing, repair, wholesale or warehouse uses shall provide
loading berths in relation to total floor areas as follows:
 
Floor Area             Loading Berths Required
5,000—40,000 sq. ft. One
40,000—100,000 sq. ftTwo
Over 100,000 sq. ft.   Three
 
      (3)   All other buildings including offices, having over 10,000 square
feet of floor area shall provide one loading berth.
(Ord. - -, passed 11-24-80; Am. Ord. 2006-5, passed 3-27-06)
§ 154.45 SPECIAL USE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Appeals by an affirmative two- thirds vote, may, by
special permit after public hearing, authorize the location of any of the
following buildings or uses in any district, except as herein qualified, from
which they are otherwise prohibited by this chapter, provided, however, that
appropriate conditions and safeguards shall be imposed to protect the public
welfare and to conserve and protect property and property values in the
neighborhood.
      (1)   Landing field or landing strip.
      (2)   Cemetery or mausoleum.
      (3)   Circus or carnival grounds, but not within 300 feet of any R
District.
      (4)   Commercial amusement or recreational development for temporary or
seasonal periods.
      (5)   Area for dumping or disposal of trash or garbage.
      (6)   Riding stable.
      (7)   Extraction of topsoil, gravel, sand, or other natural resources in
urban areas.
      (8)   Greenhouse or nursery, provided that any such structure shall not
be less than 100 feet from all property lines.
      (9)   Hospital or institution, provided that any hospital or institution
permitted in any R District shall be located on a site of not less than five
acres, buildings shall not occupy more than 10% of the total lot area and shall
be set back from all yard lines at least two feet for each foot of building
height. The Town Board may also permit such buildings to exceed the height
requirements otherwise established by this chapter.
      (10)   Private club or building of a public or semipublic organization.
      (11)   Any public building erected and used by any department of a
municipal, county, state or federal government.
      (12)   Radio or television tower or broadcasting station.
      (13)   Trailer camp in a C2 Commercial District or within 1,500 feet of
the latter, provided such trailer camp shall comply with the following and such
additional requirements as may be deemed
necessary for proper development and protection of surrounding area:
         (a)   All appropriate state and county sanitation regulations shall be
strictly observed.
         (b)   At least 1,500 square feet of lot area per trailer shall be
provided; no trailer shall be parked closer to the street or highway than the
required front yard setback or closer than 20 feet to any property line; and a
clearance of not less than 15 feet shall be maintained between the trailer
coaches on all sides.
         (c)   Trailer coach spaces shall abut upon a hard-surfaced driveway or
accessway of not less than 25 feet in width.
         (d)   Service building or other facilities for bathing, laundry and
sanitation, as required by the state and local health regulations shall be
located at least 20 feet from the side and rear lot lines and shall be
accessible to all trailer coaches by means of the access drives or hard-
surfaced walks.
         (e)   Wherever practicable, space shall be reserved for recreation and
a playground.
      (14)   Off-street parking area in an R District when adjoining a C or I
District, provided the following standards are met:
         (a)   No business involving the repair or service to vehicles, or sale
or display thereof, shall be conducted from or upon such parking areas.
         (b)   No structures shall be erected or remain on any portion of the
parking area.
         (c)   No signs shall be erected on the parking area except as approved
by the Albany Plan Commission. No signs shall project beyond the property line
of the premises.
         (d)   Parking areas shall be used for the parking of patrons’ private
passenger vehicles only and no charge shall be made for parking within such
premises.
         (e)   The parking area shall be set back from the street in accordance
with the required front yard of the R District and shall observe a minimum side
yard of seven feet on the side of the lot adjoining a dwelling use.
         (f)   The parking area shall be improved and screened in accordance
with standards and requirements established by the Town Board when the permit
is granted.
      (15)   Auto wrecking yard or junk yard, but only when located inside a
building or when wholly enclosed by a wooden fence not less than eight feet in
height and in which the openings or cracks are less than 15% of the total area.
      (16)   (a)   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT.  A business located in
the town that meets any of the following definitions. All definitions contained
in the chapter shall be the same as those set forth in §
113.03.
         (b)   ADULT ARCADE. An establishment where, for any form of
consideration, one or more still or motion picture projectors, slide
projectors, or similar machines, or other image producing machines, for viewing
by five or fewer persons each, are regularly used to show films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions which
are characterized by the depiction or description of “specified sexual
activities” or “specified anatomical areas.”
         (c)   ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE.  A
commercial establishment which has a significant or substantial portion of its
stock-in-trade or derives 25% or more of its revenues to sale, rental for any
form of consideration, or any one or more of the following:
            1.   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other visual
representations which are characterized by the depiction or description of
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas.”
            2.   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed for
use or marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of themselves or others.
            3.   An establishment may have other principal business purposes
that do not involve the offering for sale, rental or viewing of materials
depicting or describing “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical
areas,” and still be categorized as adult bookstore, adult novelty store, or
adult video store. Such other business purposes will not serve to exempt such
establishments from being categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty
store or adult video store so long as one of its principal business purposes is
offering for sale or rental, for some form of consideration, the specified
materials which depict or describe “specified sexual activities” or “specified
anatomical areas.”
            4.   Regardless of the percentage of revenues from adult materials
defined herein, any business which devotes any portion of its interior business
space or advertising, for any form of consideration or viewing of any of the
adult materials defined herein shall be considered to be an “adult bookstore,”
“adult novelty store” or “adult video store” as defined by and governed by this
chapter.
         (d)   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant, “bottle club,” or
similar commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages are
served, which regularly features: (a) persons who appear semi-nude or in a
state of semi-nudity; (b) live performances which are characterized by the
exposure of “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas” or by
pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions which
are characterized by the depiction or description of “specified sexual
activities” or “specified anatomical areas.”
         (e)   ADULT MOTEL. A motel, hotel or similar commercial establishment
which: (a) offers public accommodations, for any form of consideration which
provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions which are
characterized by the depiction or description of “specified sexual activities”
or “specified anatomical area” and which advertises the availability of this
sexually oriented type of material by means of a sign visible from the public
right-of-way, or by means of any off-premises advertising including but not
limited to, newspapers, magazines, pamphlets or leaflets, radio or television,
or (b) offers of a sleeping room for rent for a period of time less than ten
hours; or (c) allows a tenant or occupant to sub-rent the sleeping room for a
time period of less than ten hours.
         (f)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER.  A commercial establishment, where
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or similar photographic
reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or description of
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas” are regularly
shown for any form of consideration.
         (g)   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar
commercial establishment which, for any form of consideration, regularly
features persons who appear in a state of semi-nudity or live performances
which are characterized by exposure of “specified anatomical areas” or by
“specified sexual activities.”
         (h)   ESCORT. A person who, for any form of consideration, agrees or
offers to act as a companion, guide, or date for another person, or who agrees
or offers to privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for
another person.
         (I)   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business association who furnishes,
offers to furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary
business purposes for a fee, tip, or other consideration.
         (j)   MASSAGE PARLOR. Any place where, for any form of consideration
or gratuity, massage, alcohol rub, administration of fomentation, electric or
magnetic treatments, or any other treatment manipulation of the human body
which occurs as a part of or in connection with “specified sexual activities,”
or where any person providing such treatment, manipulation, or service related
thereto, exposes his or her “specified anatomical areas.” The definition of
sexually oriented businesses shall not include the practice of massage in any
licensed hospital, nor by a licensed hospital, nor by a licensed physician,
surgeon, chiropractor, osteopath, or certified massage therapist, nor by any
nurse or technician working under the supervision of a licensed physician,
surgeon, chiropractor, osteopath, or certified massage therapist, nor by
trainers for any amateur, semiprofessional or professional athlete or athletic
team or school athletic program.
         (k)   SEMI-NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person who regularly
appears in a state of semi-nudity is provided for money or any form of
consideration to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured,
photographed, or similarly depicted by other persons.
         (l)   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER ESTABLISHMENT. A business or commercial
establishment, that as one of its primary business purposes, offers for any
form of consideration, a place where two or more persons may congregate,
associate, or consort for the purposes of “specified sexual activities” when
one or more of the persons is semi-nude. The definition of sexually oriented
businesses shall not include any establishment where a medical practitioner,
psychologist, psychiatrist, or similar professional person licensed by the
state engages in medically approved and recognized sexual therapy.
         (m)   Any adult entertainment establishment shall be located in
Industrial Reserve (IR) districts.
         (n)   Any adult entertainment establishment shall be located no less
than 1,000 feet from any church, school or other public assembly building or
structure. Additionally, the adult entertainment establishment shall be located
no less than 800 feet from any occupied residence.
   (B)   Any proposed special use shall otherwise comply with all the
regulations set forth in this chapter for the district in which such use is
located.
   (C)   Community unit plan. The owner or owners of any tract of land
comprising an area of not less than ten acres may submit to the Town Board a
plan for the use and development of all the tract of land for residential and
allied purposes. The development plan shall be referred to the Plan Commission
for study and report and for public hearing. Notice and publication of such
public hearing shall conform to the procedure prescribed in §
154.09 for hearings on changes and amendments. If the Commission approves the
plans, these shall then be submitted to the Town Board for consideration and
action. The approval and recommendation of the Commission shall be accompanied
by a report stating the reasons for approval of the application and specific
evidence and facts showing that the proposed community unit plan meets the
following conditions:
      (1)   That property adjacent to the area included in the plan will not be
adversely affected, and to this end the Commission may require, in the absence
of an appropriate physical barrier, that uses of least intensity or a buffer of
open space or screening be arranged along the borders of the project.
      (2)   That the plan is consistent with the intent and purposes of this
chapter to promote public health, safety, morals and general welfare.
      (3)   That the buildings shall be used only for single-family dwellings,
two-family dwellings or multiple dwellings and the usual accessory uses such as
garages, storage space or community activities, including churches.
      (4)   That the average lot area per family exclusive of the area occupied
by streets, shall not be less than the lot area per family required in the
district in which the development is located.
      (5)   That sufficient area is reserved for play and recreational
facilities.
(Ord. - -,passed 11-24-80; Am. Ord. 1999-8, passed 5-24-99; Am. Ord. 2006-5,
passed 3-27-06)
§ 154.46 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   A nonconforming use of land existing at the effective date of this
chapter may be continued, provided, however, that no such nonconforming use of
land shall be in any way expanded or extended either on the same or adjoining
property. If such nonconforming use of land or any portion thereof is
discontinued, any future use of such land shall be in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The lawful use of land for storage purposes which do not conform to
the provisions of this chapter shall be discontinued within five years from the
date of the approval of this chapter and the same uses of land which become
nonconforming by reason of a subsequent change in this chapter shall also be
discontinued within five years from the date of the change.
   (C)   The lawful use of a building existing at the time of the adoption of
this chapter may be continued, although such use does not conform with the
provisions hereof, and such use may be extended through those parts of the
building which were manifestly arranged or designed therefor, provided no
structural alterations, except those required by law or ordinance, are made
therein. If no structural alterations are made, a nonconforming use of a
building may be changed to another nonconforming use of the same or more
restricted classification. The foregoing provisions shall also apply to
nonconforming uses in districts hereafter changed. Whenever a nonconforming use
of a building has been changed to a more restricted use or to a conforming use,
such use shall not thereafter be changed to a less restricted use.
   (D)   No building which has been damaged by fire, explosion, act of God or
the public enemy to the extent of more than 60% of its fair market value shall
be restored except in conformity with the regulations of this chapter.
   (E)   In the event that a nonconforming use of any building or premises is
discontinued or its normal operation stopped for a period of one year, the use
of the same shall thereafter conform to the regulations of the district in
which it is located.
   (F)   No existing building or premises devoted to a use not permitted in
this chapter in the district in which such building or premises is located,
except when required to do so by law or ordinance, shall be enlarged, extended,
reconstructed or structurally altered unless such use is changed to one
permitted in the district in which such building or premises is located.
(Ord. - -, passed 11-24-80; Am. Ord. 2006-5, passed 3-27-06)
CHAPTER 155: SIGN REGULATIONS
Section
   
155.01   Purpose
   
155.02   Definition
   
155.03   Exempt signs
   
155.04   Prohibited signs
   
155.05   Regulations
§ 155.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to promote and protect the public
health, welfare and safety of the community and its people by regulating
existing, proposed and subsequent outdoor advertising and outdoor signs of all
types. As a general rule, signs of all sorts are not favored nor encouraged
within the town.
   (B)   The location and maintenance of signs within the town shall be
consistent with the land usage and neighborhood wherein same shall be found.
   (C)   Because signs are generally detrimental except those for public
service, the sections herein relative to signage shall be narrowly constructed.
(Ord. 2015-21, passed 8-10-15)
§ 155.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SIGN. Any structure or device designed or intended to attract attention and
convey information to the public in pointed, written or pictorial form. SIGNS
include, but are not limited to, billboards, business, free standing, banners,
advertising, real estate and portable temporary signs.
(Ord. 2015-21, passed 8-10-15)
§ 155.03 EXEMPT SIGNS.
   The following types of signs shall be exempted from the requirements of this
chapter:
   (A)   Signs not exceeding one square foot in area and bearing only property
numbers, post box numbers, and/or names of occupants of premises or home
service.
   (B)   Flags and insignia of any government.
   (C)   Legal notices, identification, or directional signs erected by or by
order of local governmental bodies.
   (D)   Signs directing and guiding traffic and parking on private property,
but bearing no advertising matter, including logos.
(Ord. 2015-21, passed 8-10-15)
§ 155.04 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   No signs shall be allowed in any Residential Zone Areas except for those
signs that are exempt signs as set forth in §
155.03.
(Ord. 2015-21, passed 8-10-15)
§ 155.05 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No sign will be permitted without the issuance of a valid permit
issued by the Albany Planning Commission.
   (B)   In any district where signs are permitted, except as noted, the
provisions of this section shall be applied to affect the safety of motorists
and facilitation traffic movement.
      (1)   No sign shall be erected or maintained at any location where, by
reason of its position, wording, illumination, size, shape or color, it may
obstruct, impair, obscure, interfere with the view of, or be confused with any
authorized traffic control sign, signal or device.
      (2)   No sign shall contain or make use of any phrase, symbol, shape,
form or character in a manner that interferes with, misleads, or confuses
moving traffic.
      (3)   Portable signs require notification to the Planning Commission
stating location and duration that the sign will be in place. Portable signs
without a message are prohibited.
      (4)   All signs not expressly permitted by this section are prohibited.
   (C)   In Income Property, Multiple-Family Residence, Neighborhood
Commercial, General Commercial, Industrial, Industrial Reserve and Special
Reserve Districts, the provisions of this section shall apply:
      (1)   No part of any sign which is attached to the exterior wall of a
building or roof shall be erected to a height in excess of six feet above the
roof or parapet line of the building.
      (2)   No illuminated sign shall be permitted within 500 feet of any
neighboring Residential District.
      (3)   No part of any free standing sign shall be erected to a height
greater than the roof line of any building located on site and served by the
sign.
      (4)   Rooftop sign structures shall not extend more than six feet above
the roof line.
      (5)   No sign structure shall extend beyond or overhang any exterior wall
of the building when the sign structures are secured on the roof.
      (6)   The minimum setback of freestanding signs from street rights-of-way
shall not be less than those stated below. Setbacks shall be measured from the
nearest point of the sign to the edge of the right-of-way.
      (7)   The minimum sign setbacks shall be as follows:
 
Minimum Area of Sign Per Face Setback  Permit Fee
Five sq. ft. or less          Ten feet $25
Five to 14.9 sq. ft.          15 feet  $40
15 to 49.9 sq. ft.            30 feet  $60
50 to 99.9 sq. ft.            40 feet  $80
100 or more sq. ft.           60 feet  $100
 
      (8)   No free standing sign shall be erected or maintained on or within
any easement or right-of-way, public or private, without special permission in
writing from the Albany Planning Commission.
   (D)   In the Income Property, Multiple-Family Residence, Neighborhood
Commercial, General Commercial and Special Reserve Districts, except as herein
provided, the provisions of this division shall apply:
      (1)   Multi-family developments shall be subject to the provisions of
division (C) above.
      (2)   Business signs shall be permitted in connection with any legal
business or industry when located on the same premises, and if they meet the
following requirements:
         (a)   Signs shall not contain information or advertising for any
product not sold or produced on the premises;
         (b)   Signs shall not have an aggregate surface size greater than 30
square feet for each business on the premises;
         (c)   Signs shall not project over public rights-of-way;
         (d)   Any sign over 24 square feet shall not be located closer than 50
feet to any residential use, school, church, park, playground or similar use;
and
         (e)   Each legal business shall be entitled to one wall mounted sign
subject to the foregoing requirements, except that occupying extended common
frontages shall be limited to one free standing sign per 200 linear feet of
frontage.
   (E)   In the Industrial and Industrial Reserve Districts, each user/owner
shall be permitted identification signs as incidental uses, not to exceed two
of these types of signs for a total net area of 300 square feet.
   (F)   The signs permitted by this division shall be allowed and/or limited
in any district.
      (1)   All real estate "For Sale" or "For Rent" signs shall be no more
than 800 square inches in size. No "directional" signs or "rider" shall be
permitted. However, "Open House" riders shall be permitted only for a period of
seven days prior to the open house and same must be removed one hour after the
conclusion of the open house.
      (2)   One sign, not more than 12 square feet in area, for construction
and development, giving the name of the contractors, engineers, or architects,
shall be permitted but only during the time that construction or development is
actively underway.
      (3)   For an event of public interest sponsored by a governmental agency,
church, school, political organization or charitable organization, one
temporary sign not over 100 square feet in area on the premises on which the
event will take place shall be permitted, but the sign shall not be erected
more than 30 days before the event in question and shall be removed immediately
after the event.
      (4)   For each real estate subdivision that has been recorded in
accordance with the subdivision regulations, one sign, not over 50 square feet
in area, advertising the sale of property in the subdivision shall be permitted
within easements recorded for the purpose of erecting subdivision signs, but
only when located in some portion of the subdivision itself being advertised
for sale. The sign may be illuminated, but no flashing, intermittent, or
animated illumination is permitted. The sign shall be maintained only during
the time as some portion of the land use advertised for sale remains unsold.
Permits for this type of sign shall be issued for one-year periods to allow
time for reasonable display.
      (5)   Political advertisement signs on private property may be erected no
more than 30 days prior to the election and are to be removed within five days
after the election. No political sign may exceed 25 square feet in size.
      (6)   For each major entrance to a real estate subdivision, one sign
containing the name of the subdivision shall be permitted on each side of the
entrance. The sign shall not exceed 20 square feet and shall have a maximum
height of six feet.
   (G)   Albany Planning Commission is responsible for permitting and
enforcement.
(Ord. 2015-21, passed 8-10-15)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Chapter
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   FRANCHISES
      
III.   STREET NAME CHANGES
      
IV.   VACATIONS
      
V.   ZONING CHANGES
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Annexing certain real estate owned by Jack A. Cunningham
1970-12  8-17-70     and Carol E. Cunningham described as southeast corner of
                     southeast quarter of Section 35, Township 22 North, Range
                     11 East to the town.
                     Annexing certain property described as the southeast
1971-27  11-22-71    quarter of Section 35, Township 22 North, Range 11 East to
                     the town.
1975-A-1 6-25-75     Annexing a part of the northwest quarter of Section 5,
                     Township 21 North, Range 12 East to the town.
1979-12  12-3-79     Annexing a part of the northeast quarter of Section 1,
                     Township 21 North, Range 11 East to the town.
                     Annexing a part of southwest quarter of northwest quarter
1991-13  8-12-91     of Section 2, Township 21 North, Range 11 East to the
                     town.
                     Annexing certain real estate contiguous to the existing
1994-10  7-25-94     boundaries of the town, described as a part of the
                     southeast quarter of Section 1, Township 21 North, Range
                     11 East to the town.
                     Annexing a part of the southwest quarter of Section 36,
1995-14  9-25-95     Township 22 North, Range 11 East of the Second Principal
                     Meridian to the town.
2003-21  10-27-03    Annexing a part of the southwest quarter of Section 36,
                     Township 22 North, Range 11 East to the town.
                     Annexing a part of the east half of the southeast quarter
2003-23  11-10-03    of Section 36, Township 22 North, Range 11 East to the
                     town.
2004-8   3-22-04     Annexing a part of the southeast quarter of Section 36,
                     Township 22 North, Range 11 East to the town.
                     Annexing a part of the southwest quarter of the northwest
                     quarter of Section 2, Township 21 North, Range 11 East in
2006-16  9-25-06     Delaware Township; also a part of the northwest quarter of
                     the southwest quarter of Section 2, Township 21 North,
                     Range 11 East in Delaware Township.
                     Annexing a part of the fractional northeast quarter of
                     Section 1, Township 21 North, Range 11 East in Delaware
2014-21  1-26-15     Township; also a part of the fractional northwest quarter
                     of Section 5, Township 21 North, Range 12 East in Green
                     Township.
                     Annexing the point of intersection of the south line of
2014-23  1-26-15     the right- of-way of the Lake Erie & Western Railroad
                     Company and the south line of Section 36, Township 22
                     North, Range 11 East.
2014-25  1-26-15     Annexing a part of the southeast quarter of Section 1,
                     Township 21 North, Range 11 East in Delaware Township.
                     Annexing a part of the fractional northwest quarter of
2014-32  1-12-15     Section 2, Township 21 North, Range 11 East in Delaware
                     Township.
2015-24  8-10-15     Annexing a part of the southeast quarter of Section 1,
                     Township 21 North, Range 11 East in Delaware Township.
2016-21  11-7-16     Amending the description of territory annexed in Ordinance
                     2014-21.
2016-22  11-7-16     Amending the description of territory annexed in Ordinance
                     2014-23.
                    
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Granting a franchise to Triad Cablevision, Inc. to
1974-1   4-29-74     operate, construct, and maintain a cable television
                     transmission system in the town.
                     Granting a franchise to Triad CATV of Indiana, Inc. to
1984-4   6-11-84     operate, construct, and maintain a cable television
                     transmission system in the town.
                     Granting to Americable International- Indiana, Inc. a
1990-21  12-10-90    nonexclusive franchise for the installation, operation,
                     and maintenance of a cable communication system within the
                     town for a period of ten years.
                     Renewing and extending franchise to Insight Communications
2002-9   4-22-02     Midwest, LLC to construct and operate a cable television
                     system in the town.
 
TABLE III: STREET NAME CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1973-18  8-27-73     An ordinance changing the names of the following streets:
                     Washington Street on the east side of town that runs west
                   to east from Mississinewa to Foster will be changed to
                     Adams Street.
                     Walnut Street on the east side of town that runs west to
                   east from Mississinewa to Parker will be changed to Oak
                     Street.
                     Maple Street on the east side of town that runs west to
                   east from Mississinewa to Dalton will be changed to Elm
                     Street.
                   High Street on the west side of town that runs west to
                     east from Plum to Broadway will be changed to Polk Street.
                   Manor Street on the west side of town that runs east to
                     west from Water to Broadway will be named Cedar Street.
                     Northwest Second Street on the west side of town that runs
                   east to west from Delaware to Gray will be named Liberty
                     Street.
                   Third Street on the west side of town that runs east to
                     west from Delaware to Cleo will be named Green Street.
                     Fourth Street on the west side of town that runs east to
                   west from Delaware to Cleo will be the continuation of
                     High Street that is the east end of Fourth Street. This
                     will be High Street from Main to Cleo Street.
                     An ordinance officially naming the street lying between
2021-17  11-8-21     Cleo Street, Liberty Street, and Walnut Street in Section
                     2, Township 21 North, Range 11 East as Hero Lane.
                    
 
TABLE IV: VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
Res.         Vacating the unimproved section of Miller Avenue extending south of Elm Street
1980- 7-14-  and between Lots 1,3, and 5 in Block 49 in Albany Land Company’s subdivision
7     80     and Lots 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12 in Block 48 in Albany Land Company’s
             subdivision, all lying within the corporate limits of the town.
1984-        Vacating that portion of a certain public alley lying within Block 3 of the
1     4-9-84 Original Plat of the town, as shown in Plat Book 3, page 45, Records of
             Delaware County.
             Vacating all of that portion of Gray Street beginning at the southwest corner
1989- 6-12-  of Lot 38 in James E. Stafford & Company’s Second Addition to the town, thence
8     89     west 20 feet following the south line of Lot 38, thence north 130 feet, thence
             east 20 feet following the north line of Lot 38 to the northwest corner of Lot
             38, thence south 130 feet to the place of beginning.
1990- 2-26-  Vacating a portion of Franklin Street, a public street located in the Albany
4     90     Land Company’s subdivision to the town.
1996- 7-8-96 Vacating a public alley located in the town beginning at the northwest corner
9            of Lot 3 in Block 2 of Samuel B. Murphy’s First Addition to the town.
1999- 11-22- Vacating a portion of Foster Avenue and a portion of an unnamed alley in the
20    99     Albany Land Company’s addition to the town.
2000- 2-14-  Vacating a portion of a wide alley situated between Atkinson property and the
2     00     United Methodist Parsonage off of Broadway Street.
2005- 9-16-  Vacating the following:
24    05
           West Washington Street from its intersection with the north line of Liberty
             Street northward to the south line of High Street;
           Green Street from the west line of Lots 39 and 70 extended in James E.
             Stafford and Company’s Second Addition to the west line of Cleo Street;
             A platted alley in James E. Stafford and Company’s Second Addition extending
           west from the west line of West Washington Street to the west line of the
             Addition;
           A platted alley in James E. Stafford and Company’s Second Addition located
             east of the east line of West Washington Street;
           A platted alley in James E. Stafford and Company’s Second Addition located
             east of the east line of State Highway 67;
             A platted alley in James E. Stafford and Company’s Second Addition extending
           eastwardly from the east line of West Washington Street to the west line of
             Cleo Street.
2006- 1-23-  Vacating a portion of Power Street between Manor Avenue and Dalton Avenue.
1     06
2015- 12-14- Vacating a platted utility easement located on Lots 40 and 41 on the Fairways,
39    15     Section 2, on property owned by James M. Bradley and Paula K. Bradley.
2016- 7-11-  Vacating a public right-of-way, being a portion of Dalton Avenue, located
7     16     along the east side of Block 51 in the Albany Land Company’s subdivision.
            
 
TABLE V: ZONING CHANGES
 
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
                         Changing a part of the fractional north half of the
1984-3       4-23-84     northeast quarter of Section 2, Township 21 North,
                         Range 11 East from RI Rural to MI Multiple Housing.
Res. 1991-18 11-11-91    Changing the zoning at 201 Dowden Avenue from R1
                         Single Family to M1 Multiple Family.
                         Changing the zoning of a part of the west half of the
Res. 1991-19 11-11-91    northwest quarter of Section 1, Township 21 North,
                         Range 11 East in the town from R1 to C2.
2017-14      6-12-17     Changing the zoning of real estate located at 449 East
                         Elm Street, from R1 to C2.
2017-15      6-12-17     Changing the zoning of real estate located at 200
                         Block of South Manor Avenue, from vacant land to C2.
                        
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cite Code Section
I.C. Cite                      Code Section
1-1-1-5                        10.04
1-1-1-7                        10.12
1-1-1-8                        10.06
1-1-4-5                        10.05
1-1-5-1                        10.11
1-1-6-1                        10.08
4-33-12-6                      36.02
5-1-14-4                       36.02
5-10.2-2-11                    34.30
5-10.3-12-20                   34.30
5-11                           31.41
5-11-1-27(1)                   36.50
5-14-1.5                       31.41
5-14-3                         31.41
5-16-9                         72.04
Title 5, Article 22            35.01
5-22-7-1 et seq.               35.01
5-22-8                         35.01
5-22-10-1 et seq.              35.01
6-1.1-18.5                     36.02
9-13-2-6                       70.01
9-13-2-47                      70.01
9-13-2-56                      70.01
9-13-2-73                      70.01
9-13-2-84                      70.01
9-13-2-105                     70.01
9-13-2-108                     70.01
9-13-2-118                     70.01
9-13-2-121(a)                  70.01
9-13-2-155                     70.01
9-13-2-157                     70.01
9-13-2-178                     70.01
9-13-2-196(a)                  70.01
9-14-5 (Repealed)              72.04
9-18-18 (Expired)              72.04
9-18-22 (Expired)              72.04
9-19                           70.01
                               71.01—
                               71.03,
                               71.20—
9-21-1-3                       71.22,
                               72.01—
                               72.04,
                               72.99
9-21-5-6                       Ch. 71
9-21-20-1                      70.01
9-21-20-2                      70.01
9-21-20-3                      70.01
9-29-4-2 et seq. (Repealed)    70.03
13-2-22 (Repealed)            153.007
14-8-2                         153.007
14-8-2-93                      153.007
14-28-1                        151.34
14-28-1-26                     151.34
14-28-4                        151.01
16-18-2-110                    70.01
16-22-8                        70.01
18-7-4-101—1213 (Repealed)   153.002
18-7-4-114 (Repealed)          154.05
18-7-5-39—18-7-5-44 (Repealed154.09
18-7-5-64 (Repealed)           154.09
22-3-5                         50.41
22-9-1-4 et seq.               90.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.               90.01
22-9.5-1-2                     90.02
22-9.5-2-2                     90.02
22-9.5-2-3                     90.02
22-9.5-2-4                     90.02
22-9.5-2-8                     90.02
22-9.5-2-9                     90.02
22-9.5-2-11                    90.02
22-9.5-2-13                    90.02
22-9.5-3                       90.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.               90.09
22-9.5-4-8                     90.10
22-9.5-5                       90.02
22-9.5-5-1                     90.03
22-9.5-5-10                    90.02
22-9.5-6                       90.02,
                               90.10
25-37-1-11                     111.01—111.12
35-4-32-1 et seq. (Repealed)   92.99
35-47-2                        110.01
35-47-2-3(b) et seq.           110.01
35-47-11.1                     131.01—
                               131.03
36-1-3-8(a)(10)                10.99
36-1-3-8(a)(10)(B)             53.24
36-1-4-20                      31.47
36-1-5-4                       30.05
36-1-8-5                       36.01
36-1-8-12                      36.03
36-5-2-5                       30.03
36-7-4                         151.01
36-7-4-507—36-7-4-511        154.09
36-7-4-607—36-7-4-611        154.09
36-7-9                         150.20
36-7-9-2                       150.21
36-7-9-5                       150.20
36-7-14                        31.40
36-7-14-1 et seq.              31.47
36-7-14.5-6                    31.47
36-9-23-32                     52.06
                               
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
1981-2   3-9-81      72.99
1988-7   10-10-88    51.04
1992-4   3-23-92     32.01
1992-5   3-23-92     32.01
1993-12  8-23-93     51.05
1994-5   4-11-94     Chapter 73, Schedule I
1994-9   7-11-94     Chapter 73, Schedule I
1995-4   2-27-95     72.99;
                     Chapter 73, Schedule I
1995-6   4-24-95     Chapter 73, Schedule I
1995-7   4-24-95     72.99
1995-11  8-14-95     72.99
                     91.15,
1996-14  12-9-96     91.16,
                     91.35,
                     91.36
1999-5   4-12-99     51.03
2000-5   4-24-00     72.99
2001-01  3-26-01     51.07
2003-2   1-13-03     32.01
2003-4   3-10-03     37.01
2004-4   2-23-04     91.36,
                     91.99
2004-28  12-13-04    51.01
2005-18  6-27-05     51.42
2006-3   3-13-06     35.05
2009-12  9-14-09     30.06
2012-27  10-22-12    37.05
2012-28  10-22-12    37.04
2019-19  11-25-19    34.30
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
1967-3   2-6-67      Ch. 73, Sch. IV
                     31.1,
1969-14  8-4-69      31.15—
                     31.25
                     94.01—
1971-22  9-27-71     94.03,
                     94.99
                     91.01,
                     91.02,
                     91.15—
1973-10  6-10-73     91.21,
                     91.35,
                     91.36,
                     91.99
                     50.01 —
                     50.03 ,
                     50.15 ,
1977-16  11-7-77     50.30 ,
                     50.31 ,
                     50.33 ,
                     50.35 —
                     50.42
1978-8   11-20-78    31.01,
                     31.02
                     153.001—
                     153.015;
                     153.030—
                     153.032;
                     153.050—
                     153.052;
                     153.070;
                     153.071;
                     153.090—
                     153.096;
- -      - -80       153.110—
                     153.112;
                     153.998;
                     153.999;
                     Chapter 153, Appendix B, §§ 1—17;
                     154.01—
                     154.10;
                     154.20—
                     154.29;
                     154.40—
                     154.46
1982-2   6-28-82     152.01—
                     152.03
                     70.02,
1985-1   2-25-85     70.03,
                     110.01
1985-9   9-23-85     91.36
1986-131 2-29-86     154.09
1986-8   9-22-86     50.16,
                     50.30
1989-2   2-27-89     91.18
1989-17  12-11-89    152.04
                     92.15—
1990-3   2-26-90     92.19,
                     92.99
1992-2   2-10-92     91.36
1993-1   2-22-93     30.01—
                     30.05
1993-15  9-27-93     90.01—
                     90.10
                     112.01—
1993-19  11-8-93     112.07,
                     112.99
1993-16  11-22-93    33.01
1995-9   6-12-95     112.04
1996-14  12-9-96     91.36,
                     91.99
                     110.15—
1998-5   4-27-98     110.18,
                     110.99
1998-11  8-24-98     35.03
1998-12  8-24-98     35.01,
                     35.02
                     93.01—
1998-15  8-24-98     93.03,
                     93.99
1998-17  10-12-98    72.99
                     113.01—
                     113.06,
                     113.20—
1999-6   5-24-99     113.29,
                     113.40—
                     113.47,
                     113.99
1999-8   5-24-99     154.45\
1999-24  12-28-99    33.02
2000-3   2-28-00     35.04
2000-8   7-10-00     51.06
                     130.01,
2000-11  7-24-00     130.02,
                     130.99
2000-21  12-27-00    154.07
2001-9   7-9-01      91.28
2001-14  12-10-01    154.07
2002-6   3-25-02     150.01
2002-5   4-8-02      Adopting Ordinance
                     132.01—
2002-8   4-8-02      132.07,
                     132.99
2002-9   4-22-02     T.S.O. II
2002-13  8-26-02     30.04
2002-18  11-25-02    95.01,
                     95.99
2003-17  10-13-03    93.11,
                     93.99
2003-21  10-27-03    T.S.O. I
2003-23  11-10-03    T.S.O. I
2004-2   1-26-04     110.15
2004-3   2-23-04     36.01
2004-5   2-23-04     150.20,
                     150.21
2004-6   2-23-04     111.01—
                     111.08
2004-8   3-22-04     T.S.O. I
2004-12  4-26-04     92.25,
                     92.99
2004-13  4-24-04     93.10,
                     93.99
2004-14  5-24-04     36.02
                     52.01—
2004-19  6-28-04     52.13,
                     52.99
2004-22  10-11-04    Adopting Ordinance
2004-24  11-22-04    51.01,
                     51.02
2004-26  11-8-04     92.25
2004-29  12-13-04    92.01—
                     92.06
2005-2   5-2-05      51.40 -
                     51.50
2005-9   5-9-05      153.050
                     93.10,
2005-13  6-13-05     93.99,
                     Ch. 93, Appendix A
2005-22  8-8-05      71.30
2005-24  9-16-05     T.S.O. IV
2005-31  12-27-05    Ch. 73, Sch. I
2006-1   1-23-06     T.S.O. IV
2006-3   3-13-06     35.05
                     154.01—
                     154.10,
2006-5   3-27-06     154.20—
                     154.29,
                     154.40—
                     154.46
2006-8   4-24-06     35.04
2006-9   4-24-06     51.03
2006-11  6-12-06     51.41
2006-13  8-29-06     Adopting Ordinance
                     37.02,
2006-14  8-29-06     70.02,
                     70.03,
                     110.01
2006-16  9-25-06     T.S.O. I
2006-19  9-25-06     52.04
2006-20  9-25-06     37.03
2006-24  12-11-06    Ch. 73, Sch. I
2006-25  12-11-06    93.15
2007-4   2-12-07     35.01
2007-5   2-12-07     52.14
2007-11  6-11-07     92.04,
                     92.06
                     91.25 -
2007-12  7-23-07     91.27,
                     91.99
2007-13  7-23-07     96.01 -
                     96.03
                     132.01 -
2007-14  7-23-07     132.07,
                     132.99
2007-17  9-24-07     50.04
2007-21  10-22-07    51.41
2008-8   5-27-08     Ch. 74, Sch. III,
                     75.01
                     91.45 -
2008-9   5-27-08     91.47,
                     91.99
2008-15  11-10-08    94.04,
                     94.99
2009-2   2-9-09      51.03
2009-5   4-27-09     38.01 -
                     38.14
2009-7   6-8-09      94.05,
                     Ch. 94, Appendix A
2009-8   6-8-09      51.02
2009-11  9-14-09     51.08
2010-5   6-14-10     71.40 -
                     71.42
2010-6   8-9-10      51.20 -
                     51.28
2010-7   8-23-10     111.03,
                     111.04
2010-9   9-27-10     Ch. 73, Sch. IV
2010-10  9-27-10     Ch. 74, Sch. IV
2010-15  12-28-10    51.09
2011-3   4-11-11     51.08
2011-6   5-23-11     72.05
2011-8   6-13-11     51.09
2011-11  8-5-11      51.08
2011-17  9-12-11     51.09
2011-22  9-26-11     51.10
                     91.01,
                     91.02,
                     91.16 -
2011-26  11-28-11    91.21,
                     91.35,
                     91.36,
                     91.99
2011-27  11-28-11    51.03
2011-28  11-28-11    51.41
2011-29  11-28-11    51.09
2011-30  12-12-11    51.41
2011-31  12-12-11    52.03
2011-33  1-23-12     51.09
2011-34  1-9-12      154.07
2011-35  1-9-12      51.50
2012-3   3-12-12     51.11
2012-4   4-9-12      92.25,
                     92.99
2012-6   4-23-12     52.03
2012-14  6-25-12     92.04
2012-16  6-25-12     51.41
2012-20  9-10-12     154.03,
                     154.04
2012-23  9-24-12     51.41
2012-24  10-8-12     51.12
2012-30  11-12-12    30.04
2013-5   3-11-13     54.01 -
                     54.11
                     71.40,
2013-15  5-28-13     71.41,
                     71.43
2013-26  1-13-14     51.09
2014-7   5-12-14     50.36 ,
                     50.43
2014-13  7-28-14     92.04 ,
                     92.06
2014-14  8-25-14     31.40  -
                     31.47
2014-16  8-25-14     51.09
2014-21  1-26-15     T.S.O. I
2014-23  1-26-15     T.S.O. I
2014-25  1-26-15     T.S.O. I
2014-32  1-12-15     T.S.O. I
2015-13  5-26-15     51.09
2015-21  8-10-15     155.01-
                     155.05
2015-24  8-10-15     T.S.O. I
2015-25  8-24-15     51.41
                     154.06,
2015-29  10-26-15    154.07,
                     154.10
2015-30  10-26-15    92.35 -
                     92.41
2015-37  11-23-15    75.02
2015-38  12-14-15    34.01 -
                     34.21
2015-39  12-14-15    T.S.O. IV
2016-2   1-25-16     51.09
2016-4   3-14-16     36.50
2016-5   6-13-16     37.06
                     51.04,
2016-6   5-23-16     51.21,
                     51.26
2016-7   7-11-16     T.S.O. IV
2016-9   6-27-16     93.10
2016-13  8-8-16      52.15
2016-14  12-12-16    36.30
2016-21  11-7-16     T.S.O. I
2016-22  11-7-16     T.S.O. I
2016-29  12-26-16    36.21
                     151.01 -
                     151.13,
                     151.30 -
                     151.37,
2017-5   3-27-17     151.50 -
                     151.56,
                     151.70 -
                     151.72,
                     151.99
2017-4   1-23-17     36.20
2017-9   6-12-17     Ch. 73, Sch. II
2017-12  4-24-17     Ch. 74, Sch. I
2017-14  6-12-17     T.S.O. V
2017-15  6-12-17     T.S.O. V
2017-19  7-31-17     51.41
2017-21  11-13-17    36.03
2018-11  7-30-18     35.01
2018-12  7-30-18     51.09,
                     51.12
2018-13  9-10-18     Ch. 73, Sch. I
2018-14  9-24-18     34.01 -
                     34.21
2018-18  11-26-18    51.09
                     53.01 -
                     53.14,
2019-5   4-22-19     53.20 -
                     53.28,
                     53.30 -
                     53.32
2019-16  11-11-19    110.16,
                     110.17
2019-17  11-25-19    34.01 -
                     34.21
2019-18  11-25-19    51.08
2020-3   3-23-20     Ch. 74, Sch. VI
2020-6   6-8-20      Ch. 74, Sch. VI
2020-7   7-27-20     110.01
2020-14  11-9-20     33.03
2021-9   6-28-21     Ch. 73, Sch. II
2021-17  11-8-21     T.S.O. III
2021-20  12-13-21    30.04
2022-14  9-26-22     36.22
2024-3   6-10-24     36.04
2024-4   6-10-24     Ch. 73, Sch. I
2024-5   7-22-24     71.04
2024-11  12-9-24     34.09
                     71.41,
2024-12  12-9-24     71.43,
                     95.02,
                     95.03
                    
 
 
