ALEXANDRIA, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-1 Supplement contains:
   Local Legislation current through Ord. 2024-009-C, passed 12-2-024
   State legislation current through Indiana Legislative Service,
2024 Acts, Pamphlet #3
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
(800) 445-5588
www.amlegal.com
 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes,
titles, chapters, and sections shall be known and designated as the “Alexandria
City Code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified ordinances,”
or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein or by law or implication required, the same
rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of this title compatible with future legislation shall apply
to ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters, or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning,
application, or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section unless otherwise provided.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 1-1-1-5
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CITY. The City of Alexandria, Madison County, Indiana.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Common Council.
      COUNCIL. The Common Council.
      COUNTY. Madison County, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads, and streets unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver, and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as
applied to any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members
thereof and, as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur unless some other section is designated.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Includes printing, lithographing, or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year unless otherwise expressly provided.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 1-1-4-5
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
non-severability provision, each division or part of every section is
severable. If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter, or section are severable, as provided in division (B)
above, does not affect the operation of division (B) above with respect to that
chapter, subchapter, or section.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 1-1-1-8
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority, or instrumentality of any government and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties, or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority, or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers, and rights were transferred.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 1-1-6-1
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention; the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday, or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture, or liability incurred under
the section unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture, or
liability.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 1-1-5-1
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings or to
the prosecution of offenses or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
or contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; however, all suits, proceedings, and
prosecutions for causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date
of this code may be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this
code had not been enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed,
and a new chapter or section containing the desired amendment shall be
substituted in its place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a statutory reference following
the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the city and subsequently amended, the previous code section
number shall be indicated in the history. Example:
(Prior Code, §      )
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into, or franchises granted; the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway; and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   An Ordinance Violations Bureau, as authorized under I.C. 34-28-
5-1 through 34-28-5-14, is established and instituted for the purposes of
collecting fines for certain municipal ordinance violations.
      (2)   The funds received pursuant hereto shall be placed in the Non-
Reverting Police Equipment Fund and shall be used for the purpose of
purchasing, maintaining, and upgrading police equipment.
      (3)   Fines for ordinance violations are based on current state-approved
amounts and/or as set by City Council from time to time.
   (B)   All previous fines shall be doubled for the same offense committed
within one calendar year.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby designated as the Ordinance Violations
Bureau Clerk for the purpose of collecting and depositing the fines for said
ordinance violations.
(Prior Code, § 70.99)
   (D)   (1)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of
this code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
         (a)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
         (b)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent
violations, except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
      (2)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 1354, passed 7-22-1996; Ord. 1581, passed 2-21-2012; Ord. 1587, passed 6-
4-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 34-28-5-1 through 34-28-5-15 and 34-28-5-17
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   City standards
§ 11.01 CITY STANDARDS.
   (A)   The flag will consist of the official seal of the city and inscribed
with the year of incorporation, 1893.
   (B)   Beneath the seal of the city, a banner designating “Monroe Township”
will be displayed indicating the founding date of the township.
   (C)   The emblems in divisions (A) and (B) above will be gold in color on a
field of royal blue.
(Prior Code, § 11.01) (Ord. 1291, passed 6-15-1992)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   BODY OF GOVERNMENT
      
31.   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   FINANCES AND FUNDS
      
33.   PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 30: BODY OF GOVERNMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
30.001   Branches of government
Executive Branch
   
30.015   City executive
   
30.016   Executive departments established
   
30.017   Department of Public Safety
   
30.018   Department of Public Works
   
30.019   Department of Economic Development and Redevelopment
   
30.020   Department of Planning, Zoning and Building Inspections
   
30.021   Department of Parks and Recreation
Legislative Branch
   
30.035   Common Council
   
30.036   Council districts
   
30.037   Clerk-Treasurer
   
30.038   Pre-payment of claims
   
30.039   Department of Law established
Other Statutory Boards and Commissions
   
30.050   Board of Public Works and Safety
   
30.051   Plan Commission
   
30.052   Board of Zoning Appeals
   
30.053   Board of Parks and Recreation
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.001 BRANCHES OF GOVERNMENT.
    The government of the city shall consist of three branches, those being:
   (A)   Executive branch;
   (B)   Legislative branch; and
   (C)   Other statutory boards and commissions.
(Prior Code, § 30.01) (Ord. 1160, passed 8-29-1983; Ord. 2024-009-C, passed 12-
2-2024)
EXECUTIVE BRANCH
§ 30.015 CITY EXECUTIVE.
   (A)   The Mayor is the city executive and head of the executive branch. The
Mayor shall faithfully perform the duties and responsibilities contained in
I.C.§ 36-4-5 and other statutes of the state.
   (B)   The Mayor shall be elected in the manner provided by state law.
   (C)   The Mayor shall serve for a term of four years, with the term
commencing from the hour of l2:00 p.m. noon on the first Monday in January
following his/her election and continuing until his/her successor is elected or
qualified. The Mayor's office is not term limited.
   (D)   The Mayor shall approve and disapprove in writing, within ten days of
receiving the same, every ordinance, resolution, or order of the Common
Council, signifying his/her approval or veto or the same. In case of a veto,
the Mayor shall state in writing his/her reason therefor. If the Mayor fails to
approve or veto such legislation, such failure shall be deemed a veto.
   (E)   In addition to those powers and duties provided for in this code, the
Mayor shall have those powers and duties provided for by state law.
(Prior Code, § 30.10) (Ord. 1160, passed 8-29-1983; Ord. 2024-009-C, passed 12-
2-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-4-5
§ 30.016 EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS ESTABLISHED.
   There are hereby established within the executive branch of the city the
following city executive departments:
   (A)   Department of Public Safety;
   (B)   Department of Public Works;
   (C)   Department of Development and Redevelopment;
   (D)   Department of Planning, Zoning and Inspection Services; and
   (E)   Department of Parks and Recreation.
(Ord. 2024-009-C, passed 12-2-2024)
§ 30.017 DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY.
   (A)   Police Department.
      (1)   Position of Chief of Police established. The Police Department
shall be under the direct control and supervision of the Chief of Police, who
shall be appointed by the Mayor and who shall serve at their pleasure subject
to provisions of state law. All other members of the Police Department shall be
appointed by the Board of Public Works and Safety.
      (2)   Powers and duties of department. All police officers, including the
Chief of Police, shall, in addition to the powers and duties provided by this
code, have the powers and duties provided by state law.
   (B)   Fire Department.
      (1)   Position of Fire Chief established. The Fire Department shall be
under the direct control and supervision of the Fire Chief, who shall be
appointed by the Mayor and who shall serve at their pleasure subject to
provisions of state law. All other members of the Fire Department shall be
appointed by the Board of Public Works and Safety.
      (2)   Powers and duties of Department. The Fire Department shall perform
those functions normally associated with fire prevention and extinguishment,
with the primary objective of minimizing injury to life and property within the
city. In addition, the Fire Department shall have all powers and duties
specified in state law.
(Ord. 2024-009-C, passed 12-2-2024)
§ 30.018 DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   (A)   Utilities Department.
      (1)   There is established within the Department of Public Works a
Utilities Department.
      (2)   Powers and duties. The Utilities Department will be responsible for
the efficient operation of the municipal sewage works; for the collection of
fees imposed by the Common Council for sewer services; for the implementation
of rules and regulations promulgated by the Board of Public Works and Safety
for the operation of the sewer and sewage systems; and for coordination with
other city departments for the maintenance of municipal sewer and sewage lines.
   (B)   Sanitation Department.
      (1)   There is established within the Department of Public Works a
Division of Trash and Recycling Operations.
      (2)   Position of Sanitation Commissioner established. The Department of
Sanitation will be headed by the Sanitation Commissioner who shall be appointed
by the Mayor and who shall serve at their pleasure.
   (C)   Stormwater Management Department.
      (1)   I.C. 8-1.5-5, which addresses the matter of stormwater management,
is hereby adopted by the Common Council of the city and, by doing so, makes
said chapter and any and all amendments thereto effective and operative within
the city.
      (2)   Position of Stormwater Superintendent established. The Department
of Stormwater Management will be headed by the Stormwater Superintendent who
shall be appointed by the Mayor and who shall serve at their pleasure.
      (3)   Pursuant to the adopted chapter, a Department of Stormwater
Management shall be and is hereby created for the purpose of providing for the
collection, disposal, and drainage of storm and surface water and relieving of
sanitary sewers of such water in a special taxing district which is also hereby
created pursuant to said chapter.
      (4)   The territory initially included in the special taxing district
shall be and is all of the territory now and hereafter included within the
corporate limits of the city.
      (5)   The Department shall be administrated and controlled by a Board of
Public Works, pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-3-3.
      (6)   The Board has the powers and duties prescribed by I.C. 8-l.5-3-4.
      (7)   The Board, after approval by the Common Council of the city in
ordinance form, may:
         (a)   Assess and collect user fees from all of the property of the
stormwater district for the operation and maintenance of the stormwater system.
User fees shall include, but not be limited to, bonds, service rates, revenue
bonds, or any other available funds;
         (b)   Issue and sell bonds of the district in the name of the
municipality for the acquisition, construction, alteration, addition, or
extension of the stormwater collection and disposal system or for the refunding
of any bonds issued by the Board; and
         (c)   Levy a special benefit tax upon all of the property of the
stormwater district in an amount necessary to meet and pay the principle of any
bonds issued as they severally mature together with all accruing interest.
   (D)   Street Department.
      (1)   Position of Street Commissioner established. The Department of
Streets will be headed by the Street Commissioner who shall be appointed by the
Mayor and who shall serve at their pleasure.
      (2)   Powers and duties of Department. The Department of Streets, under
the supervision of the Street Commissioner, and in conjunction with the Board
of Public Works and Safety, shall supervise the cleaning, repair, and
maintenance of all sheets, alleys, rights-of-way, sanitary sewers, and storm
drains. The Department of Streets shall also be responsible for the supervision
of municipal trash collection within the city.
      (3)   Position of Maintenance Superintendent. The Maintenance
Superintendent shall oversee the performance of routine and extensive
preventative maintenance and repair procedures on all city buildings,
mechanical equipment and city parks.
(Ord. 2024-009-C, passed 12-2-2024)
§ 30.019 DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND REDEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Establishment of Department. There is established within the executive
branch of the city the Department of Development and Redevelopment with such
duties and responsibilities as are hereinafter set forth.
   (B)   Position of Development Director established. The head of the
Department of Development shall be the Development Director. The Development
Director shall be appointed by the Mayor and shall serve at their pleasure. The
Director shall be responsible for the administration of the Department and
shall be responsible for the efficient operation thereof.
   (C)   Duties of the Department of Development. The Department of Development
shall be responsible for the following governmental functions of the city:
      (1)   Coordination, implementation, and supervision of all city programs
in the area of economic and community planning and development.
         (a)   Identify and pursue available state, federal, and private grants
in the name of the city or other eligible entities.
         (b)   With the prior consent of the Common Council, the Department may
make application for such available loan funds as may be appropriate. Working
in conjunction with other city departments where appropriate, the Department
may act as recipient or administrator of such state, federal, or private
financial assistance.
      (2)   The Department is authorized to provide technical and
administrative services to other eligible community groups.
         (a)   Should such services be provided, the Department is authorized
to charge a reasonable fee for its services, which funds shall revert to the
General Fund of the city.
         (b)   No such fees shall be charged without prior approval, by
resolution, of the Common Council of the city.
      (3)   The Department shall have primary responsibility for all public
relation efforts undertaken by the city.
      (4)   The Department shall be the primary city contact for all community
economic development efforts requiring or requesting the participation of local
government. By way of illustration and not limitation, such efforts would
include community revolving loan funds; urban enterprise associations; tax
abatement programs; flood mitigation programs.
      (5)   The Department shall liaise with private and public economic
development entities. By way of illustration and not limitation, such entities
would include the Chamber of Commerce; the Economic Development Commission; and
the Indiana State Department of Commerce.
      (6)   The Department shall be the lead city agency in any municipal
effort to attract or retain businesses to or in the city metropolitan area.
      (7)   Within the areas of responsibility herein described, the Department
shall be responsible for compliance with all applicable state, federal or local
laws, rules, regulations, or ordinances.
      (8)   The Department shall carry out all such other duties as assigned by
the Mayor.
   (D)   The Department shall, pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-7-14-1 et
seq., be controlled by a board of five members. Said board shall be known as
the Alexandria Redevelopment Commission. All Commission members shall be at
least 18 years of age and shall be a resident of the city.
      (1)   Powers and duties. Said commission shall have the powers and duties
set out in I.C. 36-7-14-1 et seq., and I.C. 36-7-25-1 et seq.
      (2)   Taxing. All of the territory within the corporate boundaries of the
city will be a taxing district to be known as the Alexandria Redevelopment
District for the purpose of levying and collecting special benefit taxes for
redevelopment and economic development purposes as provided in I.C. 36-7-14-
1 et seq. The Common Council finds and determines that all of the taxable
property within this special taxing district will be considered to be
benefitted by the redevelopment projects and economic development projects
carried out.
      (3)   Appointment. As provided in I.C. 36-7-14-6.1, the Mayor shall
appoint three of the five members of the Alexandria Redevelopment Commission.
Two members shall be appointed by the Common Council.
      (4)   Terms of office. The term of office of appointees to the Alexandria
Redevelopment Commission shall commence on the first day of January after the
appointment is made and until a successor is appointed and has qualified.
(Ord. 2024-009-C, passed 12-2-2024)
§ 30.020 DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING, ZONING AND BUILDING INSPECTIONS.
   There is hereby established a Department of Planning and Building Inspection
which shall include the Advisory Plan Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals
pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4.
   (A)   Position of Building Commissioner established. The head of the
Department of Planning, Zoning, and Building Inspections shall be the Building
Commissioner. The Building Commissioner shall be appointed by the Mayor and
shall serve at their pleasure. The Building Commissioner shall be responsible
for the administration of the Department and shall be responsible for the
efficient operation thereof.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner shall oversee all planning and zoning
filings submitted with the City, create the agendas for and attend the Plan
Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals meetings.
   (C)   Division of Building Standards.
      (1)   Establishment of Division of Building Standards. There is
established within the Planning Department a Division of Building Standards.
      (2)   Duties of the Division of Building Standards. The Division of
Building Standards shall perform all duties imposed by state statute or local
ordinance in the area of building code enforcement and supervising all
demolitions performed within the city. The Division of Building Standards shall
perform such other duties as prescribed by the Director, Common Council, the
Mayor, or the Board of Public Works and Safety. The duties of the Division of
Building Standards include, but are not limited to, primary enforcement
responsibilities for all building and electrical codes prescribed by state law
or local ordinance, administration and enforcement of local ordinances
pertaining to building or electrical licensing and permits, installation and
maintenance of electrical equipment and service in municipally owned facilities
where feasible.
(Ord. 2024-009-C, passed 12-2-2024)
§ 30.021 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   (A)   Parks and Recreation Department.
      (1)   There is established within the executive branch of the city the
Department of Parks and Recreation.
   (B)   Position of Superintendent established. The head of the Department of
Parks and Recreation shall be the Superintendent. The Superintendent shall be
appointed by the Mayor and shall serve at their pleasure. The Director shall be
responsible for the administration of the Department and shall be responsible
for the efficient operation thereof. The superintendent must:
      (1)   Be qualified by training or experience in the field of parks and
recreation; or
      (2)   Have a certification or an advanced degree in the field of parks
and recreation.
   (C)   The Superintendent shall:
      (1)   Propose annually a plan for the operation of the Department;
      (2)   Administer the plan as approved by the Board;
      (3)   Supervise the general administration of the Department;
      (4)   Keep the records of the Department and preserve all papers and
documents of the Department;
      (5)   Recommend persons for appointment as assistants if the Board
determines there is a need;
      (6)   Appoint the employees of the Department, subject to the approval of
the Board, according to the standards and qualifications fixed by the Board and
without regard to political affiliation;
      (7)   Prepare and present to the Board an annual report; and
      (8)   Perform other duties that the Board directs.
(Ord. 2024-009-C, passed 12-2-2024)
LEGISLATIVE BRANCH
§ 30.035 COMMON COUNCIL.
   (A)   The legislative branch of the city is the Common Council. The Council
shall have the exclusive authority to adopt ordinances and appropriate tax
monies received by the city and to perform other necessary and desirable
legislative functions.
   (B)   The Council shall be composed of seven members, two of whom shall be
elected on an at-large basis, pursuant to I.C. 36-4-6-4; each of the remaining
members shall be elected by the electors in the councilmanic district in which
he or she resides.
   (C)   The Council shall have the powers provided by statutory law.
(Prior Code, § 30.20) (Ord. 1143, passed 12-20-1982; Ord. 1160, passed 8-29-
1983; Ord. 2024-009-C, passed 12-2-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-4-6-4
§ 30.036 COUNCIL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The city is divided into five council districts, the boundaries of
which shall be as follows.
      (1)   District One. District One shall be composed of Precinct 022 in
Monroe Township and those parts of Precincts 023 and 024 in Monroe Township
adjacent to Precinct 022 and within the corporate limits of the city.
      (2)   District Two. District Two shall be composed of Precinct 021 in
Monroe Township.
      (3)   District Three. District Three shall be composed of Precinct 020 in
Monroe Township.
      (4)   District Four. District Four shall be composed of Precinct 019 in
Monroe Township together with that part of Precinct 023 in Monroe Township
which is adjacent to Precinct 019 and within the corporate limits of the city.
      (5)   District Five. District Five shall be composed of Precinct 018 in
Monroe Township together with those parts of Precincts 023 and 024 which are
adjacent to Precinct 018 and within the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   At-large councilmanic districts shall consist of the entire city.
(Ord. 2024-009-C, passed 12-2-2024)
§ 30.037 CLERK-TREASURER.
   The Clerk-Treasurer is the fiscal officer of the city. He or she shall
perform the duties assigned by I.C. 36-4-10, and other duties as the Common
Council assigns.
(Ord. 2024-009-C, passed 12-2-2024)
§ 30.038 PRE-PAYMENT OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the city is hereby authorized to make claim
payments in advance of Council allowance for the following kinds of expenses:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from:
         (a)   The United States government; or
         (b)   An agency or a political subdivision of the United States
government;
      (2)   License fees or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   Federal grant programs if:
         (a)   Advance funding is not prohibited; and
         (b)   The contracting party provides sufficient security for the
amount advanced;
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance agreements or service agreements;
      (8)   Lease agreements or rental agreements;
      (9)   Principal and interest payments on bonds;
      (10)   Payroll and all employee funds withheld from his/her pay;
      (11)   State, federal, or county taxes;
      (12)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances;
      (13)   Expenses described in any ordinance;
      (14)   Fuel bills; or
      (15)   Any claim that will incur a late charge if its due date falls
before a scheduled City Council meeting.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the city is also hereby authorized to make
claim payments in advance of Council allowance in accordance with I.C. 5-11-10-
1.6, as amended. Those include:
      (1)   (a)   Advance payments to contractors to enable the contractors to
purchase materials needed for a public works project for the city, so long as
the amount does not exceed the lesser of the following:
            1.   50% of the entire cost of the contract; or
            2.   $2,000,000.
         (b)   The solicitation for the public works contract providing for
advance payment for contractors must include the following information:
            1.   That the political subdivision will make advance payments to
contractors to enable contractors to purchase materials.
            2.   Any limitations on the amount of advance payments that will be
made.
            3.   Requirements for documentation relating to making advance
payments to contractors for materials.
            4.   Any other information about advance payment for materials the
political subdivision considers useful to contractors that make offers.
      (2)   (a)   Advance payments for goods or services before the goods are
delivered or services are completed, so long as the amount does not exceed the
lesser of the following:
            1.   50% of the entire cost of the contract; or
            2.   $2,000,000.
         (b)   The Clerk-Treasurer and/or her designee must do all of the
following when advance payments a remade:
            1.   Track prepayments by defining the prepayment on a purchase
order.
            2.   Create a prepayment invoice that is associated with the
purchase order.
            3.   Require insurance or a surety bond in the amount of the
prepayment if the amount of the prepayment is more than $150,000.
   (C)   Each payment of expenses under this section must be supported by a
fully itemized invoice or bill and certification by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (D)   The City Council shall review and allow the claim at its next regular
or special meeting following the preapproved payment of the expense.
(Ord. 2024-009-C, passed 12-2-2024)
§ 30.039 DEPARTMENT OF LAW ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is established a Department of Law pursuant to I.C. 36-4-9-12.
   (B)   The head of the Department of Law is the City Attorney, which shall
have all powers and authority under I.C. 36-4-9-12.
   (C)   There is an interlocal agreement between the City of Alexandria and
the City of Elwood, which allows violations of Alexandria's ordinances to be
heard and disposed of in the Elwood City Court to provide for the prompt and
efficient disposal of municipal violations.
(Ord. 2024-009-C, passed 12-2-2024)
OTHER STATUTORY BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
§ 30.050 BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS AND SAFETY.
   (A)   Establishment of the Board of Public Works and Safety. The Department
of Public Safety and the Department of Public Works shall be under the control
and supervision of the Board of Public Works and Safety.
   (B)   Members. The members of the Board of Public Works and Safety are the
Mayor and four voters of the city who shall be chosen by the Mayor and serve at
his or her pleasure. Members of the Board of Public Works and Safety shall have
been a voter of the city for at least one year immediately preceding their
appointment. The Mayor may also appoint ex officio, non-voting, advisors to the
Board as are necessary to enable the Board to carry out its responsibilities.
   (C)   Function of Board of Public Works and Safety. In addition to the
general supervisory function for the Departments of Public Safety and Public
Works, the Board of Public Works and Safety shall make and enforce whatever
bylaws, rules, and regulations it may deem necessary for the safe, economical,
and efficient management of the Utilities Department, for the construction and
use of sewers and connections to the sewage system, for the regulation,
collection, and refunding of the rates and charges for sewerage served, and, in
general, for the implementation of the provisions of this code of ordinances
and applicable state law concerning sewers and sewage disposal.
   (D)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall have all authority under
I.C. 36-8-3-1, et. seq.
(Ord. 2024-009-C, passed 12-2-2024)
§ 30.051 PLAN COMMISSION.
   (A)   City Plan Commission established. The City Advisory Plan Commission is
hereby established pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9-202.
   (B)   Membership. The Plan Commission shall consist of seven members. Three
of such members shall be appointed by the Council from among persons in the
city government, and four citizen members appointed by the Mayor. Not more than
two of the citizen members shall be members of the same political party.
   (C)   Qualifications of citizen members. The citizen members of the Plan
Commission shall hold no other city office and shall be city residents and
shall be qualified by knowledge and experience in matters pertaining to city
development.
   (D)   Terms of office of citizen members. The citizen members of the Plan
Commission shall be appointed for a term of four years.
   (E)   Powers and duties. The Plan Commission shall have the powers and
duties granted to it and imposed upon it by statutory law.
(Ord. 2024-009-C, passed 12-2-2024)
§ 30.052 BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   (A)   Established. There shall be a City Board of Zoning Appeals established
pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-901.
   (B)   Members. The members of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be appointed
in the manner provided by state law and the rules adopted by the Board.
   (C)   Powers and duties. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall have the powers
and duties provided by state law.
(Ord. 2024-009-C, passed 12-2-2024)
§ 30.053 BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   (A)   Established. There shall be a City Board of Parks and Recreation
established pursuant to I.C. 36-10-3-4.
   (B)   Members. The members of the Board of Parks and Recreation shall be
appointed in the manner provided by state law and the rules adopted by the
Board.
   (C)   Powers and duties. The Board of Parks and Recreation shall have the
powers and duties provided by state law.
(Ord. 2024-009-C, passed 12-2-2024)
CHAPTER 31: OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Qualifications of elected officials
   
31.02   Bond and oath of officers
   
31.03   Filling vacancies
   
31.04   Turning over effects of office
   
31.05   City membership in organizations
   
31.06   Mileage travel allowance
Policies
   
31.20   Travel policy
   
31.21   Drug and alcohol policy for city employees
   
31.22   Medical and health insurance for retired civil employees
   
31.23   Americans with Disabilities Act compliance
   
31.24   Conflict of interest and nepotism
Officers
   
31.35   City Attorney
   
31.36   City Judge
   
31.37   City Clerk-Treasurer
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 QUALIFICATIONS OF ELECTED OFFICIALS.
   No person shall be eligible for any elective city office unless he or she
has been a resident of the city or an area annexed to the city for at least one
year preceding that election.
(Prior Code, § 31.01)
§ 31.02 BOND AND OATH OF OFFICERS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided by state law, every city officer, except
the Mayor and the members of the Common Council, shall execute a bond to the
approval of the Mayor, payable to the city, in a penal sum as the Council may
enact by ordinance in accordance with I.C. 5-4-1-18, conditioned for the
faithful performance of the duties of the office. The bond shall be filed with
the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 31.02)
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by state law, every city officer shall,
before entering upon the duties of his or her office, take and subscribe an
oath, to be endorsed on his or her certificate of election or appointment,
before the Clerk-Treasurer or some other officer authorized to administer oaths
that he or she will support the Constitution of the United States and the
state’s Constitution and will faithfully discharge all official duties. This
oath shall be filed with the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 31.03)
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided by state law, any city officer who does
not file the required oath and/or bond within ten days after the beginning of
the term for which that officer was elected or appointed shall be deemed to
have refused to serve, and the office shall be deemed to be vacant.
(Prior Code, § 31.04)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 5-4-1-18
§ 31.03 FILLING VACANCIES.
   All vacancies occurring in any elective city office shall be filled in the
manner provided by state law.
(Prior Code, § 31.05)
§ 31.04 TURNING OVER EFFECTS OF OFFICE.
   Every city officer or employee, upon the termination of his or her term of
office or employment, shall surrender to the city the effects of the office or
position.
(Prior Code, § 31.06)
§ 31.05 CITY MEMBERSHIP IN ORGANIZATIONS.
   (A)   City membership. The city may be a member of the following
organizations:
      (1)   The state’s Association of Cities and Towns;
      (2)   The state’s Chiefs of Police Association;
      (3)   The state’s Fire Chiefs Association;
      (4)   The state’s League of Municipal Clerks and Treasurers;
      (5)   The county’s Council of Governments; and
      (6)   The North Central Mayors Round Table.
   (B)   Mayoral memberships. The Mayor shall represent the city in the
following organizations:
      (1)   The state’s Association of Cities and Towns;
      (2)   The county’s Council of Governments; and
      (3)   The North Central Mayors Round Table.
   (C)   Clerk-Treasurer membership. The Clerk-Treasurer shall represent the
city in the state’s League of Municipal Clerks and Treasurers.
   (D)   Chief of Police membership. The Chief of Police shall represent the
city in the state’s Chiefs of Police Association.
   (E)   Fire Chief membership. The Fire Chief shall represent the city in the
state’s Fire Chiefs Association.
(Prior Code, § 31.07) (Ord. 1130, passed 7-5-1982)
§ 31.06 MILEAGE TRAVEL ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   The standard mileage travel allowance for public officials and
employees of the city during official business for the city is hereby
established per mile based on current state-approved amounts and/or as set by
City Council from time to time.
(Prior Code, 31.09)
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer may pay any person presenting a proper claim for
mileage allowance for travel on official business for the city the amount
authorized by division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 31.43)
(Ord. 1107, passed 1-19-1981; Ord. 1140, passed 11-15-1982; Ord. 1416, passed
7-19-1999)
POLICIES
§ 31.20 TRAVEL POLICY.
   (A)   Establishment.
      (1)   The city will reimburse all allowable expenses incurred for
authorized travel pertaining to and necessary for conducting city business.
Expenses incurred must be reasonable and within the guidelines established in
this policy. All travel from the employee’s residence requiring overnight
lodging must have the prior approval of the Mayor and the department head.
Also, the travel authorization form, which will include an estimated cost, must
be completed and approved by the Mayor or his or her designee prior to the date
of travel. All expenses for reimbursement must be in accordance with the
requesting department’s approved budget for travel. Submissions of travel
expenses must be accompanied by detailed receipts. Each receipt must contain
the vendor’s name, address, and date of purchase. Cash advances to employees
are not permitted.
      (2)   Travel expenses will be reimbursable for city employees only. If a
spouse travels with the employee, it is the responsibility of the employee to
pay all of the spouse’s expenses.
      (3)   Any exceptions to the guidelines established here must have the
written authorization of the Mayor and the department head or other appropriate
elected official. While on city business, such items as meals, lodging,
transportation, and approved miscellaneous expenses as defined in division (B)
below shall be construed as travel expenses.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      MISCELLANEOUS TRAVEL EXPENSES. Include other expenses incurred while on
city business including, but not limited to, stenographic and typing services,
storage of baggage, rental or room for official business, and telephone calls
for official business. Detailed receipts must support such expenses.
Reimbursement of all such expenses are subject to express approval by the Mayor
and the department head or other appropriate elected official.
      REIMBURSABLE TRAVEL EXPENSES. Include meals, lodging, and transportation
expenses incurred by an employee while on city business requiring them to leave
geographical boundaries of the city.
      TRAVEL EXPENSES NOT COVERED. Include:
         (a)   Personal entertainment;
         (b)   Business entertainment (expenses for non-city employees);
         (c)   Fines for parking, speeding, and the like;
         (d)   Alcoholic beverages; and/or
         (e)   Valet and/or other personal services.
   (C)   Transportation.
      (1)   Automobile.
         (a)   Whenever an automobile is the approved method of transportation
and a city vehicle is available, the employee should use the city vehicle. All
appropriate mileage logs and expense receipts should be maintained.
         (b)   If the approved travel is to be in a privately owned vehicle,
mileage logs shall be maintained and the current approved city mileage rate
shall be reimbursable. Mileage must be calculated from where the employee
regularly reports to begin work each day to the travel location. Map Quest or
some other approved internet map site may be used to calculate the mileage.
         (c)   Miscellaneous expenses including parking fees, road or bridge
tolls, and similarly related expenses are allowable.
         (d)   A rental car may be allowable for travel outside the state
depending on the nature of the travel. The following provisions are required
for rental cars.
            1.   The class of rental car must be standard, mid-size, compact,
or economy depending upon the size of the traveling party. A larger vehicle is
to be based only on the number of city employees traveling. A mini-van may be
allowed if a department is transporting large equipment for a departmental
purpose. The rental of a vehicle is only allowable for the period of time while
on city business.
            2.   For the fuel option, the standard option must be chosen,
meaning to start out with a full tank and return to the rental company with a
full tank. Keep the receipt for fuel purchase and submit for reimbursement.
Return the vehicle on time. Any extra hour charges for a late return are not
reimbursable unless extenuating circumstances can be proven.
            3.   Liability and collision coverage is required.
      (2)   Air travel.
         (a)   Air travel, unless specifically authorized by the Mayor and the
department head, is allowable only for travel outside the state.
         (b)   Air tickets must be coach class to be eligible for
reimbursement.
      (3)   Rail and bus travel. Rail and bus expenses are allowable for
reimbursement. Travel within the state by such conveyances must be specifically
pre-authorized by the Mayor and department head or other elected official.
      (4)   Incidental travel expenses.
         (a)   Land transportation, like bus and taxicab, to and from an
airport and business site is allowable.
         (b)   Baggage transfers and similar travel expenses are allowable.
   (D)   Lodging.
      (1)   Expenses for hotel/motel accommodations are reimbursable if they
meet the following criteria:
         (a)   If the travel distance in one-way is 65 miles or more for a one-
day conference;
         (b)   If a multiple-day conference is being attended and the travel
distance for hotel/motel accommodations is 50 miles in one-way; and
         (c)   The expenses meet the guidelines herein.
      (2)   The city will pay only a single-room rate unless the rates are the
same. Whenever possible, accommodations should be reserved using a government
rate. The government rate must normally be arranged in advance of arrival. Some
type of city identification card will be required at check-in.
      (3)   If the employee is attending a conference, the city will pay the
published room rate for the conference. Documentation should be provided
showing the room rate.
      (4)   When traveling with a spouse, it is the responsibility of the
employee to submit documentation showing the single- and double-room rates. The
employee is responsible for paying the difference between the two rates.
   (E)   Meal per diem.
      (1)   Meals will be paid at a rate per day based on current state-
approved amounts and/or as set by City Council from time to time unless prior
approval has been given for a different amount by the Mayor and department
head. Daily meal charges will not be averaged. On any day that meal charges
exceed this amount, the employee will be responsible for the excess amount. For
employees attending a one-day conference or seminar, up to a rate based on
current state-approved amounts and/or as set by City Council from time to time
will be paid for lunch when lunch is not included in the conference fee. A
receipt for lunch must be provided.
      (2)   MEAL means one serving of a meal to an employee. Groceries are not
intended to be a MEAL within this definition. However, under certain
circumstances the purchase of groceries may be allowable such as, for example,
if a group of employees is going on a training session where it is
impracticable to go to a restaurant. The purchase of groceries in place of
meals must have the prior written authorization of the Mayor and department
head.
   (F)   Receipts. All receipts must be itemized and in sufficient detail to
determine what was purchased. Food receipts must be specifically detailed as to
what food and beverages were purchased. If more than one employee is traveling
together, it must be indicated which employee ate or drank the items listed on
the receipt. The receipts must also include the nature of the government
business being conducted as well as the names of the employees dining together.
   (G)   Deviation of policy. The employee must explain any deviation from this
policy on the travel authorization request. Approval for the request will be in
writing from the Mayor.
   (H)   General rules.
      (1)   In order to receive reimbursement for travel expenses, the employee
must file an itemized report using the city travel and expense report and sign
the appropriate claim form.
      (2)   Attached with the travel report should be receipts for each
expense.
      (3)   Travel expenses related to any seminar, convention, or training
must include a brochure describing the program, dates, and registration costs.
      (4)   Only those expenses detailed within this travel policy will be
reimbursable.
      (5)   A copy of the travel request form must be attached to the claim
form.
      (6)   Any prior authorization for deviation of this policy must be
attached to the claim form.
(Prior Code, § 31.08) (Ord. 1479, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 31.21 DRUG AND ALCOHOL POLICY FOR CITY EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Introduction.
      (1)   It is city policy to provide a safe working environment for all
city employees, inclusive of the Fire and Police Departments, and employees who
drive city vehicles or drive their own vehicle for city business. It is also
this city’s policy to assist employees who have a problem with drug and alcohol
abuse. Our goal is to eliminate the abuse, not the abuser; to help, not to
apprehend.
      (2)   Whenever used in this section, EMPLOYEE will also include a
volunteer to or for the city.
   (B)   Purposes of the policy. The city regrets any inconvenience or problems
that the policy may cause but believes that the overall benefit to the city and
the employee make it both necessary and helpful. This policy was established
for the following purposes:
      (1)   To establish and maintain a safe and healthful working environment
for all employees;
      (2)   To ensure the reputation of the city and its employees within the
community;
      (3)   To reduce the number of accidental injuries to person or property;
      (4)   To reduce absenteeism, tardiness, and improve productivity;
      (5)   To provide rehabilitation information assistance for any employee
who seeks such help; and
      (6)   To comply with the Drug-Free Workplace Act, being 41 U.S.C. §§ 701
et seq.
   (C)   General policy. The following is the city’s policy concerning
substance abuse which will be enforced uniformly with respect to all employees
as indicated.
      (1)   Employees are prohibited from being under the influence of or
consuming alcohol or illegal drugs during work hours.
      (2)   The use, sale, possession, transfer, or purchase of illegal drugs
or controlled substances in or on city property, while on duty, or performing
city business is prohibited and will subject the employee to discipline
including termination.
      (3)   Any employee who commits an unlawful act involving illegal drugs,
alcohol, or controlled substances, on or off city premises, or whose conduct
discredits the city in any way will be subject to discipline including
termination.
      (4)   No alcoholic beverages will be bought or consumed on the job site.
Employees may be tested post-accident, randomly, or upon reasonable suspicion
at the discretion of the city. Anyone with a BAC of 0.02 will be considered
under the influence of alcohol.
      (5)   No prescription drug will be brought onto city premises by anyone
other than the one for whom it is prescribed. Such drugs will be used only in
the manner or combination and quantity prescribed.
      (6)   As a continuing condition of employment, each employee agrees to
abide by the terms of this policy. Employees shall notify the city no later
than five days after any conviction in a court of competent jurisdiction
involving alcohol, illegal drugs, or controlled substances. The city will
subject the employee to the same disciplinary procedures as those employees who
test positive under drug screening procedures.
   (D)   Pre-employment screen policy. As a final step in the employment
process, all applicants who are conditionally considered for employment and
those former employees who are to be reinstated for employment after a layoff
or a leave of absence will be required to submit to a drug screen test. If the
applicant or former employee tests positive, employment will be denied. Any
employee who is transferred or promoted to a department where drug testing is
required must have testing performed. If such employee has a positive drug test
result, that promotion or transfer will be withdrawn. Rehabilitation will be
offered. Refusal to submit to the test will result in denial of employment.
   (E)   Inspections. The city will conduct inspections to the extent
considered necessary to ensure compliance with the alcohol and drug abuse
policies. Entry onto city property, including parking areas and work-site
areas, is deemed consent to an inspection of person, vehicle, and personal
affects at any time while entering, remaining on, or leaving the property as
well as off city premises while engaged in city business. It is not the intent
to make inspections indiscriminately but when there is a reasonable suspicion
that there may be a violation of this drug and alcohol policy.
      (1)   Must have reasonable suspicion before acting. In order to take
action against an employee, the employer must have a reasonable suspicion that
the individual is under the impairment of alcohol or drugs or other controlled
substances. In order to establish reasonable suspicion, the specific behavior
of the individual must be observed and documented by members of management or
their designated representatives, one of whom has been trained in the detection
of impairment.
      (2)   Employee inspection procedure. Inspection of clothing and personal
effects shall be conducted under the direct supervision of management
accompanied by a witness. Inspections will include, but are not limited to,
lockers, desks, vehicles, personal effect from pockets or handbags, and the
like. Body-type searches such as frisking, strip searches, and the like will
not be conducted by the city. Employees who refuse to cooperate shall not be
forcibly inspected, but they will be told that submission to inspection is a
condition of employment and failure to cooperate will result in suspensions
without pay for whatever time is necessary for the city to investigate the
matter and determine if any disciplinary action, up to including discharge,
will be taken.
      (3)   Disposition of seized property. Any alcohol, drugs, or controlled
substances or suspected drugs or controlled substances will be impounded and
sealed in a container. The sealed container shall bear the date, names of the
persons present, and a general description of the item. A receipt shall be
given for such seized property. Seized items shall be retained in a locked
cabinet under the exclusive control of the City Police Department. If
possession is transferred, a chain of receipts shall be established. Seized
property may turn out, after investigation, to be property that was properly
and legally in an employee’s possession. In such cases, the property will be
returned and a receipt obtained.
If not already involved, local or state law enforcement personnel should be
notified in order to communicate, as appropriate, with local authorities
concerning identification of the material and possible prosecution if federal,
state, or local laws have been broken.
   (F)   Testing.
      (1)   All employees will be required to submit to a drug screen test as a
condition of employment.
      (2)   Each employee will be tested for drugs and alcohol after a work-
related accident if the employee has been observed using substances that are
suspected to be prohibited substances on the job, if the employee exhibits a
significant and prolonged reduction in productivity, or if the city has
reasonable suspicion for testing the employee. The city may perform baseline
testing on all employees at any given time or by departments.
      (3)   Each employee will be tested for drugs and alcohol when such
employee is involved in a vehicular accident that results in damage to city
property, such as city vehicles or other property, or in personal injury. The
testing shall occur regardless of whether the accident occurred during working
hours or otherwise. The test should be done as soon as possible following the
accident. Further, any employee involved in an accident but who has not
sustained any injury may be tested at the discretion of the city.
      (4)   The city may conduct random drug and alcohol testing of employees
at any time with or without cause or suspicion in order to ensure compliance
with its drug-free work place policy.
      (5)   An employee returning from a leave of absence may be subject to a
retest.
      (6)   An employee who alters a specimen, foils, or refuses to submit to
testing when requested to do so shall be subject to disciplinary action
including termination.
   (G)   Employee testing positive.
      (1)   Any employee who tests positive is subject to immediate
disciplinary action, including termination, but may be allowed to continue
employment on a conditional basis on the following terms.
         (a)   The employee agrees to participate in counseling in a certified
rehabilitation program and to successfully complete the program. The employee
may participate up to three separate times in a rehabilitation program in order
to successfully complete the same; however, if the employee fails to complete
the rehabilitation program in three attempts, the employee shall be subject to
immediate disciplinary action including termination.
         (b)   The employee agrees to and does remain drug and alcohol free
during a conditional employment period as determined by the Board of Public
Works and Safety.
         (c)   The employee agrees to routine periodic and unscheduled drug
screen and alcohol tests to ensure that the employee remains drug and alcohol
free.
         (d)   The cost of a rehabilitation program and subsequent drug tests
will be payable by the employee.
      (2)   A second positive test will be grounds for immediate termination.
All positive test results will remain in the employee’s personnel file as long
as the city employs that individual.
   (H)   Prescription drugs. An employee taking prescription drugs must adhere
to the following procedures.
      (1)   If he or she is taking any prescription medication, including a
prescription controlled substance, that may affect his or her ability to
perform his or her duties or work responsibilities, the employee must notify
the immediate supervisor prior to the commencement of the work shift.
         (a)   Warning labels normally appear on the prescription bottle and
state exactly what, if any, side effects there may be. As an example not meant
as a limitation, “may cause drowsiness,” “may cause dizziness,” “may cause
periodic nausea,” “use caution while operating machinery,” “use caution when
driving,” or any other warning, caution, or description of side effects that
will affect the employee’s ability to perform his or her work duties must be
disclosed before the employee begins his or her work shift so that work
responsibilities may be assigned or reassigned to take into account the
employee’s medical condition.
         (b)   The employee is not required to state the name of the
medication, the doctor who prescribed it, or the reason it has been prescribed,
in accordance with the Patient Privacy Rules, being 45 C.F.R. part 160 and
subparts A and E of 45 C.F.R. part 164, under HIPAA (Health Insurance
Portability and Accountability Act) and all applicable state privacy laws.
         (c)   The only time that an employee may be asked to identify what
medication(s) he or she is taking is during reasonable assessment of a serious
reaction to the medication, during medical treatment for an accident or injury,
or for purposes of determining what medication was prescribed to the employee
after a drug or alcohol test was performed and a positive result has required
reprimand or disciplinary action. At that time, the employee will be asked
privately by the testing agent or agency what, if any, prescription medication
the employee is currently taking, and the employee will be required to show
proof that the prescription medication was prescribed to him or her.
      (2)   The medication must be in the original prescription container with
no more than the necessary dosage required for the work shift. The employee’s
pharmacist will provide him or her with an extra empty bottle upon request so
that he or she will not be susceptible to criminal charges for transporting
medication in a non-prescribed container.
      (3)   Failure to abide by the provisions of this division (H) shall
subject the employee to disciplinary action including termination.
   (I)   Temporary exemptions. Any law enforcement officer, firefighter, or
other city employee exposed to drugs in the line of duty should immediately
notify their superior officer. If such employee is chosen for random testing
within 30 days from such exposure and notification, he or she shall be not be
required to participate. Any officer who is undercover and whose identity may
be compromised by presenting for testing or who may be involved in a drug-
related investigation will be exempt from this policy but only during the
period of such time the officer is performing undercover duties. However, if
the undercover officer is not involved in a narcotics-related investigation and
his or her identity will not be compromised, mere status as undercover does not
preclude officers from being tested if probable cause exists that the officer
is misusing, manufacturing, selling, trafficking, purchasing, using, or abusing
drugs or alcohol.
   (J)   Further policy provisions.
      (1)   All employees who test positive for drug and/or alcohol in
violation of this policy, which includes preemployment, reasonable suspicion,
random, and post-accident testing, shall be responsible for the cost including
any confirmation testing.
      (2)   All employees who request split specimens to be forwarded to
another lab of the employee’s choice will be responsible for the cost of the
split and for the second test.
      (3)   Any employee who tests positive and is sent for substance abuse
professional evaluation shall be required to pay for the return-to-duty test.
The cost of follow-up testing required by the city will be incurred by the
employee,
      (4)   The city will pay for all negative drug and alcohol tests.
(Ord. 1531, passed 6-18-2008)
§ 31.22 MEDICAL AND HEALTH INSURANCE FOR RETIRED CIVIL EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The city shall pay 100% of the city’s cost for medical insurance on
the city’s Group Plan for all city civil employees retiring after December 31,
2007 provided the employee has completed 25 years of continuous service with
the city. When the retired employee becomes eligible for Medicare benefits, the
retiree will be removed from the city’s Group Plan and placed on the city’s
Medicare Supplement Plan. The retiree will be responsible for 100% of the
Medicare Supplement costs.
   (B)   The city shall provide the same insurance benefit provided in division
(A) above for any employee becoming totally disabled as the result of a city
work-related injury as if he or she had met the same 25-year service
requirement as set forth in division (A) above.
   (C)   Any qualified employee who wishes to participate in the insurance
coverage offered herein shall elect to do so by delivering to the Clerk-
Treasurer a written notice of said election at least 30 days prior to the date
of his or her retirement. If a retiree declines the coverage at the time of
initial eligibility or having accepted the coverage, thereafter cancels the
coverage, the retiree’s eligibility shall be terminated, and the retiree shall
not be eligible for enrollment or re-enrollment.
   (D)   The city shall not change its health insurance unless it is equal to
or greater in coverage than the current insurance being offered and unless any
given change is recommended by an Insurance Committee which will consist of a
representative of the Common Council, the Mayor, and a representative from each
department who shall be appointed by the members of their respective
departments.
(Ord. 1522, passed 12-3-2007)
§ 31.23 AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Employment. The city does not discriminate on the basis of disability
in its hiring or employment practices and complies with all regulations as
outlined by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission under Title I of the
ADA, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12111 et seq.
   (B)   Effective communication. The city will, upon request, provide
appropriate aids and services leading to effective participation for people
with disabilities to participate equally in city programs, services, and
activities. Anyone who requires an auxiliary aid or service for effective
participation or modification of policies or procedures to participate in a
service, program, or activity should contact the office of the Mayor as soon as
possible but no later than 48 hours before the scheduled event.
   (C)   Modification to policies and procedures.
      (1)   The city will make all reasonable modifications to policies and
programs to ensure that people with disabilities have an equal opportunity to
enjoy all its programs, services, and activities. The ADA does not require the
city to take any action that would fundamentally alter the nature of its
services or programs or impose an undue financial or administrative burden on
the city. Grievances regarding a service, program, or activity of the city that
is not accessible to persons with disabilities should be directed to the office
of the Mayor and use the appropriate grievance procedure form.
      (2)   The city will not place a surcharge on a particular individual with
a disability or any group of individuals with disabilities to cover the cost of
providing auxiliary aids and/or services or reasonable modifications of policy
such as retrieving items from locations that are open to the public but are not
accessible to persons who use wheelchairs.
   (D)   Procedures. The city has adopted an internal grievance procedure
providing for prompt and equitable resolution of complaints alleging any action
prohibited by the US Department of Justice regulations and implements Title II
of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12131 et seq.
Title II states, in part, that “no otherwise qualified disabled individual
shall, solely by reason of such disability, be excluded from the participation
in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination in programs,
services, or activities sponsored by a public entity.”
      (1)   File the grievance. Complete the city grievance form. Grievance
forms can be found in the ADA Coordinator’s office. A grievance may be
communicated in writing, by e-mail, by fax or by telephone but must follow the
format of the city grievance form. A grievance concerning the accessibility of
city services, programs, or activities should be addressed to the office of the
Mayor, Attn: ADA Coordinator, 125 North Wayne Street, Alexandria, Indiana
46001.
      (2)   Acknowledgment. A grievance should be filed within 90 days after
the grievant party becomes aware of the alleged violation. The ADA Coordinator
will send an acknowledgment of receipt of the grievance within 12 working days.
      (3)   Informal resolution. Following the filing of a grievance, the ADA
Coordinator shall determine whether, and to what extent, an investigation of
the grievance is warranted. Any resulting investigation shall be conducted by
the ADA Coordinator or his or her designee. A thorough investigation affords
all interested persons and their representatives an opportunity to submit
evidence relevant to a grievance. The ADA Coordinator will complete the
investigation within 60 calendar days of receipt of the grievance. If
appropriate, the ADA Coordinator will arrange to meet with the grievant to
discuss the matter and attempt to reach an informal resolution of the
grievance. Any informal resolution of the grievance shall be documented in the
ADA Coordinator file and the case will be closed.
      (4)   Written determination. If an informal resolution of the grievance
is not reached in division (D)(3) above within 60 calendar days of receipt of
the grievance, a written determination as to the validity of the complaint and
description of the resolution, if appropriate, shall be forwarded by the ADA
Coordinator to the Executive Officer for approval.
      (5)   Final determination and resolution. 
         (a)   The ADA Coordinator shall communicate the determination and
resolution to the grievant within 90 calendar days of receipt of the grievance
unless the Executive Officer authorizes additional time for further
consideration of the grievance. Any authorized extension of time will be
communicated to the grievant. Any request for reconsideration of the response
to the grievance shall be at the discretion of the Executive Officer.
      (b)   If the grievant is not satisfied with the city’s handling of the
grievance at any stage of the process or does not wish to file a grievance
through the city’s ADA Title II grievance procedures, the grievant may file a
complaint directly with the US Department of Justice or other appropriate state
or federal agency. Use of the city grievance procedure is not a prerequisite to
the pursuit of other remedies.
      (c)   The resolution of any specific grievance will require consideration
of varying circumstances such as the specific nature of the disability; the
nature of the access to services, programs, or facilities at issue; the
essential eligibility requirements for participation; the health and safety of
others; and the degree to which an accommodation would constitute a fundamental
alteration to the service, program, or facility or cause an undue hardship to
the city. Accordingly, the resolution by the city of any one grievance does not
constitute a precedent upon which the city is bound or upon which other
complaining parties may rely.
   (E)   File maintenance. The ADA Coordinator shall maintain ADA grievance
files for three years.
(Ord. CC2018-005, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 31.24 CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND NEPOTISM.
   (A)   The city finds that it is necessary and desirous to adopt a policy of
conduct with regard to nepotism in the employment with the city and in
contracting with the city in order to continue to be able to provide local
government services to its residents and to comply with the new laws effective
July 1, 2012, known as I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21, respectively.
   (B)   On July 1, 2012, the city shall have a nepotism policy and a
contracting with a unit policy that complies with the minimum requirements of
I.C. 36-1-20.2, hereinafter referred to as the nepotism policy, and I.C. 36-1-
21, hereinafter referred to as the contracting with a unit by a relative
policy, and implementation will begin.
   (C)   The city’s nepotism policy is hereby established by adopting the
minimum requirements provisions of I.C. 36-1-20.2 and including all future
supplements and amendments thereto which become law from time to time and
making them a part hereof as if fully set out herein.
   (D)   The city’s contracting with a unit by a relative policy is hereby
established by adopting the minimum requirements provisions of I.C. 36-1-21 and
including all future supplements and amendments thereto which become law from
time to time and making them a part hereof as if fully set out herein.
   (E)   The city finds that both I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21 specifically
allow a unit to adopt requirements that are more stringent or detailed as are
necessary.
   (F)   The city further finds that a single member of the legislative body
cannot act for the body to make work assignments, compensation, grievances,
advancements, or performance evaluations without prior authority of a majority
of the body, and therefore, without such authority by the majority, he or she
will not be in the direct line of supervision. (See I.C. 36-4-6-11 and 36-5-2-
9-4.)
   (G)   The city finds that a single member of governing bodies with authority
over employees in the city cannot act for the governing body to make work
assignments, compensation, grievances, advancement or a performance evaluation
without prior authority of a majority of the body, when a statute provides that
a majority is needed to act; therefore, without such authority by the majority,
the single member will not be in the direct line of supervision.
   (H)   All elected and appointed officials and employees of the city are
hereby directed to cooperate fully in the implementation of the policies
created by this section and demonstrating compliance with these same policies.
   (I)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance,
and certifications connected with the nepotism policy or with the contracting
with unit by a relative policy is a violation and may result in the discipline,
including termination, of an employee or in a transfer from the direct line of
supervision or other curative action. An elected or appointed official of the
city who fails to abide by or to cooperate with the implementation, compliance,
and mandated certifications of either the nepotism policy or the contracting
with unit by a relative policy may be subject to any action allowed by law.
   (J)   The polices created herein are hereby directed to be implemented by
any of the following actions and, upon taking of any of these actions, shall be
deemed implemented by the city:
      (1)   Posting a copy of this section in its entirety in at least one of
the locations in the city where employers post signs or other notices to its
employees;
      (2)   Providing a copy of this section to employees and elected and
appointed officials;
      (3)   Providing or posting a notice of the adoption of this section; or
      (4)   Any such other action or actions that would communicate the polices
established by this section to employees and elected and appointed officials.
   (K)   A copy of the provisions of I.C. 36-1-20.2 and 36-1-21 are annexed
hereto.
   (L)   Two copies of I.C. 36-1-20.2 and of 36-1-21, as supplemented or
amended, are on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer for the city for
public inspection as may be required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
(Ord. 1588, passed 6-18-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-1-5-4, 36-1-20.2, 36-1-21, 36-4-6-11, and
36-5-2-9-4
OFFICERS
§ 31.35 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   Appointment of City Attorney.
      (1)   The City Attorney is appointed by the Mayor.
      (2)   The City Attorney need not be a resident of the city.
(Prior Code, § 31.15)
   (B)   Bond for City Attorney. The bond of the City Attorney shall be based
on current state-approved amounts and/or as set by City Council from time to
time.
(Prior Code, § 31.16)
   (C)   Powers and duties. The City Attorney shall have the powers and duties
provided by statutory law.
(Prior Code, § 31.17)
§ 31.36 CITY JUDGE.
   (A)   Election of Judge. The City Judge shall be elected in the manner
provided by statutory law every four years.
(Prior Code, § 31.25)
   (B)   Bond of Judge. Before entering upon the discharge of his or her
duties, the City Judge shall execute a bond payable to the city in a penal sum
based on current state-approved amounts and/or as set by City Council from time
to time with good and sufficient surety, to be approved by the Mayor and filed
in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer, conditioned for the faithful discharge of
the duties of the office.
(Prior Code, § 31.26)
   (C)   Salary. The City Judge shall receive the salary provided by statutory
law.
(Prior Code, § 31.27)
   (D)   Powers. The City Judge shall preside over the City Court and shall
have the powers provided by statutory law.
(Prior Code, § 31.28)
§ 31.37 CITY CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   Clerk-Treasurer as Council Clerk. The Clerk-Treasurer shall be the
Clerk of the Council and shall perform the duties prescribed by I.C. 36-4-6-
9 and such others as the Council may direct.
(Prior Code, § 31.40)
   (B)   Deputy Clerk-Treasurer. The Deputy Clerk-Treasurer is to be paid
solely from funds appropriated for the office of the Clerk-Treasurer. Such
Deputy shall work under the exclusive direction of the Clerk-Treasurer and
serves at the pleasure of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 31.41)
   (C)   Administration and records. The Clerk-Treasurer shall furnish space
within his or her office for the administration and records of the city’s
utilities. The various utility clerks needed to manage the bookkeeping and
administrative requirements of the utilities shall be appointed and compensated
by the Board having control of the utilities that the clerks serve. The utility
clerks serve at the pleasure of the Board which appointed them. The Clerk-
Treasurer shall be compensated for services he or she renders to the city’s
utilities and shall have the power to supervise the utility personnel subject
to the approval of the governing boards of the various utilities.
(Prior Code, § 31.42)
   (D)   Claim payments in advance of allowance. 
      (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the city may make claim payments in advance
of the allowance therefore by the Common Council for the city in general and
also the Redevelopment Commission for the following kinds and types of
expenses:
         (a)   License or permit fees;
         (b)   Insurance premiums;
         (c)   Utilities;
         (d)   General grant programs where advance money is not prohibited and
the contracting party posts sufficient security to cover the amount advanced;
         (e)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
         (f)   Maintenance and/or service agreements;
         (g)   Leases or rental payments;
         (h)   Bond or coupon payments;
         (i)   Payroll;
         (j)   Federal, state, or county taxes;
         (k)   County Recorder expenses;
         (l)   County Auditor expenses;
         (m)   Attorney fees;
         (n)   Closing costs on purchases and sales of real estate;
         (o)   Postage;
         (p)   Publication fees; and
         (q)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances.
      (2)   Payment of the expenses set forth hereinabove must be supported by
a fully itemized invoice or bill and certification by the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 1160, passed 8-29-1983; Ord. 1622, passed 9-8-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-4-6-9
CHAPTER 32: FINANCES AND FUNDS
Section
Finances
   
32.01   City credit card
   
32.02   Electronic fund transfers
   
32.03   Dues and reimbursement
   
32.04   Copy fees
Funds
   
32.15   Revolving Loan Fund
   
32.16   Revolving Loan Fund Board
   
32.17   Loan fund increases
   
32.18   Rainy Day Fund
   
32.19   Cumulative Capital Development Fund
   
32.20   Park Non-Reverting Fund
   
32.21   Animal Control Non-Reverting Fund
   
32.22   Clerk’s Record Perpetuation Fund
FINANCES
§ 32.01 CITY CREDIT CARD.
   (A)   City employees and officials may use city credit cards for purchases
related to the city when such use is in the best interest of the city.
   (B)   City credit cards shall only be used with the approval of the Common
Council or Clerk-Treasurer. Credit card purchases shall only be used for city
business. No personal use of a city credit card is authorized. The Clerk-
Treasurer shall issue a credit card and maintain a usage log for each card
identified by the last four digits of the card account number. The log shall
include the following:
      (1)   The name and position of the individual using the city’s card;
      (2)   The type of purchase and approximate amount of the purchase;
      (3)   Upon return, the actual amount charged shall be indicated; and
      (4)   Clerk-Treasurer shall sign acknowledgment of return of the card.
   (C)   Because credit card purchases are subject to the same audit
requirements as other disbursements, all detailed receipts must meet audit
requirements. This means all receipts must be signed by the employee using the
credit card, provide a detailed account of items purchased, be free of non-
business-related items, be free of sales taxes, and be free of items prohibited
by the state statutes. It is the responsibility of the employee authorizing the
charge to obtain properly itemized receipts. Charge slips showing a total
charge only is not acceptable without a store printout detailing items
purchased as indicated above. Failure to do so could result in the charge
becoming the personal obligation of the employee.
   (D)   Any interest or penalty incurred due to the late filing of receipts
with the Clerk-Treasurer for payment of a credit card bill or incurred due to
the delay in furnishing documentation required for audit shall be the
responsibility of that employee.
   (E)   Credit cards shall not be used to bypass the accounting system.
   (F)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be notified immediately if a credit card is
lost or stolen.
   (G)   The Common Council or the Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to revoke
credit cards that have been used in violation of city policy.
   (H)   This section is adopted in compliance with the State Board of
Accounts’ manual for cities and towns authorizing a city to use credit cards
for purchases.
(Ord. 2021-002-C, passed 3-15-2021)
§ 32.02 ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFERS.
   (A)   Automatic clearing house (ACH) transactions. ACH transactions are
hereby authorized for the Clerk-Treasurer to make certain payments via ACH.
Authorized payments are payroll, bond payments, and payments for monthly bills.
Also authorized are any funds received via ACH.
   (B)   Electronic funds transfers (EFT) including online transfers. EFT
transactions are hereby authorized for the Clerk-Treasurer to make certain
transfers via EFT. Authorized transfers include all city funds and accounts.
   (C)   Documentation. The Clerk-Treasurer is required to maintain adequate
documentation of the above-referenced transactions for future audits, as
provided by law.
   (D)   Effective date. This section shall be in full force retroactively from
January 1, 2020, until revoked or amended by the Common Council.
(Ord. 2021-001-C, passed 3-1-2021)
§ 32.03 DUES AND REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   Dues. The Council may appropriate funds to pay for the dues of the
city for membership in the organizations listed in §
31.05(A). The Clerk-Treasurer shall pay these dues as they become due and
following appropriations of funds for that purpose by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 32.05)
   (B)   Promotional appropriations. The Council may appropriate funds in the
city’s annual budget for the purpose of compensating and reimbursing officials
and representatives of the city for expenses incurred in promoting the city.
(Prior Code, § 32.06)
   (C)   Reimbursement. Expenditures reimbursed under division (A) above shall
include but are not limited to expenses incurred in the rental of meeting
places, the provision of meals, decorations, memorabilia and awards,
interviewing job applicants, promoting industrial and commercial and
residential development, developing relations with other units of government,
and any other expenses of a civic or governmental nature deemed by the Mayor or
the Common Council to be in the interest of the city.
(Prior Code, § 32.07)
(Ord. 1124, passed 12-28-1981; Ord. 1130, passed 7-5-1982)
§ 32.04 COPY FEES.
   All departments, boards, or commissions of the city are hereby authorized to
charge per page a rate based on current state-approved amounts and/or as set by
City Council from time to time for all copies generated by the city.
(Ord. 1536, passed 9-15-2008)
FUNDS
§ 32.15 REVOLVING LOAN FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Revolving Loan Fund which shall be funded
from time to time as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 32.01)
   (B)   (1)   The city recognizes that the Revolving Loan Fund and loan
applications thereto shall be governed in accordance with the terms of the
grant agreement with the state, being Grant Agreement No. C-86-001.
      (2)   No loans shall be made from the Revolving Loan Fund until approved
by a majority of the Common Council by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 32.04)
(Ord. 1208, passed 3-16-1987)
§ 32.16 REVOLVING LOAN FUND BOARD.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Revolving Loan Fund Board, and the Board
shall be created by members who are appointed by the Mayor. The members shall
serve a term of one year, and the Board shall consist of a representative of
each of the two local banks, the Mayor, the City Attorney (who shall be the
legal representative of the Board), two members of the Common Council, and a
representative from the County Council of Governments. The Board members hereon
will serve without remuneration or consideration of any type.
   (B)   The Revolving Loan Fund Board shall function as a loan review body and
act to negotiate loan conditions and terms for the Revolving Loan Fund. The
Board will act in an advisory capacity to the Common Council who will make the
final determination as to what loans shall or shall not be granted from the
Revolving Loan Fund.
(Prior Code, § 32.02) (Ord. 1208, passed 3-16-1987)
§ 32.17 LOAN FUND INCREASES.
   The city hereby agrees to establish a Loan Fund from an amount equivalent to
that in the grant agreement and any increases therein as may, from time to
time, result from any additional grants or increases in the grant agreement,
but in no case shall the loan authority exceed the total amount of any
previously approved grant or grants.
(Prior Code, § 32.03) (Ord. 1208, passed 3-16-1987)
§ 32.18 RAINY DAY FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Rainy Day Fund to receive transfers of
unused and unencumbered funds under I.C. 36-1-8.5-1.
   (B)   Not more than 10% of any fiscal year’s total budget shall be
transferred to the Rainy Day Fund.
   (C)   The Rainy Day Fund shall be subject to the same appropriation process
as other funds that receive tax money.
   (D)   The Common Council hereby intends to utilize its decision-making power
regarding fiscal affairs and set priorities for allocation and expenditure of
the Rainy Day Fund as deemed necessary to best serve the residents of the city.
   (E)   The Common Council will transfer any funds received as a result of the
county’s Economic Development Income Tax pursuant to state law to the Rainy Day
Fund.
(Ord. 1512, passed 5-21-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-1-8.5-1
§ 32.19 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby re-established the Cumulative Capital Development
Fund.
   (B)   An ad valorem property tax levy will be imposed and the revenues from
the levy will be retained in the Cumulative Capital Development Fund.
   (C)   The maximum rate of levy under division (B) above will not exceed per
assessed valuation a rate based on current state-approved amounts and/or as set
by City Council from time to time.
   (D)   The Cumulative Capital Development Fund is re-established for the
years 1993, 1994, and 1995, and shall continue until such Fund is terminated.
   (E)   The funds accumulated in the Cumulative Capital Development Fund will
be used for capital improvements, firefighting equipment, and the Police-Radio
Fund as described in I.C. 36-8-14.
   (F)   Notwithstanding division (E) above, funds accumulated in the
Cumulative Capital Development Fund may be spent for purposes other than the
purposes stated in division (E) above if the purpose is to protect the public
health, welfare, or safety in an emergency situation which demands immediate
action. Money may be spent under the authority of this section only after the
Mayor issues a declaration that the public health, welfare, or safety is in
immediate danger that requires the expenditure of money in the fund.
(Prior Code, § 32.08) (Ord. 1296, passed 8-3-1992)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-8-14
§ 32.20 PARK NON-REVERTING FUND.
   (A)   A Park Non-Reverting Operating Fund is hereby established.
   (B)   The revenues within the Non-Reverting Fund shall be used to maintain
and operate public activities and improvements within the city park system.
   (C)   The revenues within the Park Non-Reverting Operating Fund may be
applied to the Park Fund.
(Prior Code, § 32.09) (Ord. 1292, passed 6-15-1992)
§ 32.21 ANIMAL CONTROL NON-REVERTING FUND.
   (A)   Twenty-five percent of any fines received by the City Court from
violations of any of the provisions of Chapter 90 of this code shall be
deposited into a non-reverting equipment and supply fund for use by the city
animal control officer.
   (B)   Said non-reverting fund is hereby established to be used to purchase
equipment and supplies for use by the animal control officer.
(Ord. 1559, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 32.22 CLERK’S RECORD PERPETUATION FUND.
   (A)   Findings.
      (1)   On occasion, certain defendants of the City Court, after being duly
advised and notified of dates of appearance and/or amounts owed pursuant to
citations, fail to appear or fail to pay without notification to the Court of
their intention to either pay or deny the charge.
      (2)   Upon failure to pay or appear, notice is then sent to the Bureau of
Motor Vehicles for a license suspension.
      (3)   When a defendant subsequently appears and/or pays the citation and
becomes eligible for reinstatement pursuant to the Court’s lifting of the
indefinite suspension, the Court must produce a form to send by mail or
facsimile to the Bureau of Motor Vehicles to reinstate the suspended
individual.
      (4)   The City Court incurs expenses associated with the production and
subsequent filing of this reinstatement form that should rightly be assessed to
the defendant.
      (5)   The fees assessed pursuant to the above mentioned should be
collected by the County Clerk and deposited in a Clerk’s Perpetuation Fund,
established and controlled by the Clerk- Treasurer for the city, to be used for
court record keeping improvements and equipment.
   (B)   Fee. A fee based on current state-approved amounts and/or as set by
City Council from time to time shall be assessed to the defendant for
production and facsimile transmission of the above mentioned form to the Bureau
of Motor Vehicles.
   (C)   Fund. There shall be established an account to be designated as the
Clerk’s Record Perpetuation Fund for the purpose of collection of the fee
mentioned in division (B) above.
   (D)   Collection responsibility. The City Court Clerk shall collect this
money and deposit the same in the Clerk’s Record Perpetuation Fund which shall
be established and controlled by the Clerk-Treasurer’s office of the city. Fees
shall be remitted to the Clerk-Treasurer on a monthly basis.
   (E)   Use of funds. The Clerk’s Record Perpetuation Fund may only be
expended after appropriation for contractual services, repairs, maintenance,
supplies, purchase of equipment, and overall promotion of the City Court’s
record keeping and administration. All expenditures from the Clerk’s Record
Perpetuation Fund shall be processed, appropriated, claimed, and allowed in the
same manner as other claims of the city.
(Prior Code, § 32.10) (Ord. 1443, passed 12-3-2001)
CHAPTER 33: PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
Police Department
   
33.01   Police Department established
   
33.02   Powers
   
33.03   Composition of Department
   
33.04   Residency
   
33.05   Police Pension Board
   
33.06   Reserve Police Unit
   
33.07   Limited criminal history report fees
Fire Department
   
33.20   Fire Department established
   
33.21   Fire Chief
   
33.22   Appointment
   
33.23   Residency
   
33.24   Firefighter’s Pension Board
   
33.25   Charges for rescue and hazardous material responses
Emergency Medical Services
   
33.40   Definitions
   
33.41   Charges
   
33.42   Deposit of funds
   
33.43   Medical treatment of confined persons
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.01POLICE DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   The Police Department is hereby established.
(Prior Code, § 33.01)
§ 33.02 POWERS.
   All members of the Police Department shall have the powers and duties
provided by statutory law.
(Prior Code, § 33.04)
§ 33.03COMPOSITION OF DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Police Department shall consist of a Chief of Police and other
personnel as may be provided by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 33.02)
   (B)   The Police Chief shall be in charge of the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 33.03)
§ 33.04 RESIDENCY.
   (A)   Nonresident upon hiring.
      (1)   If a member of the Police Department is not residing in the city
when hired, the member shall, within nine months after his or her date of hire,
move into the city and remain a resident thereof for a period of at least five
years.
      (2)   After such five-year period, the employee must remain a resident of
the county during the entire period of employment.
   (B)   Resident upon hiring. If a member of the Police Department is a
resident of the city when hired, the member shall remain a resident of the city
for a period of at least five years after his or her date of hire; thereafter,
the member shall remain a resident of the county during the entire period of
employment.
(Prior Code, § 33.05) (Ord. 1097, passed 2-4-1980; Ord. 1452, passed 12-2-2002)
§ 33.05 POLICE PENSION BOARD.
   There shall be a Police Pension Board of Trustees to perform certain duties
prescribed by I.C. 36-8-1-5 (1977 Fund) concerning the statutory pension of the
city police.
(Prior Code, § 33.06) (Ord. 1160, passed 8-29-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-8-1-5
§ 33.06 RESERVE POLICE UNIT.
   There is hereby reestablished for the city a Reserve Police Unit to be
governed by the Board of Public Works and Safety pursuant to I.C. 36-8-3-20.
(Prior Code, § 33.07) (Ord. 1424, passed 2-7-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-8-3-20
§ 33.07 LIMITED CRIMINAL HISTORY REPORT FEES.
   (A)   The Common Council now authorizes the Police Department to charge a
fee based on current state-approved amounts and/or as set by City Council from
time to time for the processing of information contained and the preparation of
a limited criminal history.
   (B)   All of said fees collected shall be deposited into the previously
established City Police Department Equipment Fund for uses provided for in its
establishment.
(Ord. 1507, passed 11-6-2006)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.20 FIRE DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   The City Fire Department is hereby established.
(Prior Code, § 33.20)
§ 33.21 FIRE CHIEF.
   The position of Chief of the Fire Department is hereby established.
(Prior Code, § 33.22)
§ 33.22 APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   All members of the Fire Department, except the Fire Chief, shall be
appointed by the Board of Public Works and Safety.
(Prior Code, § 33.21)
   (B)   The Chief of the Fire Department shall be appointed by the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 33.23)
§ 33.23 RESIDENCY.
   (A)   If a member of the Fire Department is not residing in the county when
hired, the member shall, within nine months after his or her date of hire, move
into the county where he or she must remain a resident during the entire period
of employment.
   (B)   A member of the Fire Department shall, at all times, have adequate
means of transportation into the city.
   (C)   A member of the Fire Department shall, at all times, maintain adequate
telephone service with the city.
(Prior Code, § 33.24) (Ord. 1617, passed 5-4-2015)
§ 33.24 FIREFIGHTER’S PENSION BOARD.
   There shall be a Firefighter’s Pension Board of Trustees to perform certain
duties prescribed by I.C. 36-8-1-5 (1977 Fund) concerning the statutory
pensions of city firefighters.
(Prior Code, § 33.25) (Ord. 1160, passed 8-29-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-8-1-5
§ 33.25 CHARGES FOR RESCUE AND HAZARDOUS MATERIAL RESPONSES.
   The following schedule of service charges for protection services is
established based on current state-approved amounts and/or as set by City
Council from time to time:
   (A)   For initial response with a fire engine, a fire truck, or a fire
apparatus including a hazardous material response unit or a fire rescue unit
dispatched on a motor vehicle accident or hazardous material incident per
response vehicle except command/control vehicles;
   (B)   For each hour or fraction thereof as on-scene assistance per response
unit and per command/control vehicle;
   (C)   For expandable materials such as medical supplies, absorption
material, emulsifiers, or other agents used in cleanup operations, and the
actual replacement cost of those materials and supplies;
   (D)   For collection of debris, chemicals, fuel, or contaminated materials
resulting from a spill, the actual cost of removal or disposal at an authorized
location; and
   (E)   For replacement and/or repair of equipment and apparatus damaged while
extricating a person involved in a motor vehicle accident or in the course of
responding to a hazardous material incident.
(Prior Code, § 33.26) (Ord. 1385, passed 5-18-1998)
EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES
§ 33.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES. Transportation of emergency services provided by
agents and employees of the City Fire Department which services may properly be
performed by an emergency medical technician (EMT).
   NONRESIDENT. A person whose principal residence or place of domicile is
outside Monroe Township, Madison County, Indiana.
(Prior Code, § 92.01) (Ord. 1225, passed 7-5-1988)
§ 33.41 CHARGES.
   There is hereby imposed a fixed charge in an amount per occurrence based on
current state-approved amounts and/or as set by City Council from time to time
for emergency medical services rendered to nonresident recipients for such
services.
(Prior Code, § 92.02) (Ord. 1225, passed 7-5-1988; Ord. 1311, passed 4-5-1993)
§ 33.42 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   All monies collected pursuant to this subchapter shall be deposited in the
General Operating Fund.
(Prior Code, § 92.04) (Ord. 1225, passed 7-5-1988)
§ 33.43 MEDICAL TREATMENT OF CONFINED PERSONS.
   (A)   Any person held in custody, confined, or incarcerated by the city
shall be solely responsible for the payment of any medical services rendered to
and received by that person during the course of his or her confinement with
the city or at the city or City Court’s discretion including, without
limitation, transportation to and from a medical treatment facility and any
treatment deemed necessary by his or her treating physician whether or not
requested by the prisoner. Said person shall be required to reimburse the city,
in full, for any fees or charges incurred for such services if not paid
directly by a medical facility or provider to the prisoner or his or her
insurance carrier.
   (B)   These provisions shall be applicable to individuals who are:
      (1)   Under arrest;
      (2)    Incarcerated;
      (3)    Imprisoned;
      (4)   Escaped from confinement;
      (5)   Under supervised release;
      (6)   On medical furlough;
      (7)   Residing in a mental health facility or halfway house;
      (8)   Living under home detention; or
      (9)   Confined completely or partially in any way under a penal statute
or rule.
(Ord. 1584, passed 3-19-2012)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWERS
      
53.   WATER AND SEWER RATES AND CHARGES
      
54.   STORMWATER UTILITIES
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Eligibility for refuse collection
   
50.02   Definitions
   
50.03   Placement of objectionable wastes
   
50.04   Dumping of dirt, sand, and gravel
   
50.05   Manufacturing or commercial processing
   
50.06   Making rules governing use of disposal facilities
   
50.07   Hauling of refuse by building contractor
   
50.08   Private haulers; license required
   
50.09   Additional fees
Containers and Collection
   
50.20   Garbage container requirements
   
50.21   Wrapping garbage and refuse
   
50.22   Regulations of refuse
   
50.23   Garbage disposal
   
50.24   Refuse collection
   
50.25   Supervision of garbage and refuse collection
City Sanitation Services
   
50.40   Eligibility and general provisions
   
50.41   Collection fees; late charges
   
50.42   Unlawful refuse disposal
   
50.43   Rate change procedure
 
   
50.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Enumerated nuisances, see §
93.02
   Littering, see §§
93.35 through
93.37
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 ELIGIBILITY FOR REFUSE COLLECTION.
   Eligibility for the services provided in this chapter are as set forth in §
50.40.
(Ord. 1540, passed 2-2-2009)
§ 50.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. All animal or vegetable waste and material from kitchens, dining
rooms, and similar places.
   REFUSE. Rubbish, litter, glass, tin cans, earthenware, remnants of clothing,
and all substances which may become nuisances or which are unsightly or
unclean.
(Prior Code, § 50.02) (Ord. 869, passed 11-14-1966)
§ 50.03 PLACEMENT OF OBJECTIONABLE WASTES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in an unsanitary manner upon public or private property any human or
animal excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
(Prior Code, § 50.03) (Ord. 869, passed 11-14-1966) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 DUMPING OF DIRT, SAND, AND GRAVEL.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit the dumping of dirt,
sand, and gravel which is free from all trash, rubbish, and refuse materials of
all kinds upon any lot with the permission of the owner for the purpose of
elevating the grade of the lot or the improvement thereof.
(Prior Code, § 50.10) (Ord. 869, passed 11-14-1966)
§ 50.05 MANUFACTURING OR COMMERCIAL PROCESSING.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed or interpreted to authorize or
require the collection and disposal of any waste material arising as a result
of any manufacturing or commercial processing or to prohibit manufacturers from
collecting and disposing of waste materials as a result of their manufacturing
or commercial processing if the same is not inimical to the public health or
cleanliness.
(Prior Code, § 50.11) (Ord. 869, passed 11-14-1966)
§ 50.06 MAKING RULES GOVERNING USE OF DISPOSAL FACILITIES.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety may promulgate all necessary rules for
the use of all refuse and garbage disposal facilities, having due regard for
the public health and the sightliness and cleanliness of the city and the
surrounding territory.
(Prior Code, § 50.13) (Ord. 869, passed 11-14-1966)
§ 50.07 HAULING OF REFUSE BY BUILDING CONTRACTOR.
   This chapter shall not pertain to the hauling of refuse by a building
contractor incident to the construction or demolition of any structure.
(Prior Code, § 50.15) (Ord. 1289, passed 6-15-1992)
§ 50.08 PRIVATE HAULERS; LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Private haulers may provide services to commercial establishments
within the city at the election of the commercial establishment.
   (B)   Any private hauler of refuse must obtain a license from the city in
order to provide such services within the city. The fee shall be set by the
Council and may include a charge for costs incurred by the city.
(Prior Code, § 50.16) (Ord. 1289, passed 6-15-1992)
§ 50.09 ADDITIONAL FEES.
   (A)   Additional trash bags.
      (1)   A charge to the city utility customers is established in an amount
per trash bag based on current state-approved amounts and/or as set by City
Council from time to time for trash bag pickup beyond the three bag limit
heretofore established.
      (2)   All trash bags hereunder shall be purchased at the city utility
office and will be distributed to utility customers in packages containing not
less than five bags per package.
(Prior Code, § 50.18)
   (B)   Sale of recycling bags.
      (1)   This section fixes a charge for recycling bags at the rate of $1
per ten bags for city utility customers.
      (2)   All non-utility customers may purchase recycling bags at a rate per
bag based on current state-approved amounts and/or as set by City Council from
time to time in minimum quantities of four.
      (3)   This division (B) allows utility customers to credit recycling bag
purchases to their utility account with applicable penalties for non-payment.
(Prior Code, § 50.19)
(Ord. 1315, passed 8-23-1993; Ord. 1403, passed 12-14-1998)
CONTAINERS AND COLLECTION
§ 50.20 GARBAGE CONTAINER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Containers required. Any person operating or keeping any place where
any garbage or refuse might collect shall provide and maintain sanitary, fly-
proof receptacles for the depositing of such materials.
   (B)   Use of plastic bags. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to
prohibit any person from placing any garbage or refuse in a plastic bag which
is approved by the Superintendent of Streets.
   (C)   Use of containers required. It shall be unlawful for any person to
fail to place any garbage or refuse in a container or in a plastic bag approved
by the Superintendent of Streets.
   (D)   Containers; specifications generally. A garbage or refuse container
shall be made of galvanized iron, plastic, or another suitable substitute and
shall be of such a size and shape that it can be easily handled. All containers
shall be not less than three nor more than 30 gallons in capacity.
   (E)   Containers; covers required. All garbage or refuse cans shall have
tight-fitting covers which shall be kept on them at all times, except when they
are being filled or emptied.
   (F)   Containers; handles required. All containers required by this chapter,
except plastic bags approved by the Superintendent of Streets, shall have
convenient handles upon them.
   (G)   Garbage containers; bail required. All garbage or refuse containers
shall have a bail for the handling and drainage of garbage.
   (H)   Responsibility of owner to keep containers clean. All garbage or
refuse containers required by this chapter shall be kept clean by their owners.
Strewn trash is the responsibility of the residents.
   (I)   Container housings. A garbage or refuse receptacle may be kept in a
housing constructed of concrete or other suitable material built at a
convenient point for collection, but such a housing shall not be placed upon
any city property or in a street or alley or where it can be easily struck or
damaged by motor vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 50.20) (Ord. 869, passed 11-14-1966; Ord. 1289, passed 6-15-
1992) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.21 WRAPPING GARBAGE AND REFUSE.
   (A)   (1)   Draining and wrapping garbage. All garbage, before being placed
in any required garbage container, shall be drained of all liquids and wrapped
in paper or other similar material.
      (2)   Bundling refuse. Any refuse which is set out for collection shall
be bundled.
(Prior Code, § 50.05)
   (B)   No slop, rubbish, poisonous substance, or night soil shall be wrapped
in the same package as garbage.
(Prior Code, § 50.06)
(Ord. 869, passed 11-14-1966) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.22 REGULATIONS OF REFUSE.
   (A)   No refuse may be placed in the same container as any garbage.
(Prior Code, § 50.07)
   (B)   No refuse shall be collected if it is greater than four feet in
length, six inches in diameter, or weighs more than 75 pounds.
(Prior Code, § 50.08)
(Ord. 869, passed 11-14-1966; Ord. 1289, passed 6-15-1992)
§ 50.23 GARBAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Placement of containers for collection. All containers set out for
collection purposes shall be put in a place convenient to the city collector;
provided, however, no such container shall be placed in the front yard or
street earlier than the day of regular collection and that in no case shall any
such container be placed in the traveled portion of the street.
   (B)   Removal of garbage cans from street. All garbage or refuse cans that
are set out for collection purposes shall be removed from the street or front
yard on the same day that the garbage collection is made.
   (C)   Hauling or transporting. It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized
person to receive, collect, convey, haul or transport, or cause to be conveyed,
hauled, or transported any accumulated garbage or refuse upon any public place.
   (D)   Burying. It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to bury any
garbage or refuse.
   (E)   Open burning. It shall be unlawful for any person to burn any garbage
or refuse in the open.
(Prior Code, § 50.09) (Ord. 869, passed 11-14-1966; Ord. 1289, passed 6-15-
1992) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.24 REFUSE COLLECTION.
   Customers shall deposit refuse for collection on the date and location which
the Common Council may from time to time establish by resolution. The Common
Council may also establish the number, size, kind, and weight of trash
containers to be collected. Each customer shall be responsible to keep his or
her refuse collection site in a neat and clean manner. The city shall provide
weekly pick-up with collection of oversize refuse once a year.
(Prior Code, § 50.14) (Ord. 1289, passed 6-15-1992)
§ 50.25 SUPERVISION OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety, subject to the approval of the Mayor,
shall supervise the collection of garbage and refuse and provide a place for
its dumping and disposal.
(Prior Code, § 50.12) (Ord. 869, passed 11-14-1966)
CITY SANITATION SERVICES
§ 50.40 ELIGIBILITY AND GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)    Any and all owners, tenants, or occupants of residential, commercial,
and industrial property are eligible for refuse and garbage collection by the
city.
   (B)   Customers shall pay a collection fee based upon the fee schedule
adopted herein.
   (C)   Customers shall be permitted up to five oversized items to be prepaid
in the Utility Office. See fee schedule on file with the city.
   (D)   The Board of Public Works and Safety may occasionally further describe
the oversize items eligible for single pick-up as well as to describe items
which are ineligible for pick-up.
   (E)   This subchapter shall not pertain to the hauling of refuse by a
building contractor incident to the construction or demolition of any
structure.
   (F)   Trash located outside of a designated receptacle is the responsibility
of the residents.
(Prior Code, § 50.34) (Ord. 1423, passed 2-7-2000; Ord. 1465, passed 2-2-2004;
Ord. 1540, passed 2-2-2009; Ord. 2024-006-C, passed 5-6-2024)  Penalty see §
50.99
§ 50.41 COLLECTION FEES; LATE CHARGES.
   (A)    Fees for refuse and/or garbage collection shall be as follows for
weekly pick-up services of a single container not to exceed 96 gallons:
 
Date         Rate
May 10, 2024 $16.40/user
 
   (B)   Should a resident desire additional containers, he/she must contract
for the same with the third-party provider.
   (C)   Payments not made within 15 days of the billing date will have a late
charge of 10% for each month in which the payment remains delinquent. If any
payment remains delinquent for more than three months, service will be
discontinued. To reinstate service, all past due charges must be paid in full
plus a reinstatement charge equal to one month's flat fee.
   (D)   If any service charge remains unpaid for a period of three months, the
charges may be certified to the County Auditor for placement upon the tax
duplicate by the Auditor and collected as taxes are collected as provided in
state law.
(Ord. 1596, passed 3-18-2013; Ord. 2024-006-C, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 50.42 UNLAWFUL REFUSE DISPOSAL.
    No person shall burn garbage or deposit refuse on any property located
within the city. No person shall accept refuse for disposal from any residence
or commercial establishment other than his or her own.
(Prior Code, § 50.33) (Ord. 1423, passed 2-7-2000; Ord. 1465, passed 2-2-2004;
Ord. 2024-006-C, passed 5-6-2024)  Penalty see §
50.99
§ 50.43 RATE CHANGE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any request for rate change shall be advertised not less than two
times one week apart and shall state the date, time, and location of a public
meeting to advise the reasons for the rate change. In no event shall the fee
schedule so established serve to collect monies in excess of those required for
payment of the costs of the services provided herein.
   (B)    The fees set forth herein shall be subject to the collection process,
late charges, discontinuance of service, and penalty provisions of §
50.40(A), §
50.41(C), and §
50.99 of this code.
(Ord. 1540, passed 2-2-2009)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter to which no other
specific penalty applies shall be subject to the penalty set forth in §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of any portion of §§
50.40 through
50.42 shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed a sum based on current state-
approved amounts and/or as set by City Council from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 50.99) (Ord. 1423, passed 2-7-2000; Ord. 1465, passed 2-2-2004)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
Backflow Prevention and Cross-Connections
   
51.01   Cross-connection defined
   
51.02   Cross-connection prohibited
   
51.03   Inspections
   
51.04   Right of entry
   
51.05   Discontinuance of service
   
51.06   Immediate action
   
51.07   Toxic and hazardous liquids
   
51.08   Backflow preventers below ground
   
51.09   Plumbing Code
   
51.10   List of backflow prevention facilities
   
51.11   Necessary backflow systems
BACKFLOW PREVENTION AND CROSS-CONNECTIONS
§ 51.01 CROSS-CONNECTION DEFINED.
   A CROSS-CONNECTION is any physical connection or arrangement between two
otherwise separate systems; one of which contains potable water from the city
water system and the other contains water from a private source and/or water of
unknown or questionable safety or steam, gases, or chemicals; whereby there may
be a flow from one system to the other, the direction of flow depending on the
pressure differential between the two systems.
(Ord. CC-2018-011, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 51.02 CROSS-CONNECTION PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall establish or permit to be established
or maintain or permit to be maintained any cross-connection. No interconnection
shall be established whereby potable water from a private, auxiliary, or
emergency water supply, other than the regular public water supply of the city,
enters the supply or distribution system of said municipality unless such a
private, auxiliary, or emergency water supply and the method of connection and
use of such supply shall have been approved by the City Water Department and by
the state’s Department of Environmental Management in accordance with 327
I.A.C. 8-10 et seq.
(Ord. CC-2018-011, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 51.03 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the city to cause inspections to be made of all
properties served by the public water system where cross-connections with the
public water system is deemed possible. The frequency of inspections and re-
inspections based on potential health hazards involved shall be established by
the City Water Department.
(Ord. CC-2018-011, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 51.04 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Upon presentation of credentials, the representative shall have the right to
request entry at any reasonable time to examine the property served by a
connection to the public water system of the city for cross-connections. On
request, the owner, lessee, or occupant of any property so served shall furnish
to the inspection agency any pertinent information regarding the piping system
or systems on such property. The refusal of access or refusal of requested
pertinent information shall be deemed evidence of the presence of cross-
connections.
(Ord. CC-2018-011, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 51.05 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   The City Water Department is hereby authorized and directed to discontinue
water service to any property wherein any connection in violation of this
subchapter exists and to take such other precautionary measures deemed
necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water system.
Water service shall be discontinued only after reasonable notice is served on
the owner, lessee, or occupants of the property or premises where a violation
is found or suspected to exist. Water service to such property shall not be
restored until the cross-connection has been eliminated in compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. CC-2018-011, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 51.06 IMMEDIATE ACTION.
   If it is determined by the City Water Department that a cross-connection or
an emergency endangers public health, safety, or welfare and requires immediate
action and a written finding to that effect is filed with the Clerk-Treasurer
of the city and delivered to the consumer’s premises, service may be
immediately discontinued. The consumer shall have an opportunity for hearing
within ten days of such emergency discontinuance.
(Ord. CC-2018-011, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 51.07 TOXIC AND HAZARDOUS LIQUIDS.
   All consumers using toxic or hazardous liquids and all hospitals,
mortuaries, wastewater treatment plants, laboratories, and other hazardous
users install and maintain a reduced pressure principal backflow preventer in
the main water line serving each building on the premises. The backflow
preventer must be installed in an easily accessible location not subject to
flooding or freezing.
(Ord. CC-2018-011, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 51.08 BACKFLOW PREVENTERS BELOW GROUND.
   The reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall not be installed
below ground level.
(Ord. CC-2018-011, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 51.09 PLUMBING CODE.
   This subchapter does not supersede the state’s Plumbing Code, the IDEM Rule
or 327 I.A.C. 8-10-4(c), or the city’s Plumbing Ordinance, but is supplementary
to them.
(Ord. CC-2018-011, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 51.10 LIST OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION FACILITIES.
   In addition to IDEM Rule, 327 I.A.C. 8-10-4(c), a current list of customer
facilities that maintain or need a backflow prevention device. The Water
Superintendent shall maintain an updated list of such customer facilities at
the water office.
(Ord. CC-2018-011, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 51.11 NECESSARY BACKFLOW SYSTEMS.
   If, in the judgment of the Superintendent of Water, an approved backflow
system is necessary for the safety of the public water system, the
Superintendent of Water will give notice to the water consumer to install such
an approved device immediately. The water consumer shall, at his or her own
expenses, install such an approved device at a location and in a manner
approved by the Superintendent of Water and shall have inspections and tests
made of such approved devices as required by the Superintendent of Water and in
accordance with the IDEM Rule, 327 I.A.C. 8-10.
(Ord. CC-2018-011, passed 11-19-2018)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Definitions
   
52.002   Installation of facilities required
   
52.003   Private sewage
   
52.004   Privies, cesspools, and septic tanks
   
52.005   Retention of septic tanks
   
52.006   Damaging or tampering with system
   
52.007   Board of Public Works and Safety rules
   
52.008   Health Officer requirements
   
52.009   Compliance with other laws
Permits, Inspections, and Fees
   
52.020   Permit required
   
52.021   Class of permits
   
52.022   Permit application
   
52.023   Inspections generally
   
52.024   Permit and inspection fee
   
52.025   Connection charge
   
52.026   Costs, expenses, and liabilities
   
52.027   Special agreements
Building Sewers and Connections
   
52.040   Separate sewer required
   
52.041   Use of old sewers
   
52.042   Pipes
   
52.043   Size, alignment, grade, and the like
   
52.044   Open trench work required
   
52.045   Backfilling; inspection
   
52.046   Joints and connections
   
52.047   Notice to Inspector; supervision of connection
   
52.048   Excavations
   
52.049   Control manhole
   
52.050   Artificial lifts; gravity flow
Prohibited Discharges and Treatment
   
52.065   Prohibited discharges
   
52.066   Action when improper discharges
   
52.067   Power to require pretreatment
   
52.068   Notification to city
   
52.069   Pretreatment of industrial cooling water
   
52.070   User information required
   
52.071   Strength of wastewater analyzed
   
52.072   Interceptors
 
   
52.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The Board of Public Works and Safety of the city or any duly
authorized officials acting in its behalf.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen expressed in mg/l,
utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedure in five days at 20°C.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the wall of a building and conveys it to the building sewer beginning
three feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING DRAIN, SANITARY. A building drain which conveys sanitary or
industrial sewage only.
   BUILDING DRAIN, STORM. A building drain which conveys stormwater or other
clear water drainage but no wastewater.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal. Also called a HOUSE CONNECTION.
   BUILDING SEWER, SANITARY. A building sewer which conveys sanitary or
industrial sewage only.
   BUILDING SEWER, STORM. A building sewer which conveys stormwater or other
clear water drainage but no sanitary or industrial sewage.
   CITY. The city acting by and through the Board.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both surface runoff and sewage.
   COMMERCIAL USER. Any establishment involved in a commercial enterprise,
business, or service which, based on a determination by the city, discharges
primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary conveniences.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH, and
fecal coliform bacteria plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES
permit if the treatment works was designed to treat such pollutants and in fact
does remove such pollutants to a substantial degree. The term SUBSTANTIAL
DEGREE is not subject to precise definition, but generally contemplates
removals in the order of 80% or greater. Minor accidental removals in the order
of 10% to 30% are not considered SUBSTANTIAL. Examples of additional pollutants
which may be considered COMPATIBLE include:
      (1)   Chemical oxygen demand;
      (2)   Total organic compound;
      (3)   Phosphorus and phosphorus compounds;
      (4)   Nitrogen and nitrogen compounds; and
      (5)   Fats, oils, and greases of animal or vegetable origin except as
prohibited where these materials would interfere with the operation of the
treatment works.
   DEBT SERVICE COSTS. The average annual principal and interest payments on
all outstanding revenue bonds or other long-term capital debt.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EXCESSIVE STRENGTH SURCHARGE. An additional charge which is billed to users
for treating sewage wastes with an average strength in excess of normal
domestic sewage.
   FECAL COLIFORM. Any number of organisms common to the intestinal tract of
man and animals whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of pollution.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state that will separate by
gravity from wastewater by treatment in a pretreatment facility approved by the
city.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes resulting from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not defined as a compatible
pollutant including non-biodegradable dissolved solids.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any manufacturing or processing facility that discharges
industrial waste to a publicly owned treatment works.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater discharges from industrial, trade, or
business processes as distinct from employee wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
   INFILTRATION. The water entering a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from the grounds through such means as, but not limited to,
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections, or manhole walls. INFILTRATION does
not include and is distinguished from inflow.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow without distinguishing the source.
   INFLOW. Water discharged into a sewer system, including building drains and
sewers, from such sources as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar, yard
and area drains, foundation drains, unpolluted cooling water discharges, drains
from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross- connections from storm
sewers and combined sewers, catch basins, stormwaters, surface runoff, street
wastewaters, or drainage. INFLOW does not include and is distinguished from
infiltration.
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the city, through its
Board, to inspect and approve the installation of building sewers and their
connection to the public sewer system.
   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Any establishment involved in a social, charitable,
religious, and/or educational function which, based on a determination by the
city, discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industry that has:
      (1)   A flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work day;
      (2)   A flow greater than 5% of the flow carried by the municipal system
receiving the waste;
      (3)   In its waste, a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under Pub. Law No. 92-500, § 307(a), being § 307(a) of the
Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a); or
      (4)   A significant impact, either singly or in combination with other
contributing industries, on treatment works or on the quality of effluent from
that treatment works.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT. A permit
issued under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System for discharge
of wastewaters to the navigable waters of the United States pursuant to Pub.
Law No. 92-500, § 402, being § 402 of the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. § 1342.
   NATURAL OUTLETS. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surface or
groundwater.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. For the purpose of determining surcharges,
wastewater or sewage having an average daily concentration as follows: BOD not
more than 200 mg/l and SS not more than 240 mg/l. As defined by origin,
wastewaters from segregated domestic and/or sanitary conveniences as distinct
from wastes from industrial processes.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE (O&M) COSTS. Includes all costs, direct and
indirect, necessary to provide adequate wastewater collection, transport, and
treatment on a continuing basis and produce discharges to receiving waters that
conform with all related federal, state, and local requirements. These costs
include replacement.
   OTHER SERVICE CHARGES. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including
any individual, firm, company, public or private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency, or other entity.
   pH. The reciprocal of the logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per liter of solution.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of industrial sewage from privately-owned
industrial sources prior to introduction into a public treatment works.
   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned by a public authority.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer which is owned and controlled by the public authority
and will consist of the following increments.
      (1)   COLLECTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewaters from individual point source discharges.
      (2)   FORCE MAIN. A pipe in which wastewater is carried under pressure.
      (3)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collector sewers to a treatment facility.
      (4)   PUMPING STATION. A station positioned in the public sewer system at
which wastewater is pumped to a higher level.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. The expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which the works
were designed and constructed.
   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment works whose premises or building
is used primarily as a residence for one or more persons including all dwelling
units and the like.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sanitary and industrial wastes and to
which storm, surface, and groundwater are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. The combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions including
polluted cooling water. The three most common types of SEWAGE are:
      (1)   COMBINED SEWAGE. Wastes including sanitary sewage, industrial
sewage, stormwater, infiltration, and inflow carried to the wastewater
treatment facilities by a combined sewer;
      (2)   INDUSTRIAL SEWAGE. A combination of liquid and water-carried wastes
which are discharged from any industrial establishment and resulting from any
trade or process carried on in that establishment. This shall include the
wastes from pretreatment facilities and from polluted cooling water; and
      (3)   SANITARY SEWAGE. The combination of liquid and water-carried wastes
discharged from toilets and other sanitary plumbing facilities.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. The structures, equipment, and processes to collect,
transport, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the effluent
and accumulated residual solids.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which, in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds, for any duration longer than
ten minutes, more than three times the average 24-hour concentration of flows
during normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection system.
   STANDARD METHODS. The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition,
at the time of analysis, of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater prepared and published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association, and the Water Pollution
Control Federation.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer for conveying water, groundwater, or unpolluted water
from any source and to which sanitary and/or industrial wastes are not
intentionally admitted.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the Sewage Works of the city or his or
her authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS). Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, sewage, or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering under standard laboratory procedure.
   TOTAL SOLIDS. The sum of suspended solids and dissolved solids.
   TOXIC AMOUNT. Concentrations of any pollutant or combination of pollutants
which, upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism, will cause adverse
effects such as cancer, genetic mutations, and physiological manifestations, as
defined in standards issued pursuant to Pub. Law No. 92-500, § 307(a), being §
307(a) of the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a).
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on the users of the wastewater treatment works
for the cost of operation and maintenance of such works pursuant to Pub. Law
No. 92-500, § 204(b), being § 204(b) of the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. § 1284.
   VOLATILE ORGANIC MATTER. The material in the sewage solids transformed to
gases or vapors when heated at 55°C for 15 to 20 minutes.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 52.01) (Ord. 1166, passed 1-2-1984; Ord. 1167, passed 1-2-1984)
§ 52.002 INSTALLATION OF FACILITIES REQUIRED.
   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation, or other purposes situated within the city and abutting
on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now located a public
sanitary or combined sewer of the city is required, at his or her own expense,
to install suitable toilet facilities thereon and to connect such facilities
directly with the proper public sewer, in accordance with this chapter, within
60 days after date of official notice to do so provided that the public sewer
is within 300 feet of the property lines.
(Prior Code, § 52.04) (Ord. 1167, passed 1-2-1984)
§ 52.003 PRIVATE SEWAGE.
   (A)   When private sewage allowed.
      (1)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under §
52.002, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private sewage
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the State Board of
Health. No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system
employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is
less than 20,000 square feet.
      (3)   At such time as a public sewer has become available to a property
served by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in §
52.002, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer, in compliance
with this chapter, within 60 days, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar
private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned, cleaned of sludge, and
filled with clean bank-run gravel or dirt.
(Prior Code, § 52.05)
   (B)   Construction permit for private sewage systems. Before commencement of
a private sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit
signed by the Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee based on current
state-approved amounts and/or as set by City Council from time to time shall be
paid to the city at the time the application is filed.
(Prior Code, § 52.06)
   (C)   General installation standards. A permit for a private sewage disposal
system shall not become effective until the installation is completed to the
satisfaction of the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 52.07)
   (D)   Inspections. The Superintendent shall be allowed to inspect work at
any stage of construction.
(Prior Code, § 52.08)
   (E)   Notice of inspection. In any event, the applicant for the permit shall
notify the Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection and
before any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made
within 24 hours of the receipt of notice by the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 52.09)
   (F)   Maintenance of system by owner. The owner shall operate and maintain
the private sewage disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times at no
expense to the city.
(Prior Code, § 52.11)
(Ord. 1167, passed 1-2-1984)
§ 52.004 PRIVIES, CESSPOOLS, AND SEPTIC TANKS.
   (A)   Except as provided in this chapter, it shall be unlawful to construct
or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Prior Code, § 52.03)
   (B)   No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any
natural outlet.
(Prior Code, § 52.10)
(Ord. 1167, passed 1-2-1984) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.005 RETENTION OF SEPTIC TANKS.
   (A)   In cases where approval has been granted by the State Board of Health,
certain septic tanks may be retained as a form of pretreatment and shall be
permitted to connect to the city sewers. In that case, such pretreatment
facility shall be maintained by the city.
   (B)   Use of septic tanks for this purpose shall be restricted to the
following conditions:
      (1)   Only to septic tanks discharging to small diameter sewers
specifically designed for that purpose;
      (2)   Only when that discharge will not adversely interfere with the
operation of the treatment facility;
      (3)   Only to residential users; and
      (4)   Only with prior permission.
(Prior Code, § 52.16) (Ord. 1167, passed 1-2-1984)
§ 52.006 DAMAGING OR TAMPERING WITH SYSTEM.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment which is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct.
(Prior Code, § 52.12) (Ord. 1167, passed 1-2-1984) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.007 BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS AND SAFETY RULES.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall make and enforce such bylaws and
regulations as may be deemed necessary for the safe, economical, and efficient
management of the city’s sewerage system, regulator chambers, pumping stations,
and sewage treatment plant; for the construction and use of house sewers and
connections to the sewerage system; and for the regulation, collection,
rebating, and refunding of all sewage rates and charges.
(Prior Code, § 52.14) (Ord. 804, passed 1-3-1958)
§ 52.008 HEALTH OFFICER REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed to interfere with
any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Health Officer.
(Prior Code, § 52.15) (Ord. 1167, passed 1-2-1984)
§ 52.009 COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER LAWS.
   All provisions of this chapter and limits set herein shall comply with any
applicable state and federal requirements now or projected to be in effect.
(Prior Code, § 52.76) (Ord. 1167, passed 1-2-1984)
PERMITS, INSPECTIONS, AND FEES
§ 52.020 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, or alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 52.30) (Ord. 1167, passed 1-2-1984) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.021 CLASS OF PERMITS.
   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
   (A)   For residential and commercial service; and
   (B)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
(Prior Code, § 52.31) (Ord. 1167, passed 1-2-1984)
§ 52.022 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   The owner or his or her agent shall make application for a building sewer
permit on a special form furnished by the city. The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 52.32) (Ord. 1167, passed 1-2-1984)
§ 52.023 INSPECTIONS GENERALLY.
   (A)   The Superintendent, the Inspector, and other duly authorized employees
of the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter upon all properties for the purpose of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, and testing in accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   The Superintendent or his or her representative shall have no
authority to inquire into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil,
refining, ceramic, paper, or other industries beyond that point having a direct
bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or
facilities for waste treatment.
   (C)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the
city shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by
the company, and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
city employees. The city shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to
its property by city employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out
of the gauging and sampling operation except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in
§
52.049.
   (D)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Prior Code, § 52.13) (Ord. 1167, passed 1-2-1984)
§ 52.024 PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEE.
   A permit and inspection fee based on current state-approved amounts and/or
as set by City Council from time to time for a residential or commercial
building sewer permit and a fee based on current state-approved amounts and/or
as set by City Council from time to time for an industrial building sewer
permit shall be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer at the time the application is
filed.
(Prior Code, § 52.33) (Ord. 1167, passed 1-2-1984)
§ 52.025 CONNECTION CHARGE.
   In the event that a sewer connection is made from any lot, parcel of real
estate, or building directly to one of the interceptors or other sewers; the
construction of which is financed by the sewage works revenue bonds, thus
precluding any assessment or charge against such lot, parcel of real estate, or
building for a local or lateral sewer; a connection charge in an amount to be
computed at a rate per front foot of property abutting the sewer based on
current state-approved amounts and/or as set by City Council from time to time
shall be levied against said lot, parcel of real estate, or building; provided,
however, the maximum charge per connection shall not exceed rates based on
current state-approved amounts and/or as set by City Council from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 52.34) (Ord. 804, passed 1-3-1958)
§ 52.026 COSTS, EXPENSES, AND LIABILITIES.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building. However, where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court yard, or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 52.36) (Ord. 1167, passed 1-2-1984)
§ 52.027 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   The Board is hereby further authorized to enter into special rate contracts
with customers of the sewage works where clearly definable costs to the sewage
works can be determined, and such special rates shall be based on such costs.
(Prior Code, § 52.77) (Ord. 1166, passed 1-2-1984)
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 52.040 SEPARATE SEWER REQUIRED.
   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the city
from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 52.35) (Ord. 1167, passed 1-2-1984)
§ 52.041 USE OF OLD SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Inspector, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 52.37) (Ord. 1167, 1-2-1984)
§ 52.042 PIPES.
   (A)   Composition. All building sewer pipes shall be of materials in
conformity with the state’s Plumbing Code (675 I.A.C. 16); provided, however,
cast iron pipes with leaded joints may be required by the Inspector where the
building sewer is exposed to damage by tree roots. If installed in filled or
unstable ground, the building sewer shall be of cast iron soil pipe except that
vitrified clay sewer pipe may be accepted if laid on a suitable concrete bed or
cradle as approved by the Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 52.38)
   (B)   Manner of laying pipes. All pipe laying shall be performed in
accordance with the state’s Plumbing Code (675 I.A.C. 16).
(Prior Code, § 52.45)
§ 52.043 SIZE, ALIGNMENT, GRADE, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Specifications. The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction
of a building sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the
pipe, jointing, testing, and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the
requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and
regulations of the city. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification
thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in the appropriate
specifications of the A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall
apply.
(Prior Code, § 52.39)
   (B)   Depth. Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor.
(Prior Code, § 52.40)
   (C)   Alignment. A building sewer shall be as straight in alignment as
possible.
(Prior Code, § 52.41)
   (D)   Grade. A building sewer shall be laid at an uniform grade insofar as
possible.
(Prior Code, § 52.42)
   (E)   Changes in direction. All changes in the direction of a building sewer
shall be made with properly curved pipes and fittings.
(Prior Code, § 52.43)
(Ord. 1167, passed 1-2-1984)
§ 52.044 OPEN TRENCH WORK REQUIRED.
   All excavations required for the installation of a building sewer shall be
open trench work unless otherwise approved by the Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 52.44)
§ 52.045 BACKFILLING; INSPECTION.
   All backfilling shall be performed in accordance with the state’s Plumbing
Code (675 I.A.C. 16) except that no backfill shall be placed until the work has
been inspected by the Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 52.46)
§ 52.046 JOINTS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Specifications.
      (1)   No person shall make connections of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building drain which, in turn, is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
      (2)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city or the procedures set forth in the
appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice
No. 9. All such connections shall be made gas-tight and watertight. Any
deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
Superintendent before installations.
(Prior Code, § 52.47)
   (B)   Location and manner of laying.
      (1)    The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
be made at the “Y” branch if such branch is available at a suitable location.
      (2)   If no properly located “Y” branch is available, the owner shall, at
his or her expense, furnish and install in the public sewer a vitrified clay
“Y” saddle at the location specified by the Inspector, into which the building
sewer shall be connected.
      (3)   The invert of the building sewer at the point of connection shall
be at the same or at a higher elevation than the invert of the public sewer.
      (4)   A smooth, neat joint shall be made, and the connection made secure
and watertight by encasement in concrete.
(Prior Code, § 52.50)
(Ord. 1167, passed 1-2-1984)
§ 52.047 NOTICE TO INSPECTOR; SUPERVISION OF CONNECTION.
   (A)   Notification. The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify
the Inspector when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to
the public sewer.
(Prior Code, § 52.48)
   (B)   Supervision. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
Inspector or his or her representative.
(Prior Code, § 52.49)
(Ord. 1167, passed 1-2-1984)
§ 52.048 EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
   (B)   All excavations which are made in connection with connecting a
building sewer to the city’s sewer system shall be made in conformity with §§
151.01 through
151.04.
(Prior Code, § 52.51) (Ord. 1167, passed 1-2-1984)
§ 52.049 CONTROL MANHOLE.
   (A)   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property served
by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the
wastes.
   (B)   Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the property owner at his or
her expense and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and
accessible at all times.
   (C)   Agents of the city, the State Water Pollution Control Board, and the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency shall be permitted to enter all properties
for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing.
(Prior Code, § 52.52) (Ord. 1167, passed 1-2-1984)
§ 52.050 ARTIFICIAL LIFTS; GRAVITY FLOW.
   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity
flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall
be lifted by an approved means and discharged to the building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 52.53) (Ord. 1167, passed 1-2-1984)
PROHIBITED DISCHARGES AND TREATMENT
§ 52.065 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit
to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within
the city or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city any human or animal
excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
      (2)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any sanitary
sewer, either directly or indirectly, stormwaters, surface water, groundwater,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water, or
unpolluted industrial process water. The city shall require the removal of
unpolluted waters from any wastewater collection or treatment facility if such
removal is cost- effective and is in the best interest of all users of those
facilities.
      (3)   Stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface
drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water, or unpolluted industrial process
water may be admitted to storm sewers which have adequate capacity for their
accommodation. No person shall use such, however, without the specific
permission of the city. No connection shall be made to any sanitary combined or
storm sewer after January 2, 1984, unless there is capacity available in all
downstream sewers, lift stations, force mains, and the sewage treatment plant
including capacity for BOD and suspended solids.
      (4)   No person shall place, deposit, or permit to be deposited in any
unsanitary manner on public or private property within the jurisdiction of the
city any wastewater or other polluted waters except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with this chapter and the NPDES permit.
      (5)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged into any
natural outlet any wastewater or other polluted waters except where suitable
treatment has been provided in accordance with this chapter and the NPDES
permit.
(Prior Code, § 52.02)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to charge or cause to be
discharged any stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface
drainage, cooling water, or unpolluted industrial process waters into any
sanitary sewer.
(Prior Code, § 52.66)
   (C)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described wastes or waters to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works or interfere with any treatment
process;
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshing, entrails, paper, dishes, cups, milk containers, and the like either
whole or ground by garbage grinders;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent, as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal, or other
public agencies of jurisdiction of such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (6)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (7)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, fuller’s earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions;
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and/or
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
slugs.
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having pH in excess of 9.5; and
      (9)   Waters or wastes constituting substances which are not amendable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plan
effluent can not meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
(Prior Code, § 52.67)
(Ord. 1167, passed 1-2-1984) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.066 ACTION WHEN IMPROPER DISCHARGES.
   (A)   If waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be discharged to
the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in §
52.065(C), and which, in the judgment of the Superintendent, may have a
deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or receiving
waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public
nuisance, the Superintendent may:
      (1)   Require new industries or industries with significant increase in
discharges to submit information on wastewater characteristics and obtain prior
approval for discharge;
      (2)   Reject the wastes, in whole or in part, for any reason that is
deemed appropriate by the city;
      (3)   Require pretreatment of such wastes to within the limits of normal
sewage;
      (4)   Require control or flow equalization of such wastes so as to avoid
any slug loads or excessive loads that may be harmful to the treatment works;
or
      (5)   Require payment of a surcharge on any excessive flows or loadings
discharged to the treatment work to cover the additional costs of having
capacity for and treating such wastes.
   (B)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plant and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.
(Prior Code, § 52.68) (Ord. 1167, passed 1-2-1984)
§ 52.067 POWER TO REQUIRE PRETREATMENT.
   The city is hereby authorized to prohibit the dumping of wastes into the
city’s sewerage system which, in its discretion, are deemed harmful to the
operation of the sewage treatment works of the city or to require methods
affecting pretreatment of said wastes to comply with the pretreatment standards
included in the National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit
issued to the sewage works.
(Prior Code, § 52.65) (Ord. 804, passed 1-2-1958; Ord. 1116, passed 6-15-1981;
Ord. 1166, passed 1-2-1984)
§ 52.068 NOTIFICATION TO CITY.
   Users of the treatment works shall immediately notify the city of any
unusual flows or wastes that are discharged accidentally or otherwise to the
sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 52.75) (Ord. 1167, passed 1-2-1984)
§ 52.069 PRETREATMENT OF INDUSTRIAL COOLING WATER.
   Industrial cooling water, which may be polluted with insoluble oils, grease,
or suspended solids, shall be pre-treated for removal of pollutants, and the
resulting clear water shall be discharged in accordance with this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 52.71) (Ord. 1167, passed 1-2-1984)
§ 52.070 USER INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   The city may require users of the treatment works, other than residential
users, to supply pertinent information on wastewater flow characteristics. Such
measurements, tests, and analysis shall be made at the user’s expense. If made
by the city, an appropriate charge may be assessed to the user at the option of
the city.
(Prior Code, § 52.72) (Ord. 1167, passed 1-2-1984)
§ 52.071 STRENGTH OF WASTEWATER ANALYZED.
   The strength of wastewaters shall be determined, for periodic establishment
of charges, provided for in Chapter 53, from samples taken at the
aforementioned structure at any period of time and of such duration and in such
manner as the city may elect or at any place mutually agreed upon between the
user and the city. Appropriate charges for sampling and analysis may be
assessed to the user at the option of the city. The results of routine sampling
and analysis by the user may also be used for determination of charges after
verification by the city.
(Prior Code, § 52.73) (Ord. 1167, passed 1-2-1984)
§ 52.072 INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors or traps shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the city, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts or any flammable wastes, sand,
and other harmful ingredients except that such interceptors or traps will not
be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors or
traps shall be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. They
shall be constructed of impervious materials capable of withstanding abrupt and
extreme changes in temperatures and shall be of substantial construction, be
gas-tight, watertight, and equipped with easily removable covers. Where
installed, all grease, oil, and sand interceptors or traps shall be maintained
by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously efficient operation at all
times.
(Prior Code, § 52.74) (Ord. 1167, passed 1-2-1984)
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Notice. Any person found to be violating any provision of this
chapter, except §
52.006, shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all such violations.
   (B)   Liability for damages. Any person violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be liable to the city for any expense, loss, or damage
occasioned by it by reason of such violation.
(Prior Code, § 52.98) (Ord. 1167, passed 1-2-1984)
CHAPTER 53: WATER AND SEWER RATES AND CHARGES
Section
Water Rates
   
53.01   Rates and charges
   
53.02   Deposit; billing; collections
   
53.03   Turn-ons and turn-offs
   
53.04   Temporary users
   
53.05   Railroads
   
53.06   Service connection charge
   
53.07   Unmetered connections
   
53.08   Testing of meters
Sewer Rates
   
53.20   Definitions
   
53.21   General provisions; classes of users
   
53.22   Bylaws and regulations
   
53.23   Sewer rates
   
53.24   Unmetered rates
   
53.25   Billing
   
53.26   Special rate contracts
   
53.27   Rate charged to city
   
53.28   Sprinkler credit
   
53.29   Determination of use
   
53.30   Strength and content of discharges
   
53.31   Measurement to determine discharges
   
53.32   Studies
   
53.33   Appeals
Cross-reference:
   Sewers, see
Chapter 52
   Stormwater billing, see §§
54.03 and
54.06
   Water, see
Chapter 51
WATER RATES
§ 53.01 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Metered user block schedule. For use of and service rendered by the
waterworks system of the city, rates based on the use of water supplied by said
waterworks system shall apply based on current state-approved amounts and/or as
set by City Council from time to time.
   (B)   Metered use minimum schedule. Each user shall pay a minimum charge
based on current state-approved amounts and/or as set by City Council from time
to time in accordance with the size of meter installed for which the user will
be entitled to a quantity of water as addressed in division (A) above.
   (C)   Temporary users. Water furnished to temporary users, such as
contractors, circuses, railroads, and the like, shall be charged on the basis
of the metered rates established in divisions (A) and (B) above as estimated
and established by the Waterworks Superintendent.
   (D)   Fire service per annum. Rates are based on current state-approved
amounts and/or as set by City Council from time to time.
   (E)   Automatic sprinkler connections per annum. Rates are based on current
state-approved amounts and/or as set by City Council from time to time.
(Ord. 16-31, passed 8-1-2016; Ord. 16-40, passed 10-3-2016; Ord. 17-102, passed
4-17-2017)
§ 53.02 DEPOSIT; BILLING; COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   All bills for water service which are not paid within 15 days from the
due date thereof, as stated in such bills, shall be subject to a collection or
deferred payment charge based on current state-approved amounts and/or as set
by City Council from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 53.16)
   (B)   All billings and collections for water services shall be made monthly.
(Prior Code, § 53.22)
   (C)   Each applicant for new water meter service shall tender a deposit to
the waterworks based on current state-approved amounts and/or as set by City
Council from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 53.23)
   (D)   Every person and/or entity whose premises are served by said
waterworks shall be liable for, responsible for, and charged for the services
and the product provided to said premises. For use and services rendered by the
city waterworks, the rates and charges shall be collected from the owners of
each and every lot, parcel of real estate, or building that is connected with
the city waterworks system. Such rates and charges include user charges, debt
service costs, and shall be generally based on the quantity of water used on or
in the property or in the premises subject to such rates and charges.
(Ord. 882, passed 5-4-1967; Ord. 1115, passed 6-15-1981; Ord. 1541, passed 3-
16-2009)
§ 53.03 TURN-ONS AND TURN-OFFS.
   There shall be a charge for interruption of water service and reconnection
of that service following its connection for reason of nonpayment for each
interruption or renewal in an amount based on current state-approved amounts
and/or as set by City Council from time to time. If a meter is turned off for
nonpayment of a water bill, the water service shall not be restored until the
bill and any delinquency penalty are paid in full.
(Prior Code, § 53.17) (Ord. 882, passed 5-4-1967; Ord. 1115, passed 6-15-1981)
§ 53.04 TEMPORARY USERS.
   The charges for water furnished to temporary users, such as contractors,
shall be charged on the basis of the gallonage rates in §
53.01 as estimated by the Water Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 53.18) (Ord. 882, passed 5-4-1967)
§ 53.05 RAILROADS.
   The charges for water supplied for railroad use may be charged on such terms
as shall be fixed by specific contract approved by the Common Council and the
State Utility Regulatory Commission.
(Prior Code, § 53.19) (Ord. 882, passed 5-4-1967)
§ 53.06 SERVICE CONNECTION CHARGE.
   Each applicant for new water service shall pay a water meter service
connection charge based on current state-approved amounts and/or as set by City
Council from time to time if it is necessary to cross a street with the water
pipes in order to make a connection and a fee based on current state-approved
amounts and/or as set by City Council from time to time if it is not necessary
to cross a street with the water pipes in order to make a connection.
(Prior Code, § 53.20)
§ 53.07 UNMETERED CONNECTIONS.
   An unmetered water tap connection shall be made only for fire protection
purposes and to buildings owned by the city.
(Prior Code, § 53.21)
§ 53.08 TESTING OF METERS.
   A customer may request the testing of a water meter to determine if it is
defective. The customer shall tender a deposit, based on current state-approved
amounts and/or as set by City Council from time to time, which shall be
refunded only if the test reveals that the meter is defective.
(Prior Code, § 53.24) (Ord. 1115, passed 6-15-1981)
SEWER RATES
§ 53.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The Board of Public Works and Safety of the city or any duly
authorized officials acting in its behalf.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). Defined in the §
52.001.
   CITY. The City of Alexandria, Indiana, acting by and through the Board of
Public Works and Safety.
   DEBT SERVICE COSTS. The average annual principal and interest payments on
all proposed revenue bonds or other long-term capital debt.
   EXCESSIVE STRENGTH SURCHARGE. An additional charge which is billed to users
for treating sewage wastes with an average strength in excess of normal
domestic sewage.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater discharges from industrial, trade, or
business processes as distinct from employee wastes or wastes from sanitary
convenience.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT. Defined in §
52.001.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. As defined by origin, wastewaters from segregated
domestic and/or sanitary convenience as distinct from wastes from industrial
processes. For the purpose of determining surcharges, wastewater or sewage
having an average daily concentration as follows:
      (1)   BOD not more than 200 mg/l; and
      (2)   SS not more than 240 mg/l.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. Include all costs, direct and indirect,
necessary to provide adequate wastewater collection, transport, and treatment
on a continuing basis and produce discharges to receiving waters that conform
with all related federal, state, and local requirements. These costs include
replacement.
   OTHER SERVICE CHARGES. Tap charges, connection charges, area charges, and
other identifiable charges other than user charges, debt service charges, and
excessive strength surcharges.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, public or private corporation, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency, or other entity.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. The expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS). Defined in the §
52.001.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SEWAGE. Defined in the §
52.001.
   SEWER USE ORDINANCE. A separate ordinance, which regulates the connection to
and use of public and private sewers.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of the wastewater treatment works for
the cost of operation and maintenance of such works pursuant to Pub. Law No.
92-500, § 204(b), being § 402(b) of the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. § 1342(b).
   USER CLASS. The division of wastewater treatment customers by source,
function, waste characteristics, and process or discharge similarities such as,
for example, residential, commercial, industrial, institutional, and
governmental in the user charge system.
      (1)   USER, COMMERCIAL. Any establishment involved in a commercial
enterprise, business, or service which, based on a determination by the city,
discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
      (2)   USER, GOVERNMENTAL. Any federal, state, or local governmental user
of the wastewater treatment works.
      (3)   USER, INDUSTRIAL. Any manufacturing or processing facility that
discharges industrial waste to a publicly owned treatment works.
      (4)   USER, INSTITUTIONAL. Any establishment involved in a social,
charitable, religious, and/or educational function which, based on a
determination by the city, discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or
wastes from sanitary conveniences.
      (5)   USER, RESIDENTIAL. A user of the treatment works whose premises or
building is used primarily as a residence for one or more persons including all
dwelling units and the like.
(Ord. 1524, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 53.21 GENERAL PROVISIONS; CLASSES OF USERS.
   (A)   Every person whose premises are served by said sewage works shall be
charged for the services provided. These charges are established for each user
class, as defined, in order that the sewage works shall recover, from each user
and user class, revenue which is proportional to its use of the treatment works
in terms of volume and load. User charges are levied to defray the cost of
operation and maintenance, including replacement, of the treatment works. User
charges shall be uniform in magnitude within a user class.
   (B)   User charges are subject to the rules and regulations adopted by the
United States Environmental Protection Agency, published in C.F.R. Title 40.
Replacement costs, which are recovered through the system of user charges,
shall be based upon the expected useful life of the sewage works equipment.
   (C)   The various classes of users of the treatment works, for the purposes
of this subchapter, shall be as follows:
      (1)   Residential;
      (2)   Commercial;
      (3)   Governmental;
      (4)   Institutional; and
      (5)   Industrial.
(Ord. 1524, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 53.22 BYLAWS AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The city shall make and enforce such bylaws and regulations as may be
deemed necessary for the safe, economical, and efficient management of the
city’s sewerage system, pumping stations, and sewage treatment works; for the
construction and use of house sewers and connections to the sewerage treatment
works; for the construction and use of house sewers and connection to the
sewerage system; and for the regulation, collection, rebating, and refunding of
such rates and charges. No free service shall be provided to any user of the
water treatment facility.
   (B)   The city is hereby authorized to prohibit dumping of wastes into the
city’s sewerage system which, in its discretion, are deemed harmful to the
operation of the sewage treatment works of the city or to require methods
affecting pretreatment of said wastes to comply with the pretreatment standards
included in the National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit
issued to the sewage works.
(Ord. 1524, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 53.23 SEWER RATES.
   (A)   For the use of and the services rendered by sewage works, rates and
charges shall be collected from the owners of each and every lot, parcel of
real estate, or building that is connected with the city sanitary system or
otherwise discharges sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water, or other
liquids either directly or indirectly into the sanitary sewage system of the
city. Such rates and charges include user charges, debt service costs,
excessive strength surcharges, and other service charges, which rates and
charges shall be payable as hereinafter provided and shall be in an amount
determinable as follows.
   (B)   The sewage rates and charges shall be based on the quality of water
used on or in the property or premises, subject to such rates and charges as
the same is measured by the water meter there in use, plus a base charge based
on the size of the water meter installed except as herein otherwise provided.
The foregoing rates shall be subject to a minimum charge based upon 3,000
gallons usage per month. For the purpose of billing and collecting the charges
for sewage service, the water meters shall be read monthly, and users shall be
billed monthly or periodically equaling a month. The water usage schedule on
which the amount of said rates and charges shall be determined as follows:
      (1)   All users. All user charges shall be as prescribed below.
         (a)   The Treatment rate per 1,000 gallons of usage per month is based
on current state-approved amounts and/or as set by City Council from time to
time.
         (b)   In addition to such charge in division (B)(1)(a) above, a base
rate shall be added based on current state-approved amounts and/or as set by
City Council from time to time.
      (2)   Minimum charge. The minimum charge of 3,000 gallons of usage per
month shall be applied to the treatment rate plus the appropriate base rate
depending on meter size.
(Ord. 16-32, passed 8-1-2016)
§ 53.24 UNMETERED RATES.
   (A)   For users of the sewage works that are unmetered water users or
accurate meter readings are not available, the monthly charge shall be
determined as an average of single-family dwelling units except as herein
provided. Sewage service bills shall be rendered once each month or
periodically equaling a month. The schedule on which said rates and charges
shall be determined is based on current state-approved amounts and/or as set by
City Council from time to time.
   (B)   No free service shall be provided to any user of the water treated
facility. For service rendered to the city, said city shall be subject to the
same rates and charges hereinabove provided or to rates and charges established
in harmony therewith.
   (C)   In order to recover the cost of monitoring industrial wastes, the city
shall charge the user the actual cost of monitoring. The charge will be
reviewed on the same basis as all other rates and charges.
(Ord. 16-32, passed 8-1-2016)
§ 53.25 BILLING.
   (A)   Such rates and charges shall be prepared, billed, and collected by the
city in the manner provided by law and ordinance.
   (B)   The rates and charges for all users shall be prepared and billed
monthly.
   (C)   The rates and charges may be billed to the tenant or tenants occupying
the properties served unless otherwise requested in writing by the owner, but
such billing shall in no way relieve the owner from liability in the event
payment is not made as herein required. The owners of properties served, which
are occupied by a tenant or tenants, who have not requested in writing that the
rate and charges be billed to such owner shall have the right to examine the
records related to the billing and collection of the rates and charges imposed
on such tenant or tenants provided that such examination shall be made at the
office at which said records are kept and during the hours that such office is
opened for business.
   (D)   As provided by statute, all rates and charges not paid when due are
hereby declared to be delinquent and a penalty of 10% of the amount of the
rates or charges shall thereupon attach thereto. The time at which such rates
of charges shall be paid is now fixed at 15 days after the date of mailing of
the bill.
   (E)   The sewage works shall notify all users at least annually, in
conjunction with a regular bill, of the operation, maintenance, and replacement
cost portion of their bill.
(Ord. 1524, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 53.26 SPECIAL RATE CONTRACTS.
   The Board is hereby further authorized to enter into special rate contracts
with customers of the sewage works where clearly definable cost to the sewage
works can be determined, and such special rates shall be based on such costs.
(Ord. 1524, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 53.27 RATE CHARGED TO CITY.
   For the service rendered to the city, the city shall be subject to the same
rates and charges hereinabove provided or to charges and rates established in
harmony therewith.
(Prior Code, § 53.34) (Ord. 804, passed 1-3-1958; Ord. 1116, passed 6-15-1981;
Ord. 1166, passed 1-2-1984)
§ 53.28 SPRINKLER CREDIT.
   (A)   There is provided a sprinkler credit for each patron of the sewage
system of the city, upon request.
   (B)   The sprinkler credit will be determined by taking the average number
of water units used in the months of March and April of each year for
establishing the rate for the sewer bills for the months of July, August, and
September of each year.
   (C)   In order to receive the sprinkler credit each year, the patron must
make application on a form provided by the Clerk-Treasurer each year.
(Prior Code, § 53.01) (Ord. 1224, passed 6-20-1988)
§ 53.29 DETERMINATION OF USE.
   (A)   The quantity of water discharged into the sanitary sewerage system and
obtained from sources other than the utility that serves the city shall be
determined by the city in such manner as the city shall reasonably elect, and
the sewage service shall be billed at the above appropriate rates; except, as
is hereinafter provided, the city may make proper allowances in determining the
sewage bill for quantities of water shown on the records to be consumed but
which are also shown to the satisfaction of the city that such quantities do
not enter the sanitary sewerage system.
   (B)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate, or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water, or other liquids into the city’s
sanitary sewerage system, either directly or indirectly, is not a user of water
supplied by the water utility serving the city and the water used thereon or
therein is not measured by a water meter or is measured by a water not
acceptable to the city, the amount of water used shall be otherwise measured or
determined by the city. In order to ascertain the rate or charge provided in
this subchapter, the owner or other interested party shall, at the owner’s
expense, use metric measuring devices or any adequate and approved method of
measurement acceptable to the city for the determining of sewage discharge.
   (C)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate, or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water, or other liquids into the city’s
sanitary sewerage system, either directly or indirectly, is a user of water
supplied by the water utility serving the city and, in addition, is a user of
water from another source which is not measured by a water meter or is measured
by a meter not acceptable to the city, the amount of water used shall be
otherwise measured or determined by the city. In order to ascertain the rates
or charges, the owner or other interested parties shall, at his or her expense,
install and maintain meters, wires, volumetric measuring devices, or any
adequate and approved method of measurement acceptable to the city for the
determination of sewage discharge.
   (D)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate, or building discharges
sanitary sewage, industrial waste, water, or other liquids into the city’s
sanitary sewerage system, either directly or indirectly, and uses water in
excess of 10,000 gallons per month and it can be shown to the satisfaction of
the city that a portion of water, as measured by the water meter or meters,
does not and cannot enter the sanitary sewage system, the owner or other
interested party shall, at his or her expense, install and maintain meters,
wires, volumetric measuring devices, or any adequate and approved method of
measurement acceptable to the city for the determination of sewage discharge.
   (E)   Where a metered water supply is used for fire protection, as well as
for other uses, the city may, in its discretion, make adjustments in the user
charge as may be equitable.
(Ord. 1524, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 53.30 STRENGTH AND CONTENT OF DISCHARGES.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges may be justly and equitably
adjusted to the service rendered to users, the city shall base its charges not
only on the volume but also on strength and character of the stronger-than-
normal domestic sewage and shall require the user to determine the strength and
content of all sewage and wastes discharged, either directly or indirectly,
into the sanitary sewage system in such manner and by such method as the city
may deem practicable, in light of the conditions and attending circumstances of
the case, in order to determine the proper charge. The user shall furnish a
central sampling point available to the city at all times.
   (B)   Normal sewage domestic waste strength should not exceed a biochemical
oxygen demand of 200 milligrams per liter of fluid or suspended solids in
excess of 240 milligrams per liter of fluid. Additional charges for treatment
stronger-than-normal domestic waste shall be made on the following basis.
      (1)   Rate surcharge based upon suspended solids. There shall be an
additional charge per pound of suspended solids based on current state-approved
amounts and/or as set by City Council from time to time for suspended solids
received in excess of 240 milligrams per liter of fluid.
      (2)   Rate surcharge based upon BOD. There shall be an additional charge
per pound of biochemical oxygen demand based on current state-approved amounts
and/or as set by City Council from time to time for BOD received in excess of
200 milligrams per liter of fluid.
   (C)   The determination of suspended solids and five-day biochemical oxygen
demand contained in the waste shall be in accordance with the latest copy of
Standard Methods for the Examination of Water, Sewage, and Industrial Wastes,
as written by the American Public Health Association, the American Water Works
Association, and the Water Pollution Control Federation, and in conformance
with Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis of Pollutants, 40
C.F.R. part 136, published in the Federal Register on October 16, 1973.
(Ord. 1524, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 53.31 MEASUREMENT TO DETERMINE DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Such rates and charges shall be prepared, billed, and collected by the
city in the manner provided by law and ordinance.
   (B)   The rates and charges for all users shall be prepared and billed
monthly.
   (C)   At the end of each year, each user shall be given a notice of the
rates charged for operation, maintenance, and replacement for that user for the
next year.
(Prior Code, § 53.41) (Ord. 804, passed 1-3-1958; Ord. 1116, passed 6-15-1981;
Ord. 1166, passed 1-2-1984)
§ 53.32 STUDIES.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges for sewage services may remain
fair and equitable and be in proportion to the cost of providing services to
the various uses of user classes, the city shall cause a study to be made
within a reasonable period of time following the first two years of operation
on the date after this section takes effect. Such study shall include, but not
be limited to, an analysis of the costs associated with the treatment of
excessive strength effluents from industrial users, volume and delivery flow
rate characteristics attributed to the various users or user classes, and the
financial position of the sewage works and the adequacy of its revenue to
provide reasonable funds for the operation and maintenance, replacements, debt
service requirements, and capital improvements to the waste treatment systems.
   (B)   Thereafter, on a biennial basis, within a reasonable period of time
following the normal accounting period, the city shall cause a study to be made
for the purpose of reviewing the sufficiency of the revenues to properly
operate the wastewater treatment facility and all appurtenances attached
thereto and for maintaining proportionality among the user classes of the rates
and charges for sewerage services.
   (C)   Said studies shall be conducted by officers or employees of the city
or by a firm of certified public accountants or a firm of consulting engineers,
which firms shall have experience in such studies, or by such combination of
officers, employees, certified public accountants, or engineers as the city
shall determine to be best under the circumstances.
(Ord. 1524, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 53.33 APPEALS.
   The rules and regulations promulgated by the city, after approval from the
Board of Public Works and Safety, shall, among other things, provide for an
appeal procedure whereby a user shall have the right to appeal a decision of
the administrator of the user charge to the Board of Public Works and Safety
and that any decision concerning user charges of the Board of Public Works and
Safety may be appealed to the Circuit Court of the county under the appeal
procedures provided for in the state’s Administrative Adjudication law found at
I.C. Title 4, Articles 21.5 and 22, being I.C. §§ 4-21.5-1-1 through 4-21.5-7-
9 and 4-22-2-0.1 through 4-22-10-5.
(Ord. 1524, passed 3-3-2008)
CHAPTER 54: STORMWATER UTILITIES
Section
   
54.01   Establishment and effective date
   
54.02   Definitions
   
54.03   Funding
   
54.04   Use of stormwater utilities
   
54.05   Access to facilities
   
54.06   Billing and collection
   
54.07   Appeal
   
54.08   Inconsistent ordinances; right to amend
Stormwater Management
   
54.20   General information
   
54.21   Prohibited discharges and connections
   
54.22   Stormwater quantity management
   
54.23   Stormwater pollution prevention for construction sites
   
54.24   Stormwater quality management for post-construction
   
54.25   Permit requirements and procedures
   
54.26   Compliance and enforcement
   
54.27   Stormwater Technical Standards Manual adopted by reference
 
   
54.99   Penalty
§ 54.01 ESTABLISHMENT AND EFFECTIVE DATE.
   Effective July 20, 2018, a stormwater drainage utility for the city is
hereby established. The municipal stormwater system shall be operated as a
public utility pursuant to the state’s code and from which revenues will derive
subject to the provisions of this chapter and state statutes. The stormwater
utility will be a part of the City Public Works Department and under direction
of the Stormwater Superintendent.
(Ord. CC-O-2018-001, passed 6-18-2018)
§ 54.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Further
definitions or explanations may be found in the Stormwater Utility Policy
Manual. Any discrepancies between the definitions herein and the definitions
stated in the Stormwater Utility Policy Manual shall be heard by the City Board
of Public Works and Safety or the then-designated Board.
   CREDIT. A reduction in the stormwater user fee for a utility rate payer,
based on attainment of criteria specified in this chapter and under the
Stormwater Utility Policy and Procedures Manual as amended from time to time.
   EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT (ERU). The average amount of impervious surface
area for a single-family residential property located within the corporate
limits of the city. The ERU for the city is 2,750 square feet and shall be used
in calculating user fees for non-residential properties.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE AREA (ISA). The horizontal surface area of property
covered with materials that include, but are not limited to, concrete, asphalt,
rooftop, blacktop, and compacted gravel such that the infiltration of
stormwater is prevented or impeded. The total amount of ISA located on a
property without regard to topographic features of the property is included.
Driveways, roadways, parking lots, and other areas used for vehicular traffic
are considered ISA. Undisturbed land, tilled agricultural land, ponds, lawns,
and fields are not considered ISA for ISA calculations.
   INFILTRATION. Passage or movement of water into the soil.
   MULTI-FAMILY PROPERTY. A lot or parcel on which a building is situated
containing two to four residential units shall be billed as a single ERU, and
bills shall be sent to the owner of the property. A multi-family property
containing five or more units shall be classified and billed as non-residential
property.
   MULTI-UNIT PROPERTIES. Include, but are not limited to, commercial plazas,
strip malls, apartment buildings, medical complexes, and commercial office
buildings.
   MULTI-UNIT PROPERTY. A non-residential property that contains more than one
unit within the same parcel.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES. Include, but are not limited to, agricultural
property; businesses and commercial property; churches and other places of
religious affiliation; community centers; federal, state, and local government
property; home-based business properties which require an improvement location
permit; hospitals and medical centers; industrial property; multi-family
properties which contain five or more units; mobile home parks; retirement
centers; schools and colleges; and common areas of residential developments
including, but not limited to, private streets, parking lots, recreational
areas, office areas, maintenance areas, and all other areas not occupied by
residential units.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. All properties not categorized as residential
properties or combined residential/business properties.
   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. A lot or parcel on which a building or mobile home is
or may be situated in which a single family resides including home occupations
properties allowed without a permit as defined in § 155.05. A multi-family
property consisting of four or fewer residential units in a single building
shall also qualify as a single RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. Unimproved property that
is not contiguous to another lot or parcel that both shares the same ownership
and pays a user fee shall also qualify as a single RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. A lot
or parcel need not contain any improvement to be considered a RESIDENTIAL
PROPERTY for purposes of this chapter.
   STORMWATER USER. The owner/renter of a lot or parcel of residential property
or nonresidential property within the city’s corporate limits. USER shall be
the then-current property owner as described by the County Property Records.
   STORMWATER UTILITY. All facilities and conveyances subject to the control of
and/or under the ownership of the city used for collecting and conveying
stormwater to, through, and from drainage areas to the point of final outlet
including, but not limited to, inlets, conduits, appurtenant features, pipes,
pumping stations, manholes, structures, channels, outlets, creeks, catch
basins, ditches, legal county drains, streams, culverts, retention or detention
basins, and other structural components and equipment that transport, move, or
regulate stormwater. The system includes public streets, roads, alleyways, and
highways. STORMWATER UTILITY may also extend to include the Stormwater
Superintendent and employees of the city stormwater utility.
   USER. The owner of record according to the Madison County records.
(Ord. CC-O-2018-001, passed 6-18-2018)
§ 54.03 FUNDING.
   (A)   Stormwater service charges. All owners of real property in the city
shall be charged for the use of the city’s stormwater system based on the
amount of stormwater and rate of flow of stormwater which is determined to be
entering the stormwater system from the average residential property in the
city. The impact of the stormwater from the property on the system shall be
determined on the basis of the flat rates or the measurements contained in this
chapter.
   (B)   Stormwater user fee determination.
      (1)   The monthly stormwater utility user fee is uniform for all
residential properties assigned one ERU. The user fee for one ERU shall be
based on current state-approved amounts and/or as set by City Council from time
to time. This user fee may be changed annually or from time to time by the
Common Council by ordinance in compliance with applicable law.
      (2)   The monthly stormwater utility user fee for a nonresidential
property or a multi- family property with five or more units, defined as
nonresidential, are determined by measuring the actual impervious surface of
the property and dividing it by one ERU base rate or 2,750 square feet. No
single property shall exceed 60 ERUs. This method allows for the nonresidential
property user fees to be based upon the amount of impervious surface area
within the property as compared to the amount of impervious surface area of the
average residential property. For example, a nonresidential property with
30,000 square feet of impervious surface shall have a user fee of 10.9 times
the base rate. The ERU multiplier shall be rounded to one decimal place and the
minimum ERU shall be one. The ERU multiplier is then multiplied by the current
fee for one ERU in order to determine the actual user fee in dollars.
      (3)   Impervious surface areas shall be measured in the field or based on
aerial footprint of impervious surfaces. Angled rooftops shall be measured as
if they were flat. All impervious surfaces within the parcel boundaries of a
property shall be measured with the exception of those surfaces located within
a road right-of-way. For multi-unit properties, all units within a single
parcel and all impervious surfaces, such as parking lots and walkways, shall be
measured and billed to the property owner. For multi-level or multi-story
structures containing more than one level, the footprint of the building and
other impervious surfaces shall be measured and billed to the property owner.
      (4)   A reduction in the stormwater user fee, or credit, based on
specific qualifying conditions may be available to utility rate payers. Utility
rate payers must successfully complete any application process required by the
Board of Public Works and Safety to demonstrate compliance with this section.
Credit requirements and procedures shall be established by the Board of Public
Works and Safety or subsequently established Stormwater Utility Board. Upon
written notice, the Stormwater Utility Board may revoke a credit for good
reason including failure to meet credit conditions.
(Ord. CC-O-2018-001, passed 6-18-2018)
§ 54.04 USE OF STORMWATER UTILITIES.
   (A)   Discharge prohibitions. No person shall place or cause to be placed
any substance into the stormwater system other than stormwater except as
described in this chapter or amendments thereto or to Ordinance No. 1495. No
person shall discharge or cause to be discharged into the Stormwater Utility or
watercourses any materials including, but not limited to, pollutants or waters
containing any pollutants that cause or contribute to a violation of applicable
water quality standards other than stormwater.
   (B)   Exemptions. The following discharges are exempt from discharge
prohibitions established by this chapter:
      (1)   Water line flushing or other potable water sources, landscape
irrigation or lawn watering, diverted stream flows, rising groundwater,
groundwater infiltration to storm drains, uncontaminated pumped groundwater,
foundation or footing drains (not including active groundwater de-watering
systems), crawl space pumps, sump pumps, air conditioning condensation,
springs, non-commercial washing of vehicles, natural riparian habitat or
wetland flows, swimming pools (if de- chlorinated and typically less than one
PPM -9 11-15-2011 Appendix H-l chlorine), firefighting activities, and any
other water source not containing pollutants;
      (2)   Discharges specified in writing by the authorized enforcement
agency as being necessary to protect public health and safety;
      (3)   Dye testing, but such discharge requires a verbal notification to
the authorized enforcement agency prior to the time of the test; and
      (4)   Any non-stormwater discharge permitted under an NPDES permit,
waiver, or waste discharge order issued to the discharger and administered
under the authority of the Federal Environmental Protection Agency provided
that the discharger is in full compliance with all requirements of the permit,
waiver, or order and other applicable laws and regulations and provided that
written approval has been granted for any discharge to the storm drainage
system.
   (C)   Prohibition of illicit connections. The construction, use,
maintenance, or continued existence of illicit connections to the storm
drainage system is prohibited. This prohibition expressly includes, without
limitation, illicit connections made in the past regardless of whether the
connection was permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at
the time of connection.
(Ord. CC-O-2018-001, passed 6-18-2018)
§ 54.05 ACCESS TO FACILITIES.
   (A)   The City Stormwater Utility Superintendent or employees shall be
permitted to enter and inspect the premises of a permit holder subject to
regulation under Ordinance No. 1495 and its amendments as often as may be
necessary to determine compliance with this chapter. The entirety of Ordinance
No. 1495 is incorporated by reference as though restated herein. If any
provision of this chapter shall conflict with Ordinance No. 1495, then, with
respect to engineering practices, policies, procedures, and discharge,
Ordinance No. 1495 shall prevail. If a discharger has security measures in
force which require proper identification and clearance before entry into its
premises, the discharger shall make the necessary arrangements to allow access
to representatives of the authorized enforcement agency.
   (B)   Facility operators shall allow the City Stormwater Utility or its
employees ready access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of
inspection, sampling, examination, and copying of records that must be kept
under the conditions of an NPDES permit to discharge stormwater and the
performance of any additional duties as defined by state and federal law.
   (C)   The City Stormwater Utility shall have the right to install and
maintain on any permitted facility such devices as are necessary, in the
opinion of the authorized enforcement agency, to conduct monitoring and/or
sampling of the facility’s stormwater discharge.
   (D)   The City Stormwater Utility may require the discharger to install
monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility’s sampling and monitoring
equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating
condition by the discharger at its own expense. All devices used to measure
stormwater flow and quality shall be calibrated to ensure their accuracy.
   (E)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the
facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
operator at the written or oral request of the City Stormwater Utility and
shall not be replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the
operator.
   (F)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the City Stormwater Utility access to
a permitted facility is a violation of a stormwater discharge permit and of
Ordinance No. 1495. A person who is the operator of a facility with an NPDES
permit who discharges stormwater associated with industrial activity is deemed
to be committing an offense if the person denies the authorized enforcement
agency reasonable access to the permitted facility for the purpose of
conducting any activity authorized or required by this chapter.
   (G)   If the City Stormwater Utility has been refused access to any part of
the premises from which stormwater is discharged and he or she is able to
demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this
chapter or Ordinance No. 1495 or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample
as part of a routine inspection and sampling program designed to verify
compliance with this chapter or any order issued hereunder or to protect the
overall public health, safety, and welfare of the community, then the
authorized enforcement agency may seek issuance of a search warrant from any
court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. CC-O-2018-001, passed 6-18-2018)
§ 54.06 BILLING AND COLLECTION.
   (A)   Charges for stormwater service shall be billed by and through the city
utilities office on the monthly utility bill and payable by the property owner.
   (B)   The billing and collection procedures for charges for stormwater
service shall be the same as specified for metered and nonresidential or non-
metered users as listed and updated from time to time at the city utility
office.
   (C)   Any unpaid stormwater service charges delinquent for more than 30 days
shall become a lien on the property. Charges which remain unpaid for a period
of six months shall be collected by action against the property owner.
   (D)   All funds collected for stormwater service shall be placed in a
separate account and shall be used solely for the construction, operation, and
maintenance of the stormwater system.
(Ord. CC-O-2018-001, passed 6-18-2018)
§ 54.07 APPEAL.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works and Safety or subsequently established
Stormwater Utility Board shall be the hearing and enforcement authority for
appeals concerning ERU determinations, stormwater credits, engineering and
construction practices, and billing issues.
   (B)   A user, resident, or property owner under this chapter shall file an
appeal with the City Clerk-Treasurer who shall forward the appeal to the
Stormwater Utility Board. The Stormwater Utility Board must then review and
inspect the appeal and give opportunity for public hearing within 30 days of
filing the appeal. A form of notice of appeal and description of appeal is on
file with the office of the Clerk-Treasurer. Any appeal that is not heard
within 30 days is deemed denied.
(Ord. CC-O-2018-001, passed 6-18-2018)
§ 54.08 INCONSISTENT ORDINANCES; RIGHT TO AMEND.
   (A)   Inconsistent ordinances repealed. All prior ordinances or parts
thereof inconsistent with any provision of this chapter are hereby repealed.
This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage,
approval by the Mayor, and publication, as provided by law.
   (B)   Right to amend. The city together with the Stormwater Utility Board
may promulgate additional regulations or amendments to this chapter for the
operation, management, and maintenance of the stormwater system and for
connections to that system from time to time with approval from the Common
Council.
(Ord. CC-O-2018-001, passed 6-18-2018)
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
§ 54.20 GENERAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Authority and title.
      (1)   This subchapter is adopted in accordance with statutory authority
granted to the city under "Home Rule" and further is required by Phase II of
the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System Stormwater program (40 CFR
Parts 9, 122, 123, and 124; December 8, 1999) authorized by the 1987 amendments
to the Clean Water Act, the Indiana Department of Environmental Management's
(IDEM) Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System (MS4) General Permit (MS4 GP), and
the Indiana Department of Environmental Management's Construction Stormwater
General Permit (CSGP). Based on this authority and these requirements, this
subchapter regulates:
         (a)   Discharges of prohibited non-stormwater flows into the storm
drain system;
         (b)   Stormwater drainage improvements related to development of lands
located within the corporate boundaries of the city;
         (c)   Drainage control systems installed during new construction and
grading of lots and other parcels of land;
         (d)   Stormwater, including stormwater runoff, snowmelt runoff, and
surface runoff and drainage, associated with construction activity;
         (e)   Stormwater discharges from construction support activities
directly related to construction sites subject to this subchapter;
         (f)   Erosion and sediment control systems installed during new
construction and grading of lots and other parcels of land;
         (g)   The design, construction, and maintenance of stormwater drainage
facilities and systems;
         (h)   The design, construction, and maintenance of stormwater quality
facilities and systems;
         (i)   The design, construction, and maintenance of new dams;
         (j)   The development downstream of existing dams; and
         (k)   Development within floodplains, floodways, fluvial erosion
hazard corridors, and bluff zones.
      (2)   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the City of
Alexandria Stormwater Management Ordinance. Once adopted, this subchapter will
supersede any conflicting ordinances previously adopted by the city.
   (B)   Applicability and exemptions.
      (1)   This subchapter shall regulate all development and redevelopment
occurring within the city. No building permit shall be issued and no land
disturbance started for any construction in a development, as defined in
division (I), until the plans required by this subchapter for such construction
have been accepted in writing by the city. With the exception of the
requirements of §§
54.21 and
54.25(D), single-family dwelling houses and duplexes in accepted subdivisions,
and land-disturbing activities affecting less than 10,000 square feet of area
shall be exempt from the requirements of this subchapter. Also exempt from this
subchapter shall be agricultural land-disturbing activities.
      (2)   In addition to the requirements of this subchapter and its
companion Stormwater Technical Standards Manual, compliance with all applicable
ordinances of the city as well as with applicable federal, State of Indiana,
and other local statues and regulations shall also be required. Unless
otherwise stated, all other specifications referred to in this subchapter shall
be the most recent edition available. The city capital improvement projects
shall be exempt from obtaining a permit, but are expected to meet all
applicable technical requirements of this subchapter and the city’s Stormwater
Technical Standards Manual. If the project site is located within a Madison
County regulated drain watershed, the applicant will need to check with the
Madison County Surveyor's Office to learn if additional Surveyor's Office
requirements specific to that regulated drain would apply to the site. In case
there are conflicts between the requirements contained in this subchapter and
applicable requirements contained in other regulatory documents referenced
above, the most restrictive shall prevail.
      (3)   Any construction project which has had its final drainage plan
accepted by the city within a two-year period prior to the effective date of
this subchapter shall be exempt from all requirements of this subchapter that
are in excess of the requirements of ordinances in effect at the time of
acceptance. Such an exemption is not applicable to the requirements detailed in
§
54.21.
      (4)   The city has the authority to modify, grant exemptions, and/or
waive any and all the requirements of this subchapter and its associated
technical standards document. A pre-submittal meeting with the city may be
requested by the applicant to discuss the applicability of various provisions
of the subchapter and its associated technical standards document with regards
to unique or unusual circumstances relating to a project. However, any initial
determination of such applicability shall not be binding on future
determinations of the city that may be based on the review of more detailed
information and plans.
   (C)   Findings. The city finds that:
      (1)   Water bodies, roadways, structures, and other property within the
city or its planning jurisdiction boundary are at times subjected to flooding;
      (2)   Flooding is a danger to the lives and property of the public and is
also a danger to the natural resources of the region;
      (3)   Land development alters the hydrologic response of watersheds,
resulting in increased stormwater runoff rates and volumes, increased flooding,
increased stream channel erosion, and increased sediment transport and
deposition;
      (4)   Soil erosion resulting from land-disturbing activities causes a
significant amount of sediment and other pollutants to be transported off-site
and deposited in ditches, streams, wetlands, lakes, and reservoirs;
      (5)   Increased stormwater runoff rates and volumes, and the sediments
and pollutants associated with stormwater runoff from future development
projects within the city will, absent reasonable regulation and control,
adversely affect the city’s water bodies and water resources;
      (6)   Pollutant contributions from illicit discharges within the city
will, absent reasonable regulation, monitoring, and enforcement, adversely
affect the city’s water bodies and water resources;
      (7)   Stormwater runoff, soil erosion, non-point source pollution, and
illicit sources of pollution can be controlled and minimized by the regulation
of stormwater management;
      (8)   Adopting the standards, criteria, and procedures contained and
referenced in this subchapter and implementing the same will address many of
the deleterious effects of stormwater runoff and illicit discharges; and
      (9)   Adopting this subchapter is necessary for the preservation of the
public health, safety. and welfare, for the conservation of natural resources,
and for compliance with state and federal regulations.
   (D)   Purpose. The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for the health,
safety, and general welfare of the citizens of the city through the regulation
of stormwater and non-stormwater discharges to the storm drainage system and to
protect, conserve and promote the orderly development of land and water
resources within the city. This chapter establishes methods for managing the
quantity and quality of stormwater entering into the storm drain system. The
objectives of this subchapter are:
      (1)   To reduce the hazard to public health and safety caused by
excessive stormwater runoff;
      (2)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the storm drain
system from construction site runoff;
      (3)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the storm drain
system from runoff from new development and re-development;
      (4)   To prohibit illicit discharges into the storm drain system; and
      (5)   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection,
monitoring, and enforcement procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this
subchapter.
   (E)   Responsibility for administration. The city shall administer,
implement, and enforce the provisions of this subchapter. Any powers granted or
duties imposed upon the authorized enforcement agency may be delegated in
writing by the city to qualified persons or entities acting in the beneficial
interest of or in the employ of the city.
   (F)   Interpretation. Words and phrases in this subchapter shall be
construed according to their common and accepted meanings, except that words
and phrases defined in division (I), shall be construed according to the
respective definitions given in that section. Technical words and technical
phrases that are not defined in this subchapter but which have acquired
particular meanings in law or in technical usage shall be construed according
to such meanings.
   (G)   Disclaimer of liability.
      (1)   The degree of protection required by this subchapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on historical records,
engineering, and scientific methods of study. Larger storms may occur or
stormwater runoff amounts may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This
subchapter does not imply that land uses permitted will be free from stormwater
damage. This subchapter shall not create liability on the part of the city or
any officer, representative, or employee thereof, for any damage that may
result from reliance on this chapter or on any administrative decision lawfully
made there under.
      (2)   The words “approve” and “accept”, and their common derivations as
used in this subchapter in relation to plans, reports, calculations, and
permits shall mean that the city has reviewed the material produced and
submitted by the applicant or his/her agents for general compliance with this
subchapter and the city’s Stormwater Technical Standards Manual, and that such
compliance would qualify the applicant to receive a stormwater management
approval or permit. Such an “approval” or “acceptance” is based on the
assumption that the project engineer has followed all appropriate engineering
methods in the design. Any stormwater quantity (drainage) or water quality
problems associated with the project caused by poor construction by the
contractor and/or poor engineering design or judgment, either on-site or off-
site, are the responsibility of the developer and the project engineer.
      (3)   Consideration, design, construction, and maintenance of safety
measures for proposed or existing stormwater facilities shall be the
responsibility of the developer, applicant, and/or the property owner. The city
and its officials and representatives shall not be responsible for maintenance
nor liability for any accidents.
   (H)   Abbreviations. For the purpose of this subchapter, the abbreviations
provided shall apply.
      BMP. Best Management Practice.
      COE. United States Army Corps of Engineers.
      CWA. Clean Water Act.
      EPA. Environmental Protection Agency.
      GIS. Geographical Information System.
      IDEM. Indiana Department of Environmental Management.
      MS4. Municipal Separate st rm Sewer System.
      NRCS. USDA-Natural Resources Conservation Service.
      NPDES. National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System.
      POTW. Publicly Owned Treatment Works.
      SWCD. Soil and Water Conservation District.
      SWPPP. Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan.
      USDA. United States Department of Agriculture.
      USFWS. United States Fish and Wildlife Service.
   (I)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the definitions
provided shall apply.
      AGRICULTURAL LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Tillage, planting, cultivation, or
harvesting operations for the production of agricultural or nursery vegetative
crops. The term also includes pasture renovation and establishment, the
construction of agricultural conservation practices, and the installation and
maintenance of agricultural drainage tile.
      BASE FLOW. Stream discharge derived from groundwater sources as
differentiated from surface runoff. Sometimes considered to include flows from
regulated lakes or reservoirs.
      BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE. Design, construction, and maintenance practices
and criteria for stormwater facilities that minimize the impact of stormwater
runoff rates and volumes, prevent erosion, and capture pollutants.
      BUFFER STRIP. An existing, variable width strip of vegetated land
intended to protect water quality and habitat.
      CAPACITY (OF A STORM DRAINAGE FACILITY). The maximum flow that can be
conveyed or stored by a storm drainage facility without causing damage to
public or private property.
      CATCH BASIN. A chamber usually built at the curb line of a street for the
admission of surface water to a storm drain or subdrain, having at its base a
sediment sump designed to retain grit and detritus below the point of overflow.
      CHANNEL. A portion of a natural or artificial watercourse which
periodically or continuously contains moving water, or which forms a connecting
link between two bodies of water. It has a defined bed and banks which serve to
confine the water.
      COMPLIANCE. The act of correcting a violation or violations within the
time frame specified by the city.
      COMPREHENSIVE STORMWATER MANAGEMENT. A comprehensive stormwater program
for effective management of stormwater quantity and quality throughout the
community.
      CONSTRUCTED WETLAND. A manmade shallow pool that creates growing
conditions suitable for wetland vegetation and is designed to maximize
pollutant removal.
      CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Land disturbing activities, and land disturbing
activities associated with the construction of infrastructure and structures.
This term does not include routine ditch or road maintenance or minor
landscaping projects.
      CONSTRUCTION SITE ACCESS. A stabilized stone surface at all points of
ingress or egress to a project site, for the purpose of capturing and detaining
sediment carried by tires of vehicles or other equipment entering or exiting
the project site.
      CONSTRUCTION SUPPORT ACTIVITIES. Include but are not limited to the
following: concrete or asphalt batch plants, equipment staging yards, material
storage areas, excavated material disposal areas, borrow areas. Such activities
must not support multiple, unrelated projects, be a commercial/industrial
operation, or continue to operate beyond the completion of the construction
activity for the project it supports.
      CONTIGUOUS. Adjoining or in actual contact with.
      CONTOUR. An imaginary line on the surface of the earth connecting points
of the same elevation.
      CONTOUR LINE. Line on a map which represents a contour or points of equal
elevation.
      CONTRACTOR or SUBCONTRACTOR. An individual or company hired by the
project site or individual lot owner, their agent, or the individual lot
operator to perform services on the project site.
      CONVEYANCE. Any structural method for transferring stormwater between at
least two points. The term include piping, ditches, swales, curbs, gutters,
catch basins, channels, storm drains, and roadways.
      CROSS SECTION. A graph or plot of ground elevation across a stream valley
or a portion of it, usually along a line perpendicular to the stream or
direction of flow.
      CULVERT. A closed conduit used for the conveyance of surface drainage
water under a roadway, railroad, canal or other impediment.
      DECHLORINATED SWIMMING POOL DISCHARGE. Chlorinated water that has either
sat idle for seven days following chlorination prior to discharge to the MS4
conveyance, or, by analysis, does not contain detectable concentrations (less
than 0.05 milligram per liter) of chlorinated residual.
      DESIGN STORM. A selected storm event, described in terms of the
probability of occurring once within a given number of years, for which
drainage or flood control improvements are designed and built.
      DETENTION. Managing star water runoff by temporary holding and controlled
release.
      DETENTION BASIN. A facility constructed or modified to restrict the flow
of stormwater to a prescribed maximum rate, and to detain concurrently the
excess waters that accumulate behind the outlet.
      DETENTION STORAGE. The temporary detaining of storage of stormwater in
storage facilities, on rooftops, in streets, parking lots, school yards, parks,
open spaces or other areas under predetermined and controlled conditions, with
the rate of release regulated by appropriately installed devices.
      DETENTION TIME. The theoretical time required to displace the contents of
a tank or unit at a given rate of discharge (volume divided by rate of
discharge).
      DETRITUS. Dead or decaying organic matter; generally contributed to
stormwater as fallen leaves and sticks or as dead aquatic organisms.
      DEVELOPER. Any person financially responsible for construction activity,
or an owner of property who sells or leases, or offers for sale or lease, any
lots in a subdivision.
      DEVELOPMENT. 
         (a)   Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including but not limited to:
            1.   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a building or
any addition to a building;
            2.   Construction of flood control structures such as levees,
dikes, dams or channel improvements;
            3.   Construction or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
            4.   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for
a manufactured home, or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more
than 180 days;
            5.   Installing utilities, erection of walls, construction of
roads, or similar projects;
            6.   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation, or drilling
operations;
            7.   Storage of materials; or
            8.   Any other activity that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
         (b)   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance
of existing buildings and facilities such as painting, re-roofing, resurfacing
roads, or gardening, plowing and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation, or the construction of permanent
buildings.
      DISCHARGE. In the context of water quantity provisions, usually the rate
of water flow. A volume of flu id passing a point per unit time commonly
expressed as cubic feet per second, cubic meters per second, gallons per
minute, or millions of gallons per day. In the context of water quality
provisions, the discharge means any addition of liquids or solids to a water
body or a flow conveyance facility
      DISPOSAL. The discharge, deposit, injection, spilling, leaking, or
placing of any solid waste or hazardous waste into or on any land or water so
that the solid waste or hazardous waste, or any constituent of the waste, may
enter the environment, be emitted into the air, or be discharged into any
waters, including ground waters.
      DITCH. A man-made, open watercourse in or into which excess surface water
or groundwater drained from land, stormwater runoff, or floodwaters flow either
continuously or intermittently.
      DRAIN. A buried slotted or perforated pipe or other conduit (subsurface
drain) or a ditch (open drain) for carrying off surplus groundwater or surface
water.
      DRAINAGE. The removal of excess surface water or groundwater from land by
means of ditches or subsurface drains. Also see “natural drainage.”
      DRAINAGE AREA. The area draining into a stream at a given point. It may
be of different sizes for surface runoff, subsurface flow and base flow, but
generally the surface runoff area is considered as the drainage area.
      DRY WELL. A type of infiltration practice that allows stormwater runoff
to flow directly into the ground via a bored or otherwise excavated opening in
the ground surface.
      DURATION. The time period of a rainfall event.
      ENVIRONMENT. The sum total of all the external conditions that may act
upon a living organism or community to influence its development or existence.
      ERODIBILITY INDEX (EI). Provides a numerical expression of the potential
for a soil to erode considering the physical and chemical properties of the
soil and the climatic conditions where it is located. The higher the index, the
greater the investment needed to maintain the sustainability of the soil
resource base if intensively cropped. It is defined to be the maximum of
(RxKxLS)/T (from the universal soil loss equation) and (CxI)/T (from the wind
erosion equation), where R is a measure of rainfall and runoff, K is a factor
of the susceptibility of the soil to water erosion, LS is a measure of the
combined effects of slope length and steepness, C is a climatic
characterization of windspeed and surface soil moisture and I is a measure of
the susceptibility of the soil to wind erosion. ERODIBILITY INDEX scores equal
to or greater than eight are considered highly erodible land.
      EROSION. The wearing away of the land surface by water, wind, ice,
gravity, or other geological agents. The following terms are used to describe
different types of water erosion:
         (a)   ACCELERATED EROSION. Erosion much more rapid than normal or
geologic erosion, primarily as a result of the activities of man.
         (b)   CHANNEL EROSION. An erosion process whereby the volume and
velocity of flow wears away the bed and/or banks of a well-defined channel.
         (c)   GULLY EROSION. An erosion process whereby runoff water
accumulates in narrow channels and, over relatively short periods, removes the
soil to considerable depths, ranging from one to two feet to as much as 75 to
100 feet.
         (d)   RILL EROSION. An erosion process in which numerous small
channels only several inches deep are formed; occurs mainly on recently
disturbed and exposed soils (see “rill”).
         (e)   SPLASH EROSION. The spattering of small soil particles caused by
the impact of raindrops on wet soils; the loosened and spattered particles may
or may not be subsequently removed by surface runoff.
         (f)   SHEET EROSION. The gradual removal of a fairly uniform layer of
soil from the land surface by runoff water.
      EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL. A practice, or a combination of practices,
to minimize sedimentation by first reducing or eliminating erosion at the
source and then as necessary, trapping sediment to prevent it from being
discharged from or within a project site.
      FILTER STRIP. Usually a long, relatively narrow area (usually, 20-75 feet
wide) of undisturbed or planted vegetation used near disturbed or impervious
surfaces to filter stormwater pollutants or the protection of watercourses,
reservoirs, or adjacent properties.
      FLOATABLE. Any solid waste that will float on the surface of the water.
      FLOOD or FLOOD WATERS. A general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual
and rapid accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
      FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining the channel which
have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory or 100-year flood. Any
normally dry land area that is susceptible to being inundated by water from any
natural source. The floodplain includes both the floodway and the floodway
fringe districts.
      FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
      FLOODWAY FRINGE. That portion of the floodplain lying outside the
floodway, which is inundated by the regulatory flood.
      FLUVIAL EROSION HAZARD (FEH) CORRIDOR. Represent the areas along the
streams (including the channel and immediate over banks areas) that are
believed to be subject to stream movement or stream bank erosion. These
corridors have been delineated for most actively migrating and relatively
stationary streams in Indiana through an Indiana Silver Jackets Initiative.
      FOOTING DRAIN. A drain pipe installed around the exterior of a basement
wall foundation to relieve water pressure caused by high groundwater elevation.
      GARBAGE. All putrescible animal solid, vegetable solid, and semisolid
wastes resulting from the processing, handling, preparation, cooking, serving,
or consumption of food or food materials.
      GASOLINE OUTLET. An operating gasoline or diesel fueling facility whose
primary function is the resale of fuels. The term applies to facilities that
create 5,000 or more square feet of impervious surface, or generate an average
daily traffic count of 100 vehicles per 1,000 square feet of land area.
      GEOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION SYSTEM. A computer system capable of assembling,
storing, manipulation, and displaying geographically referenced information.
This technology can be used for resource management and development planning.
      GRADE.
         (a)   The inclination or slope of a channel, canal, conduit, etc., or
natural ground surface usually expressed in terms of the percentage the
vertical rise (or fall) bears to the corresponding horizontal distance.
         (b)   The finished surface of a canal bed, roadbed, top of embankment,
or bottom of excavation; any surface prepared to a design elevation for the
support of construction, such as paving or the laying of a conduit.
         (c)   To finish the surface of a canal bed, roadbed, top of
embankment, or bottom of excavation, or other land area to a smooth, even
condition.
      GRADING. The cutting and filling of the land surface to a desired slope
or elevation.
      GRASS. A member of the botanical family Graminae, characterized by blade-
like leaves that originate as a sheath wrapped around the stem.
      GROUNDWATER. Accumulation of underground water, natural or artificial.
The term does not include manmade underground storage or conveyance structures.
      HABITAT. The environment in which the life needs of a plant or animal are
supplied.
      HIGHLY ERODIBLE LAND (HEL). Land that has an erodibility index of eight
or more.
      HOT SPOT DEVELOPMENT. Projects involving land uses considered to be high
pollutant producers such as vehicle service and maintenance facilities, vehicle
salvage yards and recycling facilities, vehicle and equipment cleaning
facilities, fleet storage areas for buses, trucks, etc., industrial/commercial
or any hazardous waste storage areas or areas that generate such wastes,
industrial sites, restaurants and convenience stores, any activity involving
chemical mixing or loading/unloading, outdoor liquid container storage, public
works storage areas, commercial container nurseries, and some high traffic
retail uses characterized by frequent vehicle turnover.
      HYDROLOGIC UNIT CODE. A numeric United States Geologic Survey code that
corresponds to a watershed area. Each area also has a text description
associated with the numeric code.
      HYDROLOGY. The science of the behavior of water in the atmosphere, on the
surface of the earth, and underground. A typical hydrologic study is undertaken
to compute flow rates associated with specified flood events.
      ILLICIT DISCHARGE. Any discharge to a conveyance that is not composed
entirely of stormwater except naturally occurring floatables, such as leaves or
tree limbs. Illicit discharges include polluted flows from direct and indirect
connections to the MS4 conveyance, illegal dumping, and contaminated runoff.
      IMPAIRED WATERS. Waters that do not or are not expected to meet
applicable water quality standards, as included on IDEM's CWA Section 303(d)
List of Impaired Waters.
      IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. Surfaces, such as pavement and rooftops, which
prevent the infiltration of stormwater into the soil.
      INDIVIDUAL BUILDING LOT. A single parcel of land within a multi-parcel
development.
      INDIVIDUAL LOT OPERATOR. A contractor or subcontractor working on an
individual lot.
      INDIVIDUAL LOT OWNER. A person who has financial control of construction
activities for an individual lot.
      INFILTRATION. Passage or movement of water into the soil. Infiltration
practices include any structural BMP designed to facilitate the percolation of
runoff through the soil to groundwater. Examples include infiltration basins or
trenches, dry wells, and porous pavement.
      INLET. An opening into a storm drain system for the entrance of surface
stormwater runoff, more completely described as a storm drain inlet.
      LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any man-made change of the land surface,
including removing vegetative cover that exposes the underlying soil,
excavating, filling, transporting and grading.
      LAND SURVEYOR. A person licensed under the laws of the State of Indiana
to practice land surveying.
      LARGER COMMON PLAN OF DEVELOPMENT OR SALE. A plan, undertaken by a single
project site owner or a group of project site owners acting in concert, to
offer lots for sale or lease; where such land is contiguous, or is known,
designated, purchased or advertised as a common unit or by a common name, such
land shall be presumed as being offered for sale or lease as part of a larger
common plan. The term also includes phase or other construction activity by a
single entity for its own use.
      LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The elevation of the lowest grade adjacent to a
structure, where the soil meets the foundation around the outside of the
structure (including structural members such as basement walkout, patios,
decks, porches, support posts or piers, and rim of the window well).
      LOWEST FLOOR. Refers to the lowest of the following:
         (a)   The top of the basement floor;
         (b)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level
of the building;
         (c)   The top of the first floor of buildings constructed on a slab or
of buildings elevated on pilings or constructed on a crawl space with permanent
openings; or
         (d)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure below an elevated
building where the walls of the enclosure provide any resistance to the flow of
flood waters unless:
            1.   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the
hydrostatic flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
flood waters, by providing a minimum of two opening (in addition to doorways
and windows) having a total area of one square foot for every two square feet
of enclosed area subject to flooding. The bottom of all such openings shall be
no higher than one foot above grade.
            2.   Such enclosed space shall be usable only for the parking of
vehicles or building access.
      MANHOLE. Storm drain structure through which a person may enter to gain
access to an underground storm drain or enclosed structure.
      MEASURABLE STORM EVENT. A precipitation event that results in a total
measured precipitation accumulation equal to, or greater than, one-half inch of
rainfall.
      MULCH. A natural or artificial layer of plant residue or other materials
covering the land surface which conserves moisture, holds soil in place, aids
in establishing plant cover, and minimizes temperature fluctuations.
      MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWERS. An MS4 meets all the following criteria:
         (a)   Is a conveyance or system of conveyances owned by the state,
county, city, town, or other public entity;
         (b)   Discharges to waters of the U.S.;
         (c)   Is designed or used for collecting or conveying stormwater;
         (d)   Is not a combined sewer; and
         (e)   Is not part of a publicly owned treatment works (POTW).
      NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM. A permit developed by
the U.S. EPA through the Clean Water Act. In Indiana, the permitting process
has been delegated to IDEM. This permit covers aspects of municipal stormwater
quality.
      NATURAL DRAINAGE. The flow patterns of stormwater runoff over the land in
its pre-development state.
      NUTRIENT(S).
         (a)   A substance necessary for the growth and reproduction of
organisms.
         (b)   In water, those substances (chiefly nitrates and phosphates)
that promote growth of algae and bacteria.
      OFFENSE. Both a violation and a failure of compliance on a particular
project. If there are multiple violations or multiple failures of compliance on
the same project, each shall be considered a separate offense.
      OPEN DRAIN. A natural watercourse or constructed open channel that
conveys drainage water.
      OPEN SPACE. Any land area devoid of any disturbed or impervious surfaces
created by industrial, commercial, residential, agricultural, or other manmade
activities.
      OUTFALL. The point, location, or structure where a pipe or open drain
discharges to a receiving body of water.
      OUTLET. The point of water disposal from a stream, river, lake,
tidewater, or artificial drain.
      PEAK DISCHARGE or PEAK FLOW. The maximum instantaneous flow from a given
storm condition at a specific location.
      PERCOLATION. The movement of water through soil.
      PERMANENT STABILIZATION. The establishment, at a uniform density of 70%
across the disturbed area, of vegetative cover or permanent non-erosive
material that will ensure the resistance of the soil to erosion, sliding, or
other movement.
      PERVIOUS. Allowing movement of water.
      POINT SOURCE. Any discernible, confined, and discrete conveyance
including but not limited to any pipe, ditch, channel, tunnel, conduit, well,
discrete fissure, or container from which pollutants are or maybe discharged
(P.L. 92-500, Section 502[14]).
      POROUS PAVEMENT. A type of infiltration practice to improve the quality
and reduce the quantity of stormwater runoff via the use of manmade, pervious
pavement which allows runoff to percolate through the pavement and into
underlying soils.
      PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. A person licensed under the laws of the State of
Indiana to practice professional engineering.
      PROJECT SITE. The entire area on which construction activity is to be
performed.
      PROJECT SITE OWNER. The person required to submit a stormwater permit
application and required to comply with the terms of this subchapter, including
a developer or a person who has financial and operational control of
construction activities, and project plans and specifications, including the
ability to make modifications to those plans and specifications.
      RAIN GARDEN. A vegetative practice used to alter impervious surfaces,
such as roofs, into pervious surfaces for absorption and treatment of rainfall.
      RECEIVING STREAM, RECEIVING CHANNEL, or RECEIVING WATER. The body of
water into which runoff or effluent is discharged. The term does not include
private drains, unnamed conveyances, retention and detention basins, or
constructed wetlands used as treatment.
      RECHARGE. Replenishment of groundwater reservoirs by infiltration and
transmission from the outcrop of an aquifer or from permeable soils.
      REDEVELOPMENT. Development occurring on a previously developed site.
      REFUELING AREA. An operating gasoline or diesel fueling area whose
primary function is to provide fuel to equipment or vehicles.
      REGIONAL POND. A detention/retention basin sized to detain/retain the
runoff from the entire watershed, on-site and off-site, tributary to the pond's
outlet.
      REGULATORY FLOOD. The discharge or elevation associated with the 100-year
flood as calculated by a method and procedure which is acceptable to and
approved by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known as the "base
flood".
      REGULATORY FLOODWAY. See “floodway.”
      RELEASE RATE. The amount of stormwater release from a stormwater control
facility per unit of time.
      RESERVOIR. A natural or artificially created pond, lake or other space
used for storage, regulation or control of water. May be either permanent or
temporary. The term is also used in the hydrologic modeling of storage
facilities.
      RETENTION. The storage of stormwater to prevent it from leaving the
development site. May be temporary or permanent.
      RETENTION BASIN. A type of storage practice, that has no positive outlet,
used to retain stormwater runoff for an indefinite amount of time. Runoff from
this type of basin is removed only by infiltration through a porous bottom or
by evaporation.
      RETURN PERIOD. The average interval of time within which a given rainfall
event will be equaled or exceeded once. A flood having a return period of 100
years has a 1% probability of being equaled or exceeded in any one year.
      RIPARIAN ZONE. Of, on, or pertaining to the banks of a stream, river, or
pond.
      RIPARIAN HABITAT. A land area adjacent to a waterbody that supports
animal and plant life associated with that waterbody.
      RUNOFF. That portion of precipitation that flows from a drainage area on
the land surface, in open channels, or in stormwater conveyance systems.
      RUNOFF COEFFICIENT. A decimal fraction relating the amount of rain which
appears as runoff and reaches the storm drain system to the total amount of
rain falling. A coefficient of one half implies that 50% of the rain falling on
a given surface appears as stormwater runoff.
      SEDIMENT. Solid material (both mineral and organic) that is in
suspension, is being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by
air, water, gravity, or ice and has come to rest on the earth's surface.
      SEDIMENTATION. The process that deposits soils, debris and other
unconsolidated materials either on the ground surfaces or in bodies of water or
watercourses.
       SENSITIVE WATER. A waterbody is in need of priority protection or
remediation based on its:
         (a)   Providing habitat for threatened or endangered species;
         (b)   Usage as a public water supply intake;
         (c)   Relevant community value;
         (d)   Usage for full body contact recreation;
         (e)   Exceptional use classification as found in 327 I.A.C. 2-1-11(b);
         (f)   Outstanding state resource water classification as found in 327
I.A.C. 2-1-2(3) and 327 I.A.C. 2-1.5-19(b).
      SILVICULTURAL. The practice of controlling the establishment, growth,
composition, health, and quality of forests to meet diverse needs and values.
         (a)   Nonpoint activities include source silvicultural activities such
as nursery operations, site preparation, reforestation and subsequent cultural
treatment, thinning, prescribed burning, pest and fire control, harvesting
operations, surface drainage, or road construction and maintenance from which
there is natural runoff. Some of these activities (such as stream crossing for
roads) may involve the placement of dredged or fill material which may require
a CWA section 404 permit and a 401 Water Quality Certification.
         (b)   Point source activities include any discernible, confined and
discrete conveyance related to rock crushing, gravel washing, log sorting, or
log storage facilities which are operated in connection with silvicultural
activities and from which pollutants are discharged into waters of the United
States or the state.
      SITE. The entire area included in the legal description of the land on
which land disturbing activity is to be performed.
      SLOPE. Degree of deviation of a surface from the horizontal, measured as
a numerical ratio or percent. Expressed as a ratio, the first number is
commonly the horizontal distance (run) and the second is the vertical distance
(rise)--e.g., 2:1. However, the preferred method for designation of slopes is
to clearly identify the horizontal (H) and vertical (V) components (length (L)
and width (W) components for horizontal angles). Also note that according to
international standards (metric), the slopes are presented as the vertical or
width component shown on the numerator--e.g., 1V:2H. Slope expressions in this
subchapter follow the common presentation of slopes--e.g. 2:1 with the metric
presentation shown in parentheses--e.g., (1V:2H). Slopes can also be expressed
in "percent". Slopes given in percent are always expressed as (100*V/H) - e.g.,
a 2:1 (1V:2H) slope is a 50% slope.
      SOIL. The unconsolidated mineral and organic material on the immediate
surface of the earth that serves as a natural medium for the growth of land
plants.
      SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATIOM DISTRICT. A public organization created under
state law as a special-purpose district to develop and carry out a program of
soil, water, and related resource conservation, use, and development within its
boundaries. A subdivision of state government with a local governing body,
established under I.C. 14-32.
      SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, debris, or other discarded material.
      SPILL. The unexpected, unintended, abnormal, or unapproved dumping,
leakage, drainage, seepage, discharge, or other loss of petroleum, hazardous
substances, extremely hazardous substances, or objectionable substances. The
term does not include releases to impervious surfaces when the substance does
not migrate off the surface or penetrate the surface and enter the soil.
      STORM DURATION. The length of time that water may be stored in any
stormwater control facility, computed from the time water first begins to be
stored.
      STORM EVENT. An estimate of the expected amount of precipitation within a
given period of time. For example, a ten year frequency, 24-hour duration storm
event is a storm that has a 10% probability of occurring in any one year.
Precipitation is measured over a 24-hour period.
      STORM SEWER. A closed conduit for conveying collected stormwater, while
excluding sewage and industrial wastes. Also called a storm drain.
      STORMWATER. Water resulting from rain, melting or melted snow, hail, or
sleet.
      STORMWATER MANAGEMENT SYSTEM. A collection of structural and non-
structural practices and infrastructure designed to manage stormwater on a
site. This system may include but is not limited to erosion control measures,
storm drainage infrastructure, detention/retention facilities, and stormwater
quality BMP's.
      STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN. A plan developed to minimize the
impact of stormwater pollutants resulting from construction activities.
      STORMWATER RUNOFF. The water derived from rains falling within a
tributary basin, flowing over the surface of the ground or collected in
channels or conduits.
      STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT PLAN. A comprehensive written document that
addresses stormwater runoff quality.
      STORMWATER QUALITY MEASURE. A practice, or a combination of practices, to
control or minimize pollutants associated with stormwater runoff.
      STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM. All means, natural or man-made, used for
conducting stormwater to, through or from a drainage area to any of the
following: conduits and appurtenant features, canals, channels, ditches,
storage facilities, swales, streams, culverts, streets and pumping stations.
      STRIP DEVELOPMENT. A multi-lot project where building lots front on an
existing road.
      SUBDIVISION, MAJOR. Any land that is divided or proposed to be divided
into four or more lots, whether contiguous or subject to zoning requirements,
for the purpose of sale or lease as part of a larger common plan of development
or sale.
      SUBDIVISION, MINOR. Any land that is divided or proposed to be divided
into less than four lots, whether contiguous or subject to zoning requirements,
for the purpose of sale or lease as part of a larger common plan of development
or sale.
      SUBSURFACE DRAIN. A pervious backfield trench, usually containing stone
and perforated pipe, for intercepting groundwater or seepage.
      SURFACE RUNOFF. Precipitation that flows onto the surfaces of roofs,
streets, the ground, etc., and is not absorped or retained by that surface but
collects and runs off.
      SWALE. An elongated depression in the land surface that is at least
seasonally wet, is usually heavily vegetated, and is normally without flowing
water. SWALES conduct stormwater into primary drainage channels and may provide
some groundwater recharge.
      TEMPORARY STABILIZATION. The covering of soil to ensure its resistance to
erosion, sliding, or other movement. The term includes vegetative cover,
anchored mulch, or other non-erosive material applied at a uniform density of
70% across the disturbed area.
      TILE DRAIN. Pipe made of perforated plastic, burned clay, concrete, or
similar material, laid to a designed grade and depth, to collect and carry
excess water from the soil.
      TOPOGRAPHIC MAP. Graphical portrayal of the topographic features of a
land area, showing both the horizontal distances between the features and their
elevations above a given datum.
      TOPOGRAPHY. The representation of a portion of the earth's surface
showing natural and man-made features of a give locality such as rivers,
streams, ditches, lakes, roads, buildings and most importantly, variations in
ground elevations for the terrain of the area.
      TRAINED INDIVIDUAL. An individual who is trained and experienced in the
principles of stormwater quality, including erosion and sediment control as may
be demonstrated by state registration, professional certification (such as
CESSWI and/or CPESC certification), or other documented and applicable
experience or coursework as deemed sufficient by the city that enable the
individual to make judgments regarding stormwater control or treatment and
monitoring.
      URBAN DRAIN. Same definition as in the Indiana Drainage Code.
      URBANIZATION. The development, change or improvement of any parcel of
land consisting of one or more lot for residential, commercial, industrial,
institutional, recreational or public utility purposes.
      VEGETATED SWALE. A type of vegetative practice used to filter stormwater
runoff via a vegetated, shallow-channel conveyance.
      VIOLATION. Any action or inaction which violates the provisions of this
subchapter or the Technical Standards, the requirements of an approved
stormwater management design plan or permit, and/or the requirements of a
recorded stormwater maintenance agreement may be subject to the enforcement
actions outlined in §
54.26. Any such action or inaction is deemed to addition to, and separate from,
the imposition of any of the enforcement actions described in §
54.26.
      WATER QUALITY. A term used to describe the chemical, physical, and
biological characteristics of water, usually in respect to its suitability for
a particular purpose.
      WATER RESOURCES. The supply of groundwater and surface water in a given
area.
      WATERBODY. Any accumulation of water, surface, or underground, natural or
artificial, excluding water features designed and designated as water pollution
control facilities.
      WATERCOURSE. Any river, stream, creek, brook, branch, natural or man-made
drainage-way in or into which stormwater runoff or floodwaters flow either
continuously or intermittently.
      WATERSHED. The region drained by or contributing water to a specific
point that could be along a stream, lake or other stormwater facility.
Watersheds are often broken down into subareas for the purpose of hydrologic
modeling.
      WATERSHED AREA. All land and water within the confines of a drainage
divide. See also “watershed.”
      WETLANDS. Areas that are inundated or saturated by surface water or
groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under
normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted
for life in saturated soil conditions.
(Ord. 2023-002-C, passed 6-19-2023)
§ 54.21 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Applicability and exemptions.
      (1)   This section shall apply to all discharges, including illegal
dumping, entering the storm drain system under the control of the city,
regardless of whether the discharge originates from developed or undeveloped
lands, and regardless of whether the discharge is generated from an active
construction site or a stabilized site. These discharges include flows from
direct connections to the storm drain system, illegal dumping, and contaminated
runoff.
      (2)   Stormwater runoff from agricultural, timber harvesting, and mining
activities is exempted from the requirements of this section unless determined
to contain pollutants not associated with such activities or in excess of
standard practices. Farm residences are not included in this exemption.
      (3)   Any non-stormwater discharge permitted under an NPDES permit,
waiver (unless the waiver is solely based on point source considerations, still
allowing non-point source discharge of a pollutant), or waste discharge order
issued to the discharger and administered under the authority of the Federal
Environmental Protection Agency, provided that the discharger is in full
compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver, or order and other
applicable laws and regulations, and provided that written approval has been
granted for the subject discharge to the storm drain system, is also exempted
from this section.
   (B)   Prohibited discharges and connections.
      (1)   No person shall discharge to a MS4 conveyance, watercourse, or
waterbody, directly or indirectly, any substance other than stormwater or an
exempted discharge. Any person discharging stormwater shall effectively
minimize pollutants from also being discharged with the stormwater, through the
use of best management practices (BMP's).
      (2)   Concrete washout material must be properly contained within an
appropriate practice and any waste material properly disposed of.
      (3)   The city is authorized to require dischargers to implement
pollution prevention measures, utilizing BMP's necessary to prevent or reduce
the discharge of pollutants into the city stormwater drainage system.
   (C)   Exempted discharges and connections. Notwithstanding other
requirements in this subchapter, the following categories of non-stormwater
discharges or flows are exempted from the requirements of this section:
      (1)   Water line flushing;
      (2)   Landscape irrigation;
      (3)   Diverted streamflows;
      (4)   Rising ground waters;
      (5)   Uncontaminated groundwater infiltration;
      (6)   Uncontaminated pumped ground water;
      (7)   Discharges from potable water sources;
      (8)   Foundation drains;
      (9)   Air conditioning condensation;
      (10)   Irrigation water;
      (11)   Springs;
      (12)   Water from crawl space pumps;
      (13)   Footing drains;
      (14)   Lawn watering;
      (15)   Water used to wash vehicles and equipment, provided that there is
no discharge of soaps, solvents, or detergents used for such purposes;
      (16)   Flows from riparian habitats and wetlands;
      (17)   Dechlorinated swimming pool discharges not including discharges
from saltwater swimming pools;
      (18)   Street wash water;
      (19)   Discharges from emergency firefighting activities;
      (20)   Naturally introduced detritus (e.g. leaves and twigs); and
      (21)   Routine external building washdown water that does not use
detergents.
   (D)   Storage of hazardous or toxic material. Storage or stockpiling of
hazardous or toxic material within any watercourse, or in its associated
floodway or floodplain, is strictly prohibited. Storage or stockpiling of
hazardous or toxic material, including sewage treatment plant stockpiles, on
active construction sites must include adequate protection and/or containment
so as to prevent any such materials from entering any temporary or permanent
stormwater conveyance or watercourse.
   (E)   Private property maintenance duties. Every person owning property
through which a watercourse passes, or such person's lessee, shall keep and
maintain that part of the watercourse located within their property boundaries,
free of trash, debris, and other obstacles that would pollute, contaminate, or
significantly retard the flow of water through the watercourse. In addition,
the owner or lessee shall maintain existing privately owned structures within
or adjacent to a watercourse, so that such structures will not become a hazard
to the use, function, or physical integrity of the watercourse.
   (F)   Spill reporting.
      (1)   Any discharger who accidentally discharges into a waterbody any
substance other than stormwater or an exempted discharge shall immediately
inform the city concerning the discharge. A written report concerning the
discharge shall be filed with the city and IDEM, by the dischargers, within
five days. The written report shall specify:
         (a)   The composition of the discharge and the cause thereof;
         (b)   The date, time, and estimated volume of the discharge; and
         (c)   All measures taken to clean up the accidental discharge, and all
measures proposed to be taken to prevent any recurrence; and
         (d)   The name and telephone number of the person making the report,
and the name and telephone number of a person who may be contacted for
additional information on the matter.
      (2)   A properly reported accidental discharge shall be an affirmative
defense to a civil infraction proceeding brought under this subchapter against
a discharger for such discharge. It shall not, however, be a defense to a legal
action brought to obtain an injunction, to obtain recovery of costs or to
obtain other relief because of or arising out of the discharge. A discharge
shall be considered properly reported only if the discharger complies with all
the requirements of this section. This requirement does not relieve discharger
from notifying other entities as required by state or federal regulations.
   (G)   Inspections and monitoring.
      (1)   Storm drainage system. The city has the authority to periodically
inspect the portion of the storm drainage system under the city’s control. in
an effort to detect and eliminate illicit connections and discharges into the
system. This inspection will include a screening of discharges from outfalls
connected to the system in order to determine if prohibited flows are being
conveyed into the storm drainage system. It could also include spot testing of
waters contained in the storm drainage system itself to detect the introduction
of pollutants into the system by means other than a defined outfall, such as
dumping or contaminated sheet runoff.
      (2)   Potential polluters. If, as a result of the storm drainage system
inspection, a discharger is suspected of an illicit discharge, the city may
inspect and/or obtain stormwater samples from stormwater runoff facilities of
the subject discharger, to determine compliance with the requirements of this
subchapter. Upon request, the discharger shall allow the city’s properly
identified representative to enter upon the premises of the discharger at all
hours necessary for the purposes of such inspection or sampling. The city or
its properly identified representative may place on the discharger's property
the equipment or devices used for such sampling or inspection. Identified
illicit connections or discharges shall be subject to enforcement action as
described in §
54.26.
      (3)   New development and re-development. Following the final completion
of construction and the receipt of as-built drawings by the city, the city has
the authority to inspect new development and re-development sites to verify
that all on-site stormwater conveyances and connections to the storm drainage
system are in compliance with this section.
(Ord. 2023-002-C, passed 6-19-2023)
§ 54.22 STORMWATER QUANTITY MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Applicability and exemptions. The storage and controlled release of
excess stormwater runoff shall be required for all new business, institutional
developments, commercial and industrial developments, residential subdivisions,
planned development, rural estate subdivisions, and any redevelopment or other
new construction located within the city. The city, after thorough
investigation and evaluation, may waive the requirement of controlled runoff
for minor subdivisions and parcelization. Additional potential exemptions
regarding the detention requirements are provided under division (B).
   (B)   Policy on stormwater quantity management.
      (1)   It is recognized that most streams and drainage channels serving
the city do not have sufficient capacity to receive and convey stormwater
runoff resulting from continued urbanization. Accordingly, the storage and
controlled release of excess stormwater runoff as well as compensation for loss
of floodplain storage shall be required for all developments and redevelopments
(as defined in §
54.20(I)) located within the city. Release rate requirements, downstream
restriction considerations, acceptable outlet, adjoining property impact
considerations, policy on dams and levees, policy on fluvial erosion hazard
corridors, and compensatory floodplain storage rates are detailed in the city’s
Stormwater Technical Standards.
      (2)   Due to unknowns regarding the future development patterns and the
associated proposed stormwater quantity management systems within a watershed,
it is the policy of the city to discourage direct release of runoff from a new
development or redevelopment without providing detention. However, in rare
circumstances, where a comprehensive watershed-wide hydrologic study or
watershed plan of a major stream (not a "beat the peak" analysis) adopted by
the city substantiates the benefits of (or allows for) direct release for a
proposed development located adjacent to a major stream, the detention
requirements set in this subchapter may be waived. Other special circumstances
when such a waiver may be considered by the city include situations where the
design of a regional pond has already taken into account the provision of
direct release in certain areas in the watershed.
   (C)   Calculations and design standards and specifications. The calculation
methods as well as the type, sizing, and placement of all stormwater facilities
shall meet the design criteria, standards, and specifications outlined in the
city’s Stormwater Technical Standards Manual. The methods and procedures in the
Stormwater Technical Standards Manual are consistent with the policy stated
above.
   (D)   Drainage easement requirements.
      (1)   All stormwater systems, including detention or retention basins,
conveyance systems, structures and appurtenances, located outside of the right-
of-way shall be placed within a drainage easement. There shall be no trees or
shrubs planted. nor any structures or fences erected in any drainage easement,
unless otherwise accepted by the city. Additional easement requirements along
stormwater conveyance systems are contained in the city’s Stormwater Technical
Standards Manual. All drainage improvements performed relative to the
conveyance of stormwater runoff and the perpetual maintenance thereof, within
the latter easements, shall be the responsibility of the owner or homeowner
association.
      (2)   Any outlet to, crossing, and/or encroachment of a county regulated
drainage easement requires application and acceptance from the County Drainage
Board in accordance with the Indiana Drainage Code.
   (E)   Placement of utilities. No utility company may disturb existing storm
drainage facilities without the consent of city staff, whose decision may be
appealed to the city’s body with authority to grant appeals of the city. All
existing drainage facilities shall have senior rights and damage to said
facilities shall result in penalties as prescribed in §
54.26.
   (F)   Structures near county regulated drains. For regulated drains not
located in platted subdivisions, unless otherwise accepted by the Madison
County Drainage Board, no permanent structure (including fences) shall be
erected within 75 feet measured at right angles from a) the existing top edge
of each bank of a regulated open drain, as determined by the Madison County
Drainage Board; or b) the center line of a piped regulated drain. The Indiana
Drainage Code may be consulted for further details.
   (G)   Inspection, maintenance, record keeping, and reporting.
      (1)   After the approval of the stormwater management permit by the city
and the commencement of construction activities, the city has the authority to
conduct inspections of the work being done to insure full compliance with the
provisions of this section, the Stormwater Technical Standards Manual, Design
and Construction Standards, and the terms and conditions of the approved
permit.
      (2)   The city also has the authority to perform long-term, post-
construction inspection of all public or privately owned stormwater quantity
facilities. The inspection will cover physical conditions, available storage
capacity, and the operational condition of key facility elements. Stormwater
quantity facilities shall be maintained in good condition, in accordance with
the designed and approved performance specifications for the facilities, in
addition to any prescribed operation and maintenance procedures, and shall not
be subsequently altered, revised or replaced except as approved by the city. If
deficiencies are found during the inspection, the owner of the facility will be
notified by the city and will be required to take all necessary measures to
correct such deficiencies. If the owner fails to correct the deficiencies
within the allowed time period, as specified in the notification letter, the
city will undertake the work and collect from the owner using lien rights if
necessary.
      (3)   Assignment of responsibility for maintaining facilities serving
more than one lot or holding shall be documented by appropriate covenants to
property deeds, unless responsibility is formally accepted by a public body,
and determined before the final stormwater permit is approved.
      (4)   Stormwater conveyance facilities may be donated to the city or
other unit of government designated by the city, for ownership and permanent
maintenance providing the city or other governmental unit is willing to accept
responsibility.
(Ord. 2023-002-C, passed 6-19-2023)
§ 54.23 STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION FOR CONSTRUCTION SITES.
   (A)   Applicability and exemptions.
      (1)   The city will require a stormwater pollution prevention plan
(SWPPP), which includes erosion and sediment control measures and materials
handling procedures, to be submitted as part of a project's construction plans
and specifications. Any project located within the corporate boundaries of the
city that includes clearing, grading, excavation or other land disturbing
activities resulting in the disturbance of 10,000 square feet or more of total
land area is subject to the requirements of this section. This includes both
new development and re-development. This section also applies to disturbances
of land that are part of a larger common plan of development or sale if the
larger common plan will ultimately disturb 10,000 square feet or more of total
land area. Division (C) provides guidelines for calculating land disturbance.
Projects meeting the coverage requirements of IDEM's CSGP shall also be in
compliance with the requirements contained in that permit.
      (2)   The requirements under this section do not apply to the following
activities, provided other applicable state permits contain provisions
requiring immediate implementation of soil erosion and sediment control
measures:
         (a)   Landfills that have been issued a certification of closure under
329 I.A.C. 10;
         (b)   Coal mining activities permitted under I.C. 14-34; or
         (c)   Municipal solid waste landfills that are accepting waste
pursuant to a permit issued by the Indiana Department of Environmental
Management under 329 I.A.C. 10 that contains equivalent stormwater
requirements, including the expansion of landfill boundaries and construction
of new cells either within or outside the original solid waste permit boundary.
      (3)   For an individual lot where land disturbance is expected to be one
acre or more, the individual lot owner must complete their own notice of intent
letter, apply for a stormwater permit from the city, and ensure that a
sufficient construction and stormwater pollution prevention plan is completed
and submitted in accordance with §
54.25, regardless of whether the individual lot is part of a larger permitted
project site. For an individual lot where land disturbance is 10,000 square
feet or more but less than one acre, an individual lot plot plan permit
application is required prior to receiving a building permit. Details of the
permitting process are contained in §
54.25.
      (4)   An individual lot located within a larger permitted project site,
is considered part of the larger permitted project site, and the individual lot
operator must comply with the terms and conditions of the stormwater permit
approved for the larger project site. The stormwater permit application for the
larger project site must include detailed erosion and sediment control measures
for individual lots. In addition, the builders of these individual lots are
required to submit individual lot plot plan permit application along with a
SWPPP for that individual lot prior to receiving a building permit. Details of
the permitting process for individual lots and parcels are contained in §
54.25 and additional requirements for individual lots may be found in the city
Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
      (5)   It will be the responsibility of the project site owner to complete
a stormwater permit application and ensure that a sufficient construction plan
is completed and submitted to the city in accordance with §
54.25. It will be the responsibility of the project site owner to ensure
compliance with this subchapter during the construction activity and
implementation of the construction plan, and to notify the city upon completion
of the project and stabilization of the site, requesting a termination
inspection to be performed by the city. However, all persons engaging in
construction and land disturbing activities on a permitted project site meeting
the applicability requirements must comply with the requirements of this
section and this subchapter.
   (B)   Policy on stormwater pollution prevention.
      (1)   Effective stormwater pollution prevention on construction sites is
dependent on a combination of preventing movement of soil from its original
position (erosion control), intercepting displaced soil prior to entering a
waterbody (sediment control), and proper on-site materials handling.
      (2)   For land disturbance of one acre or more, the developer must submit
to the city, a SWPPP with detailed erosion and sediment control plans as well
as a narrative describing materials handling and storage, and construction
sequencing. The SWPPP and the project management log must be retained for at
least three years from the date the project permit is terminated. For land
disturbances totaling 10,000 square feet or more but less than one acre,
appropriate erosion and sediment control measures that are consistent with the
city’s Stormwater Technical Standards Manual must be designed and shown on the
plans.
      (3)   The required IDEM general and implementation requirements that
apply to all land disturbing activities are contained in the city’s Stormwater
Technical Standards Manual.
   (C)   Calculations and design standards and specifications.
      (1)   In calculating the total area of land disturbance, for the purposes
of determining applicability of this section to a project, the following
guidelines should be used:
         (a)   Off-site construction activities that provide services (for
example, road extensions, sewer, water, offsite stockpiles, and other
utilities) to a land disturbing project site, must be considered as a part of
the total land disturbance calculation for the project site, when the activity
is under the control of the project site owner.
         (b)   To determine if multi-lot project sites are regulated by this
section, the area of land disturbance shall be calculated by adding the total
area of land disturbance for improvements, such as, roads, utilities, or common
areas, and the expected total disturbance on each individual lot, as determined
by the following:
            1.   For a single-family residential project site where the lots
are one-half acre or more, one-half acre of land disturbance must be used as
the expected lot disturbance.
            2.   For a single-family residential project site where the lots
are less than one half acre in size. the total lot must be calculated as being
disturbed.
            3.   To calculate lot disturbance on all other types of project
sites, such as industrial and commercial projects project sites, a minimum of
one acre of land disturbance must be used as the expected lot disturbance,
unless the lots are less than one acre in size, in which case the total lot
must be calculated as being disturbed.
      (2)   The calculation methods as well as the type, sizing, and placement
of all stormwater pollution prevention measures for construction sites shall
meet the design criteria, standards, and specifications outlined in the Indiana
Stormwater Quality Manual, the city’s Stormwater Technical Standards Manual,
and the product guidance/specifications of the manufacturer. The methods and
procedures included in these two references are in keeping with the above
stated policy and meet the requirements of the IDEM's CSGP. A copy of the
Indiana Stormwater Quality Manual may be obtained online through IDEM.
      (3)   The design requirements that would apply to all land-disturbing
activities and shall be considered in the selection, design, and implementation
of all stormwater quality and management measures contained in the SWPPP are
contained in the city Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
   (D)   Inspection, maintenance, record keeping, and reporting.
      (1)   Following approval of the stormwater management permit or
individual lot plot plan permit by the city and commencement of construction
activities, the city has the authority to conduct inspections of the site to
ensure full compliance with the provisions of this section, the approved
stormwater pollution prevention plan, the Indiana Stormwater Quality Manual,
and the terms and conditions of the approved permit.
      (2)   A self-monitoring program (SMP) must be implemented by the project
site owner to ensure the stormwater pollution prevention plan is working
effectively. A trained individual, acceptable to the city, shall monitor and
manage project construction and stormwater activities. Details regarding the
required monitoring activities are contained in the city’s Stormwater Technical
Standards Manual.
      (3)   The stormwater pollution prevention plan shall serve as a guideline
for stormwater quality but should not be interpreted to be the only basis for
implementation of stormwater quality measures for a project site. The project
site owner is responsible for implementing, in accordance with this section,
all measures necessary to adequately prevent polluted stormwater runoff.
Recommendations by the trained individual for modified stormwater quality
measures should be implemented.
      (4)   A project management log must be maintained at the project site or
in the possession of on-site individuals associated with the management and
operations of the construction activities. Details regarding requirements
related to the project management log are contained in the city’s Stormwater
Technical Standards Manual.
(Ord. 2023-002-C, passed 6-19-2023)
§ 54.24 STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT FOR POST-CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Applicability and exemptions.
      (1)   In addition to the requirements of §
54.23, the stormwater pollution prevention plan, which is to be submitted to
the city as part of the stormwater management permit application, must also
include post-construction stormwater quality measures. These measures are
incorporated as a permanent feature into the site plan and are left in place
following completion of construction activities to continuously treat
stormwater runoff from the stabilized site. Any project located within the
corporate boundaries of the city that includes clearing, grading, excavation,
and other land disturbing activities, resulting in the disturbance of 10,000
square feet or more of total land area is subject to the requirements of this
section. This includes both new development and redevelopment, and disturbances
of land less than 10,000 square feet of total land area that are part of a
larger common plan of development or sale if the larger common plan will
ultimately disturb 10,000 square feet or more of total land area. In addition,
regardless of the amount of disturbance, the city reserves the right to require
pre-treatment BMPs for proposed hot spot developments in accordance with
provisions contained in the city’s Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
      (2)   The requirements under this section do not apply to the following
activities:
         (a)   Construction activities associated with a single-family
residential dwelling disturbing less than one acre, when the dwelling is not
part of a larger common plan of development or sale; or
         (b)   Individual building lots within a larger permitted project.
      (3)   The requirements under this section do not apply to the following
activities, provided other applicable state permits contain provisions
requiring immediate implementation of soil erosion control measures:
         (a)   Landfills that have been issued a certification of closure under
329 I.A.C. 10;
         (b)   Coal mining activities permitted under I.C. 14-34; or
         (c)   Municipal solid waste landfills that are accepting waste
pursuant to a permit issued by the Indiana Department of Environmental
Management under 329 I.A.C. 10 that contains equivalent stormwater
requirements, including the expansion of landfill boundaries and construction
of new cells either within or outside the original solid waste permit boundary.
      (4)   It will be the responsibility of the project site owner to complete
a stormwater permit application and ensure that a sufficient construction plan
is completed and submitted to the city in accordance with §
54.25. It will be the responsibility of the project site owner to ensure proper
construction and installation of all stormwater BMP's (especially, the
protection of post-stormwater BMPs during construction phase) in compliance
with this subchapter and with the approved stormwater management permit, and to
notify the city upon completion of the project and stabilization of the site,
requesting a termination inspection to be performed by the city. However, all
eventual property owners of stormwater quality facilities meeting the
applicability requirements must comply with the requirements of this section
and this subchapter.
   (B)   Policy on stormwater quality management.
      (1)   It is recognized that developed areas, as compared to undeveloped
areas, generally have increased imperviousness, decreased infiltration rates,
increased runoff rates, and increased concentrations of pollutants such as
fertlizers, herbicides, greases, oil, salts and other pollutants. As new
development and redevelopment continues within the corporate boundaries of the
city, measures must be taken to intercept and filter pollutants from stormwater
runoff prior to reaching regional creeks, streams, and rivers. Through the use
of appropriate best management practices (BMPs), to treat the water quality
volume (WQV) or the water quality flow (QWQ) stormwater runoff will be filtered
and harmful amounts of sediment, nutrients, and contaminants will be removed.
      (2)   It is also recognized that another major source of pollution in
many Indiana streams, including those within the corporate boundaries of the
city, is the stream bank erosion associated with urbanizing watersheds. Stream
channels develop their shape in response to the volume and rate of runoff that
they receive from their contributing watersheds. Research has shown that in
hydrologically stable watersheds, the stream flow responsible for most of the
shaping of the channel (called the bank full flow) occurs between every one to
two years. When land is developed, the volume and rate of runoff from that land
increases for these comparatively small flooding events that are not normally
addressed by the detention practices and the stream channel will adapt by
changing its shape. As the stream channel works to reach a new stable shape,
excess erosion occurs. As new development and re-development continues within
the corporate boundaries of the city, measures must be taken to minimize the
impact of such development or re-development on stream bank erosion. Through
the use of appropriate best management practices (BMPs) to retain and/or detain
and slowly release the channel protection volume (CPV), the volume and rate of
runoff for channel forming flows will be reduced in an attempt to minimize
increased stream bank erosion in the receiving streams and channels.
      (3)   The project site owner must submit to the city a stormwater
pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) that shows placement of appropriate BMP(s)
from a pre-approved list of BMP's specified in the city’s Stormwater Technical
Standards Manual. The SWPPP submittal shall include an operation and
maintenance manual for all post-construction BMP(s) included in the project and
a notarized maintenance agreement, consistent with the sample agreement
provided in the city’s Stormwater Technical Standards Manual, providing for the
long-term maintenance of those BMPs, both of which shall be recorded with the
deed for the property on which the project is located. The noted BMP(s) must be
designed, constructed, and maintained according to guidelines provided or
referenced in the city’s Stormwater Technical Standards Manual. Practices other
than those specified in the pre-approved list may be utilized. However, the
burden of proof, as to whether the performance and ease of maintenance of such
practices will be according to guidelines provided in the city’s Stormwater
Technical Standards Manual, would be placed with the applicant. Details
regarding the procedures and criteria for consideration of acceptance of such
BMP's are provided in the city’s Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
      (4)   Gasoline outlets and refueling areas must install appropriate
practices (as noted under "Hot Spots" provision in the Technical Standards) to
reduce lead, copper, zinc, and polyaromatic hydrocarbons in stormwater runoff.
These requirements will apply to all new facilities and existing facilities
that replace their tanks, regardless of the size of the facility.
      (5)   Discharges from new development and redevelopment sites will not be
allowed directly into karst features without pre-treatment.
   (C)   Calculations and design standards and specifications.
      (1)   Calculation of land disturbance should follow the guidelines
discussed in §
54.22(C).
      (2)   The calculation methods as well as the type, sizing, and placement
of all stormwater quality management measures, or BMPs shall meet the design
criteria, standards, and specifications outlined in the city’s Stormwater
Technical Standards Manual. The methods and procedures included in the
referenced standards is in keeping with the above stated policy and meet or
exceed the requirements of IDEM's MS4 GP.
   (D)   Easement requirements. All stormwater quality management systems,
including detention or retention basins, filter strips, pocket wetlands, in-
line filters, infiltration systems, conveyance systems, structures and
appurtenances located outside of the right-of-way shall be incorporated into
permanent easements. For the purposes of monitoring, inspection, and general
maintenance activities, adequate easement width, as detailed in the city’s
Stormwater Technical Standards Manual, beyond the actual footprint of the
stormwater quality management facility as well as a 20-foot wide access
easement from a public right-of-way to each BMP shall be provided.
   (E)   Inspection, maintenance, record keeping, and reporting.
      (1)   After the approval of the stormwater management permit by the city
and the commencement of construction activities, the city has the authority to
conduct inspections of the work being done to ensure full compliance with the
provisions of this section, the approved stormwater pollution prevention plan,
the city’s Stormwater Technical Standards Manual, and the terms and conditions
of the approved permit.
      (2)   Stormwater quality facilities shall be maintained in good
condition, in accordance with the operation and maintenance procedures and
schedules listed in the city’s Stormwater Technical Standards Manual, in
addition to the designed and approved performance specifications for the
facilities and shall not be subsequently altered, revised, or replaced except
as approved by the city.
      (3)   Details regarding the required of stormwater BMP maintenance
agreement, O and M maintenance manual, and a maintenance escrow account and
their transfer to other parties or subsequent owners prior to release of the
maintenance bond discussed in §
54.25 is provided in the city’s Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
      (4)   The city’s also has the authority to perform long-term, post-
construction inspection of all public or privately owned stormwater quality
facilities. The inspection will cover physical conditions, available water
quality storage capacity and the operational condition of key facility
elements. Noted deficiencies and recommended corrective action will be included
in an inspection report.
(Ord. 2023-002-C, passed 6-19-2023)
§ 54.25 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Conceptual drainage plan review. In order to gain an understanding of
the drainage requirements for a specific project, a developer may submit
conceptual drainage plans and calculations for review by the city. The
direction provided by the city during such a review is based on preliminary
data and shall not be construed as an acceptance or binding on either party.
The following is a general listing of minimum data requirements for the review
of conceptual drainage plans:
      (1)   Two complete sets of conceptual plans showing general project
layout, including existing and proposed drainage systems (plan sheets must be
larger than 11 inches by 17 inches, but not to exceed 24 inches by 36 inches);
      (2)   General description of the existing and proposed drainage systems
in narrative form;
      (3)   Map showing on-site 100-year floodplain and floodway (please note
if none exists);
      (4)   Map showing all wetlands, lakes, and ponds on or adjacent to the
site;
      (5)   Watershed boundaries with USGS contours or best information
possible;
      (6)   Two copies of drainage calculations detailing existing and proposed
discharges from the site; and
      (7)   Existing watercourse or regulated drains.
   (B)   Permit procedures. This section applies to all development, or re-
development of land, that results in land disturbance of one acre or more.
Individual lots with land disturbance less than one acre shall refer to §§
54.23 and
54.24, and division (D) below for plan review requirements and procedures.
Figure 1 is a flowchart summarizing the plan review/permit approval/project
termination compliance process for land disturbance of one acre or more and can
be found at the end of this section.
      (1)   General procedures.
         (a)   The project site owner shall submit an application for a
stormwater management permit to the city. The application will include a
completed application checklist, construction plan sheets, a stormwater
drainage technical report, a stormwater pollution prevention plan, and any
other necessary support information. Specific information to be included in the
application can be found in division (C) below. Copies of each application must
be submitted to the city. The city may, at its discretion, require one or more
copies be submitted to other entities deemed appropriate by the city.
Additionally, a digital copy of the construction plans is required in a format
accepted by the city.
         (b)   After the city’s receipt of the application, the applicant will
be notified as to whether their application was complete or insufficient. The
applicant will be asked for additional information if the application is
insufficient. If the application is complete, it will be reviewed in detail by
the city and/or its plan review consultant(s). Once all comments have been
received and review completed, the city will either approve the project,
request modifications or deny the project. If the applicant does not agree with
or accept the review findings and wishes to seek an appeal, the city will place
the project on the agenda of the next regularly scheduled meeting of the City
Permitting Board, provided the agenda for the meeting has not yet been
advertised or published. If time for notification does not allow, the project
shall be placed on the following regularly scheduled meeting of the City
Permitting Board. If the project must go through a scheduled meeting, the city
will furnish the applicant a complete list of comments and objections to the
plans and accompanying data prior to the scheduled meeting. After the scheduled
meeting, the city will either issue a permit, request modifications to the
construction plans, or deny the project.
         (c)   The project site owner must notify the city and IDEM before
beginning construction. Notification to the city shall be in the form of an
email while the notification to IDEM shall be in the form of an online IDEM NOI
submittal. Once a permit has been issued and the pending construction
notifications submitted to the city and IDEM before the beginning of
construction, construction may commence. Once construction starts, the project
owner shall monitor construction activities and inspect all stormwater
pollution prevention measures in compliance with this subchapter and the terms
and conditions of the approved permit. Upon completion of construction
activities, a certification of completion and compliance and as built plans
must be submitted to the city. Once the construction site has been stabilized
and all temporary erosion and sediment control measures have been removed, a
notification shall be sent to the city, requesting a termination inspection.
The city, or its representative, shall inspect the construction site to verify
that the completed project is fully stabilized and meets the requirements of
this chapter and its technical standards and that the terms and conditions of
the permit. Once the applicant receives a signed copy of the termination
inspection checklist confirming compliance, they must forward a copy to IDEM
along with the required IDEM NOT form. Permits issued by the city under this
scenario will expire five years from the date of issuance. If construction is
not completed within five years, an updated permit application must be
submitted to the city and an updated NOI must be resubmitted to IDEM at least
90 days prior to expiration.
      (2)   SWPPP review time limits. Pursuant to I.C. 13-18-27, an MS4-
designated entity or other review authority such as SWCD must make a
preliminary determination as to whether the construction plan associated with
SWPPP is substantially complete before the end of the tenth working day (for
sites with less than five acres of land disturbance) after the day on which the
SWPPP is submitted to the review authority or the fourteenth working day (for
sites with five acres or larger of land disturbance) after the day on which the
SWPPP is submitted to the review authority. Depending on the outcome of the
SWPPP review, the following scenarios may play out:
         (a)   No SWPPP review notification received. If the review authority
does not notify the applicant of its preliminary determination as to whether
the construction plan is substantially complete within either ten or 14 days as
noted above, the project site owner may submit a notice of intent letter to
IDEM including the information required by IDEM, or this subchapter and the
city’s Stormwater Technical Standards Manual, and 48 hours after the NOI is
submitted to IDEM, may begin the construction project, including the land
disturbing activities of the construction project.
         (b)   SWPPP not substantially complete. If the review authority
notifies the applicant that the construction plan is not substantially
complete, the project site owner may not submit a notice of intent letter to
IDEM until the review authority makes a conclusive favorable determination
concerning the construction plan under the IDEM rule/permit, or this subchapter
and the city’s Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
         (c)   Unfavorable SWPPP. If the review authority notifies the
applicant that the construction plan is substantially complete; and makes a
conclusive unfavorable determination concerning the construction plan under
IDEM rule/permit, or this subchapter and the city’s Stormwater Technical
Standards Manual, the project site owner may not submit a notice of intent
letter to IDEM.
         (d)   Preliminary SWPPP review. If the review authority notifies the
applicant that the construction plan is substantially complete and a
preliminary review has been completed, the project site owner may submit a
notice of intent letter to IDEM including the information required by IDEM, or
this subchapter and the city’s Stormwater Technical Standards Manual, and 48
hours after the NOI is submitted to IDEM, may begin the construction project,
including the land disturbing activities of the construction project. The plan
review authority reserves the right to perform a comprehensive review at a
later date, and revisions may be required at that time.
         (e)   Conditional SWPPP review. If the review authority notifies the
applicant that the construction plan is substantially complete and a
conditional review has been completed, the project site owner may submit a
notice of intent letter to IDEM including the information required by IDEM, or
this subchapter and the city’s Stormwater Technical Standards Manual, and 48
hours after the NOI is submitted to IDEM, may begin the construction project,
including the land disturbing activities of the construction project provided
that the requirements included in the conditional review are fulfilled.
         (f)   Favorable SWPPP review. If the review authority notifies the
applicant that the construction plan is substantially complete and a
preliminary review has been completed, the project site owner may submit a
notice of intent letter to IDEM including the information required by IDEM, or
this subchapter and the city’s Stormwater Technical Standards Manual, and 48
hours after the NOI is submitted to IDEM, may begin the construction project,
including the land disturbing activities of the construction project.
      (3)   Note that the above time limits only apply to the SWPPP portion of
the overall stormwater permit submittal and does not affect any official or
non-official permit review timelines set by the entity for other aspects of the
stormwater permit application.
   (C)   Information requirements.
      (1)   Specific projects or activities may be exempt from all or part of
the informational requirements listed below. Exemptions are detailed in
division (A) of §§
54.21 through
54.24. If a project or activity is exempt from any or all requirements of this
subchapter an application should be filed listing the exemption criteria met,
in lieu of the information requirements listed below. This level of detailed
information is not required from individual lots, disturbing less than one acre
of land, developed within a larger permitted project site. Review and
acceptance of such lots is covered under division (D).
      (2)   The different elements of a permit submittal include an application
checklist, construction plans, a stormwater drainage technical report, a
stormwater pollution prevention plan for active construction sites, a post-
construction stormwater pollution prevention plan, and any other necessary
supporting information. All plans, reports, calculations, and narratives shall
be signed and sealed by a professional engineer or a licensed surveyor,
registered in the State of Indiana who also meets the definition of a trained
individual found in §
54.20(I).
         (a)   Application checklist. As part of the city stormwater management
permit application package, the application checklist provided in the city’s
Stormwater Technical Standards Manual must be completed by the applicant and
provided along with other required supporting material.
         (b)   Construction plans. Construction plan sheets (larger than 11
inches by 17 inches, but not to exceed 24 inches by 36 inches in size) and an
accompanying narrative report shall describe and depict the existing and
proposed conditions. Note that in order to gain an understanding of and to
evaluate the relationship between the proposed improvements for a specific
project section/phase and the proposed improvements for an overall multi-
section (phased) project, the detailed information requested herein for the
first section/phase being permitted must be accompanied by an overall project
plan that includes the location, dimensions, and supporting analyses of all
detention/retention facilities, primary conveyance facilities. and outlet
conditions. Construction plans must include items listed in the application
checklist provided in the city’s Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
         (c)   Stormwater drainage technical report. A written stormwater
drainage technical report must contain a discussion of the steps taken in the
design of the stormwater drainage system. Note that in order to gain an
understanding of and to evaluate the relationship between the proposed
improvements for a specific project section/phase and the proposed improvements
for an overall multi-section (phased) project, the detailed information
requested herein for the first section/phase being permitted must be
accompanied by an overall project plan that includes the location, dimensions,
and supporting analyses of all detention/retention facilities, primary
conveyance facilities, and outlet conditions. The technical report needs to
include items listed in the application checklist provided in the city’s
Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
         (d)   Stormwater pollution prevention plan for construction sites. For
sites with total disturbance of one acre or more, a stormwater pollution
prevention plan associated with construction activities must be designed to, at
least, meet the requirements of this subchapter. The SWPPP and construction
plans must include the items listed in the application checklist provided in
the city’s Stormwater Technical Standards Manual. For land disturbances
totaling 10,000 square feet or more of land area but less than one acre,
appropriate erosion and sediment control measures that are consistent with the
city’s technical standards must be designed and shown on the plans.
         (e)   Post-construction stormwater pollution prevention plan. For
sites with total land disturbance of 10,000 square feet or more of total land
area, a post-construction stormwater pollution prevention plan must be designed
to, at least, meet the requirements of this subchapter and must include the
information provided in the city’s Stormwater Technical Standards Manual. The
post-construction stormwater pollution prevention plan must include items
listed in the application checklist provided in the city’s Stormwater Technical
Standards Manual.
   (D)   Review of individual lots.
      (1)   For all individual lots disturbing 10,000 square feet or more but
less than one acre, a formal review and issuance of an individual lot plot plan
permit will be required before a building permit can be issued. Similarly, for
individual lots disturbing less than 10,000 square feet of total land area,
developed within a larger permitted project, a formal review and issuance of an
individual lot plot plan permit will be required before a building permit can
be issued. All stormwater management measures necessary to comply with this
subchapter must be implemented in accordance with permitted plan for the larger
project.
      (2)   The following information must be submitted to the city, for review
and acceptance, by the individual lot operator, whether owning the property or
acting as the agent of the property owner, as part of a request for review and
issuance of an individual lot plot plan permit that must be obtained prior to
the issuance of a building permit.
         (a)   A site layout for the subject lot and all adjacent lots showing
building pad location, dimensions, and elevations, and the drainage patterns
and swales.
         (b)   Erosion and sediment control plan that, at a minimum, includes
the following measures:
            1.   Installation and maintenance of a stable construction site
access.
            2.   Installation and maintenance of appropriate perimeter erosion
and sediment control measures prior to land disturbance.
            3.   Minimization of sediment discharge and tracking from the lot.
            4.   Clean-up of sediment that is either tracked or washed onto
roads. Bulk clearing of sediment shall not include flushing the area with
water. Cleared sediment must be redistributed or disposed of in a manner that
is in compliance with all applicable statutes and rules.
            5.   Implementation of concrete or cementitious wash water
practices that securely contain and allow for the proper disposal of concrete
or cementitious wash water.
            6.   Adjacent lots disturbed by an individual lot operator must be
repaired and stabilized with temporary or permanent surface stabilization.
            7.   Self-monitoring program including plan and procedures.
      (3)   Certification of compliance stating that the individual lot plan is
consistent with the stormwater management permit, as approved by the city, for
the larger project (if the individual lot is part of a larger permitted
project).
      (4)   Name, address, telephone number, and list of qualifications of the
trained individual in charge of the mandatory stormwater pollution prevention
self-monitoring program for the project site.
      (5)   The individual lot operator is responsible for installation and
maintenance for all erosion and sediment control measures until the site
stabilized.
   (E)   Changes to plans. Any changes or deviations in the detailed plans and
specifications after approval of the applicable stormwater management permit
shall be filed with, and accepted by, the city prior to the land development
involving the change. Copies of the changes, if accepted, shall be attached to
the original plans and specifications.
   (F)   Fee structure.
      (1)   Fee amount. As a condition of the submittal and the review of
development plans by the city, the applicant shall agree to pay the city the
applicable fee, as set by the city with respect to the review of all drainage
submittals, preliminary plans, final plans, construction plans and accompanying
information and data, as well as prepaid inspection fees.
      (2)   Time of payment.
         (a)   After the meeting at which the city is scheduled to consider
acceptance of the applicant's final stormwater management plan, the city will
furnish a written statement to the applicant specifying the total amount due
the city in connection with the review of the applicant's submittals, plans and
accompanying information and data, including the amount required to be paid by
applicant for review and pre-paid inspection fees.
         (b)   As a condition of acceptance of final drainage plans by the city
applicant shall pay to the city the sum set forth in said statement. The city
may issue such a billing statement before the project advances to the final
acceptance stage, and such payment is due by applicant upon receipt of said
billing statement regardless of whether the project is advanced to the final
acceptance stage.
         (c)   The city shall have the right to not accept the drainage
improvements or to not approve the advancement of any project for which the
applicable fees have not been paid.
      (3)   Method of payment.
         (a)   Fees shall be paid by one of the following methods:
            1.   Check;
            2.   Certified check;
            3.   Cashier's check; or
            4.   Money order.
         (b)   All checks shall be made payable to: the city’s address.
      (4)   Refund of payment. Fees are refundable only if the city determines
that compliance by the development or project to this subchapter is not
necessary.
      (5)   Fee schedule. Stormwater permit application and inspection fees
will be in accordance with the fee schedule set by the city as a separate
resolution.
   (G)   Required assurances. This section shall apply to all projects whether
the stormwater management system or portions thereof will be dedicated to the
city or retained privately. As a condition of approval and issuance of the
permit, the city shall require the applicant to provide assurance in form of an
irrevocable letter of credit or a bond when the stormwater management plan has
been accepted and before construction begins. Said assurance will guarantee a
good faith execution of the stormwater drainage plan, the stormwater pollution
prevention plan, the stormwater quality management plan, and any permit
conditions. The assurance shall be for an amount equal to 125% of the total
costs of all stormwater management measures for the entire project. The
abovementioned costs shall be based on an estimate as prepared by a registered
engineer or land surveyor. Said costs shall be for the installation and ongoing
monitoring and maintenance of erosion control measures and the construction and
ongoing monitoring and maintenance of storm drainage infrastructure, detention/
retention facilities, and stormwater quality BMP's, as regulated under this
subchapter, until the construction is completed, the site is stabilized, and as
built plans are accepted by the city. Assurances shall be for a minimum of
$5,000. All other performance bonds, maintenance bonds or other assurances
required by the city in accordance with any and all other ordinances shall also
apply and so be required. Local governmental jurisdictions may require
additional performance and/or maintenance assurances. The intent of this
assurance is not only to complete the installation of storm drain
infrastructure for the project, but also to assure that adequate stormwater
pollution prevention measures are properly installed and maintained. If
adequate assurances are set aside by the project site owner for the overall
project, proof of total assurance can be submitted in place of an individual
stormwater assurance.
   (H)   Terms and conditions of permits.
      (1)   In granting a stormwater management permit, the city may impose
such terms and conditions as are reasonably necessary to meet the purposes of
this subchapter. The project site owner shall insure compliance with such terms
and conditions. Non-compliance with the terms and conditions of permits will be
subject to enforcement as described in §
54.26.
      (2)   The project site owner shall inform all general contractor,
construction management firms, grading or excavating contractors, utility
contractors, and the contractors that have primary oversight on individual
building lots of the terms and conditions of the stormwater management permit
and the schedule for proposed implementation.
      (3)   In the event that a project site is determined to impact or
discharge to a sensitive area or is located in an impact drainage area, the
city may require more stringent stormwater quantity and quality measures than
detailed in this subchapter or in the Indiana Stormwater Quality Manual.
         (a)   Determination of sensitive areas. Sensitive areas include highly
erodible soils, wetlands, karst areas, threatened or endangered species
habitat, outstanding waters, impaired waters, recreational waters, and surface
drinking water sources. Any discharge from a stormwater practice that is a
Class V injection well shall meet the Indiana Groundwater Quality Standards and
registered with US EPA as required by the IDEM. If wetlands are suspected on a
site, a wetland delineation should be completed in accordance with the
methodology established by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (COE). The need for
the applicant to check for the presence of threatened or endangered species
habitat will be determined on a case-by-case basis. Special terms and
conditions for development determined to impact or discharge to any sensitive
area shall be included in the stormwater management permit.
         (b)   Determination of impact drainage areas.
            1.   The following areas shall be designated as impact drainage
areas, unless good reason for not including them is presented to the city.
               a.   A floodway or floodplain as designated by the most updated
FEMA Code dealing with floodplain regulation and/or by the best available data
through IDNR.
               b.   Land within 25 feet of each bank of any ditch within the
city’s system.
               c.   Land within 15 feet of the centerline of any stormwater
infrastructure or enclosed conduit within the city’s system.
               d.   Land within 75 feet of each bank of a county open regulated
drain.
               e.   Land within 50 feet of a natural drainageway.
               f.   Land within 75 feet of the centerline of any tiled
regulated drain.
               g.   Land within the fluvial erosion hazard (FEH) corridor.
               h.   Land within the expected breach inundation zone of an
existing or proposed new dam and areas protected from flooding by a levee.
            2.   The city or City Engineer is authorized, but is not required,
to classify certain geographical areas as impact drainage areas. In determining
impact drainage areas, the city may consider such factors as topography, soil
type, capacity of existing drains, and distance from adequate drainage
facility.
            3.   Land that does not have an adequate outlet, taking into
consideration the capacity and depth of the outlet, may be designated as an
impact drainage area by the city. Special terms and conditions for development
within any impact drainage area shall be included in the stormwater management
permit.
         (c)   Determination of designated drainage areas served by regional
facilities. The city is authorized, but is not required, to classify certain
geographical areas as designated drainage areas that are or will be served by
regional facilities, such as a regional pond. In such cases, an infrastructure
development fee (IDF) rate may be established for the designated drainage area.
The basis for determining such a fee for a proposed development or
redevelopment within a designated drainage area will be as detailed in the
city’s Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
   (I)   Certification of as-build plans. This section shall apply to all
projects whether the stormwater management system or portions thereof will be
dedicated to the city or retained privately. After completion of construction
of the project and before the release of required performance assurances
referenced in division (G) above, a professionally prepared and certified “as-
built” set of plans (record drawings) shall be submitted to the city for
review. These as-built plans/record drawings must be prepared and certified by
the Engineer of Record, i.e., the company/engineer who originally prepared the
construction plans. Additionally, a digital copy of the “as-built” plans
(record drawings) as well as finalized digital versions of all analyses,
models, manuals, and reports that are consistent with the as-built conditions
is required in a format acceptable to the city. These plans shall include all
pertinent data relevant to the completed storm drainage system and stormwater
management facilities, and shall include:
      (1)   Pipe size and pipe material;
      (2)   Invert elevations;
      (3)   Top rim elevations;
      (4)   Elevation of the emergency overflow (spillway) for ponds;
      (5)   Grades along the emergency flood routing path(s);
      (6)   Pipe structure lengths;
      (7)   BMP types, dimensions, and boundaries/easements;
      (8)   "As-planted" plans for BMP's, as applicable;
      (9)   Data and calculations showing detention basin storage volume;
      (10)   Data and calculations showing BMP treatment capacity; and
      (11)   Certified statement on plans stating the completed storm drainage
system and stormwater management facilities substantially comply with
construction plans and the stormwater management permit as approved by the
city. (See certificate in the Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.)
   (J)   Post-project maintenance bond and verifications.
      (1)   In addition to as-built plans and the certification of completion
and compliance, following the release of performance assurances, the property
owner, developer, or contractor shall be required to file a two-year
maintenance bond or other acceptable guarantee with the city in an amount not
to exceed 25% of the cost of the stormwater management system located outside
the public road rights-of-way, and in a form satisfactory to the city in order
to assure that such stormwater system installation was done according to
standards of good workmanship, that the materials used in the construction and
installation were of good quality and construction, and that such project was
done in accordance with the accepted plans, and this subchapter and that any
off-site drainage problems that may arise, whether upstream or downstream of
such project, will be corrected if such drainage problems are determined by
jurisdictional entity to have been caused by the development of such project.
The bond or other acceptable guarantee shall be in effect for a period of two
years after the date of the release of required performance assurances
referenced in division (G) above. The beneficiary of all maintenance bonds
shall be the Common Council.
      (2)   To verify that all stormwater infrastructure is functioning
properly, visual recordings (via closed circuit television) of such
infrastructure, including all subsurface drains, shall be required twice, once
following the completion of installation of the stormwater management system
and submittal of as-builts, and the second time before release of maintenance
bonds. These visual recordings will be scheduled by the city and paid for by
the developer. Notices shall be provided to the city within 72 hours following
the completion of installation and again at least 60 days prior to the
expiration date of the maintenance bond so that the noted recordings may be
scheduled. Reports summarizing the results of the noted visual recordings shall
be reviewed and accepted by the city before the plat is recommended for
recording and again before the maintenance bond shall be recommended to be
released.
      (3)   Additional requirements for transfer of any applicable stormwater
BMP maintenance agreement, O and M Maintenance Manual, and maintenance escrow
accounts to subsequent owners prior to release of the maintenance bond is
discussed in §
54.24.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9834175caa69942e33585ee9423d847f24dc5a7b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1331.jpg]
 
(Ord. 2023-002-C, passed 6-19-2023)
§ 54.26 COMPLIANCE AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Compliance with this subchapter. To secure compliance with the
requirements of this subchapter, violations thereof shall be subject to the
enforcement provisions set forth under division (B) below. Additionally,
compliance with the requirements set forth in the local zoning ordinances is
also necessary. Compliance with all applicable ordinances of the city as well
as with applicable State of Indiana statues and regulations shall also be
required. Unless otherwise stated, all other specifications referred to in this
subchapter shall be the most recent edition available.
      (1)   Definitions.
         COMPLIANCE. The act of correcting a violation or violations within the
time frame specified by the city.
         OFFENSE. Both a violation and a failure of compliance on a particular
project constitute an OFFENSE. If there are multiple violations or multiple
failures of compliance on the same project, each shall be considered a separate
offense as further stated in division (B)(3).
         VIOLATION. Any action or inaction which violates the provisions of
this subchapter, the requirements of an approved stormwater management design
plan or permit, and/or the requirements of a recorded stormwater maintenance
agreement may be subject to the enforcement actions outlined in this section.
Any such action or inaction is deemed to be a public nuisance and may be abated
by injunctive or other equitable relief, in addition to and separate from the
imposition of any of the enforcement actions described below.
      (2)   Warning notice. When the city finds that any person has violated,
or continues to violate, any provision of this subchapter, or any order issued
hereunder, the city may serve upon that person a written warning notice,
specifying the particular violation believed to have occurred and requesting
the discharger to immediately investigate the matter and to seek a resolution
whereby any offending discharge will cease. Investigation and/or resolution of
the matter in response to the warning notice in no way relieves the alleged
violator of liability for any violations occurring before or after receipt of
the warning notice. Nothing in this subsection shall limit the authority of the
city to take any action, including emergency action or any other enforcement
action, without first issuing a warning notice.
   (B)   Enforcement of this subchapter.
      (1)   Notice of violation/citation.
         (a)   If the city determines that an applicant or other responsible
person has failed to comply with the terms and conditions of a permit, an
approved stormwater management design plan, a recorded stormwater management
maintenance agreement, or the provisions of this subchapter, it shall issue a
written notice of violation to such applicant or other responsible person and
the owner of the property. Where a person is engaged in activity covered by
this subchapter without having first secured a permit therefore, the notice of
violation shall be served on the owner or the responsible person in charge of
the activity being conducted on the site.
         (b)   The notice of violation can be in the form of a citation ticket
and/or a written letter that would contain detailed inspection findings,
conclusions of law, disposition of warning or fines assessed, stipulated
remedial actions as discussed with the responsible party representative,
reasonable deadlines for those remedial actions, and the date of re-inspection.
      (2)   Compensatory action. In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties,
and remedies authorized by this subchapter, the city may impose upon a
violator, alternative compensatory actions, such as storm drain stenciling,
attendance at compliance workshops, creek cleanup, public education, etc.
      (3)   Civil penalties for violations.
         (a)   Any person who commits an offense under this subchapter commits
a civil infraction subject to a fine not to exceed $2,500 for each offense,
plus costs, damages, and expenses. Each day such violation occurs or continues
without a compliance action that is satisfactory to the city may be deemed a
separate offense and shall make the violator liable for the imposition of a
fine for each day. The rights and remedies provided for in this section are
cumulative and in addition to any other remedies provided by law. An admission
or determination of responsibility shall not exempt the offender from
compliance with the requirements of this subchapter.
         (b)   Any person who aids or abets a person in a violation of this
subchapter shall be subject to the penalties provided in this section.
         (c)   The city has established an enforcement response schedule as
noted in the table below that standardizes the approach that the city may, in
its discretion, employ in dealing with stormwater regulations offenses subject
to this subchapter and the associated technical standards document. When so
employed, this schedule shall apply separately to each offense in the following
manner: The first offense is the underlying violation itself, while the
subsequent offenses two through eight (as necessary) are failures of
compliance.
Offense # Type of response anticipated
Offense #       Type of response anticipated
First offense   Verbal telephone notice, letter of violation or written warning
                and administrative penalty
Second offense  Letter of violation, administrative penalty and/or site visit
Third offense   Letter of violation, administrative penalty and/or site visit
Fourth offense  Letter of violation, administrative penalty and/or site visit
Fifth offense   Agreed order, administrative penalty and/or site visit
Sixth offense   Administrative order, administrative penalty and/or site visit
Seventh offense Compliance schedule, administrative penalty and/or site visit
Eighth offense  Litigation and administrative penalty
 
         (d)   Likewise, in order to standardize the approach that the city
may, in its discretion, employ in the imposition of administrative penalties,
the city has established the following Schedule of Administrative Penalties.
Again, the penalty for the first offense would apply to the violation itself,
while the subsequent penalties two through four (as necessary) would apply to
failures of compliance. In its discretion, the city may impose penalties up to
the amount specified in this schedule.
 
Offense #      Penalty
First offense  $250
Second offense $500
Third offense  $1,000
Fourth offense $2,500
 
      (4)   Stop work order.
         (a)   In addition to the penalties listed above, if land disturbance
activities are conducted contrary to the provisions of this subchapter or
accepted final stormwater management plans, the city may order the work stopped
by notice in writing served on any person engaged in the doing or causing of
such work to be done, and any such persons shall forthwith stop such work until
authorized by the city to proceed with the work. A stop work order will be
posted on the site by the city and it is unlawful for any person to remove the
notice or continue any work on the site without permission from the city. The
city may also undertake or cause to be undertaken, any necessary or advisable
protective measures to prevent violations of this subchapter or to avoid or
reduce the effects of noncompliance herewith. The cost of any such protective
measures shall be the responsibility of the owner of the property upon which
the work is being done and the responsibility of any person carrying out or
participating in the work.
         (b)   The city may bring an action under I.C. 34-28-5-1(b), to be read
together with I.C. 34-6-2-86(1)(B) and 13-21-3-12(4), to enforce a stop work
order against any person who neglects or fails to comply with a stop work
order.
         (c)   For construction projects that are operating under a SWPPP
approved by the city, if a stop work order is issued on the grounds that the
erosion and sediment control measures included in the construction plan are not
adequate, the project site owner must be notified in writing of the
inadequacies in the erosion and sediment control measures and the project site
owner has 72 hours after receiving written notice to resolve the identified
inadequacies before the stop work order can take effect.
         (d)   The 72 hour period to resolve identified inadequacies on a
construction project does not apply if the stop work order is issued to a
construction project where the project site owner is creating a public health
hazard or safety hazard.
      (5)   Withhold certificate of occupancy. The city may refuse to issue a
certificate of occupancy for the building or other improvements constructed or
being constructed on the site until the applicant or other responsible person
has taken the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or has
otherwise satisfied the requirements of this subchapter as determined by the
city.
      (6)   Suspension, revocation, or modification of permits. The city may
suspend, revoke, or modify any existing permit that the violator may also have
been previously granted. A suspended, revoked, or modified permit may be
reinstated after the applicant or other responsible person has taken the
remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or has otherwise cured
the violations described therein, provided such permit may be reinstated upon
such conditions as the city may deem necessary to enable the applicant or other
responsible person to take the necessary remedial measures to cure such
violations.
      (7)   Suspension of access to the stormwater drainage system.
         (a)   Emergency cease and desist orders.
            1.   When the city finds that any person has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of this subchapter, or any order issued hereunder, or
that the person's past violations are likely to recur, and that the person's
violation(s) has (have) caused or contributed to an actual or threatened
discharge to the MS4 or waters of the United States which reasonably appears to
present an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of
persons or to the environment, the city may issue an order to the violator
directing it immediately to cease and desist all such violations and directing
the violator to immediately comply with all ordinance requirements and take
such appropriate preventive action as may be needed to properly address a
continuing or threatened violation, including immediately halting operations
and/or terminating the discharge.
            2.   Any person notified of an emergency order directed to it under
this division shall immediately comply and stop or eliminate its endangering
discharge. In the event of a discharger's failure to immediately comply
voluntarily with the emergency order, the city may commence court action
against such person under I.C. 34-28-5-1(b), to be read together with I.C. 34-
6-2-86(1)(B) and 13-21-3-12(4), to enforce a stop work order.
            3.   The city may allow the person to recommence its discharge when
it has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the city that the period of
endangerment has passed, unless further termination proceedings are initiated
against the discharger under this subchapter. A person that is responsible, in
whole or in part, for any discharge presenting imminent endangerment shall
submit a detailed written statement, describing the causes of the harmful
discharge and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence, to the city
within five days of receipt of the emergency order. Issuance of an emergency
cease and desist order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for,
taking any other action against the violator.
         (b)   Suspension due to illicit discharges in emergency situations.
The city may, without prior notice, suspend stormwater drainage system
discharge access to a person when such suspension is necessary to stop an
actual or threatened discharge which presents or may present imminent and
substantial danger to the environment, or to the health or welfare of persons,
or to the stormwater drainage system or waters of the state if the violator
fails to comply with a suspension order issued in an emergency, the city may
take such steps as deemed necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the
stormwater drainage system or waters of the state, or to minimize danger to
persons.
         (c)   Suspension to to the detection of illicit discharge. Any person
discharging to the stormwater drainage system in violation of this subchapter
may have their stormwater drainage system access terminated if such termination
would abate or reduce an illicit discharge. The city will notify a violator of
the proposed termination of its stormwater drainage system access. The violator
may petition the city for a reconsideration and hearing. A person commits an
offense if the person reinstates stormwater drainage system access to premises
terminated pursuant to this section, without the prior approval of the city.
   (C)   Cost of abatement of the violation.
      (1)   In addition to any other remedies, should any owner fail to comply
with the provisions of this subchapter, the city may, after giving notice and
opportunity for compliance, have the necessary work done, and the owner shall
be required to promptly reimburse the city for all costs of such work.
      (2)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city from taking such
other lawful action as may be necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. All
costs connected therewith shall accrue to the person or persons responsible.
Costs include, but are not limited to, repairs to the stormwater drainage
system made necessary by the violation, as well as those penalties levied by
the EPA or IDEM for violation of the city’s NPDES permit, administrative costs,
attorney fees, court costs, and other costs and expenses associated with the
enforcement of this subchapter, including sampling and monitoring expenses.
      (3)   If the amount due for abatement of the violation is not paid within
a timely manner as determined by the decision of the city or by the expiration
of the time in which to file an appeal, the city may commence a court action to
recover the costs assessed under I.C. 34-28-5-1(b), to be read together with
I.C. 34-6-2-86(1)(B) and 13-21-3-12(4).
   (D)   Appeals.
      (1)   Appeal of notice of violation. Any person to whom any provision of
this subchapter has been applied may appeal in writing, not later than 30 days
after the action or decision being appealed from, to the appropriate board of
the city the action or decision whereby any such provision was so applied. Such
appeal shall identify the matter being appealed, and the basis for the appeal.
The appropriate board of the city shall consider the appeal and make a decision
whereby it affirms, rejects or modifies the action being appealed. In
considering any such appeal, the appropriate board of the city may consider the
recommendations of the city staff and the comments of other persons having
knowledge of the matter. In considering any such appeal, the appropriate board
may grant a variance from the terms of this subchapter to provide relief, in
whole or in part, from the action being appealed, but only upon finding that
the following requirements are satisfied:
         (a)   The application of the ordinance provisions being appealed will
present or cause practical difficulties for a development or development site;
provided, however, that practical difficulties shall not include the need for
the developer to incur additional reasonable expenses in order to comply with
the subchapter; and
         (b)   The granting of the relief requested will not substantially
prevent the goals and purposes of this subchapter, nor result in less effective
management of stormwater runoff.
         (c)   Any person who has appealed a violation to the appropriate board
may appeal an adverse decision of the board to the Madison County Court within
60 days of the Board’s order, all pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-9(e) and (f).
      (2)   Enforcement measures after appeal. If the violation has not been
corrected pursuant to the requirements set forth in the notice of violation,
or, in the event of an appeal, within five days of the decision of the
appropriate board upholding the decision of the city, then representatives of
the city shall enter upon the subject private property and are authorized to
take any and all measures necessary to abate the violation and/or restore the
property, including the commencing of a court action under I.C. 34-28-5-1(b),to
be read together with I.C. 34-6-2-86(1)(B) and 13-21-3-12(4), to enforce the
order of the appropriate board.
(Ord. 2023-002-C, passed 6-19-2023)
§ 54.27 STORMWATER TECHNICAL STANDARDS MANUAL ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Stormwater Technical Standards Manual, is hereby adopted by reference
and made a part of this code the same as if set forth in full herein.
(Ord. 2023-003-C, passed 6-19-2023)
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   In addition to any of the remedies herein, the violation of any terms of
this chapter shall be deemed a Class B infraction, and a court of competent
jurisdiction, in addition to any other remedies contained herein, may impose a
fine in an amount based on current state-approved amounts and/or as set by City
Council from time to time for each violation. Each day of a violation may be
considered a separate violation.
(Ord. CC-O-2018-001, passed 6-18-2018)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Application
   
70.02   Title; not retroactive
   
70.03   Definitions
   
70.04   Application to non-motorized vehicles
   
70.05   Application to public employees
   
70.06   Vehicle inspection fees
   
70.07   Diver’s license reinstatement fees
Administration and Enforcement
   
70.20   Duty of Police Chief
   
70.21   Authority of Police and Fire Departments
   
70.22   Records of traffic violations
   
70.23   Traffic accident studies and reports
   
70.24   Annual traffic report
   
70.25   Emergency traffic control
   
70.26   Identifying funeral processions
   
70.27   Disposition of traffic fines
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this code relating to the operation of vehicles refer
exclusively to the operation of vehicles upon streets and municipally-operated
parking lots except where a different place is specifically referred to in a
given section.
(Prior Code, § 70.01) (Ord. 1144, passed 2-7-1983)
§ 70.02 TITLE; NOT RETROACTIVE.
   (A)   This Title VII shall be known and may be cited as the City Traffic
Code.
(Prior Code, § 70.02)
   (B)   This code shall not have a retroactive effect. It shall not apply to
any traffic accident, cause of action arising out of a traffic accident or
judgment arising therefrom, or violation of this code occurring prior to the
effective date of this code.
(Prior Code, § 70.03)
(Ord. 1144, passed 2-7-1983)
§ 70.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this traffic code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.
      (1)   A vehicle located on public property illegally;
      (2)   A vehicle left on public property continuously without being moved
for three days;
      (3)   A vehicle located on public property in such a manner as to
constitute a hazard or obstruction to the movement of pedestrian or vehicle
traffic on a public right-of-way;
      (4)   A vehicle which has remained on private property without the
consent of the owner or person in control of that property for more than 48
hours;
      (5)   A vehicle from which the engine, transmission, or differential has
been removed or that is otherwise partially dismantled or inoperable and left
on public property;
      (6)   A vehicle that has been removed by a towing service or a public
agency upon request of an officer enforcing a statute or ordinance, other than
this code, if the impounded vehicle is not claimed or redeemed by the owner or
his or her agent within 20 days after the vehicle’s removal; or
      (7)   A vehicle that is at least three model years old, is mechanically
inoperable, and is left on private property continuously in a location visible
from public property for more than ten days. (See I.C. 9-13-2-1.)
   ALLEY. A public way in an urban district that meets the following
qualifications:
      (1)   Is open to the public for vehicular traffic;
      (2)   Is publicly maintained;
      (3)   Is one lane wide; and
      (4)   Is designated as an alley by the local authorities on an official
map of the urban district.
(See I.C. 9-13-2-2.5.)
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE.
      (1)   Consists of the following:
         (a)   Fire Department vehicles;
         (b)   Police Department vehicles;
         (c)   Ambulances; and
         (d)   Emergency vehicles operated by or for hospitals or health and
hospital corporations under I.C. 16-22-8.
      (2)   Vehicles designated as emergency vehicles by the state’s Department
of Transportation;
      (3)   Motor vehicles that, subject to I.C. 9-21-20-2, are approved by the
state’s Emergency Medical Services Commission that are:
         (a)   Ambulances that are owned by persons, firms, or limited
liability companies or corporations other than hospitals; or
         (b)   Not ambulances and that provide emergency medical services
including extrication and rescue services, as defined in I.C. 16-18-2-110.
      (4)   Vehicles of the Department of Correction that, subject to I.C. 9-
21-20-3, are:
         (a)   Designated by the Department of Correction as emergency
vehicles; and
         (b)   Responding to an emergency.
   AUTOMOBILE WRECKER. An automobile wrecking and parts business.
   BICYCLE. Any foot-propelled vehicle irrespective of the number of wheels in
contact with the ground.
   BUREAU. The State Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway when
50% or more of the frontage thereon for a distance of 500 feet or more is
occupied by buildings in use for business.
   COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of the Bureau.
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   The part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway; and
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface.
   DISPOSAL AGENT. Any firm or individual engaged in business as a scrap metal
processor or automobile scrap yard.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   HOLIDAY. The following days of the year are HOLIDAYS:
      (1)   The first day of January, commonly known as New Year’s Day;
      (2)   The last Monday of May, commonly known as Memorial Day;
      (3)   The fourth day of July, commonly known as Independence Day;
      (4)   The first Monday of September, commonly known as Labor Day;
      (5)   The fourth Thursday of November, commonly known as Thanksgiving
Day; and
      (6)   The twenty-fifth day of December, commonly known as Christmas Day.
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines or, if none, the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of
two highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right angles or
the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways joining at any
other angle may come in conflict; or
      (2)   Where a highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, every
crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting highway
shall be regarded as a separate INTERSECTION. If such intersecting highway also
includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, every crossing of two roadways of
such highway shall be regarded as a separate INTERSECTION.
   LOADING ZONE. A space reserved for the exclusive use of vehicles during the
loading or unloading of passengers or property.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings, and devices,
including railroad advance warning signs, not inconsistent with this code
placed or erected by authority of a public body or official having jurisdiction
for the purpose of regulating, warning, or guiding traffic.
   OWNER.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided herein, when used in reference to a
motor vehicle, OWNER means:
         (a)   A person who holds the legal title of a motor vehicle;
         (b)   A person renting or leasing a motor vehicle and having exclusive
use of the motor vehicle for more than 30 days; or
         (c)   If a motor vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the
conditional sale or lease vested in the conditional vendee or lessee or in the
event the mortgagor, with the right of purchase upon the performance of the
conditions stated in the agreement and with an immediate right of possession of
a vehicle, is entitled to possession, the conditional vendee or lessee or
mortgagor.
      (2)   For purposes of I.C. 9-21 and I.C. 9-25, when used in reference to
a motor vehicle, OWNER means a person who holds the legal title of a motor
vehicle. Also the conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagor, for the purpose of
I.C. 9-21 and I.C. 9-25, if a:
         (a)   Motor vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional
sale or lease of the motor vehicle with the right of purchase upon performance
of the conditions stated in the agreement and with an immediate right of
possession vested in the conditional vendee or lessee; or
         (b)   Mortgagor of a motor vehicle is entitled to possession.
      (3)   For purposes of I.C. 9-22-1, OWNER means the last known record
titleholder of a vehicle according to the records of the Bureau under I.C. 9-
17.
      (4)   For purposes of I.C. 14-8-2, OWNER means a person, other than a
lienholder, having the property in or title to a motorboat. The term includes a
person entitled to the use or possession of a motorboat subject to an interest
in another person reserved or created by agreement and securing payment or
performance of an obligation. The term excludes a lessee under a lease not
intended as security. (See I.C. 9-13-2-121.)
   PARK or PARKING. The standing of an occupied or unoccupied vehicle, other
than temporarily, for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or
unloading merchandise of passengers.
   PARKING PLACE or PARKING SPACE. A designated portion of the surface of a
street of sufficient length and depth to accommodate a vehicle of reasonable
dimensions to be parked.
   PARTS. All vehicle components that, as assembled, do not constitute a
complete vehicle.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, co-partnership, association, and
corporation.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to enforce this code.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. All property other than public property.
   PUBLIC AGENCY. For the purposes of fulfilling the local responsibility for
removal, storage, and disposal of abandoned vehicles, the Police Department.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park, or
other state, county, or municipal property.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway not
comprising a business district when the property on such highway for a distance
of 500 feet or more is in the main improved with residences or residences and
buildings in use for business.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the highway.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel.
   SCRAP METAL PROCESSOR. An establishment having facilities for processing
iron, steel, or nonferrous scrap and whose principal product is scrap iron and
scrap steel or nonferrous scrap for sale for remelting purposes. A SCRAP METAL
PROCESSOR is not a disposal facility or a used-parts dealer.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STAND or STANDING. The halting of an occupied or unoccupied vehicle,
otherwise than temporarily, for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
receiving or discharging passengers.
   STATE LAW. State laws regulating and relating to motor vehicles and their
operation.
   STOP or STOPPING. When required, means complete cessation from movement.
When prohibited, STOP or STOPPING means any halting, even momentarily, of a
vehicle, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with
other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
official traffic-control device or signal.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   TOWING SERVICE. A business engaged in moving or removing disabled vehicles
and, once removed, storing or impounding vehicles.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, street cars, vehicles, and
other conveyances either singly or together while using any highway for
purposes of travel.
   TRUCK.
      (1)   A motor vehicle designed, used, or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property; and
      (2)   For the purposes of I.C. 9-21-8-3, includes:
         (a)   A motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing another
vehicle and constructed to carry a load other than a part of the weight of the
vehicle and load so drawn;
         (b)   A motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm implement
for drawing plows, mowing machines, and other implements of agriculture. (See
I.C. 9-13-2-188.)
   VEHICLE. Except as otherwise provided herein, a device in, upon, or by which
a person or property is or may be transported or drawn upon a highway.
      (1)   For purposes of I.C. 9-14 through I.C. 9-18, the term does not
include the following:
         (a)   A device moved by human power;
         (b)   A transportation device that runs only on rails or tracks;
         (c)   A transportation device propelled by electric power obtained
from overhead trolley wires but not operated upon rails or tracks;
         (d)   A fire truck and apparatus owned by a person or municipal
division of the state and
used for fire protection;
         (e)   A municipally-owned ambulance;
         (f)   A police patrol wagon; and
         (g)   A transportation device not designed for or employed in general
highway transportation of persons or property and occasionally operated or
moved over the highway, including the following:
            1.   Road construction or maintenance machinery; and
            2.   A movable device designed, used, or maintained to alert
motorists of hazardous conditions on highways;
            3.   Construction dust control machinery;
            4.   Well-boring apparatus;
            5.   Ditch-digging apparatus;
            6.   An implement of agriculture designed to be operated primarily
in a farm field or on farm premises;
            7.   An invalid chair; and
            8.   A yard tractor.
      (2)   For purposes of I.C. 9-20 and I.C. 9-21, the term does not include
devices moved by human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or
tracks.
      (3)   For purposes of I.C. 9-22, VEHICLE refers to an automobile,
motorcycle, truck, trailer, semi-trailer, tractor, bus, school bus,
recreational vehicle, or motorized bicycle.
      (4)   For purposes of I.C. 9-30-5, I.C. 9-30-6, I.C. 9-30-8, and I.C. 9-
30-9, VEHICLE means a device for transportation by land or air. The term does
not include an electric personal assistive mobility device. (See I.C. 9-13-2-
196.)
   YARD TRACTOR.
      (1)   A tractor that is used to move semi-trailers around a terminal or a
loading or spotting facility.
      (2)   The term also refers to a TRACTOR that is operated on a highway
with a permit issued under I.C. 6-6-4.1-13(e) if the TRACTOR is ordinarily used
to move semi-trailers around a terminal or spotting facility. (See I.C. 9-13-2-
201.)
(Prior Code, § 70.04) (Ord. 1144, passed 2-7-1983; Ord. 1365, passed 11-18-
1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 6-6-4.1-13(e), 9-13-2-1, 9-13-2-2.5, 9-13-2-
121, 9-13-2-188, 9-13-2-196, 9-14, 9-14.1, 9-17, 9-20 through 9-22, 9-25, 9-30-
5, 9-30-6, 9-30-8, 9-30-9, 9-31, and 16-18-2-110
§ 70.04 APPLICATION TO NON-MOTORIZED VEHICLES.
   Every person propelling a pushcart, riding an animal, or driving any animal-
drawn vehicle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the rights and shall be
subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by this code
except those provisions of this code which, by their very nature, can have no
application.
(Prior Code, § 70.26) (Ord. 1144, passed 2-7-1983)
§ 70.05 APPLICATION TO PUBLIC EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The provisions of this code shall apply to the drivers of all vehicles
owned or operated by the United States, this state, or any political
subdivision of the state and subject to such specific exceptions as are set
forth herein or in state law.
   (B)   The provisions of this code shall not apply to persons, motor
vehicles, and other equipment while actually engaged in work in a street but
shall apply to these persons and vehicles when traveling to or from work.
(Prior Code, § 70.27) (Ord. 1144, passed 2-7-1983)
§ 70.06 VEHICLE INSPECTION FEES.
   (A)   Inspection fees. There is hereby established a fee based on current
state-approved amounts and/or as set by City Council from time to time for each
inspection by a regular member of the Police Department of any motor vehicle,
semi-trailer, or recreational vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 70.40)
   (B)   Deposit of funds. The revenue from the inspection fee shall be
deposited in a Local Law Enforcement Continuing Education Fund as set forth in
Pub. Law No. 48, being I.C. 5-2-8-6.
(Prior Code, § 70.41)
   (C)   Appropriations. Said funds must be appropriated by the Common Council
for the money collected from the inspections for law enforcement purposes only.
(Prior Code, § 70.42)
(Ord. 1230, passed 8-1-1988)
§ 70.07 DRIVER’S LICENSE REINSTATEMENT FEES.
   (A)   The City Court is hereby authorized to assess a fee based on current
state-approved amounts and/or as set by City Council from time to time to a
defendant for the purpose of reimbursing the City Court for the production and
transmission of the SR-16 form and the SR-17 form and court orders to the
Bureau of Motor Vehicles for reinstatement of the defendant’s driver’s license.
   (B)   The fee for an SR-16 form and/or an SR-17 form and for all other court
orders fee shall be collected in the same manner as fines and costs are
currently collected by the City Court but shall be deposited in the City Court
Non-Reverting Fund.
   (C)   The fees collected pursuant to the order and deposited in the Non-
Reverting Fund shall be expended only pursuant to the procedures and for the
purposes authorized when said Non-Reverting Fund was established and pursuant
to state law.
(Ord. 1556, passed 2-16-2010)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.20 DUTY OF POLICE CHIEF.
   (A)   The Chief of Police and his or her deputies shall enforce all city
traffic regulations and all state laws, make arrests for traffic violations,
investigate accidents, cooperate with city officials in the administration of
the traffic laws and in developing ways to improve traffic conditions, and
carry out those duties imposed upon the Chief of Police and deputies by this
code.
(Prior Code, § 70.15)
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall serve as City Traffic Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 70.24)
(Ord. 1144, passed 2-7-1983)
§ 70.21 AUTHORITY OF POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   The Chief of Police and deputies or any officers assigned by the
Chief of Police shall enforce this traffic code and state laws.
      (2)   The Chief of Police and deputies, or any officers assigned by the
Chief of Police, may direct all traffic by voice, hand, or signal in
conformance with traffic laws; provided, in the event of a fire or other
emergency or to expedite traffic or safeguard pedestrians, the Chief of Police
and deputies may direct traffic as conditions may require, notwithstanding the
provisions of this code.
      (3)   Fire Department officers, when at the scene of a fire, may direct
or assist the Chief of Police and deputies or officers in directing traffic in
the immediate vicinity.
(Prior Code, § 70.25)
   (B)   The Chief of Police and deputies shall investigate traffic accidents
and arrest and assist in the prosecution of those persons charged with
violations of law causing or contributing to such accidents.
(Prior Code, § 70.17)
(Ord. 1144, passed 2-7-1983)
§ 70.22 RECORDS OF TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The Police Department shall keep a record of all violations of this
code or state laws of which any person has been charged together with a record
of the final disposition of all such alleged offenses.
      (1)   The record shall show all types of violations and the total of
each.
      (2)   The record shall accumulate during at least a five-year period, and
from that time on, the record shall be maintained complete for at least the
most recent five-year period.
   (B)   All forms for records of violations and notices of violations shall be
serially numbered. A written record for each month and year shall be kept
available to the public showing the disposal of all such forms.
   (C)   All such records and reports shall be public records.
(Prior Code, § 70.16) (Ord. 1144, passed 2-7-1983)
§ 70.23 TRAFFIC ACCIDENT STUDIES AND REPORTS.
   (A)   Studies. Whenever accidents at any particular location become
numerous, the Police Department shall cooperate with city officials in
conducting studies of such accidents and determining remedial measures.
(Prior Code, § 70.18)
   (B)   Traffic accident reports. The Police Department shall maintain a
suitable system of filing traffic accident reports. Accident reports or cards
referring to them shall be filed alphabetically by location. These reports
shall be available for the use and information of city officials and in
accordance with I.C. 9-26-2-3.
(Prior Code, § 70.19)
   (C)   Written report of accident.
      (1)   The city requires that the driver of a vehicle involved in an
accident also file with the Police Department a report of that accident or a
copy of any report required by I.C. 9-26-2-2 to be filed with the State Police
Department. This division (C)(1) shall not apply if the driver was present at
the scene of the accident during the investigation by the Chief of Police or
any other police officer.
      (2)   If the driver is not the owner of the vehicle and is physically
unable to file the report required by division (C)(1) above, the owner of the
vehicle shall file this report within five days after learning of the accident.
      (3)   All written accident reports made by drivers, owners, or occupants
of vehicles involved in accidents, as required in divisions (C)(1) and (2)
above, shall be without prejudice to the individual so reporting and shall be
for the confidential use of the Chief of Police or other governmental agencies
having use of the records for accident prevention purposes.
         (a)   However, the Chief of Police may disclose the identity of a
person involved in an accident when such identity is not otherwise known or
when that person denies his or her presence at that accident.
         (b)   No report shall be used as evidence in any trial, civil or
criminal, arising out of any accident except that the Chief of Police shall
furnish said report, upon demand of any person who has or claims to have made a
report, solely to prove a compliance or a failure to comply with the
requirements that a report be made to the Police Department or as required by
I.C. 9-26-3-4.
(Prior Code, § 70.20)
(Ord. 1144, passed 2-7-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 9-26-2-2, 9-26-2-3, and 9-26-3-4
§ 70.24 ANNUAL TRAFFIC REPORT.
   The Police Department shall prepare a traffic report which shall be filed
with the Common Council annually and which shall contain information on city
traffic matters including:
   (A)   The number of traffic accidents, the number of persons killed, the
number of persons injured, and other pertinent traffic accident data;
   (B)   The number of traffic accidents investigated and other pertinent data
on Police Department safety activities; and
   (C)   Any plans and recommendations of the Police Department for future
traffic safety activities.
(Prior Code, § 70.21) (Ord. 1144, passed 2-7-1983)
§ 70.25 EMERGENCY TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   The Chief of Police may temporarily place official traffic-control devices
when required by an emergency. The Chief of Police shall notify the Mayor of
his or her actions as soon as possible thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 70.22) (Ord. 1144, passed 2-7-1983)
§ 70.26 IDENTIFYING FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   The Chief of Police shall approve types of pennants or other identifying
insignias to be displayed, or other methods to be employed, to identify the
vehicles in funeral processions in accordance with I.C. 9-21-13-5.
(Prior Code, § 70.23) (Ord. 1144, passed 2-7-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 9-21-13–5
§ 70.27 DISPOSITION OF TRAFFIC FINES.
   All fines or forfeitures collected upon conviction of any person charged
with a violation of any of the provisions of this traffic code shall be
deposited in the City General Operating Fund.
(Prior Code, § 70.28) (Ord. 1144, passed 2-7-1983)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by law, every person convicted
of a violation of any provision of this traffic code shall be punished by a
fine based on current state-approved amounts and/or as set by City Council from
time to time for each violation. If any person is convicted of a third or
subsequent offense committed within one year after the date of the first
offense, that person shall be fined based on current state-approved amounts
and/or as set by City Council from time to time. Each date a violation
continues constitutes a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 70.99) (Ord. 1354, passed 7-22-1996)
Cross-reference:
   Ordinance Violations Bureau penalties, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Traffic-control devices
   
71.02   Crosswalks and established safety zones
   
71.03   Traffic lanes
   
71.04   Limitations on turning around
   
71.05   One-way streets and alleys
   
71.06   Intersections where stop or yield is required
   
71.07   Restricted use of alley
   
71.08   State speed laws applicable
   
71.09   Funeral processions
§ 71.01 TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Authority to install. The Chief of Police shall place and maintain
official traffic-control devices, as required by this code, and may place and
maintain additional official traffic-control devices deemed necessary to warn
or guide traffic under the provisions of this code or state law.
(Prior Code, § 71.01)
   (B)   Improper positioning. No provisions of this code for which official
traffic-control devices are required shall be enforced against an alleged
violator if, at the time and place of the alleged violation, an official device
is not in proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily
observant person.
(Prior Code, § 71.02)
   (C)   Presumption of legality.
      (1)   Whenever official traffic-control devices are placed in positions
approximately conforming to the requirements of this code, such devices shall
be presumed to have been so placed by the official act or direction of lawful
authority unless the contrary shall be established by competent evidence.
      (2)   Any official traffic-control device placed pursuant to the
provisions of this code and purporting to conform to the lawful requirements
pertaining to such devices shall be presumed to comply with the requirements of
this code unless the contrary shall be established by competent evidence.
(Prior Code, § 71.03)
   (D)   Indication of course. The Chief of Police may place official traffic-
control devices within or adjacent to intersections indicating the course to be
traveled by vehicles turning at those intersections. The course to be traveled
as so indicated may conform to or be other than that prescribed by law.
(Prior Code, § 71.06)
(Ord. 1144, passed 2-7-1983)
§ 71.02 CROSSWALKS AND ESTABLISHED SAFETY ZONES.
   The Common Council shall direct the Chief of Police to designate and
maintain, by appropriate devices, marks or lines upon the surface of the
roadway and crosswalks at intersections where, in its opinion, there is
particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway and at such other places
as it may deem necessary.
(Prior Code, § 71.04) (Ord. 1144, passed 2-7-1983)
§ 71.03 TRAFFIC LANES.
   The Chief of Police shall, at the direction of the Common Council, mark
traffic lanes upon the roadway of any street or highway under the jurisdiction
of the city.
(Prior Code, § 71.05) (Ord. 1144, passed 2-7-1983)
§ 71.04 LIMITATIONS ON TURNING AROUND.
   The Council may designate those intersections at which drivers of vehicles
shall not make a right, left, or U-turn and shall place proper signs at those
intersections. The making of such turns may be prohibited between certain hours
and permitted at other hours; in such event, the same shall be plainly
indicated on signs, or they may be removed when those turns are permitted.
(Prior Code, § 71.07) (Ord. 1144, passed 2-7-1983)
§ 71.05 ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   The Council may determine and designate one-way streets or alleys and shall
place and maintain official traffic-control devices giving notice of that
designation.
(Prior Code, § 71.08) (Ord. 1144, passed 2-7-1983)
§ 71.06 INTERSECTIONS WHERE STOP OR YIELD IS REQUIRED.
   The Council may designate intersections where a particular hazard exists and
to determine whether vehicles shall stop at one or more entrances to any such
intersection; in such event, the Council shall erect a stop sign at every such
place where a stop is required or determine whether vehicles shall yield the
right-of-way to vehicles on a different street at such intersection and erect a
yield sign at every place where obedience thereto is required.
(Prior Code, § 71.09) (Ord. 1144, passed 2-7-1983) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.07 RESTRICTED USE OF ALLEY.
   The east half of the alley on the west side of Harrison Street between
Church Street and John Street shall be closed to all vehicular traffic except
authorized emergency vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 71.11) (Ord. 1144, passed 2-7-1983)
§ 71.08 STATE SPEED LAWS APPLICABLE.
   (A)   The state laws regulating the speed of vehicles shall be applicable
upon all streets within this city except as this code, as authorized by state
law, hereby declares and determines, upon the basis of engineering and traffic
investigations, that certain speed regulations shall be applicable upon
specified streets or in certain areas. In such event, it shall be unlawful for
any person to drive a vehicle at a speed in excess of any speed so determined
when signs are in place giving notice thereof.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be subject to the penalty
provisions of I.C. 9-21-5-1(b).
(Prior Code, § 71.25) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 9-21-5-1(b)
§ 71.09 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   Identification required. A funeral composed of a procession of
vehicles shall be identified as such by the display upon the outside of each
vehicle of a pennant or other identifying insignia or by such other method as
may be determined and designated by the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 71.40)
   (B)   Permit required; exceptions. 
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any member of a procession or parade to
occupy, march, or proceed along any street or public way without a permit from
the Chief of Police.
      (2)   The Chief of Police shall issue a parade permit only if it is in
the public interest to do so. If the Chief should deny any person a parade
permit, the Common Council shall review said action of the Chief of Police and
determine whether it was correct.
      (3)   The Chief of Police may impose such conditions upon a parade permit
as he or she deems to be reasonable and necessary for the public safety;
provided, however, any person may, prior to the conduct of the parade or
procession for which the permit is granted, appeal the imposition of the
conditions by the Chief of Police to the Common Council. Upon an appeal, the
Common Council shall determine whether the conditions so imposed were
reasonable and may order the removal of such conditions or the imposition of
other conditions as it deems reasonable.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any of the
conditions imposed in any parade permit granted to him or her.
      (5)   No procession or parade, except one composed of members of the
United States Armed Forces, the state military forces, and the Police and Fire
Department or a funeral procession, shall occupy, march, or proceed along any
street except in accordance with a permit issued by the Chief of Police as set
forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 71.41)
(Ord. 1144, passed 2-7-1983) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Application
   
72.02   Angle parking
   
72.03   Truck and bus parking
   
72.04   Authority to close municipal parking lots
   
72.05   Designate loading zones
   
72.06   Parking in fire lanes
Parking for Persons with Physical Disabilities
   
72.20   Definitions
   
72.21   Required identification
   
72.22   Signs posted
   
72.23   Violations of disability parking
Violations and Citations
   
72.35   General parking violations
   
72.36   Citations
   
72.37   Presumptions in reference to illegal parking
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned vehicles, see
Chapter 92
   Parking schedules, see
Chapter 75
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 APPLICATION.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply except when it is necessary
to stop a vehicle to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with
the directions of a police officer or official traffic control device.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall not relieve any person from the
duty to observe other and more restrictive provisions prohibiting or limiting
the stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles in specified places or times.
(Prior Code, § 72.01) (Ord. 1144, passed 2-7-1983)
§ 72.02 ANGLE PARKING.
   The Council shall determine and designate the streets upon which angle
parking shall be permitted. Angle parking shall not be permitted upon any
federal-aid or state highway.
(Prior Code, § 72.02) (Ord. 1144, passed 2-7-1983)
§ 72.03 TRUCK AND BUS PARKING.
   (A)   Residential district. No person owning or operating a truck, trailer,
bus, recreational vehicle, tractor, or tractor and trailer which is wider,
longer, or taller than a conventional station wagon or pick-up truck shall park
that vehicle on or upon any street or alley within any residential district.
This division (A) shall not prevent any vehicle from parking for a sufficient
time to make deliveries or pick up merchandise if the parking does not
interrupt the regular traffic flow and does not create a safety hazard.
   (B)   Business district. No person shall park any vehicle listed in division
(A) above upon any street or alley longer than one hour within any business
district. This division (B) shall not prevent any vehicle from parking for a
sufficient time to make deliveries or pick up merchandise in the regular course
of business if the parking does not interrupt regular traffic flow and does not
create a safety hazard.
   (C)   Exception. Any vehicle listed in division (A) above may park on or
upon any street or alley in a business or residential district if the owner of
the vehicle has first obtained written permission from the Police Department.
The permit shall state the location where the vehicle may be parked and the
duration for which the parking shall be allowed.
(Prior Code, § 72.07) (Ord. 1144, passed 2-7-1983) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.04 AUTHORITY TO CLOSE MUNICIPAL PARKING LOTS.
   (A)   The Mayor, by executive order, shall have the authority to direct the
Chief of Police of the city to close one or more of the public parking lots
owned and/or maintained by the city for such period of time as is directed in
the order of the Mayor.
   (B)   Once receiving such order, the Chief of Police shall proceed to close
the designated parking lot or lots listed in the order by the Mayor for such
period of time as set out in the order by locking the parking lot entrances and
posting no-parking signs which set forth the time that no parking is allowed.
   (C)   After the no-parking signs are posted, any person parking in the
parking lot shall be guilty of a Class C infraction and shall be subject to the
penalty provisions of §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 72.11) (Ord. 1261, passed 7-16-1990)
§ 72.05 DESIGNATE LOADING ZONES.
   The Council shall designate the location of loading zones by placing and
maintaining appropriate signs. The signs shall state the hours and days during
which the provisions of this section are applicable.
(Prior Code, § 72.41) (Ord. 1144, passed 2-7-1983)
§ 72.06 PARKING IN FIRE LANES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, driver, or operator of any vehicle
to park or stop such vehicle or permit such vehicle to be parked or stopped at
any time in a fire lane. It also shall be unlawful for any other personal
property to be obstructing a fire lane. The offending owner, driver, or
operator of the vehicle or personal property obstructing a fire lane shall be
cited by any law enforcement officer or Fire Department personnel with proper
jurisdiction.
   (B)   In addition, any vehicle or other personal property may be towed away
upon the request of any law enforcement officer or Fire Department personnel
having jurisdiction. The owner of the vehicle or personal property shall be
liable for all towing and resulting storage charges.
   (C)   The Fire Chief shall determine, with the approval of the Council, the
location and extent of fire lanes on public or private property.
   (D)   Fire lanes shall be established and marked as follows.
      (1)   Fire lanes shall be 12 feet from the sidewalk, driveway, service
area, or areas immediately adjacent to any building or structure deemed
necessary by the Fire Chief.
      (2)   Where acceptable, the pavement of the fire or emergency lane shall
be adjacent to the building in question. The words “no parking fire lane” shall
be between the stripe and the sidewalk, curb, or other item adjacent to the
building.
      (3)   All curb striping and language required on pavement shall be marked
in yellow coloration with paint or other types of substances that may be
approved by the Fire Chief.
      (4)   Signs stating “no parking fire lane” meeting the state’s Manual of
Uniform Traffic-Control Devices shall be installed no less than every 30 feet
apart.
   (E)   The Fire Chief may, in designating fire lanes, determine what portions
of those lanes, because of the location of hydrants, standpipes, or other fire-
prevention devices or because of the necessities for ingress and egress, may
constitute a fire hazard if blocked.
   (F)   Areas so determined shall be designated “tow-away zones” and shall be
so marked and posted. Any vehicle parked in such zones shall be removed at the
direction of any fire official or police officer.
   (G)   Any person or persons who violate the terms of this section shall be
subject to the provisions of §
10.99 of this code.
(Ord. 1558, passed 2-16-2010)
PARKING FOR PERSONS WITH PHYSICAL DISABILITIES
§ 72.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Defined in I.C. 9-13-2-105.
   PERSON WITH A PHYSICAL DISABILITY. A person who has been issued a placard
under I.C. 5-16-9 or a disability registration plate for a motor vehicle by the
Bureau of Motor Vehicles under I.C. 9-18.5-8-1.
(Prior Code, § 72.25) (Ord. 1237, passed 2-6-1989)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 5-16-9, 9-13-2-105, and 9-18.5-8-1
§ 72.21 REQUIRED IDENTIFICATION.
   A motor vehicle parked in a space reserved for persons with physical
disabilities shall have at least one of the following displayed on said motor
vehicle in a place that may be viewed by the public:
   (A)   An unexpired disability parking permit issued under I.C. 9-18.5-8;
   (B)   An unexpired disabled veteran’s registration plate issued under I.C.
9-18.5-5;
   (C)   An unexpired disability registration plate or decal issued under I.C.
9-18.5-8-1; or
   (D)   An unexpired disability parking permit, an unexpired disabled
veteran’s registration plate, or an unexpired disability registration plate or
decal issued under the laws of another state to stand or park in a space
reserved for persons with physical disablities.
(Prior Code, § 72.26) (Ord. 1237, passed 2-6-1989)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 9-18.5-5, 9-18.5-8, and 9-18.5-8-1
§ 72.22 SIGNS POSTED.
   Reserved spaces for disability parking must be reserved by posting
immediately adjacent to and visible from the space or spaces a sign bearing:
   (A)   The official international wheelchair symbol;
   (B)   A reasonable facsimile of that symbol; or
   (C)   A facsimile of the symbol displayed on the person with a physical
disability’s motor vehicle registration plate.
(Prior Code, § 72.27) (Ord. 1237, passed 2-6-1989)
§ 72.23 VIOLATIONS OF DISABILITY PARKING.
   (A)   Any person who parks a motor vehicle which does not have displayed a
person with a physical disability’s or a disabled veteran’s placard issued
under I.C. 9-18.5-8 or under the laws of another state or a disability or
disabled veteran’s registration plate issued under I.C. 9-18.5-5, under I.C. 9-
18.5-8-1, or under the laws of another state in a parking space reserved under
this division (A) for a person with a physical disability’s parking vehicle
shall be deemed to have committed a Class C infraction.
   (B)   Any person who knowingly parks in a reserved disability parking space
while displaying a placard to which neither driver nor passenger is entitled
shall be deemed to have committed a Class C infraction.
   (C)   Any person who displays for use in parking in a reserved disability
parking space a placard or special license plate that was not issued under I.C.
5-16-9 and I.C. 9-18.5-1 or under the laws of another state shall be deemed to
have committed a Class C infraction.
(Prior Code, § 72.28) (Ord. 1237, passed 2-6-1989) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 5-16-9, 9-18.5-5, 9-18.5-8, and 9-18.5-8-1
VIOLATIONS AND CITATIONS
§ 72.35 GENERAL PARKING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Not to obstruct traffic. No person shall park any vehicle upon a
street, other than an alley, so that less than ten feet of the width of the
roadway is available for the free movement of traffic.
(Prior Code, § 72.03)
   (B)   Restrictions in alleys. No operator of any vehicle shall stop, stand,
or park that vehicle in any alley for a period of time longer than is necessary
for the loading or unloading of passengers or freight. No person shall stop,
stand, or park in any alley so that less than eight feet of the width of the
alley is available for the free movement of traffic. If less than eight feet of
the width of the alley is available, the operator of the vehicle shall move it
immediately if another vehicle approaches.
(Prior Code, § 72.04)
   (C)   Parking for certain purposes prohibited. No person shall park a
vehicle upon any roadway to display it for sale or to grease or repair the
vehicle except if repairs are required by an emergency.
(Prior Code, § 72.05)
   (D)   Obedience to signs and markings. No person shall park or stand a
vehicle in any location which has been signed or marked for parking except
within the markings and at the orientation indicated by the signs or markings.
(Prior Code, § 72.06)
   (E)   Standing or parking vehicle on roadways. No person shall stand or park
a vehicle on a street other than on the roadway or paved shoulder.
(Prior Code, § 72.08)
   (F)   Standing or parking in alleys. No person shall stand or park a vehicle
on a street so that it restricts full access to any alley.
(Prior Code, § 72.09)
   (G)   Parking restricted in business district. No person shall park a
vehicle for more than two consecutive hours in a business district.
(Prior Code, § 72.10)
   (H)   Parking in loading zones. No person shall stop, stand, or park a
vehicle for any purpose or period of time, other than for the expeditious
loading or unloading of passengers or materials, in any place marked as a
loading zone during the hours and days when the regulations applicable to such
curb loading zone are effective and then only for a period not to exceed three
minutes for passengers or 20 minutes for materials.
(Prior Code, § 72.40)
(Ord. 1144, passed 2-7-1983) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.36 CITATIONS.
   (A)   Violations resulting in citations. If any motor vehicle is found
parked, standing, or stopped in violation of the applicable provisions of this
code or state law, the officer finding the vehicle shall record its
registration number and any other information which may identify its owner. The
officer shall affix a traffic citation to the vehicle in a conspicuous
location. The citation shall be on a form provided by the Clerk-Treasurer and
shall state that the owner must answer to the charge against him or her within
five days during the hours and at a place specified in the citation.
(Prior Code, § 72.80)
   (B)   Failure to comply with citation. If the owner of the vehicle does not
appear within a period of five days after the date of the citation before the
Ordinance Violations Bureau, as provided under §
10.99, the owner of the vehicle shall be deemed to have waived the fines
provided for under §
10.99, and the officer shall file the citation in a court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 72.81)
(Ord. 1144, passed 2-7-1983; Ord. 1500, passed 8–7-2006) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.37 PRESUMPTIONS IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING.
   In any prosecution charging a violation of the parking provisions of this
chapter, proof that the particular vehicle described in the complaint was
parked in violation of the parking provisions of this chapter together with
proof that the defendant named in the complaint was, at the time of the
violation, the registered owner of the vehicle shall constitute, in evidence, a
prima facie presumption that the registered owner of the vehicle was the person
who parked or placed the vehicle at the point where and for the time during
which the violation occurred.
(Prior Code, § 72.82) (Ord. 1144, passed 2-7-1983)
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Bicycles and Toy Vehicles
   
73.01   Toy vehicles restricted
   
73.02   Application of bicycle regulations
   
73.03   Riding on sidewalks
   
73.04   Bicycle dealers
   
73.05   Traffic regulations applicable to bicycles
   
73.06   Riding on roadways and bicycle paths
   
73.07   Parking
Golf Carts
   
73.20   Definition
   
73.21   Registration
   
73.22   Registration fee and sticker
   
73.23   Insurance
   
73.24   Operation on city streets and alleys
   
73.25   Violations
Off-Road Vehicles
   
73.40   Definitions
   
73.41   Registration
   
73.42   Insurance and license
   
73.43   Age requirement
   
73.44   Equipment
   
73.45   Designated roadways, sidewalks, and state highways
   
73.46   Restrictions and exceptions
   
73.47   Exclusions
   
73.48   Prior ordinances; conflict
 
   
73.99   Penalty
BICYCLES AND TOY VEHICLES
§ 73.01 TOY VEHICLES RESTRICTED.
   No person upon roller skates, in-line skates, roller blades, skateboards, or
riding in or by means of any coaster or toy vehicle shall go upon any roadway
except while crossing a street or a crosswalk. When in said crossing, that
person shall be granted all the rights and be subject to all the duties
applicable to pedestrians. Nothing contained herein shall limit bicycles from
using any part of the city streets, subject to further provisions of this code
and the laws of the state.
(Ord. 1488, passed 8-7-2006) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.02 APPLICATION OF BICYCLE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person having custody or responsibility of or for any minor shall
permit that minor to violate any provision of this subchapter.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to any bicycle operated
upon any street or upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles,
subject to those exceptions stated in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 73.15) (Ord. 1144, passed 2-7-1983) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   No person shall ride a bicycle, roller blades, roller skates, in-line
skates, skateboards, or similar devices in Harrison Square Park or upon a
sidewalk within the downtown area of the city which, for purposes of this
section, is defined as follows:
      (1)   On Harrison Street between Monroe Street and Mill Street;
      (2)   On Washington Street between Clinton Street and West Street;
      (3)   On Church Street between Clinton Street and North West Street;
      (4)   On John Street between the first north/south alley east of Harrison
Street and Canal Street;
      (5)   On Madison Street between Canal Street and Harrison Street;
      (6)   On Garfield Street between Canal Street and Harrison Street; and
      (7)   On Broadway Street between Canal Street and Harrison Street.
   (B)   Any person riding a bicycle, roller blades, in-line skates,
skateboards, or similar devices shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian
and give an audible signal before overtaking and passing the pedestrian.
(Prior Code, § 73.19) (Ord. 1144, passed 2-7-1983; Ord. 1375, passed 6-2-1997;
Ord. 1488, passed 8-7-2006) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 BICYCLE DEALERS.
   Every person engaged in the business of buying or selling new or second-hand
bicycles shall maintain a record of every bicycle purchased or sold, giving the
name and address of the person from whom purchased or to whom sold, a
description of the bicycle by name or make, and its frame number.
(Prior Code, § 73.16) (Ord. 1144, passed 2-7-1983) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.05 TRAFFIC REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO BICYCLES.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by this code except as to regulations in this subchapter and those
provisions of this code which, by their nature, can have no application.
(Prior Code, § 73.17) (Ord. 1144, passed 2-7-1983) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.06 RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when passing
a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Any person operating a bicycle shall use a bicycle path adjacent to
the roadway, if that path has been provided, and shall not use the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 73.20) (Ord. 1144, passed 2-7-1983) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.07 PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the
roadway against the curb, upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle,
against a building, or at the curb so that it results in the least obstruction
to pedestrian traffic.
(Prior Code, § 73.18)
   (B)   Any person may park near, and secure a bicycle to, any publicly owned
pole or post for a period of not more than 12-consecutive hours unless an
official traffic-control device or any applicable law or ordinance prohibits
parking or securing bicycles at that location. No bicycle shall be secured to
any tree, fire hydrant, or police or fire call box. No bicycle shall be secured
so that it impedes the normal and reasonable movement of pedestrians or other
traffic.
(Prior Code, § 73.21)
(Ord. 1144, passed 2-7-1983) Penalty, see §
73.99
GOLF CARTS
§ 73.20 DEFINITION.
   For purposes of this subchapter, a GOLF CART has the same definition as set
forth in I.C. 9-13-2-69.7.
(Ord. 1551, passed 10-19-2009)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 9-13-2-69.7
§ 73.21 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   The City Police Department is charged with the responsibility for
inspecting and registering golf carts. The City Police Department shall also
maintain records of the registration of golf carts and shall conduct annual
renewals of the registrations in May of each year.
   (B)   The owner of a golf cart must provide the required proof of the
required property damage and bodily injury insurance for a term of not less
than one year for said vehicle to the City Police Department before the vehicle
may be initially registered or annually renewed.
(Ord. 1551, passed 10-19-2009)
§ 73.22 REGISTRATION FEE AND STICKER.
   (A)   The one-time registration fee for all golf carts shall be based on
current state-approved amounts and/or as set by City Council from time to time.
   (B)   Each year in the month of May, each owner of a golf cart shall renew
its registration by submitting it to an inspection by local enforcement
officials and obtaining a new sticker upon passing such inspection and paying
an annual fee based on current state-approved amounts and/or as set by City
Council from time to time. The owner shall be responsible for displaying the
sticker which shall be proof of inspection until the next renewal date. The
officer shall not issue the initial registration or the annual renewal thereof
if, in the officer’s opinion, the vehicle is partially inoperable or is in a
dangerous condition. If the owner of the golf cart fails to renew its
registration in May of any given year, the original registration of the golf
cart shall lapse, and should the owner wish to re-register the golf cart, the
original registration fee and process would be required.
   (C)   Upon registration of the golf cart, the owner of said vehicle shall
receive a registration sticker that must be displayed on a visible location on
the rear of said vehicle at all times during operation on the city streets. If
a registration sticker is not available at the time of registration, the owner
will receive written proof of registration to be carried during the operation
of said vehicle on the city streets until the registration sticker is issued.
   (D)   The registration of a golf cart may not be transferred to another
person.
(Ord. 1551, passed 10-19-2009)
§ 73.23 INSURANCE.
   The owner of any registered golf cart shall maintain property damage and
bodily injury insurance on and for said vehicle in minimum amounts based on
current state-approved amounts and/or as set by City Council from time to time.
Said owner shall provide proof of the same upon request by the City Police
Department or officers thereof.
(Ord. 1551, passed 10-19-2009)
§ 73.24 OPERATION ON CITY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   Any owner of a golf cart desiring to operate the same on city streets
must initially register it with and have it inspected by the Police Department
before operation on city streets, pursuant to §
73.21.
   (B)   The golf cart registration provided for above is valid for one year
which shall terminate on May 1 of each year thereafter. The registration is
renewable pursuant to §
73.21.
   (C)   The operator of a golf cart within the city shall adhere to and follow
all traffic rules and regulations as set forth by the state code and, in
addition thereto, the following.
      (1)   The operator of a golf cart must have a valid state driver’s
license.
      (2)   The operator of a golf cart shall drive the golf cart as close to
the curb/edge of the street when possible and must yield to other vehicles on
the road.
      (3)   Golf carts shall not be operated on sidewalks.
      (4)   A golf cart must have seat belts for each passenger, and each
passenger in or on the golf cart shall have said seatbelts securely fastened
around them.
      (5)   No children under three years of age shall be permitted to ride on
a golf cart.
      (6)   The cart must have a high-visibility flag extending at least two
feet above the heads of the occupants or the roof of the golf cart, whichever
is higher.
      (7)   Each golf cart must have a slow-moving vehicle emblem attached to
the rear of the same.
      (8)   All golf carts are required to carry property damage and bodily
injury insurance as a condition of operation on city streets and shall provide
a copy of said insurance upon the request of any city official or employee.
      (9)   The maximum seating for golf carts are designated as only two
persons per seat with only two people in the front seat and, if equipped, two
people in the rear seat.
      (10)   There shall be a maximum speed limit of 15 mph.
      (11)   All police and fire vehicles and special events vehicles are
exempt from the terms of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1551, passed 10-19-2009)
§ 73.25 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Golf carts shall be subject to the city’s traffic and parking
regulations as contained in Chapters 71 and 72 herein.
   (B)   Other than to cross a state highway at a right angle, no golf cart
shall be allowed on state highways within the corporate limits of the city.
   (C)   Golf cart operation shall be subject to the state’s traffic rules and
regulations and all other provisions of this subchapter.
   (D)   A violation of any part of this subchapter shall be deemed a Class C
infraction. A fine assessed for violation of this subchapter shall be deposited
into the General Operating Fund of the city.
(Ord. 1551, passed 10-19-2009) Penalty, see §
73.99
OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
§ 73.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. As defined in I.C. 14-16-1-1.5, this term has the
meaning set forth in I.C. 7.1-1-3-5.
   OPERATE. As defined in I.C. 14-16-1-4, this term means to ride in or on and
be in actual physical control of the operation of a vehicle.
   OPERATOR. As defined in I.C. 14-16-1-5, this term means an individual who
operates or is in actual physical control of an off-road vehicle or a
snowmobile.
   OWNER. As defined in I.C. 14-16-1-6, this term means a person, other than a
lienholder, who has the property in or title to and is entitled to the use or
possession of an off-road vehicle or a snowmobile.
   VEHICLE. As defined in I.C. 14-16-1-7, this term means an off-road vehicle
or a snowmobile.
      (1)   OFF-ROAD VEHICLE. Precisely defined in I.C. 14-8-2-185;
      (2)   For purposes of this subchapter and all related ordinances that
have not been repealed, the term VEHICLE includes and may be used
interchangeably with NON-TRADITIONAL VEHICLE.
(Ord. 2020-006-C, passed 10-19-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 7.1-1-3-5, 14-16-1-1.5, 14-16-1-4 through 14-
16-1-7, and 14-8-2-185
§ 73.41 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   All vehicles must be registered pursuant to I.C. 9-18.1-14-1.
   (B)   Any owner of a vehicle desiring to operate the same on city streets
must annually register the vehicle with the City Police Department (“APD” or
“Police Department”).
      (1)   The Police Department is charged with the responsibility for
inspecting and registering vehicles. The Police Department shall also maintain
records of the registration for vehicles.
      (2)   Before registration of a vehicle, the Police Department shall
inspect a vehicle to ensure it meets the requirements as set forth in this
subchapter.
      (3)   A vehicle registration is valid for the calendar year in which the
vehicle is registered.
      (4)   If the vehicle is registered before July 1 of each calendar year,
the registration fee shall be based on current state-approved amounts and/or as
set by City Council from time to time, and thereafter, shall be based on
current state-approved amounts and/or as set by City Council from time to time.
      (5)   Upon registration of the vehicle, the owner of said vehicle shall
receive a registration sticker that must be displayed at all times during
operation on the city streets in a visible location on the rear of said
vehicle. If a registration sticker is not available at the time of
registration, the owner will receive written proof of registration to be
carried during the operation of said vehicle on the city streets until the
registration sticker is issued.
      (6)   All fees from the registrations of vehicles shall be deposited in
the Law Enforcement Continuing Education (LECE) Fund.
(Ord. 2020-006-C, passed 10-19-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 9-18.1-14-1
§ 73.42 INSURANCE AND LICENSE.
   (A)   Insurance. The owner of any registered vehicle shall maintain
insurance on said vehicle and provide proof of the same upon request by the
Police Department.
   (B)   License requirement. The operation of a vehicle on a public highway in
the state without a valid motor vehicle driver’s license is prohibited by I.C.
14-16-1-20(c).
(Ord. 2020-006-C, passed 10-19-2020) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 14-16-1-20(c)
§ 73.43 AGE REQUIREMENT.
   Pursuant to I.C. 14-16-1-20(b), an individual less than 14 years of age may
not operate a vehicle without immediate supervision of an individual at least
18 years of age except on land owned or under the control of the individual or
the individual’s parent or legal guardian.
(Ord. 2020-006-C, passed 10-19-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 14-16-1-20(b)
§ 73.44 EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Lights. Pursuant to I.C. 14-16-1-21(a), a vehicle may not be operated
between sunset and sunrise unless the vehicle has at least one headlight and
one taillight.
   (B)   Brakes. Pursuant to I.C. 14-16-1-21(b), a vehicle may not be operated
at any time unless the vehicle has adequate brakes capable of producing
deceleration at 14 feet per second on level ground at a speed of 20 mph.
   (C)   Helmets.
      (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 9-18.1-14-11, an individual less than 18 years of
age who is operating or riding on an off-road vehicle shall wear a helmet that
meets the standards established by the United States Department of
Transportation under 49 C.F.R. § 571.218, as in effect January 1, 1979. An
individual who violates this section commits a Class C infraction.
      (2)   Pursuant to I.C. 14-16-1-33, a person who is the owner of an off-
road vehicle, in possession of an off-road vehicle, or entitled to the
possession of an off-road vehicle; whether by reason of legal title, lease,
license, rental arrangement, lease with option to purchase, contract of
conditional sale, or otherwise; may not knowingly authorize or permit an
individual less than 18 years of age to operate the off-road vehicle in
violation of I.C. 9-18.1-14-11.
(Ord. 2020-006-C, passed 10-19-2020) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 9-18.1-14-11, 14-16-1-21(a) and (b), and 14-16-
1-33
§ 73.45 DESIGNATED ROADWAYS, SIDEWALKS, AND STATE HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   Designated roads. The Common Council may prohibit the use of vehicles
on certain roads, streets, and highways that are under the jurisdiction of the
city if the operation of the vehicles poses a danger. This subchapter shall be
amended from time to time to include those roads deemed unsuitable for their
use.
   (B)   Sidewalks. Vehicles shall not be operated on sidewalks.
   (C)   State highways. Vehicles may not be operated on state highways except
as provided herein or pursuant to I.C. 14-16-1-20(a).
(Ord. 2020-006-C, passed 10-19-2020) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 14-16-1-20(a)
§ 73.46 RESTRICTIONS AND EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 14-16-1-23(a), an individual shall not operate a
vehicle under any of the following conditions:
      (1)   At a rate of speed greater than is reasonable and proper having due
regard for existing conditions or in a manner that unnecessarily endangers the
person or property of another;
      (2)   While:
         (a)   Under the influence of an alcoholic beverage; or
         (b)   Unlawfully under the influence of a narcotic or other habit-
forming or dangerous depressant or stimulant drug.
      (3)   During the hours from 30 minutes after sunset to 30 minutes before
sunrise without displaying a lighted headlight and a lighted taillight;
      (4)   In a forest nursery, a planting area, or public land posted or
reasonably identified as an area of forest or plant reproduction and when
growing stock may be damaged;
      (5)   On the frozen surface of public waters within:
         (a)   One hundred feet of an individual not in or upon a vehicle; or
         (b)   One hundred feet of a fishing shanty or shelter except at a
speed of not more than five mph.
      (6)   Unless the vehicle is equipped with a muffler in good working order
and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise and annoying
smoke;
      (7)   Within 100 feet of a dwelling between 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
except on the individual’s own property or property under the individual’s
control or as an invited guest;
      (8)   On any property without the consent of the landowner or tenant;
      (9)   While transporting a firearm on or in the vehicle unless the
firearm is:
         (a)   Unloaded; and
         (b)   Securely encased or equipped with and made inoperative by a
manufactured key-locked trigger housing mechanism.
      (10)   On or across a cemetery or burial ground;
      (11)   Within 100 feet of a slide, ski, or skating area except for the
purpose of servicing the area;
      (12)   On a railroad track or railroad right-of-way except railroad
personnel in the performance of duties;
      (13)   In or upon a flowing river, stream, or creek except for the
purpose of crossing by the shortest possible route unless the river, stream, or
creek is of sufficient water depth to permit movement by flotation of the
vehicle at all times; and
      (14)   While a bow is present in or on the vehicle if the nock of an
arrow is in position on the string of the bow.
   (B)   The exceptions, as contained in I.C. 14-16-1-23(b), apply herein.
(Ord. 2020-006-C, passed 10-19-2020) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 14-16-1-23(a) and (b)
§ 73.47 EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   This subchapter shall not apply to any vehicles owned and used by the
city for official city business.
   (B) This subchapter shall not apply to vehicles being operated in a parade
or other function sanctioned and authorized by the city.
(Ord. 2020-006-C, passed 10-19-2020)
§ 73.48 PRIOR ORDINANCES; CONFLICT.
   (A)   Prior ordinances repealed. Any ordinances previously adopted by the
city are hereby repealed in their entirety and replaced by this subchapter.
   (B)   Conflict with state law. No provision of this subchapter is intended
to conflict with or supersede state law.
(Ord. 2020-006-C, passed 10-19-2020)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this
chapter for which no other penalty is set forth shall be subject to the
provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person convicted of violating any provision of §§
73.02 and
73.07 shall be fined not more than a rate based on current state-approved
amounts and/or as set by City Council from time to time plus court costs. In
addition, the bicycle of any person who violates any provision of said sections
may be impounded for not more than 30 days.
   (C)   (1)   Any person who violates §§
73.40 through
73.48 shall be fined in accordance with rates based on current state-approved
amounts and/or as set by City Council from time to time.
      (2)   Monies collected for a violation of §§
73.40 through
73.48 shall be deposited into the city’s General Operating Fund pursuant to
I.C. 9-21-1-3.3.
(Prior Code, § 73.99) (Ord. 1144, passed 2-7-1983; Ord. 2020-006-C, passed 10-
19-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 9-21-1-3.3
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
      
II.   One-way streets and alleys
      
III
.   Multi-way stop intersections
      
IV.   Stop streets
      
V.   Yield streets
      
VI.   Restricted turns
      
VII.   Preferential streets
      
VIII.   Weight restrictions
      
IX.   Dead-end streets
      
X.   Traffic-control signals
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   It is hereby determined, upon the basis of traffic and engineering
investigations, that the speed permitted by state law on the following streets
or portions thereof is greater than is reasonable and safe under the conditions
found to exist upon those portions. The maximum speed limit on these streets or
portions thereof shall be 20 mph.
Street Name Location Times Ord. No. Date Passed
Street Name          Location             Times            Ord. No. Date Passed
Belmont Street       From Monroe Street   7:00 a.m. - 3:30 1395     11-2-1998
                     to Fairview Street   p.m.
                     From Monroe Street   7:00 a.m. - 3:30
Belmont Street       to Washington Street p.m. (Monday -   1459     3-17-200 3
                                          Friday)
                     From Clinton Street
Berry Street         to Conrail (formerly All              1144     2-7-1983
                     Penn-Central)
                     Railroad
Bills Creek Road     From 6th Street to   7:00 a.m. - 3:30 1395     11-2-1998
                     Cook Street          p.m.
Black Street         From Berry Street to All              1144     2-7-1983
                     Church Street
                     From its point of
Blue Heron Road      origin to its        All              1506     11-6- 2006
                     terminus
                     From Lincoln Avenue
Broadway Street      to the Conrail       All              1144     2-7-1983
                     (formerly Penn-
                     Central) Railroad
Canal Street         From Berry Street to All              1144     2-7-1983
                     Madison Street
                     From its point of
Cardinal Lane        origin to its        All              1506     11-6- 2006
                     terminus
                     From Monroe Street   7:00 a.m. - 3:30
Central Avenue       to Washington Street p.m. (Monday -   1459     3-17-2003
                                          Friday)
                     From its point of
Chipaway Drive       origin to its        All              1535     9-15-2008
                     terminus
                     From Lincoln Avenue
Church Street        to the Conrail       All              1144     2-7-1983
                     (formerly Penn-
                     Central) Railroad
Cook Street          From Harrison Street 7:00 a.m. - 3:30 1395     11-2-1998
                     to Bills Creek Road  p.m.
                     From 3rd Street to   7:00 a.m. - 3:30
Curve Street         6th Street           p.m. (Monday -   1459     3-17-2003
                                          Friday)
East Washington      From Indiana State
Street               Road 9 to Clinton    All              1144     2-7-1983
                     Street
                     From its point of
Edgeway Drive        origin to its        All              2016- 45 12-19- 2016
                     terminus
                     From State Road
11th Street          (South Park Avenue)  7:00 a.m. - 3:30 1395     11-2-1998
                     to South Central     p.m.
                     Avenue
Fairview Street      From Broadway Street 7:00 a.m. - 3:30 1395     11-2-1998
                     to Monroe Street     p.m.
                     From Tyler Street to 7:00 a.m. - 3:30
Fairview Street      Washington Street    p.m. (Monday -   1459     3-17-2003
                                          Friday)
                     From Indiana State
4th Street           Road 9 to the city   All              1144     2-7-1983
                     limits
                     From Lincoln Avenue
Garfield Street      to the Conrail       All              1144     2-7-1983
                     (formerly Penn-
                     Central) Railroad
Harrison Street      From 11th Street to  All              1535     9-15- 2008
                     State Road 9
Harrison Street      From Berry Street to All              1144     2-7-1983
                     Monroe Street
Harrison Street      From 6th Street to   7:00 a.m. - 3:30 1395     11-2-1998
                     11th Street          p.m.
                     From 6th Street to   7:00 a.m. - 3:30
Harrison Street      3rd Street           p.m. (Monday -   1459     3-17-2003
                                          Friday)
                     From its point of
Hummingbird Lane     origin to its        All              1506     11-6- 2006
                     terminus
                     From Sheridan Street 7:00 a.m. - 3:30
Jackson Street       to North Central     p.m.             1395     11-2-1998
                     Avenue
Jackson Street       From Indiana State   All              1459     3-17-2003
                     Road 9 to Tiger Lane
                     From Lincoln Avenue
John Street          to the Conrail       All              1144     2-7-1983
                     (formerly Penn-
                     Central) Railroad
Madison Street       From Belmont Street  7:00 a.m. - 3:30 1395     11-2-1998
                     to Fairview Street   p.m.
                     From Lincoln Avenue
Madison Street       to the Conrail       All              1144     2-7-1983
                     (formerly Penn-
                     Central) Railroad
Minnesota Avenue     From Tyler Street    All              1513     6-4-2007
                     and Madison Street
Monroe Street        From Fairview Street 7:00 a.m. - 3:30 1395     11-2-1998
                     to Belmont Street    p.m.
                     From Sheridan Street 7:00 a.m. - 3:30
Monroe Street        to the west side of  p.m. (Monday -   1459     3-17-2003
                     the railroad tracks  Friday)
                     at Minnesota Avenue
North Central Avenue From Monroe Street   7:00 a.m. - 3:30 1395     11-2-1998
                     to Tyler Street      p.m.
                     From its point of
Old Mill Creek       origin to its        All              1611     8-18- 2014
                     terminus
                     From its point of
Quail Run            origin to its        All              1506     11-6- 2006
                     terminus
Sheridan Street      From Tyler Street to 7:00 a.m. - 3:30 1395     11-2-1998
                     Jackson Street       p.m.
                     From Harrison Street 7:00 a.m. - 3:30
6th Street           to South Central     p.m. (Monday -   1395     11-2-1998
                     Avenue               Friday)
                     From Harrison Street 7:00 a.m. - 3:30
6th Street           to Indiana State     p.m. (Monday -   1450     3-17-2003
                     Road 9               Friday)
South Central Avenue From 6th Street to   7:00 a.m. - 3:30 1395     11-2-1998
                     11th Street          p.m.
                     From Harrison Street 7:00 a.m. - 3:30
3rd Street           to Curve Street      p.m. (Monday -   1477     11-1-2004
                                          Friday)
                     From Jackson Street
Tiger Lane           to dead-end of       All              1459     3-17-2003
                     street
                     From its point of
Timberlake Drive     origin to its        All              1506     11-6- 2006
                     terminus
                     From Harrison Street 7:00 a.m. - 3:30
Tyler Street         to Tippecanoe Avenue p.m. (Monday -   1459     3-17-2003
                                          Friday)
Tyler Street         From Liberty Street  7:00 a.m. - 3:30 1395     11-2-1998
                     to Sheridan Street   p.m.
                     From Clinton Street
Washington Street    to the Conrail       All              1144     2-7-1983
                     (formerly Penn-
                     Central) Railroad
Wayne Street         From Berry Street to All              1144     2-7-1983
                     Church Street
West Street          From Berry Street to All              1144     2-7-1983
                     Broadway Street
 
   (B)   Additionally, Lincoln Avenue, from Tyler Street to Church Street,
shall be 25 mph at all times.
(Prior Code, Chapter 74, Schedule I) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   The following streets, alleys, or portions thereof shall be designated as
one-way.
 
Street Name        Location            Direction of Travel Ord. No. Date Passed
                   Between Harrison
                   Street and Canal
Alley              Street from         North               1144     2-7-1983
                   Washington Street
                   to Church Street
                   Parallel to and
                   one-half of a block
                   north of Washington
Alley              Street between the  East                1144     2-7-1983
                   intersection of the
                   alley with Harrison
                   Street and Wayne
                   Street
                   Between Lincoln
East Church Street Avenue and Walnut   West                1509     2-20-2007
                   Street
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 74, Schedule II) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III. MULTI-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, all streets at the following
intersections shall be stop streets. Drivers of all vehicles shall stop before
entering the described intersections.
Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Location                            Ord. No. Date Passed
11th Street and Fairway Drive       1621     8-3-2015
11th Street and Harrison Street     1144     2-7-1983
Harrison Street and Berry Street    1553     1-04-2010
Harrison Street and Church Street   1553     1-04-2010
Harrison Street and John Street     1553     1-04-2010
Monroe Street and Central Avenue    1144     2-7-1983
Monroe Street and Fairview Street   1144     2-7-1983
Monroe Street and Harrison Street   1144     2-7-1983
Sheridan Street and Broadway Street 1144     2-7-1983
6th Street and Harrison Street      1144     2-7-1983
Tyler Street and Central Avenue     1586     5-21-2012
Washington Street and Canal Street  1410     5-3-1999
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 74, Schedule III) Penalty see §
70.99
SCHEDULE IV. STOP STREETS.
   (A)   Stop streets. The driver of any vehicle traveling on the street named
in the “Stop Street” column in this schedule shall stop before entering the
corresponding intersecting street.
Stop Street Intersecting Street Ord. No. Date Passed
Stop Street                     Intersecting Street    Ord. No.    Date Passed
5th Street                      Wayne Street           1535        9-15-2008
Adams Street                    Belmont Street         1144        2-7-1983
Adams Street                    Central Avenue         1144        2-7-1983
Adams Street                    Fairview Street        1144        2-7-1983
Adams Street                    Sheridan Street        1144        2-7-1983
Adams Street, eastbound         Pennsylvania Avenue    1144        2-7-1983
Alley intersecting with Tyler   Minnesota Avenue       1351        6-3-1996
Street, southbound
Belmont Street                  Washington Street      1144        2-7-1983
Belmont Street, northbound      Monroe Street          1144        2-7-1983
Berry Street                    Central Avenue         1144        2-7-1983
Berry Street                    Clinton Street         1144        2-7-1983
Bills Creek Road, northbound    6th Street             1144        2-7-1983
Black Street                    Berry Street           1144        2-7-1983
Black Street                    Washington Street      1144        2-7-1983
Black Street, northbound        Church Street          1144        2-7-1983
Black Street, northbound        3rd Street             1144        2-7-1983
Black Street, southbound        4th Street             1144        2-7-1983
Blazing Star Boulevard          County Road 900 North  1561        5-3-2010
Blue Heron Run                  Quail Run              1445        4-1-2002
Broadway Street                 Fairview Street        1144        2-7-1983
Broadway Street                 Lincoln Avenue         1144        2-7-1983
Broadway Street                 Walnut Street          1144        2-7-1983
Broadway Street, westbound      Belmont Street         1144        2-7-1983
Buchanan Street                 Canal Street           1144        2-7-1983
Buchanan Street                 Harrison Street        1144        2-7-1983
Buchanan Street, westbound      Roe Avenue             1144        2-7-1983
Canal Street                    Berry Street           1144        2-7-1983
Canal Street                    Broadway Street        1144        2-7-1983
Canal Street                    3rd Street             1144        2-7-1983
Canal Street, northbound        Madison Street         1144        2-7-1983
Canal Street, southbound        Mill Street            1144        2-7-1983
Canal Street, southbound        Tyler Street           1144        2-7-1983
Cardinal Lane                   Timberlake Drive       1445        4-1-2002
Central Avenue                  Broadway Street        1144        2-7-1983
Central Avenue                  11th Street            1144        2-7-1983
Central Avenue                  Tyler Street           1144        2-7-1983
Central Avenue                  Washington Street      1144        2-7-1983
Central Avenue, northbound      6th Street             1144        2-7-1983
Chipaway Drive, eastbound       Harrison Street        1144        2-7-1983
Chipaway Drive, westbound       Fairway Drive          1144        2-7-1983
Church Street, westbound        Lincoln Avenue         1144        2-7-1983
Clinton Street                  3rd Street             1144        2-7-1983
Clinton Street, northbound      Church Street          1144        2-7-1983
Clinton Street, northbound      1st Street             1144        2-7-1983
Clinton Street, northbound      Washington Street      1144        9-6-2016
Clinton Street, southbound      Berry Street           1144        2-7-1983
Clinton Street, southbound      4th Street             1144        2-7-1983
Clinton Street, southbound      Washington Street      1144        9-6-2016
Columbia, southbound            Tyler Street           1144        2-7-1983
Cook Street                     Harrison Street        1144        2-7-1983
Crimson Court                   Blazing Star Boulevard 1561        5-3-2010
Curve Street                    Berry Street           1144        2-7-1983
Curve Street, northbound        3rd Street             1144        2-7-1983
Curve Street, northbound        Washington Street      1144        2-7-1983
Curve Street, southbound        6th Street             1144        2-7-1983
Deer Walk Drive                 Quail Run              1445        4-1-2002
East Van Buren, westbound       Harrison Street        1144        2-7-1983
East Van Buren, westbound       Lincoln Avenue         1144        2-7-1983
Edgeway Drive, southbound       John Street            1144        2-7-1983
Fairview Street, southbound     Washington Street      1144        2-7-1983
Fairway Drive, northbound       11th Street            1144        2-7-1983
Farington Way, westbound        Fairview Street        1387        6-1-1998
5th Street, westbound           Curve Street           1144        2-7-1983
5th Street, westbound           Harrison Street        1144        2-7-1983
Filmore Street                  Canal Street           1144        2-7-1983
Filmore Street                  Harrison Street        1144        2-7-1983
Filmore Street, westbound       Roe Avenue             1144        2-7-1983
1st Street, westbound           Wayne Street           1144        2-7-1983
4th Street                      Harrison Street        1144        2-7-1983
4th Street, westbound           Black Street           1144        2-7-1983
4th Street, westbound           Canal Street           1144        2-7-1983
4th Street, westbound           Curve Street           1144        2-7-1983
Fremont Street, northbound      Jackson Street         1144        2-7-1983
Fremont Street, northbound      John Street            1144        2-7-1983
Fremont Street, southbound      Washington Street      1144        2-7-1983
Garfield Street                 Harrison Street        1144        2-7-1983
Garfield Street, eastbound      Lincoln Avenue         1144        2-7-1983
Garfield Street, westbound      Canal Street           1144        2-7-1983
Grant Street, westbound         Harrison Street        1144        2-7-1983
Hannah Street, westbound        Harrison Street        1144        2-7-1983
Harrison Street                 West Wedgewood         1535        9-15-2008
Harrison Street, eastbound      Harrison Street        1144        2-7-1983
Henry Brown Avenue, eastbound   Canal Street           1144        2-7-1983
Henry Brown Avenue, westbound   West Street            1144        2-7-1983
Indiana Avenue, northbound      Washington Street      1144        2-7-1983
Iowa Street, northbound         Monroe Street          1144        2-7-1983
Jackson Street                  Central Avenue         1144        2-7-1983
Jackson Street                  Lincoln Avenue         1144        2-7-1983
Jackson Street, westbound       Fairview Street        1144        2-7-1983
Jackson Street, westbound       Harrison Street        1144        2-7-1983
Jefferson Street                Central Avenue         1144        2-7-1983
Jefferson Street                Fairview Street        1144        2-7-1983
Jefferson Street                Sheridan Street        1144        2-7-1983
Jefferson Street, eastbound     Pennsylvania Avenue    1144        2-7-1983
Jefferson Street, westbound     Belmont Street         1144        2-7-1983
John Street                     Canal Street           1144        2-7-1983
John Street                     Lincoln Avenue         1144        2-7-1983
John Street                     West Street            1144        2-7-1983
John Street, westbound          Pennsylvania Avenue    1144        2-7-1983
Johnson Street                  Harrison Street        1144        2-7-1983
Johnson Street, westbound       Canal Street           1144        2-7-1983
Liberty Street                  Monroe Street          1144        2-7-1983
Liberty Street, northbound      Tyler Street           1144        2-7-1983
Liberty Street, southbound      Broadway Street        1144        2-7-1983
Lincoln Avenue                  Broadway Street        2020- 004-C 7-23-2020
Lincoln Avenue, northbound and  John Street            1390        6-6-1998
southbound
Lincolnwood Street, southbound  Jackson Street         1144        2-7-1983
Lincolnwood Street, westbound   Lincoln Avenue         1144        2-7-1983
Longwood Drive, northbound      11th Street            1144        2-7-1983
Madison Street                  Central Avenue         1144        2-7-1983
Madison Street                  Fairview Street        1144        2-7-1983
Madison Street                  Harrison Street        1144        2-7-1983
Madison Street                  Lincoln Avenue         1144        2-7-1983
Madison Street                  Sheridan Street        1144        2-7-1983
Madison Street, eastbound       Edgeway Drive          1144        2-7-1983
Madison Street, westbound       Belmont Street         1144        2-7-1983
Mary Knoll Road, eastbound      Fairview Street        1144        2-7-1983
Massachusetts Street            Monroe Street          1144        2-7-1983
Meadow Lane                     6th Street             1144        2-7-1983
Miles Street, southbound        River Avenue           1144        2-7-1983
Mill Street, eastbound          Harrison Street        1144        2-7-1983
Mill Street, westbound          West Street            1144        2-7-1983
Minnesota Avenue                Monroe Street          1144        2-7-1983
Minnesota Avenue, northbound    Tyler Street           1144        2-7-1983
Minnesota Avenue                Railroad track         1481        1-18-2005
Monroe Street, eastbound        Fremont Street         1144        2-7-1983
Moulton Street, southbound      River Avenue           1144        2-7-1983
Norfolk Drive, westbound        Winding Drive          1144        2-7-1983
Ohio Street                     Monroe Street          1144        2-7-1983
Park Avenue, northbound         Washington Street      1144        2-7-1983
Pennsylvania Avenue             Washington Street      1144        2-7-1983
Pennsylvania Avenue, northbound Broadway Street        1144        2-7-1983
Pennsylvania Avenue, southbound Berry Street           1144        2-7-1983
Pierce Street                   Canal Street           1144        2-7-1983
Pierce Street                   Harrison Street        1144        2-7-1983
Pierce Street                   Roe Avenue             1144        2-7-1983
Polk Street                     Canal Street           1144        2-7-1983
Polk Street                     Harrison Street        1144        2-7-1983
Polk Street                     Railroad tracks        1481        1-18-2005
Polk Street, eastbound          Columbia Street        1144        2-7-1983
Polk Street, westbound          Roe Avenue             1144        2-7-1983
Prairie Fire Place              Blazing Star Boulevard 1561        5-3-2010
Quail Run                       Timberlake Drive       1445        4-1-2002
Roe Avenue, southbound          Tyler Street           1144        2-7-1983
2nd Street, eastbound           Clinton Street         1144        2-7-1983
2nd Street, westbound           Wayne Street           1144        2-7-1983
7th Street, westbound           Harrison Street        1144        2-7-1983
Sheridan Street                 Jackson Street         1144        2-7-1983
Sheridan Street                 Monroe Street          1144        2-7-1983
Sheridan Street                 Washington Street      1144        2-7-1983
Sheridan Street, northbound     Tyler Street           1144        2-7-1983
Spencer Drive, northbound       Monroe Street          1246        9-5-1989
Spencer Drive, northbound       West Madison Street    1144        2-7-1983
Spencer Drive, southbound       Broadway Street        1246        9-5-1989
Spencer Drive, southbound       West Madison Street    1144        2-7-1983
Sullivan Avenue                 Polk Street            1144        2-7-1983
Sullivan Avenue                 Taylor Street          1144        2-7-1983
Sullivan Avenue                 Tyler Street           1144        2-7-1983
Sullivan Avenue                 Van Buren Street       1144        2-7-1983
Sullivan Avenue, northbound     Dead-end               1144        2-7-1983
Sullivan Avenue, southbound     Jackson Street         1144        2-7-1983
Sunburst Circle                 Blazing Star Boulevard 1561        5-3-2010
Taylor Street                   Canal Street           1144        2-7-1983
Taylor Street                   Harrison Street        1144        2-7-1983
Taylor Street                   Roe Avenue             1144        2-7-1983
Taylor Street                   Sullivan Avenue        1148        1-18-2005
Taylor Street, eastbound        Columbia Street        1144        2-7-1983
Taylor Street, westbound        Central Avenue         1144        2-7-1983
Taylor Street, westbound        Tippecanoe Avenue      1144        2-7-1983
3rd Street                      Harrison Street        1144        2-7-1983
Tiger Lane                      Jackson Street         1144        2-7-1983
Tippecanoe Avenue, southbound   Tyler Street           1144        2-7-1983
Tyler Street                    Fairview Street        1144        2-7-1983
Tyler Street                    Harrison Street        1144        2-7-1983
Tyler Street, eastbound         Lincoln Avenue         1144        2-7-1983
West Van Buren                  Liberty Street         1144        2-7-1983
West Van Buren, eastbound       Sheridan Street        1144        2-7-1983
West Van Buren, westbound       Central Avenue         1144        2-7-1983
West Van Buren, westbound       Sheridan Street        1144        2-7-1983
Walnut Street                   John Street            1144        2-7-1983
Walnut Street                   Madison Street         1144        2-7-1983
Walnut Street                   Monroe Street          1144        2-7-1983
Walnut Street, northbound       Jackson Street         1144        2-7-1983
Walnut Street, southbound       Washington Street      1144        2-7-1983
Water Street                    Black Street           1144        2-7-1983
Water Street                    Harrison Street        1144        2-7-1983
Water Street, eastbound         Henry Brown Avenue     1144        2-7-1983
Water Street, westbound         Canal Street           1144        2-7-1983
Wayne Street                    5th Street             1535        9-15-2008
Wayne Street, westbound         1st Street             1144        9-6-2016
West Wedgewood                  Harrison Street        1535        9-15-2008
 
   (B)   Tyler Street, eastbound, and consolidated railway crossing. Drivers on
Tyler Street shall stop within 50 feet, but not less than ten feet, from the
nearest track at such graded crossing and shall proceed only upon the exercise
of due care after coming to a complete stop.
   (C)   Penalty. Every person convicted of a violation of the provisions of
divisions (A) and (B) above shall be fined not more than a rate based on
current state-approved amounts and/or as set by City Council from time to time.
(Prior Code, Chapter 74, Schedule IV) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE V. YIELD STREETS.
   The streets at the following cross streets shall be yield streets. Drivers
of all vehicles on these streets shall yield the right-of-way before entering
the described cross street.
 
Yield Street           Cross Street             Ord. No.   Date Passed
South Harrison Street  Entrance of Yule Country 1144; 1211 2-7-1983; 6-17-1987
(northbound)           Club and Golf Course
South Harrison Street  Entrance of Yule Country 1144;      2-7-1983; 6-17-1987
(westbound)            Club and Golf Course     1211
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 74, Schedule V) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE VI. RESTRICTED TURNS.
   The restricted maneuvers are as follows.
 
Street        Location      Direction Restricted Times Ord. No. Date Passed
                                      Turn
              At the alley
              between
Church Street Harrison      East      Right      All   1144     2-7-1983
              Street and
              Wayne Street
              At the alley
              between
Church Street Harrison      West      Left       All   1144     2-7-1983
              Street and
              Wayne Street
              At the alley
              between
Wayne Street  Washington    North     Left       All   1144     2-7-1983
              Street and
              Church Street
              At the alley
              between
Wayne Street  Washington    South     Right      All   1144     2-7-1983
              Street and
              Church Street
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 74, Schedule VI) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE VII. PREFERENTIAL STREETS.
   The first named streets in the following schedule are hereby designated as
preferential streets.
 
Preferential Street Location                              Ord. No. Date Passed
11th Street         From Indiana State Road 9 to the west 1144     2-7-1983
                    city limits (Conrail Railroad)
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 74, Schedule VII)
SCHEDULE VIII. WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   No person shall operate any vehicle with a gross weight of more than 9,000
pounds on or upon any alley, street, or roadway except on the streets listed in
below. This restriction shall not apply to the necessary local operation of a
vehicle for the purpose of picking up or delivering materials.
 
Street               Location                            Ord. No.   Date Passed
11th Street          Indiana State Road 9 to city limits 1144       2-7-1983
                     west
6th Street           Indiana State Road 9 to city limits 1144       2-7-1983
                     west
South Central Avenue 6th Street to 11th Street           1144; 1394 2-7-1983;
                                                                    10-5-1998
Washington Street    Indiana State Road 9 (South Park    1144;      2-7-1983;
                     Avenue) to city limits west         1394       10-5-1998
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 74, Schedule VIII) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE IX. DEAD-END STREETS.
   The following named streets in the locations listed are hereby designated as
dead-end streets on which traffic shall not proceed beyond their points of
ending.
 
Street        Location                               Ord. No. Date Passed
Hannah Street Intersection with Indiana State Road 9 1440     8-6-2001
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 74, Schedule IX) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE X. TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Official traffic-control signals shall be installed at the following
locations:
   (A)   Berry Street and Harrison Street;
   (B)   Broadway Street and Harrison Street;
   (C)   Canal Street and Church Street;
   (D)   Canal Street and Washington Street;
   (E)   Church Street and Harrison Street;
   (F)   Harrison Street and John Street; and
   (G)   Harrison Street and Washington Street.
(Prior Code, § 71.10) (Ord. 1144, passed 2-7-1983)
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Parking time limited on certain streets
      
II.   Parking prohibited during certain hours on certain streets
      
III.   Reserved spaces for persons with physical disabilities
SCHEDULE I. PARKING TIME LIMITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   No person shall park a vehicle longer than the time specified during the
times and days specified within the district or upon any of the streets listed
below.
Street Location Side Time Limit When Restricted Ord. No. Date Passed
Street      Location      Side   Time Limit When        Ord. No.    Date Passed
                                            Restricted
                                            8:00 a.m. -
Church      Canal Street                    6:00 p.m.
Street      to Wayne      Both   2 hrs.     except      1248        12-4-1989
            Street                          Sundays and
                                            holidays
                                            8:00 a.m. -
Church      West Street                     6:00 p.m.
Street      to Harrison   Both   2 hrs.     except      1144        2-7-1983
            Street                          Sundays and
                                            holidays
            Indiana State                   8:00 a.m. -
            Road 9 to                       6:00 p.m.
1st Street  Clinton       Sout h 2 hrs.     except      1368        12-2-1996
            Street                          Sundays and
                                            holidays
                                            8:00 a.m. -
Harrison    John Street                     6:00 p.m.
Street      to Berry      Both   2 hrs.     except      1248        12-4-1989
            Street                          Sundays and
                                            holidays
                                            8:00 a.m. -
Harrison    John Street                     6:00 p.m.
Street      to Washington Both   2 hrs.     except      1144        2-7-1983
            Street                          Sundays and
                                            holidays
                                            8:00 a.m. -
            Canal Street                    6:00 p.m.
John Street to Harrison   Sout h 2 hrs.     except      1248        12-4-1989
            Street                          Sundays and
                                            holidays
                                            8:00 a.m. -
            West Street                     6:00 p.m.
John Street to Harrison   Both   2 hrs.     except      1144        2-7-1983
            Street                          Sundays and
                                            holidays
Washingto n Black Street
Street      to Curve      Both   2 hrs.     All times   CC 2019-010 12-16-201 9
            Street
                                            8:00 a.m. -
Washingto n Canal Street                    6:00 p.m.
Street      to Wayne      Both   2 hrs.     except      1248        12-4-1989
            Street                          Sundays and
                                            holidays
                                            8:00 a.m. -
Washingto n West Street                     6:00 p.m.
Street      to Clinton    Both   2 hrs.     except      1144        2-7-1983
            Street                          Sundays and
                                            holidays
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 75, Schedule I) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. PARKING PROHIBITED DURING CERTAIN HOURS ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   No person shall park a vehicle during the hours and days specified on the
streets listed below.
Street Side(s ) Location Times Ord. No. Date Passed
Street         Side(s )  Location        Times           Ord. No. Date Passed
                         Harrison Street 4:00 a.m. - 6:
Berry Street   North     to Clinton      00 a.m. (Monday 1144     2-7-1983
                         Street          and Friday)
                         Harrison Street
Berry Street   South     to Henry Brown  All             1144     2-7-1983
                         Avenue
                         Washington
Black Street   East      Street to Water All             1562     7-19-2010
                         Street
Broadway                 Canal Street to 4:00 a.m. - 6:
Street         Both      Walnut Street   00 a.m. (Monday 1144     2-7-1983
                                         and Friday)
                         Eastern
                         boundary of
                         Canal Street to
Broadway       Both      western         3:00 a.m. - 5:  1371     3-17-1997
Street                   boundary of     00 a.m.
                         first alley
                         east of
                         Harrison Street
                         Eastern corner
                         of Pennsylvania
Broadway       Both      Avenue east to  All             1461     8-4-2003
Street                   the west side
                         of the railroad
                         tracks
                         First alley
Broadway                 east of         4:00 a.m. - 6:
Street         Both      Harrison Street 00 a.m.         1572     11-15- 2010
                         to Walnut       (Monday)
                         Street
Broadway                 Sheridan Street
Street         North     to Conrail      All             1249     12-4-1989
                         Railroad
Broadway                 Sheridan Street
Street         North     to Liberty      All             1144     2-7-1983
                         Street
                         From 50 feet
Broadway                 west of
Street         South     intersection    All             1144     2-7-1983
                         east to Walnut
                         Street
                         Berry Street to 4:00 a.m. - 6:
Canal Street   Both      John Street     00 a.m. (Monday 1144     2-7-1983
                                         and Friday)
                         Berry Street to 4:00 a.m. - 6:
Canal Street   Both      Madison Street  00 a.m. (Monday 1249     12-4-1989
                                         and Friday)
                         Southern
                         boundary of
                         Broadway Street 3:00 a.m. - 5:
Canal Street   Both      to northern     00 a.m.         1371     3-17-1997
                         boundary of
                         Washington
                         Street
                         From north of
Canal Street   East      Washington      All             1144     2-7-1983
                         Street to
                         Church Street
                         From the first
                         alley North of
Canal Street   East      Washington      All             1249     12-4-1989
                         Street to
                         Church Street
Canal Street   East      Mill Street to  All             1144     2-7-1983
                         Water Street
                         Broadway Street
Central Avenue East      to Monroe       All             1144     2-7-1983
                         Street
Central Avenue East      Jackson Street  All             1144     2-7-1983
                         to Tyler Street
                         Washington
Central Avenue East      Street to Adams All             1144     2-7-1983
                         Street
                         Washington
Central Avenue West      Street to       All             1144     2-7-1983
                         Broadway Street
                         First alley
                         west of Canal
Church Street  Both      Street to       3:00 a.m. - 5:  1371     3-17-1997
                         western         00 a.m.
                         boundary of
                         Wayne Street
                         West Street to  4:00 a.m. - 6:
Church Street  Both      Canal Street    00 a.m. (Monday 1144     2-7-1983
                                         and Friday)
                         Wayne Street to 4:00 a.m. - 6:
Church Street  North     Lincoln Avenue  00 a.m. (Monday 1249     12-4-1989
                                         and Friday)
                         From Lincoln
Church Street  South     Avenue to       All             1509     2-20-2007
                         Walnut Street
Church Street  South     Wayne Street to All             1144     2-7-1983
                         Lincoln Avenue
Clinton Street East      1st Street to   All             1249     12-4-1989
                         4th Street
Clinton Street East      4th Street to   All             1144     2-7-1983
                         2nd Street
               North and South Harrison
11th Street    South     Street to South All             1301     12-7-1992
                         Central Avenue
                         Clinton Street
1st Street     Both      to intersection All             1368     12-2-1996
                         of Wayne Street
                         and 1st Street
                         Indiana State
1st Street     North     Road 9 and      All             1368     12-2-1996
                         Clinton Street
                         Between Clinton
Former                   Street and
Washington     Both      Wayne Street in All             -        9-6-2016
Street                   front of Fix
                         and Sons
                         Manufacturing
Garfield                 Harrison Street
Street         North     east a distance All             1413     6-21-1999
                         of 50 feet
Garfield                 Harrison Street 6:00 a.m. - 8:
Street         North     to Lincoln      00 a.m.         1144     2-7-1983
                         Avenue          (Monday)
Garfield                 Harrison Street
Street         South     to Lincoln      All             1144     2-7-1983
                         Avenue
Harrison       Both      John Street to  All             1249     12-4-1989
Street                   Broadway Street
Harrison                 South Berry
Street         Both      Street to the   All             1583     3-5-2012
                         railroad
                         Southern
                         boundary of
Harrison       Both      Monroe Street   3:00 a.m. - 5:  1371     3-17-1997
Street                   to northern     00 a.m.
                         boundary of
                         Berry Street
Harrison       East      100 feet south  All             1144     2-7-1983
Street                   of Wayne Street
Harrison       East      10th Street to  All             1144     2-7-1983
Street                   11th Street
Harrison       East      Wayne Street to All             1582     2-21-2012
Street                   11th Street
Harrison       West      4th Street to   All             1144     2-7-1983
Street                   5th Street
Harrison       West      9th Street to   All             1144     2-7-1983
Street                   10th Street
Harrison       West      Wayne Street to All             1144     2-7-1983
Street                   6th Street
                         Indiana State
Jackson Street Both      Road 9 to Tiger All             1144     2-7-1983
                         Lane
                         Eastern
                         boundary of
                         Canal Street to
John Street    Both      western         3:00 a.m. - 5:  1371     3-17-1997
                         boundary of     00 a.m.
                         first alley
                         east of
                         Harrison Street
                         Harrison Street 4:00 a.m. - 6:
John Street    North     to Lincoln      00 a.m. (Monday 1144     2-7-1983
                         Avenue          and Friday)
                         Canal Street to 4:00 a.m. - 6:
John Street    South     Harrison Street 00 a.m. (Monday 1144     2-7-1983
                                         and Friday)
                         Harrison Street
John Street    South     to Lincoln      All             1144     2-7-1983
                         Avenue
                         West Broadway
Liberty Street East      Street to West  All             1398     11-2-1998
                         Monroe Street
                         Church Street
Lincoln Avenue Both      to Monroe       All             1249     12-4-1989
                         Street
                         Belmont Street
Madison Street North     to Fairview     All             1144     2-7-1983
                         Street
                         Belmont Street
Madison Street South     to Liberty      All             1144     2-7-1983
                         Street
                         Fairview Street 8:00 a.m. - 12:
Monroe Street  Both      to Harrison     00 p.m.         1144     2-7-1983
                         Street          (Friday)
                         Harrison Street 8:00 a.m. - 12:
Monroe Street  North     to Fremont      00 p.m.         1144     2-7-1983
                         Street          (Friday)
                         Harrison Street
Monroe Street  South     to Fremont      All             1144     2-7-1983
                         Street
                         First alley
Pennsylvania             North of
Avenue         West      Washington      All             1249     12-4-1989
                         Street to Adams
                         Street
Pennsylvania             Jefferson
Avenue         West      Street to John  All             1144     2-7-1983
                         Street
                         Jackson Street
                         south to the
Tiger Lane     Both      property line   All             1459     3-17-2003
                         of Alexandria
                         Manor
                         Apartments
Tyler Street   North     Canal Street to All             1249     12-4-1989
                         Sheridan Street
                         Harrison Street
Tyler Street   North     to Sullivan     All             1144     2-7-1983
                         Avenue
                         Sheridan Street
Tyler Street   North     to Columbia     All             1144     2-7-1983
                         Street
                         Harrison Street
Tyler Street   South     to Fairview     All             1249     12-4-1989
                         Street
                         Liberty Street
Tyler Street   South     to Harrison     All             1144     2-7-1983
                         Street
                         Washington
Walnut Street  Both      Street to       All             1611     8-18-2014
                         Church Street
                         Washington
                         Street to a
                         point 60 feet
                         north of the
Walnut Street  East      north curb line All             1258     3-5-1990
                         of Washington
                         Street at its
                         intersection
                         with Walnut
                         Street
                         Washington
Walnut Street  East      Street to       All             1249     12-4-1989
                         Church Street
                         Washington
Walnut Street  West      Street to       All             1249     12-4-1989
                         Madison Street
                         Eastern
                         boundary of     All (except
Washington     Both      Wayne Street to disability      -        9-6-2016
Street                   the western     parking, under
                         boundary of     Ord. 1459)
                         Clinton Street
                         Eastern
                         boundary of
Washington     Both      West Street to  3:00 a.m. - 5:  1371     3-17-1997
Street                   western         00 a.m.
                         boundary of
                         Clinton Street
                         Pennsylvania    4:00 a.m. - 6:
Washington     Both      Avenue to       00 a.m. (Monday 1249     12-4-1989
Street                   Indiana State   and Friday)
                         Road 9
Washington               Pennsylvania    8:00 a.m. - 12:
Street         North     Avenue to       00 p.m.         1249     12-4-1989
                         Indiana Avenue  (Friday)
Washington               Westbound from
Street         North     Clinton Street  All             -        9-6-2019
                         180 feet
Washington               Eastbound from
Street         South     Clinton Street  All             -        9-6-2019
                         160 feet
Washington               Indiana Avenue
Street         South     to Pennsylvania All             1144     2-7-1983
                         Avenue
Wayne Street   Both      Harrison Street All             1368     12-2-1996
                         to 2nd Street
                         Northern
                         boundary of
                         Church Street   3:00 a.m. - 5:
Wayne Street   Both      to southern     00 a.m.         1371     3-17-1997
                         boundary of
                         Washington
                         Street
                         From alley
                         south of Church
Wayne Street   East      Street to       All             1144     2-7-1983
                         Washington
                         Street
                         Mill Street to
West Street    East      Henry Brown     All             1144     2-7-1983
                         Avenue
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 75, Schedule II) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III. RESERVED SPACES FOR PERSONS WITH PHYSICAL DISABILITIES.
   The following described spaces are designated as spaces reserved for persons
with physical disabilities.
Street Name Side Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Street Name             Side  Location                 Ord. No.     Date Passed
                              A space 21 feet in
                              length beginning at the
                              intersection of the
Broadway Street         North alley running north from 1542         4-6-2009
                              Broadway Street between
                              Harrison Street and
                              Canal Street and running
                              west therefrom
                              A point 101 feet east of
Church Street           North Harrison Street and      1237         2-6-1989
                              extending east 19 feet
                              A point 32 feet west of
Church Street           South Harrison Street and      1237         2-6-1989
                              extending west 19 feet
                              A space 21 feet in
                              length on the south side
                              of Church Street and
Church Street           South east of an alley running 1552         11-16-2009
                              south therefrom between
                              Wayne and Harrison
                              Street
                              One space 21 feet in
                              length beginning 150
Clinton Street          North feet west of the         1415         6-21-1999
                              northwest corner of the
                              intersection of Clinton
                              Street and Church Street
                              Between a point 43 feet
East Church Street      North east of Harrison Street  1459         3-17-2003
                              and 73 feet west of the
                              first alley
East Church Street      South In front of Harrison     CC 2019- 006 9-3-2019
                              Square Park
East Church Street and        Two spaces at the south
Wayne Street parking    -     end of the lot next to   1459         3-17-2003
lot (across from the          the sidewalk
city building)
                              Between a point 16 feet
East Washington Street  North east of Wayne Street and 1459         3-17-2003
                              276 feet west of Clinton
                              Street
                              A point 8 feet north of
                              the alley between John
Harrison Street         West  Street and Church Street 1237         2-6-1989
                              and extending north 19
                              feet
North Canal Street            One spot on the west end
(behind SBC telephone   -     of the parking lot       1459         3-17-2003
office)
North Harrison Street   West  In front of 120 North    CC 2019- 006 9-3-2019
                              Harrison Street
North Harrison Street   West  In front of 612 North    CC 2019- 006 9-3-2019
                              Harrison Street
                              Between a point 16 feet
South Canal Street      East  south of the first alley 1459         3-17-2003
                              and 105 feet north of
                              the first alley
                              A point 36 feet west of
Washington Street       North Harrison Street and      1237         2-6-1989
                              extending west for 19
                              feet
Washington Street       North In front of 322 E.       1611         8-18-2014
                              Washington Street
Washington Street and         Two spaces at the
Canal Street parking    -     northeast corner by the  1459         3-17-2003
lot (big city lot)            intersection of the east
                              and west alleys
Wayne Street parking    -     In the southwest corner  1459         3-17-2003
lot (city building)
                              Between a point 78 feet
                              east of North Canal
West Church Street      South Street and 37 feet west  1459         3-17-2003
                              of the first alley west
                              of Harrison Street
                              Between a point 29 feet
                              west of Harrison Street
West Church Street      South and 90 feet east of the  1459         3-17-2003
                              first alley west of
                              Harrison Street
                              Between a point 44 feet
                              west of North Canal
West Church Street      South Street and 80 feet east  1459         3-17-2003
                              of the first alley east
                              of Northwest Street
                              A space 21 feet in
                              length beginning at the
                              intersection of the
West Monroe Street      East  alley running north from 1552         11-16-2009
                              West Monroe Street
                              between Fairview Street
                              and Sheridan Street and
                              running east therefrom
West Monroe Street      South One parking spot at 707  2022-008- C  11-7- 2022
                              West Monroe Street
                              Between a point 215 feet
                              south of a point four
                              feet north of the
West Tyler Street       North intersection of West     1459         3-17-20 03
(Marie Thurston School)       Tyler Street and North
                              Central Avenue and 234
                              feet south of the same
                              point
                              Between a point 11 feet
                              west of Canal Street and
West Washington Street  North 13 feet east of the      1459         3-17-20 03
                              second alley west of
                              Harrison Street
                              Between a point 11 feet
                              west of the first alley
West Washington Street  North west of Harrison Street  1459         3-17-20 03
                              and 116 feet east of
                              South Canal Street
                              Between a point 35 feet
                              west of Harrison Street
West Washington Street  North and 90 feet east of the  1459         3-17-2003
                              first alley west of
                              Harrison Street
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 75, Schedule III)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
92.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
93.   NUISANCES
      
94.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
95.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.001   Adoption of state law
   
90.002   Definitions
   
90.003   Domesticated farm animals, feed lots, barns, and stock pens
   
90.004   Wild animals, reptiles, and amphibians
   
90.005   Feeding strays; poisoning dogs and cats
   
90.006   Animal care and mistreatment
   
90.007   Abandonment, neglect, and cruelty prohibited
   
90.008   Animals as nuisance
   
90.009   Animals to be kept under restraint
   
90.010   Spaying and neutering
   
90.011   Enforcement
   
90.012   Burden of proof; inspection procedure
Impoundment, Surrender, and Adoption
   
90.025   Impoundment
   
90.026   Notice of impoundment
   
90.027   Redemption of impounded dogs; fees
   
90.028   Fee for surrendering animals
   
90.029   Regulations for adoption
Diseased or Injured Animals
   
90.040   Rabies inoculation required
   
90.041   Duties of owner of suspected rabid animal
   
90.042   Rabies emergency
   
90.043   Disease-carrying dogs running at large
   
90.044   Disposition of animals exposed to communicable diseases
   
90.045   Motorized vehicle accidents involving animals
   
90.046   Emergency disposition of seriously injured animals
Permits
   
90.060   Permit required; regulations to be published
   
90.061   Commercial animal establishment permits
   
90.062   Kennel permits, fees, and requirements
   
90.063   Additional permit fees
   
90.064   Revocation of permits
   
90.065   Disposition of funds
Vicious Animals
   
90.080   Animal bites
   
90.081   Control of vicious animal
   
90.082   Determination of vicious animal status
   
90.083   Change in circumstances notification
   
90.084   Impounding vicious animals
   
90.085   Confinement and restraint
   
90.086   Inquiry and investigation
   
90.087   Confiscation and euthanization
   
90.088   Costs of enforcement
Cat Colonies
   
90.100   Definitions
   
90.101   Community-Managed Cat Colony Program
   
90.102   Care for unmanaged colonies prohibited
   
90.103   Managed free-roaming cats
   
90.104   Colony caretaker responsibilities
 
   
90.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.001 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   (A)   All laws of the state which pertain to the regulation and control of
animals including, but not limited to, their ownership, licensing, harboring,
abandonment, running at large, rabies control and quarantine, pursuit, capture,
confinement, prevention and control of diseases of domestic animals, and active
rules and regulations of the State Board of Health and unlawful acts relating
thereto which are not inconsistent with this chapter are made a part of this
chapter by reference.
   (B)   The sections of this chapter are not to replace state laws but are to
be considered supplementary and in addition to the laws of the state and are to
be fully enforced where not inconsistent with those laws. Any violation of the
state statute which is an infraction by state law shall also be deemed a
violation of this chapter and may be enforced as an infraction of the same
class of infraction as the state statute.
(Ord. 2022-005-C, passed 6-6-2022)
§ 90.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONMENT. The voluntary relinquishment of possession by the owner with
the intention of terminating his or her ownership for 72-consecutive hours but
without vesting possession in another individual.
   AMATEUR BREEDER. Any person or entity, while not a licensed commercial
animal establishment, allowing a dog or cat under his, her, or their control to
breed with another and does not immediately give the offspring to an animal
shelter or to animal control.
   ANIMAL. Any live, non-human, warm- or cold-blooded vertebrate creature or
reptile, domestic or wild.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Hereafter referred to as ACO. The person(s)
designated by the Chief of Police, Mayor, or Common Council to enforce this
chapter including, but not limited to, city police officers.
   ANIMAL CONTROL SERVICE. The person(s), committee, partnership, LLC,
corporation, association, or society designated by the Mayor or Common Council
to enforce this chapter.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any premises designated by the city as a site for impounding
and caring for animals which are at large, lost, or otherwise homeless.
   AT LARGE. Any animal not under restraint.
   ATTACK. Any behavior by an animal that constitutes an immediate and serious
physical threat to human beings or other animals regardless of whether such
behavior results in injury to such human beings or other animals or not. This
behavior includes, but is not limited to, snapping at, lunging at, and/or
attempting to bite a human being or animal.
   AUCTIONS. Any place or facility where animals are regularly bought, sold, or
traded except for those facilities otherwise defined herein.
   BODILY INJURY. Any impairment of physical condition including physical pain.
   CIRCUS. A commercial variety show featuring animal acts or displays for
public acts or entertainment.
   CITY ANIMAL SHELTER. The Alexandria Animal Shelter (hereafter AAS) or any
other equivalent facility so designated from time to time by the city.
   COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any pet shop, grooming salon, auction,
riding school or stable, zoological park, circus, performing-animal exhibition,
or kennel.
   DOGHOUSE. Housing for the specific purpose of sheltering dogs with an
opening on one side for the animal to enter and a roof.
   DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Any animal that is a member of one of the following
species:
      (1)   Dog (Canis familiaris);
      (2)   Cat (Felis catus or Felis domesticus);
      (3)   Cattle (Box domesticus or Bos taurus or Bos indicus);
      (4)   Horse (Equus caballus);
      (5)   Donkey (Equus asinus);
      (6)   Pig (Sus scrofa);
      (7)   Sheep (Ovis aries);
      (8)   Goat (Capra hircus);
      (9)   Rabbit (Oryctolagus cuniculus);
      (10)   Monkey (Cebidae, Callithricidae, and Cercopithecidae);
      (11)   Mouse (Mus musculus);
      (12)   Rat (Rattus rattus);
      (13)   Guinea pig (Cavia porcellus);
      (14)   Chinchilla (Chinchilla lanigera);
      (15)   Hamster (Mesocricetus auratus); and
      (16)   Gerbil (Gerbillus gerbillus).
   ENCLOSURE. A fence or structure of at least six feet in height or another
structure suitable for preventing the entry of young children and for confining
a vicious animal therein in conjunction with other measures which may be taken
by the owner or approved by the ACO or Building Inspector. An ENCLOSURE shall
be securely designed, constructed, and locked so as to prevent a vicious animal
from escaping from the structure. The ENCLOSURE shall conform to the Building
and Zoning Code of the city.
   FOSTER or FOSTERING. The care of an animal on a temporary basis for the
purpose of adoption or placement with a third party on a permanent basis.
   GROOMING SHOP. A commercial establishment where animals are bathed, clipped,
plucked, or otherwise groomed.
   HARBORING. The actions of any person(s) which permit any animal to
habitually remain or lodge or to be fed within his or her home, store,
enclosure, yard, or place of business or any premises on which such person
resides or controls shall be considered HARBORING such animal. An animal shall
be presumed HARBORED if it is fed or sheltered for three-consecutive days.
   HUMANE SOCIETY. Any organization for the prevention of cruelty to animals
organized under the laws of the state.
   IDENTIFICATION. Wearing either a microchip, rabies tag, tattoo, or tag
indicating the owner’s name, address, and/or phone number.
   KENNEL. An establishment wherein any person or any person who otherwise
engages in boarding, breeding, buying, fostering, keeping, letting for hire,
training for a fee, or selling dogs and/or cats. Anyone keeping more than a
total of four or more unaltered dogs and/or cats six months of age shall be
deemed a KENNEL OPERATOR. Specifically excluded are groups of cats all of which
are altered and all of which are confined to the owner’s premises.
   OWNER. Any person(s), partnership, or corporation owning, keeping, or
harboring one or more animals.
   PERFORMING-ANIMALS EXHIBITION. Any spectacle, display, act, or event, other
than circuses, in which performing animals are used.
   PERSON. Any individual(s), firm, association, LLC, syndicate, partnership,
or corporation.
   PET. Any animal kept for pleasure rather than utility or sale.
   PET SHOP. Any person, partnership, LLC, or corporation, whether separately
or in conjunction with another business enterprise, except for a licensed
kennel that buys, sell, or boards any species of animal.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any animals which:
      (1)   Is not physically confined to the owner’s property or not on a
leash or lead while away from the owner’s property;
      (2)   Molests passersby or passing vehicles;
      (3)   Attacks a human or other animals;
      (4)   Is repeatedly at large;
      (5)   Damages or leaves fecal matter on public or private property; and/
or
      (6)   Barks, whines, or howls in an excessive or continuous fashion.
   RESTRAINT. Any animal secured by a leash or lead or within the real property
limits of it’s owner. An animal not physically confined to the owner’s property
shall be presumed not to be under RESTRAINT.
   RIDING SCHOOL OR STABLE. Any place which has available for hire, boarding,
and/or riding instruction for any horse, pony, donkey, mule, or burro.
   STRAY. Any animal which, upon reasonable inquiry, does not appear to have an
owner and is not being harbored by a resident.
   UNALTERED ANIMAL. Any animal that has not been spayed or neutered.
   VETERINARY HOSPITAL. Any establishment maintained and operated by a
veterinarian for surgery, diagnosis, and treatment of diseases and injury of
animals.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL.
      (1)   Any one of the following:
         (a)   Any animal with a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to
attack unprovoked, to cause injury to, or to otherwise threaten the safety of
human beings or domestic animals. Evidence of such shall include, but not be
limited to, lunging at fences in an aggressive or terrorizing manner in an
apparent attitude of attack when someone walks by or by chasing any person who
is standing, walking, running, or on a motorized or non-motorized method of
transportation;
         (b)   Any animal which, because of its vicious propensity, is capable
of inflicting serious physical harm or death to humans and which would
constitute a danger to human life as required by this chapter;
         (c)   Any animal which, without provocation, attacks or bites or has
attacked or bitten a human being or domestic animal;
         (d)   Any animal certified by a veterinarian, after observation
thereof, as posing a danger to human life or property if not kept in the manner
required by this chapter upon the basis of a reasonable medical probability;
and/or
         (e)   Any animal harbored primarily or partially for the purpose of
fighting or any animal trained for animal fighting.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the above definition of a VICIOUS ANIMAL, no animal
shall be declared VICIOUS if:
         (a)   An injury or damage sustained from the animal by a person who,
at the time of such injury or damage was sustained, was committing a willful
trespass or other tort upon the premises occupied by the owner of the animal or
was teasing, tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the animal or was committing or
attempting to commit a crime;
         (b)   An injury or damage is sustained by the animal from a domestic
animal which, at the time of such injury or damage, was teasing, tormenting,
abusing, or assaulting the animal at issue or trespassing upon the property of
the owner of such animal;
         (c)   The animal was protecting or defending a human being within its
immediate vicinity from an unjustified attack or assault by another person or
animal; and/or
         (d)   The animal is a canine patrol dog or police dog owned by a law
enforcement agency and is being used in the line of duty or for law enforcement
purposes.
   WILD ANIMALS. Any animal not a domestic animal with the exception of
nonpoisonous aquatic or amphibious animals and small caged birds.
   ZOOLOGICAL PARK. Any facility, other than a pet shop or kennel, displaying
or exhibiting one or more species of non-domesticated animals operated by a
person, partnership, LLC, corporation, or government agency.
(Ord. 2022-005-C, passed 6-6-2022)
§ 90.003 DOMESTICATED FARM ANIMALS, FEED LOTS, BARNS, AND STOCK PENS.
   (A)   Domesticated farm animals. It shall be unlawful for any person or
entity to maintain cows, swine, horses, donkeys, sheep, goats, or ducks within
the city limits unless otherwise specifically permitted by city ordinance.
However, it shall be lawful for a person to maintain a potbellied pig as a pet
within the city limits.
   (B)   Feed lots, barns, and stock pens. It shall be unlawful for any person
to keep within the city limits, any feeding pens, lots, or barns for the
stabling and feeding of any cattle, dairy cattle, swine, seven or more hens,
chickens, rooster chickens, horses, sheep, goats, or ducks for feeding or
dairying purposes or to erect or maintain a stock pen used for feeding or
pasture of cattle or hogs. All pens for such purposes are declared a nuisance
and dangerous to the public health of the citizens of the city.
(Ord. 2022-005-C, passed 6-6-2022) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.004 WILD ANIMALS, REPTILES, AND AMPHIBIANS.
   It shall be unlawful to own, keep, or harbor within city limits any wild
animals including reptiles and amphibians except small non-poisonous aquatic or
amphibious animals and small caged birds not otherwise regulated. This
prohibition shall not apply to permitted zoological parks, circuses, or
performing animal exhibitions.
(Ord. 2022-005-C, passed 6-6-2022) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.005 FEEDING STRAYS; POISONING DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an ACO to place, feed,
or make available to any domestic animal any food or hydration unless that
person is the legal owner of such animal or the legal owner has given specific
permission to another person to feed the animal during the owner’s temporary
absence from his or her property.
   (B)   It shall also be unlawful for any person to place, feed, or make
available any poison or poisonous food for the purpose of injuring, killing, or
harming such animals. However, it shall not be unlawful for a person to expose
on his or her own property common rat or mouse poison.
(Ord. 2022-005-C, passed 6-6-2022) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.006 ANIMAL CARE AND MISTREATMENT.
   (A)   Every owner or other person responsible for an animal, including those
harboring any animal located within the city, shall ensure that the animal:
      (1)   Is kept clean, sanitary, and healthy and is not confined so as to
be in its own excrement;
      (2)   Has sufficient wholesome food and water which is proper and
nutritional and not stagnate;
      (3)   Has a proper and adequate shelter at all times that is kept in a
sanitary manner, provides the animal protection from all elements of the
weather, and allows the animal to stand, sit, rotate, and lie comfortably.
         (a)   The shelter shall have solid walls on all sides, a dry floor
raised above the ground, a roof sloped away from the entrance to protect the
animal from weather and extreme cold. The shelter must contain clean, dry
bedding.
         (b)   Animals must have access to dry land and cannot be standing in
water or their own waste.
         (c)   Animals must be brought inside a temperature-controlled building
such as a house or a garage when there is a wind chill advisory, heat advisory,
or tornado warning.
         (d)   The shelter mush be shaded by either trees or a tarp. Each
situation is at the discretion of investigating officers or officials to
determine if an animal is in distress or in danger.
      (4)   Is brought into a temperature-controlled facility when the
temperature is at or below 32°F or above 85°F unless the animal is in the
presence of a competent adult;
      (5)   Does not remain tethered or chained for any given 24-hour period.
In essence, a dog may not live its life on a chain. Dogs must have shelter from
the elements while tied out. No animal shall be tethered by use of a choke
collar or any collar too small for the size and age of the animal or by any
rope, chain, or cord attached directly to the animal’s neck or such
unreasonable weight as to prevent the animal from moving about freely. All
tethers must have a swivel on both ends;
      (6)   Is provided with adequate space for exercise when residing in a
kennel. They should be able to move, run, and lie down without running into
another animal for lack of space. The suggested square footage for a kennel is
100 square feet. For dogs weighing more than 80 pounds, the kennel must be 150
square feet. For each additional dog, an additional 50 square feet must be
provided. There must be adequate shelter in the kennels and must have other
than the shelter, shade, or tarp. No animals may be kept in abandoned houses or
lots;
      (7)   Receives proper veterinary care as necessary to treat illness,
disease, and/or injury to prevent the transmission of diseases to other animals
or human beings and to promote good animal health;
      (8)   Is not beaten, treated cruelly, overloaded, overworked, or
otherwise abused;
      (9)   Is not abandoned, neglected, tortured, or used in animal fighting
or is trained to torment, badger, bait, or use any animal for such purpose;
      (10)   Does not bite, kick, butt, claw, assault, attack, or otherwise
create a danger to the health and/or safety of human beings or other animals;
      (11)   Is properly vaccinated and/or licensed as required by this chapter
and any county, state, or federal law now in existence or hereafter created or
amended;
      (12)   Is prevented from running at large on property other than private
property owned or property lawfully occupied by its owner by means of a leash,
lead, chain, or other appropriate physical restraint;
      (13)   Is not left unattended in a vehicle when the conditions in the
vehicle would constitute a health hazard to the animal, such as extreme heat or
cold, and is not transported in the trunk of any vehicle;
      (14)   Is not transported in the open bed of a vehicle unless confined in
an appropriate manner so as to reasonably prevent injury or prevent the animal
from jumping or being thrown from the vehicle; and
      (15)   Does not defecate on the property of another unless the person
responsible for the animal immediately thereafter removes or has removed from
the other’s property as much of the feces as is reasonably possible.
   (B)   An animal that is mistreated in violation of division (A) above may be
taken by the police or ACO and impounded in the AAS or other acceptable shelter
and confined in a humane manner.
      (1)   If court action is not commenced by the city against the person who
has mistreated an animal in violation of the foregoing provisions within ten
days after impoundment, an animal may be released back to the animal’s rightful
owner provided that the owner has first paid any and all expenses incurred by
ACO during the impoundment period, including any and all medical expenses.
      (2)   If court action is commenced within ten days after impoundment, the
animal may not be released without court authorization. If the court determines
that a violation of the foregoing provisions on mistreatment has occurred, the
animal shall become the property of the local government authority and shall be
placed for adoption in a suitable home or humanely euthanized.
(Ord. 2022-005-C, passed 6-6-2022)
§ 90.007 ABANDONMENT, NEGLECT, AND CRUELTY PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for a person who owns a domestic vertebrate animal to
recklessly, knowingly, or intentionally abandon, neglect, or commit cruelty to
such animal.
(Ord. 2022-005-C, passed 6-6-2022) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.008 ANIMALS AS NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful and constitute a public nuisance, for any person to
keep any animal, bird, or fowl which causes frequent or continuous noise or
odor so as to disturb the comfort or repose of any other person.
(Ord. 2022-005-C, passed 6-6-2022) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.009 ANIMALS TO BE KEPT UNDER RESTRAINT.
   (A)   All animals shall be kept under restraint. No owner shall fail to
exercise due care and control of his or her animals to prevent them from
becoming a public nuisance.
   (B)   Every female animal in heat shall be confined in a building or secure
enclosure in such a manner that such female animals cannot come into contact
with another animal of the same species except for planned breeding.
   (C)   Every vicious animal, as determined by the ACO, shall be confined by
the owner within a building or a secure enclosure and shall be securely on a
leash and muzzled or caged whenever off the premises of the owner.
   (D)   Unrestrained and nuisance animals shall be taken by the police or ACO
and impounded in the AAS or other animal shelter in a humane manner. If, by a
licensed tag or other means, the owner of an impounded animal can be
identified, the animal control officer shall notify the owner as provided in §
90.026.
      (1)   An owner reclaiming an impounded animal shall pay a rate per day of
boarding based on current state-approved amounts and/or as set by City Council
from time to time as a fee for each overnight stay impounded plus a fine for
the first offense, second offense, and third offense based on current state-
approved amounts and/or as set by City Council from time to time plus a
citation for public nuisance. The fourth offense will result in surrender of
the animal to the city and placement for adoption.
      (2)   Any animal not reclaimed by its owner within five days shall become
the property of the city and shall be placed for adoption or foster in a
suitable home, transferred to any other animal shelter, or euthanized with all
costs of housing or euthanasia assessed to the owner. An owner may surrender
the animal to the city for a fee based on current state-approved amounts and/or
as set by City Council from time to time.
(Ord. 2022-005-C, passed 6-6-2022)
§ 90.010 SPAYING AND NEUTERING.
   (A)   Any dog or cat adopted from the AAS must be spayed or neutered by a
registered veterinarian at the expense of the adopting person.
      (1)   If the dog or cat is an adult, such operation shall be scheduled to
be performed within 14 days of the adoption.
      (2)   If the dog or cat is young, it shall be neutered by the
veterinarian by the age of six months.
   (B)   Any dog or cat not so neutered/spayed within those time periods in
division (A)(1) and (A)(2) above shall be reclaimed by the ACO without refund
to the adopter except if a registered veterinarian should determine the animal
is physically unable to undergo such an operation within said time limitation.
Then, in such case, the animal is to be neutered/spayed as soon as the
veterinarian determines it is able.
(Ord. 2022-005-C, passed 6-6-2022)
§ 90.011 ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the ACO and other
appropriate law enforcement agencies, and any such enforcement officer may
issue a written ticket to the violator which shall include a brief description
of the violation. If the violator fails to pay such ticket to the Violations
Bureau, the ACO shall process the ticket through the City Attorney for judicial
collection.
(Ord. 2022-005-C, passed 6-6-2022)
§ 90.012 BURDEN OF PROOF; INSPECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   In any case arising under this chapter, the burden of proof shall be
upon the owner of the animal to prove any action by such animal was provoked.
   (B)   Whenever it is necessary to make an inspection of or enter onto
private property in order to enforce any of the provisions of or perform any
duty imposed by this chapter or an ACO has reasonable cause to believe that the
keeping or maintaining of any animal constitutes a public nuisance or is
hazardous, unsafe, or dangerous as to require immediate inspection to safeguard
the animal or public health or safety, such ACO shall, if time and
circumstances permit, first attempt to present proper credentials to the
occupant of the property on which such animal is located and request entry
thereon and explain the reasons therefore. If entry is refused or cannot be
obtained or time and circumstances do not reasonably allow the above procedures
to be followed, such animal control officer shall have the power to secure
lawful entry to inspect property.
(Ord. 2022-005-C, passed 6-6-2022)
IMPOUNDMENT, SURRENDER, AND ADOPTION
§ 90.025 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Any animal found to be in violation of this chapter shall be impounded at
the AAS or any other equivalent facility so designated by the ACO or Mayor for
up to 72 hours. After such time, if the owner/keeper has not removed the animal
from the AAS, the animal shall become property of the city and may be disposed
of or adopted out to any third person the ACO deems appropriate.
(Ord. 2022-005-C, passed 6-6-2022)
§ 90.026 NOTICE OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Whenever an animal is impounded under the provisions of this chapter
and the owner or keeper is readily ascertainable, the ACO shall, within 24
hours and excluding weekends and holidays, notify the owner/keeper in writing
by leaving a copy of such notice at the owner’s/keeper’s last known address
advising the owner/keeper that the animal is in custody of the AAS and that the
owner/keeper has 72 hours to remove the animal from AAS or such animal will
become property of the city and may be disposed of or adopted out by the ACO.
   (B)   Any dog seized under this chapter which is unacceptable for
impoundment due to serious injury or being infected with a communicable disease
may be immediately disposed of in a humane manner.
   (C)   No animal shall be reclaimed unless:
      (1)   It has had either a one-year or a three-year rabies shot and is
deemed up to date per a veterinarian;
      (2)   The impounding boarding fee, as established herein, has been paid;
and
      (3)   All other monetary fines or fees required of this chapter have been
paid in full.
(Ord. 2022-005-C, passed 6-6-2022)
§ 90.027 REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED DOGS; FEES.
   (A)   During the time periods set forth in §§
90.025 and
90.026, the owner/keeper of any dog impounded under the provisions of this
chapter at the AAS, may redeem it from the ACO after first paying all costs,
charges, and other penalties that have accrued up to the time of redemption
which include, but are not limited to, feeding the animal and providing general
or medical care to the animal.
   (B)   The costs and charges shall be a minimum fee per day or portion of the
day that a dog is held in the AAS based on current state-approved amounts and/
or as set by City Council from time to time. There shall be a minimum charge
for each dog held in the AAS regardless of the length of time held based on
current state-approved amounts and/or as set by City Council from time to time.
(Ord. 2022-005-C, passed 6-6-2022)
§ 90.028 FEE FOR SURRENDERING ANIMALS.
   An owner surrendering an animal to the city will be assessed a fee per
animal surrendered based on current state-approved amounts and/or as set by
City Council from time to time.
(Ord. 2022-005-C, passed 6-6-2022)
§ 90.029 REGULATIONS FOR ADOPTION.
   The ACO, with the approval of the Common Council, may promulgate policies
and regulations for the adoption of animals from the AAS.
(Ord. 2022-005-C, passed 6-6-2022)
DISEASED OR INJURED ANIMALS
§ 90.040 RABIES INOCULATION REQUIRED.
   Every owner/keeper of a dog shall cause it to be inoculated by a registered
veterinarian with either a one-year or three-year rabies serum and shall, upon
verbal request from ACO, produce an amount based on current state-approved
amounts and/or as set by City Council from time to time, and an amount based on
current state-approved amounts and/or as set by City Council from time to time
for each subsequent offense. However, no more than one citation shall be issued
in any 24-hour period.
(Ord. 2022-005-C, passed 6-6-2022)
§ 90.041 DUTIES OF OWNER OF SUSPECTED RABID ANIMAL.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any owner knowing or suspecting an animal to have
rabies to allow such an animal to leave his or her premises except to be taken
to the AAS or to a licensed veterinarian.
   (B)   Every owner, upon ascertaining an animal is rabid, shall immediately
notify the ACO or the County Health Officer.
(Ord. 2022-005-C, passed 6-6-2022) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.042 RABIES EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Whenever the Mayor may have reasonable suspicion that there is a
danger of the existence or spread of hydrophobia within city limits, he or she
may issue a proclamation ordering and requiring all persons owning, keeping,
processing, or harboring any animal of the canine family to:
      (1)   Confine or muzzle the animal for a term of not less than 30 days
and no more than 90 days following the date of such proclamation; and
      (2)   Cause such animal to be effectively secured and muzzled during the
period of the proclamation so as to prevent it from biting human beings and
other animals.
   (B)   Any member of the canine family which may be found unmuzzled,
unconfined, or not inoculated is in violation of the proclamation of the Mayor
and may be destroyed by order of the ACO or Chief of Police.
(Ord. 2022-005-C, passed 6-6-2022)
§ 90.043 DISEASE-CARRYING DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any dog, which may communicate or has
hydrophobia or any other contagious or infectious disease or that has not been
inoculated for rabies, to run at large.
   (B)   Any violation of this section shall, at the discretion of the ACO,
cause the animal to be immediately impounded or destroyed.
(Ord. 2022-005-C, passed 6-6-2022)
§ 90.044 DISPOSITION OF ANIMALS EXPOSED TO COMMUNICABLE DISEASES.
   Any warm-blooded animal which has been bitten by another animal known to
have rabies shall be confined for a period of ten days at the expense of the
owner of the dog/animal which bit the other animal or be destroyed if the owner
does not pay such expenses.
(Ord. 2022-005-C, passed 6-6-2022)
§ 90.045 MOTORIZED VEHICLE ACCIDENTS INVOLVING ANIMALS.
   Any person who, as the operator of a motor vehicle, strikes an animal shall
stop at once and render such assistance as may be reasonable under the
circumstances and then immediately report such injury or death to the animal’s
owner/keeper or the ACO if the owner/keeper is not readily available or
ascertainable.
(Ord. 2022-005-C, passed 6-6-2022)
§ 90.046 EMERGENCY DISPOSITION OF SERIOUSLY INJURED ANIMALS.
   In the event an animal is seriously injured in an accident and the ACO or
city police officer is unable to ascertain the ownership or are unable to
locate the owner within a reasonable amount of time immediately following such
accident, said officer may, at his or her discretion, destroy such animal
without the necessity of first consulting its owner.
(Ord. 2022-005-C, passed 6-6-2022)
PERMITS
§ 90.060 PERMIT REQUIRED; REGULATIONS TO BE PUBLISHED.
   (A)   No person shall operate a commercial animal establishment, kennel, or
animal shelter, except for the AAS, without first obtaining a permit in
compliance with this subchapter. Every physical facility regulated by this
subchapter shall be considered a separate enterprise and require an individual
permit.
   (B)   The ACO, with the approval of the Common Council, may publish
regulations for the issuance of permits and may include requirements for humane
care of all animals and for compliance with the provisions of this chapter and
other applicable laws. Such regulations may be amended, modified, or revoked
from time to time by approval of the Common Council.
(Ord. 2022-005-C, passed 6-6-2022)
§ 90.061 COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENT PERMITS.
   (A)   Upon application, the Clerk-Treasurer may issue a permit to operate a
commercial animal establishment or to a homeowner, upon payment of applicable
fees, but only for those animals permitted by this chapter.
   (B)   If there is a change in ownership of the commercial animal
establishment or homeowner, the new owner may have the current permit
transferred to his or her name upon payment of a transfer fee based on current
state-approved amounts and/or as set by City Council from time to time.
   (C)   The permit shall begin on January 1 and run for one year.
Establishments or homeowners wishing to seek a permit during other times of the
year shall apply and pay a prorated fee for the remaining portion of the year.
Yearly applications must be made before January 31 or within ten days of the
creation of such an establishment.
   (D)   The permit issued herein may only be renewed after inspection and
approval by the local ACO and must adhere to any applicable city, county,
state, or federal laws or ordinances. The animal renewal fee shall be based on
current state-approved amounts and/or as set by City Council from time to time.
A unanimous vote of the Common Council shall be required to waive any such
fees.
(Ord. 2022-005-C, passed 6-6-2022)
§ 90.062 KENNEL PERMITS, FEES, AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Kennel permits required.
      (1)   No person shall operate a kennel without first obtaining a permit
in compliance with this subchapter. Each facility regulated by this subchapter
shall be considered a separate enterprise and shall require an individual
permit.
      (2)   The applicant must apply to the Zoning Board of Appeals for a
special exception to operate kennels on his or her property. The applicants
must meet all of the requirements for a kennel. Then, the applicant must submit
a full set of prints showing kennel sites, construction of kennels, and
location of kennels on site plans for approval of the Zoning Board.
      (3)   After the kennel is approved by the Zoning Board, the applicant
must submit the approved form to the Clerk-Treasurer for the proper kennel
license. The licenses are good for the calendar year in which they are written
for the person or persons receiving approval and must be renewed by January 31
of the following year. The special exception is good for the person(s) to whom
it is written only, and change of ownership requires a new kennel license.
   (B)   Kennel permit fees.
      (1)   Kennel permit fees are based on current state-approved amounts and/
or as set by City Council from time to time.
      (2)   No fee shall be required of any veterinary hospital, animal
shelter, or government- operated zoological park or laboratory.
   (C)   Requirements.
      (1)   All kennels will be kept in a sanitary condition.
      (2)   Dog runs will be hard surfaced for easy cleaning.
      (3)   All animals will be separated except for mating or tending young.
      (4)   Kennels with less than 15 animals over the age of four months shall
be separated from nearest residence or business by not less than 200 feet.
      (5)   Kennel with over 15 but less than 50 animals over the age four
months shall be separated from nearest residence or business by not less than
300 feet.
      (6)   Kennels with over 50 animals shall be separated from the nearest
residence or business by not less than 400 feet.
(Ord. 2022-005-C, passed 6-6-2022)
§ 90.063 ADDITIONAL PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   In addition to the fees set forth in §
90.062(B)(1), fees for other permits shall be based on current state-approved
amounts and/or as set by City Council from time to time as follows:
      (1)   Each pet shop;
      (2)   Each auction;
      (3)   Each zoological park;
      (4)   Each circus;
      (5)   Each performing-animal exhibition; and
      (6)   Each grooming shop.
   (B)   No fee shall be required of any veterinary hospital, the AAS, or other
government- operated zoological park or laboratory.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to establish, operate, or
maintain any of the uses for which a fee is imposed by this chapter without
first having obtained a permit as herein provided. An application for a permit
shall be obtained from the City Clerk-Treasurer, and such application, having
set forth in number, breed, color, and sex of each animal held at the location
in the city at which such animals will be housed, shall be submitted to the
ACO. In no event shall any of the uses controlled by this subchapter be
construed as a home occupational use, as defined, and may be permitted and
continued only as permitted by the city zoning ordinances.
      (2)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall forward any acceptable application
to the ACO/ACF following appropriate investigation. Approval or disapproval of
the application shall rest with the ACO. In making his or her decision, the ACO
shall make certain there will be no violation of city provisions or state,
county, or federal laws and shall determine that, in general, the presence of a
kennel will not endanger the peace and tranquility of the city.
      (3)   Once approved by the ACO, a permit shall be issued to the applicant
(s) by the Clerk-Treasurer according to the provisions of this subchapter. The
permit may, at any time, be revoked by the ACO or Common Council if there is a
violation of any applicable city ordinance or clear and present evidence of
mistreatment of animals or determination of the deterioration of physical
facilities. Provided however, reasonable discipline of animals in their
training shall not be construed as mistreatment.
      (4)   Any person who has a change in the category under which a permit
was issued shall be subject to reclassification, and appropriate adjustments of
the permit fee shall be made.
(Ord. 2022-005-C, passed 6-6-2022)
§ 90.064 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   The ACO shall provide a 15-day notice to the owner prior to revoking
such permit. After such time, the permit shall be revoked and all the animals
owned, kept, or harbored by such person shall be humanely disposed of by either
the person or the ACO, and no part of the permit fees shall be refunded.
   (B)   It shall be a condition of the issuance of any permit to a commercial
animal establishment that the ACO shall be permitted to inspect all animals on
the premises where animals are being kept at any time and shall, if permission
for such inspection is refused, immediately revoke the permit of the refusing
owner.
   (C)   If the applicant has withheld or falsified any information on the
application, the Clerk- Treasurer shall refuse to issue the permit.
   (D)   No person who has been convicted of cruelty to animals or its legal
equivalent shall be issued a permit to operate a commercial animal
establishment.
(Ord. 2022-005-C, passed 6-6-2022)
§ 90.065 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   All fees and monies collected shall be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer or ACO.
Money so paid shall be transmitted to the Clerk-Treasurer and shall be placed
in a special fund and shall be used in carrying out the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2022-005-C, passed 6-6-2022)
VICIOUS ANIMALS
§ 90.080 ANIMAL BITES.
   (A)   Every vicious animal that has bitten a person shall be confined by the
owner, keeper, or person harboring the animal. Persons owning, keeping, or
harboring any animal reported to have bitten a person shall keep such animal
confined for a period of not less than 14 days and show proof of the animal
having been previously vaccinated for rabies. A report of such animal’s
condition shall be made to the ACO or Police Department on the third, seventh,
tenth, and fourteenth days. Any animal showing signs of illness must be taken
to a veterinarian or be impounded for safekeeping.
   (B)   If the owner or person harboring the animal fails to confine the
animal, the ACO may impound the animal in the AAS or other appropriate animal
shelter or humane society, at the expense of the owner, for not less than 14
days or some shorter time as may be established by the County Health Officer.
If the animal dies during the confinement period, it shall, at the owner’s
expense, be sent to the proper authorities to determine whether or not it had
rabies. In any event, the death of an animal suspected to have rabies shall be
reported to the County Health Department immediately.
(Ord. 2022-005-C, passed 6-6-2022)
§ 90.081 CONTROL OF VICIOUS ANIMAL.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, the following shall
apply to vicious animals.
   (A)   All vicious animals shall be confined in an enclosure. It shall be
unlawful for the owner to maintain a vicious animal upon any premises if the
animal is not in an enclosure.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner to allow or permit any vicious
animal to be outside of the dwelling of the owner or outside of its enclosure
unless it is necessary for the owner to obtain veterinary care for the vicious
animal or to sell or give away the vicious animal or to comply with the
commands or directions of the animal control officer or city police officer. In
such event, the vicious animal shall be restrained with a chain having a
minimum tensile strength of 300 pounds and not exceeding three feet in length
or other appropriate device and shall be under the direct control and
supervision of the owner or person supervising the vicious animal. In addition,
the vicious animal shall be muzzled or otherwise restrained in such a manner
that would prevent biting or otherwise inflicting injury on a person or another
animal but that will not cause injury to the vicious animal or interfere with
its vision or respiration.
(Ord. 2022-005-C, passed 6-6-2022) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.082 DETERMINATION OF VICIOUS ANIMAL STATUS.
   (A)   In the event the ACO reasonably believes that an animal is a vicious
animal, as defined herein, he or she is empowered to refer the matter to a
court of competent jurisdiction for purposes of determining whether or not the
animal in question should be declared a vicious animal for the purpose of this
subchapter.
   (B)   Pending such court determination, or any appeal thereof, on the issue
of whether the animal should be declared a vicious animal, the ACO is empowered
to seize and impound the animal. The owner of such animal shall be responsible
for the reasonable costs and expenses of such impoundment.
   (C)   Whenever a court of competent jurisdiction determines an animal is a
vicious animal, it shall allow appropriate time for the appeal of such decision
and/or of any penalty imposed by the court as a result of such decision and, if
the court orders such animal to be destroyed, time for any medical test which
may need to be performed on the animal to protect the health and interest of
another animal or human being. All costs associated with housing the animal
pending court determination shall be the sole expense of the owner thereof.
(Ord. 2022-005-C, passed 6-6-2022)
§ 90.083 CHANGE IN CIRCUMSTANCES NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   The owner of the vicious animal shall notify the Police Department or
ACO immediately upon becoming aware that a vicious animal is running at large,
is no longer confined, or has attacked another animal or human being.
   (B)   The owner of this animal shall notify the APD or ACO within 24 hours
if the animal has died or has been sold or given away.
   (C)   If a vicious animal has been sold or given away, the owner shall
provide the APD or ACO with a name, address, and telephone number of the new
owner of the vicious animal within 24 hours of the time the transfer occurs.
(Ord. 2022-005-C, passed 6-6-2022) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.084 IMPOUNDING VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   The animal control officer may order the immediate impoundment of the
vicious animal when:
   (A)   The animal has attacked, bitten, or injured a human being or other
domestic animal;
   (B)   The animal is a vicious animal, as defined herein, and the owner has
failed to comply with the requirements and conditions herein provided for
keeping a vicious animal; or
   (C)   The animal poses a threat of serious harm to the public safety of the
community.
(Ord. 2022-005-C, passed 6-6-2022)
§ 90.085 CONFINEMENT AND RESTRAINT.
   (A)   A vicious animal is unconfined if the animal is not securely confined
indoors or confined in a secure, enclosed, locked pen or structure upon the
premises of the owner of the animal. The pen structure must have secure sides
and a secure top attached to the sides. If the structure has no bottom secured
to the sides, sides must be embedded into the ground not less than one foot.
All such pen structures must be adequately lined and kept in a clean, sanitary
condition. All such pens or structures must conform to any applicable
provisions of the City Building Code and/or the State Building Code, being 675
I.A.C. 13.
   (B)   The owner of the vicious animal shall display, in a prominent place on
his or her premises, a clearly visible warning sign indicating the presence of
the vicious animal on the premises. Similar signs shall be required to be
posted on the pen or kennel of the animal. These postings must be approved by
the animal control officer.
(Ord. 2022-005-C, passed 6-6-2022)
§ 90.086 INQUIRY AND INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   The ACO or any city police officer is empowered to make whatever
investigation he or she deems necessary to ensure compliance with the
provisions of this chapter including, but not limited to, obtaining a search
warrant from a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   Any person may file a complaint that a vicious animal is being
harbored within the city. Such complaint shall be filed with the APD or ACO on
a written form provided by the APD or the City Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2022-005-C, passed 6-6-2022)
§ 90.087 CONFISCATION AND EUTHANIZATION.
   (A)   Upon a finding by a court of competent jurisdiction that an animal is
a vicious animal, as defined herein, and the suspicious animal does not have a
valid permit in accordance with the provisions of this or any other state or
local ordinance, has an owner who has not secured or maintained liability
insurance in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, or is outside of
its dwelling or outside of its enclosure in violation of the provisions of this
chapter, such vicious animal shall be confiscated by the ACO, upon court order,
and be destroyed in an expedited and humane manner.
   (B)   If, when unprovoked, a vicious animal kills, wounds, or assists in
killing a domesticated animal, the animal shall be confiscated by the ACO and
destroyed in an expedited and humane manner.
   (C)   If, when unprovoked, a vicious animal attacks, assaults, wounds,
bites, or otherwise injures or kills a human being, the vicious animal shall be
confiscated by the ACO, upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction, and
destroyed in an expedited and humane manner.
(Ord. 2022-005-C, passed 6-6-2022) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.088 COSTS OF ENFORCEMENT.
   All costs associated with the enforcement of this subchapter shall, to the
maximum extent possible, be assessed against the owner of the vicious animal
found to be in violation. Such costs shall include, but not be limited to, the
cost of investigating whether the animal is vicious as well as the costs of
capturing, impounding, boarding, providing veterinary care for, and destroying
the vicious animal.
(Ord. 2022-005-C, passed 6-6-2022)
CAT COLONIES
§ 90.100 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COLONY. A group of one or more free-roaming cats, whether managed or
unmanaged.
   COLONY CARETAKER. A person who provides food, water, and shelter to free-
roaming cats in a managed colony.
   FREE-ROAMING CAT. Any homeless, stray, wild, or untamed cat.
   MANAGED COLONY. A colony of free-roaming cats that is registered with the
Animal Care and Control Division or its designee and is maintained by a colony
caretaker using a trap-neuter-return method.
(Ord. 2022-005-C, passed 6-6-2022)
§ 90.101 COMMUNITY-MANAGED CAT COLONY PROGRAM.
   (A)   A Community-Managed Cat Colony Program is established in order to
encourage the stabilization of the free-roaming cat population in the city by
utilizing the trap-neuter-return methodology.
   (B)   A person may trap any free-roaming cat in a humane manner, utilizing a
live-release trap that does not injure the animal, in order to have the free-
roaming cat evaluated, surgically sterilized, ear-tipped, and vaccinated
against rabies by a licensed veterinarian and released in the vicinity from
where it was trapped or released to a community colony caretaker.
   (C)   A community-managed colony cat impounded by the ACO shall be returned
in the vicinity from where it was trapped unless the circumstances present a
detriment to the cat or to the public health or welfare.
(Ord. 2022-005-C, passed 6-6-2022)
§ 90.102 CARE FOR UNMANAGED COLONIES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to provide food, water, or shelter to a
colony of free-roaming cats unless:
   (A)   The colony is a managed colony that is registered with the Animal Care
and Control Division or its designee; or
   (B)   The food, water, or shelter is provided in conjunction with the trap-
neuter-return methodology as set forth in §
90.103.
(Ord. 2022-005-C, passed 6-6-2022) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.103 MANAGED FREE-ROAMING CATS.
   (A)   The Animal Care and Control Division or its designee, in order to
encourage the stabilization of the free-roaming population in the city, may:
      (1)   Trap any free-roaming cat in a humane manner;
      (2)   Have the cat surgically sterilized, ear tipped, and vaccinated
against rabies by a licensed veterinarian; and
      (3)   Release the cat to Animal Care and Control for adoption or other
disposition in accordance with law or to a colony caretaker who will maintain
the cat as part of a managed colony of free-roaming cats.
   (B)   Any free-roaming cat impounded by the enforcement authority that bears
an appropriate ear tipping that indicates it belongs to a managed colony may,
at the discretion of the Animal Care and Control Division, be returned to its
managed colony unless illness or injury present an imminent danger to public
health or safety.
(Ord. 2022-005-C, passed 6-6-2022)
§ 90.104 COLONY CARETAKER RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Colony caretakers shall abide by standard guidelines devised by the
ACO or a designee regarding the provision of food, water, shelter, and
veterinary care for the cats within the managed colony.
   (B)   Colony caretakers shall have a licensed veterinarian evaluate the
health of the trapped free-roaming cats. Seriously ill or injured cats with no
reasonable prognosis for humane rehabilitation for survival outdoors will be
humanely euthanized.
(Ord. 2022-005-C, passed 6-6-2022) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provisions of this chapter for which another
penalty is not already herein provided shall be subject to a penalty based on
current state-approved amounts and/or as set by City Council from time to time
for every day that a person remains in violation plus court costs and
reasonable attorney fees if the city has to resort to judicial collection of
such fees and expenses. Any circuit court located in the county shall have
jurisdiction to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   If the owner of a vicious animal fails to comply with the provisions
of §§
90.080 through
90.088, he or she shall be subject to a fine per day based on current state-
approved amounts and/or as set by City Council from time to time for each
violation.
   (C)   In addition to the provisions of §
90.087(A), the owner of the vicious animal shall pay a fine per day per animal
based on current state-approved amounts and/or as set by City Council from time
to time.
   (D)   In addition to the provisions of §
90.087(B), the owner of the vicious animal shall pay a fine per day per animal
based on current state-approved amounts and/or as set by City Council from time
to time.
   (E)   In addition to the provisions of §
90.087(C), the owner of the vicious animal shall pay a fine per day per animal
based on current state-approved amounts and/or as set by City Council from time
to time and reimburse the city for any other expenses associated with the
animal.
   (F)   A person who violates any provision of §§
90.100 through
90.104 shall be imposed a fine based on current state-approved amounts and/or
as set by City Council from time to time. Subsequent or continued violations
will result in the caretaker’s removal from management of the managed colony.
(Ord. 2022-005-C, passed 6-6-2022)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Title
   
91.02   Purpose
   
91.03   Applicability
   
91.04   Adoption of Fire Prevention Code
Operations at Fires
   
91.15   Fire Chief’s authority at emergencies
   
91.16   Interference with Fire Department
   
91.17   Authority to barricade
Fire Protection
   
91.30   Tampering with equipment
   
91.31   Fire hydrants
   
91.32   Tampering with barricades
   
91.33   Closure of roads or trails
   
91.34   Fire apparatus access roads
   
91.35   Premises identification
   
91.36   Key box accessibility
   
91.37   Outdoor burning guidelines
   
91.38   Fireworks
Administration and Enforcement
   
91.50   Enforcement authority
   
91.51   Inspections
   
91.52   Right of entry
   
91.53   Code violations; fees
   
91.54   False reports
   
91.55   Investigation of fires
   
91.56   Fire records; reports
   
91.57   Violations; orders
   
91.58   Administrative review; appeals
   
91.59   Remedies
   
91.60   Liability for damages
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Fire Prevention Code of the City and may
be cited as such and will be referred to herein as “this chapter.”
(Prior Code, § 91.01) (Ord. 1299, passed 11-2-1992)
§ 91.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to prescribe minimum requirements to
safeguard life and property and maintain the public welfare from the hazards of
fire and explosion.
(Prior Code, § 91.02) (Ord. 1299, passed 11-2-1992)
§ 91.03 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all existing buildings
and conditions in the incorporated limits of the city and all other areas under
the jurisdiction of the City Fire Department with the following exceptions:
      (1)   Existing conditions which do not constitute a distinct hazard to
life or property; and
      (2)   The transportation of any articles or substances under the
jurisdiction of and in compliance with the regulations prescribed by the armed
forces of the United States.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed or applied to nullify or
abolish any law, division, or code adopted by the city governing the
construction, alteration, removal, demolition, and maintenance of the buildings
specifically provided herein.
   (C)   When any provision of this chapter is found to be in conflict with any
building, zoning, safety, health, or other applicable ordinance or code of the
city, the provision which establishes the higher standard for safety and public
welfare shall prevail.
   (D)   The planning, design, and construction of new buildings and structures
to provide egress facilities, fire protection, and built-in fire protection
equipment shall be controlled by the International Fire and Building Codes, all
as amended, supplemented, and recodified and such other rules as established or
adopted from time to time by the State Fire Marshal’s office or successor’s
office.
   (E)   Any structures built under previous regulations in force at the time
of construction or alteration thereof and are in compliance with those
regulations shall be exempt from the requirements of this chapter pertaining to
any of the following matters:
      (1)   Fire protection of structural elements;
      (2)   Exits required except as provided for existing buildings under this
chapter; and
      (3)   Isolation of hazardous operations and mixed uses provided the
required installation of fire-safety devices or systems; such as fire
extinguishers, fire alarms, fire-detection devices, or similar systems; where
they are necessary to provide safety to life. Any orders issued by the Chief to
obtain compliance with this division (E)(3) shall be governed by the provisions
of I.C. 36-8-17-9(d).
(Prior Code, § 91.03) (Ord. 1299, passed 11-2-1992; Ord. 1516, passed 8-20-
2007)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-8-17-9(d)
§ 91.04 ADOPTION OF FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   (A)   The following fire safety rules of the State Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission, as set out in 675 I.A.C. 22 are hereby incorporated
by reference in this chapter and shall include late amendments thereto as the
same are published in the State Register or the State Administrative Code with
effective dates as fixed therein:
      (1)   State Flammable and Combustible Liquids and Gases Code;
      (2)   State Fire Prevention Code; and
      (3)   International Fire and Building Codes, as amended.
   (B)   Copies of adopted fire safety rules, codes, and standards are on file
in the Fire Chief’s office and the Building Commissioner’s office.
(Prior Code, § 91.04) (Ord. 1299, passed 11-2-1992; Ord. 1356, passed 8-19-
1996; Ord. 1516, passed 8-20-2007)
OPERATIONS AT FIRES
§ 91.15 FIRE CHIEF’S AUTHORITY AT EMERGENCIES.
   The Chief and his or her authorized representatives shall have the power and
authority to direct such operation as may be necessary to extinguish or control
any fire, perform any rescue operation, and investigate the existence of
suspected or reported fires or other hazardous conditions or situations in the
reasonable performance of their duty. In the exercise of such power, the Chief
may prohibit any person, vehicle, or thing from approaching the scene and may
remove or cause to be removed any person or thing which may impede or interfere
with the operations of the Fire Department and, in the judgment of the Chief,
any person not actually and usefully employed in the preservation of property
in the vicinity thereof.
(Prior Code, § 91.15) (Ord. 1299, passed 11-2-1992)
§ 91.16 INTERFERENCE WITH FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   Any person who obstructs the operations of the Fire Department in connection
with extinguishing any fire or other emergency or who disobeys any lawful
command of the Chief or officer of the Fire Department who may be in charge at
such a scene or any part thereof or any police officer assisting the Fire
Department shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 91.16) (Ord. 1299, passed 11-2-1992) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.17 AUTHORITY TO BARRICADE.
   The Chief or other officer of the Fire Department in charge at the scene of
an emergency shall have the authority to place ropes, guards, barricades, or
other obstructions across any street, alley, or place of private property in
the vicinity of such operation so as to prevent accident or interference with
the lawful efforts of the Fire Department to manage and control the situation
and to handle fire apparatus.
(Prior Code, § 91.17) (Ord. 1299, passed 11-2-1992)
FIRE PROTECTION
§ 91.30 TAMPERING WITH EQUIPMENT.
   No person shall tamper with, damage, or otherwise disturb any apparatus,
equipment, or materials belonging to or under the supervision and control of
the Fire Department without authority from the Chief or his or her authorized
representative.
(Prior Code, § 91.30) (Ord. 1299, passed 11-2-1992) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.31 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   Tampering with fire hydrant. No person shall remove, tamper with, or
otherwise disturb any fire hydrant or fire appliance required to be installed
or maintained under the provision of this chapter except for the purpose of
extinguishing fire, training purposes, recharging, or making necessary repairs
or when permitted by the Fire Department. Whenever a fire appliance is removed,
as herein permitted, it shall be replaced or reinstalled as soon as the purpose
for which it was removed has been accomplished.
(Prior Code, § 91.31)
   (B)   Approval of hydrant use. No person shall use or operate any hydrant or
other valves installed on any water system intended for use by the Chief for
fire suppression purposes and which is accessible to any public unless such
person first secures a permit for use from the Water Utility Office. This
division (B) does not apply to the use of a hydrant or other valves by a person
employed and authorized by the city to make such use of hydrants or other
valves.
(Prior Code, § 91.32)
   (C)   On-site fire hydrants for new construction and replacements.
      (1)   Fire hydrants shall be located on all access roadways as required
by the State Fire Prevention Code.
      (2)   Fire hydrants shall be new Kennedy Guardian brand, model K-81D, or
new Waterous brand, model Pacer WB-67-250. They will have a five and one-
quarter inch valve opening and have three outlets. There shall be two, two and
one-half inch outlets and one four and one-half inch steamer outlet to which
shall be attached a storz quick coupler. All threads are to be national,
American, standard fire-hose threading. The stem and cap nuts shall be pentagon
shaped and measure one and one-half inches from flat to point. The operating
nuts shall turn in a left, counterclockwise, direction to open the valve. The
size of the inlet feed and water main shall never be smaller than six inches
for new construction.
      (3)   Fire hydrants shall be located within five feet of the required
access.
      (4)   Fire hydrants shall have the four and one-half inch outlet facing
the required access, and the base flange of the hydrant must not vary more than
one foot in elevation from grade level of the required access. The lowest stem
shall be minimum of 14 inches above the ground.
      (5)   If, in the opinion of the Fire Chief, fire hydrants are vulnerable
to vehicular damage, appropriate crash posts shall be provided. No obstructions
shall exist within a three-foot working area of each required access and none
shall be placed directly in front of any outlet. Crash posts shall be four-inch
cement-filled pipes with a minimum of three feet in height with two feet of
piping below grade. Hydrant shutoff valves shall be installed on each hydrant
and shall be located not closer than five feet from the hydrant and no further
than 20 feet.
      (6)   Underground supplies to fire hydrant must be inspected by the Water
Department. Such inspection shall include visual inspection of piping and
hydrostatic pressure test of a minimum of 200 psi or 50 psi in excess of street
main pressure. A flow test will be required when installation is complete with
all results of flow test forwarded to the Fire Department.
      (7)   Fire hydrants are required to be maintained in an operable
condition at all times and must be repaired or replaced when defective.
Hydrants shall be fully operable before construction commences above ground
level.
(Prior Code, § 91.38)
(Ord. 1356, passed 8-19-1996; Ord. 1454, passed 1-21-2003; Ord. 1546, passed 9-
21-2009) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.32 TAMPERING WITH BARRICADES.
   No person, except a person authorized by the Chief or a public officer
acting within the scope of his or her public duties, shall remove, unlock,
destroy, tamper with, or otherwise disturb any lock, gate, door, barricade,
chain, enclosure, sign, tag, or seal which has been lawfully installed by the
Fire Department or by its order.
(Prior Code, § 91.33) (Ord. 1299, passed 11-2-1992) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.33 CLOSURE OF ROADS OR TRAILS.
   (A)   General. The Chief may install gates, cable, or other barricades and
securely lock the same to prevent the use of unauthorized persons of any road
that is not a public highway and over which the Fire Department has the right
to pass, whether by easement, license, municipal ownership, or otherwise, for
purposes relating to fire prevention or control provided such action does not
preclude the authorized users of such road or trail from using the same. Such
roads or trails shall be marked with a sign stating: “DO NOT BLOCK: FIRE
DEPARTMENT ACCESS ROAD.”
   (B)   Trespassing. No person, except a public officer or official acting
within the scope of his or her public duties, shall trespass upon any road or
trail which has been closed and obstructed in the manner authorized by this
section without the express permission of the Chief nor shall any person park
any vehicle so as to obstruct the entrance to such road or trail.
(Prior Code, § 91.34) (Ord. 1299, passed 11-2-1992) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.34 FIRE APPARATUS ACCESS ROADS.
   (A)   General. Fire apparatus access roads shall be provided and maintained
in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Where required. Fire apparatus access roads shall be required for any
portion of an exterior wall of the first story provided with firefighting or
rescue openings; meeting the opening requirements of the State Building Code,
675 I.A.C. 13; and located more than 150 feet from Fire Department access as
measured by an unobstructed route around the exterior of the building.
      (1)   An exception to division (B) above is when buildings are completely
protected with an approved automatic fire sprinkler system.
      (2)   For high-piled combustible storage, see the State Fire Prevention
Code, 675 I.A.C. 22.
   (C)   Permissible modifications. Vertical clearances or widths required
herein shall be increased when, in the opinion of the Chief, vertical
clearances or widths are not adequate to provide fire apparatus access.
   (D)   Surface. Fire apparatus access roads shall be designed and maintained
to support the imposed loads of fire apparatus and shall be provided with a
surface so as to provide all-weather driving capabilities.
   (E)   Width. The minimum unobstructed width of a fire apparatus access road
shall not be less than two feet.
   (F)   Vertical clearance. All fire apparatus access roads shall have
unobstructed vertical clearance of not less than 13 feet and six inches. Upon
approval, however, vertical clearance may be reduced provided such reduction
does not impair access by fire apparatus and approved signs are installed and
maintained indicating the established vertical clearance.
   (G)   Turning radius. The turning radius of a fire apparatus access road
shall be as approved by the Chief.
   (H)   Turnarounds. All dead-end fire apparatus access roads in excess of 15
feet in length shall be provided with approved provisions for the turning
around of fire apparatus.
   (I)   Bridges. When a bridge is required to be used as access under this
section, it shall be constructed and maintained in accordance with the
applicable sections of the state’s Building Code, 675 I.A.C. 13-2, and using
designed loads of fire apparatus.
   (J)   Grade. The gradient for a fire apparatus access road shall not exceed
the maximum approved by the Chief.
   (K)   Obstruction. The required width of any fire apparatus access road
shall not be obstructed in any manner including parking of vehicles. Minimum
required widths and clearances established under this section shall be
maintained at all times.
   (L)   Signs. When required, approved signs or other approved notices shall
be provided and maintained for fire apparatus access roads to identify such
roads and prohibit the obstruction thereof or both.
(Prior Code, § 91.35) (Ord. 1299, passed 11-2-1992; Ord. 1338, passed 4-3-1995)
§ 91.35 PREMISES IDENTIFICATION.
   Approved numbers or addresses shall be placed on all new and existing
buildings in such a position as to be plainly visible and legible from the
street or road fronting the property. The numbers shall contrast with their
background and be at least three inches in height.
(Prior Code, § 91.36) (Ord. 1299, passed 11-2-1992)
§ 91.36 KEY BOX ACCESSIBILITY.
   When access to or within a structure or an area is unduly difficult because
of secured openings or where immediate access is necessary for life-saving or
firefighting purposes, the Chief may require a key box to be installed in an
accessible location. The key box shall be a type approved by the Chief and
shall contain keys to gain necessary access as required by the Chief.
(Prior Code, § 91.37) (Ord. 1299, passed 11-2-1992)
§ 91.37 OUTDOOR BURNING GUIDELINES.
   (A)   Regulations.
      (1)   Permissible fires. Open burning is prohibited except as allowed in
these guidelines. The Department encourages alternatives to open burning such
as sale or reuse.
         (a)   The following types of fires are permitted, subject to the
limitations found in division (A)(1)(b) below:
            1.   Fires used for celebrating Twelfth Night ceremonies;
            2.   Fires used for celebrating school pep rallies;
            3.   Fires used for celebrating scouting activities;
            4.   Fires used for recreational and cooking purposes such as camp
fires;
            5.   Residential burning where such residence contains four or
fewer units. Burning shall be in a non-combustible container sufficiently
vented to induce adequate primary combustion air
with enclosed sides, a bottom, and a mesh covering with an opening no larger
than one-fourth square inch. Burning is prohibited in apartment complexes and
mobile home parks;
            6.   Farm burning and burning by the Department of Natural
Resources as allowed by 326 I.A.C. 4-1-3; and
            7.   Burning with prior receipt of a variance application and
approval of the state’s Air Pollution Control Board or its designated agent as
allowed by 326 I.A.C. 4-1-1.
         (b)   All permitted types of fires shall be subject to the following.
            1.   Only untreated wood products shall be burned unless otherwise
stated, and no garbage, refuse, or vegetative material shall be burned except
as hereinafter provided.
            2.   Fires shall be attended at all times until completely
extinguished.
            3.   Only small amounts of clean/dry wood and leaves are to be
burned so that the fire is not smothered by too much material.
            4.   If fires create an air pollution problem, nuisance, health
hazard, or fire hazard, they shall be extinguished. A NUISANCE shall be defined
so as to include a complaint regarding the burning from any downwind property
owner or occupant.
            5.   All residential burning shall occur between sunrise and
sunset, during which the fires may be replenished but only in such a manner
that all of the burning material is consumed by sunset or extinguished.
            6.   Weather conditions must be conducive for burning. There shall
be no burning on days when the following conditions exist: no wind, high winds,
rain, temperature inversions, or high humidity.
            7.   No burning shall be conducted on property owned by another
party including public-owned streets, roads, and highways.
            8.   No burning shall be conducted within 25 feet of a structure
owned by another party, and all burning shall be away from any potential fire
hazards.
            9.   No burning shall be conducted within 50 feet of a power line,
cable, phone, or other utility line.
            10.   A reliable source of water must be nearby in case of an
emergency or to assist in extinguishing the fire when the burning is complete.
      (2)   Exceptions. The only exceptions to the above rules are as follows.
         (a)   Recreational fires after dark are allowed as long as only clean
wood is being burned and no nuisance is created.
         (b)   Farmers, tree farmers, orchards, nurseries, and those clearing a
drainage ditch are allowed to burn clean wood as long as a nuisance is not
created.
   (B)   Enforcement. The Fire Department and the Police Department shall have
authority to issue citations for violations of this section.
(Prior Code, § 91.39) (Ord. 1430, passed 8-21-2000) Penalty see §
91.99
§ 91.38 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The use of consumer fireworks, as that term is defined in I.C. 22-11-
14-1 and amended from time to time, shall be allowed only within the corporate
limits of the city during the following days and times:
      (1)   Between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and two hours after sunset on June
29, June 30, July 1 through 3, and July 5 through 9;
      (2)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m., midnight, on July
4; and
      (3)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. on December 31 and 1:00 a.m. on
January 1.
   (B)   Any person using consumer fireworks other than as set forth within
this section commits a violation and shall be warned upon the first violation.
   (C)   No other use of consumer fireworks shall be permitted within the
corporate limits.
(Ord. CC 2019-007, passed 9-16-2019) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 22-11-14-1
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 91.50 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It shall be the duty and responsibility of the Chief of the Fire
Department or designee who is an ex officio assistant to the State Fire
Marshal, under I.C. 36-8-17-5(a), to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
The designated enforcement officer of this chapter is herein referred to as the
Fire Chief.
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall cooperate with the Building Commissioner
responsible for the enforcement of the Building Code and orders required to be
enforced in the city pursuant to I.C. 36-7-2-9.
   (C)   The local Building Commissioner shall also cooperate with the Fire
Chief by providing, in a timely manner, copies of all construction design
releases issued by the State Fire Prevention and Building Safety office and
copies of all certificates of occupancy issued by his or her office with the
exception of any such design release or certificate of occupancy attributable
to one- and two-family dwellings.
(Prior Code, § 91.50) (Ord. 1299, passed 11-2-1992; Ord. 1356, passed 8-19-
1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-7-2-9 and 36-8-17-5(a)
§ 91.51 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Fire Chief inspection. The Fire Chief shall inspect structures and
premises, except the interiors of family dwellings, for any conditions liable
to cause fire, contribute to the spread of fire, interfere with firefighting
operations, endanger life, or any violations of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Coordinating inspections. Whenever in the enforcement of this chapter
the responsibility of more than one official of the city is involved, it shall
be their duty to coordinate their inspections and administrative orders so that
the owners and occupants of the structure shall not be subjected to visits by
numerous inspectors nor multiple or conflicting orders. Whenever an inspector
from any agency or department observes an apparent or actual violation of a
law, ordinance, or code not within his or her authority to enforce, he or she
shall report the findings to the official having jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 91.51) (Ord. 1299, passed 11-2-1992; Ord. 1307, passed 4-5-1993;
Ord. 1338, passed 4-3-1995)
§ 91.52 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Whenever necessary for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this
chapter or whenever the Fire Chief or authorized fire inspector has reasonable
cause to believe that any condition which makes such structure or premises
unsafe, the Fire Chief or fire inspector shall be permitted to enter such
structure or premises at a reasonable time to inspect the building or to
perform other duties within the scope of this chapter. If such entry is
refused, the Fire Chief shall have recourse, as provided by law, to secure
entry.
(Prior Code, § 91.52) (Ord. 1299, passed 11-2-1992)
§ 91.53 CODE VIOLATIONS; FEES.
   (A)   All code violations will be documented on a fire inspection report
form.
   (B)   Each business will be given 30 days to correct code violations.
Certain code violations may be given less time to correct due to their
severity. A compliance card will be left with each inspection report form. When
the code violations are corrected, the business shall mail or otherwise deliver
the compliance card to the City Fire Department located on Harrison Street. If
after the specified time a compliance card is not received, a reinspection
shall be made of the business to determine code compliance.
   (C)   A reinspection fee for each reinspection shall be charged based on
current state-approved amounts and/or as set by City Council from time to time.
(Ord. 1516, passed 8-20-2007)
§ 91.54 FALSE REPORTS.
   (A)   It is a violation of this chapter for a person, firm, or corporation
to willfully and knowingly sign a compliance card attesting that a code
violation has been corrected when such person, firm, or corporation has actual
knowledge that the code violation has not been corrected.
   (B)   All violations under this section shall be subject to the civil
penalty provisions of §
10.99 contained herein.
(Ord. 1516, passed 8-20-2007)
§ 91.55 INVESTIGATION OF FIRES.
   (A)   The Fire Chief shall investigate, or cause to be investigated, every
fire or explosion occurring within the city jurisdiction for fire protection of
a suspicious nature or which involves the loss of life or serious injury or
causes serious damage to property. Such investigation shall be initiated
immediately upon the occurrence of such fire or explosion, and if such
occurrence is of a suspicious nature, the Fire Chief shall take charge
immediately of the physical evidence.
    (B)   In order to preserve the physical evidence relating to the cause or
origin of such fire or explosion, the Fire Chief shall take means to prevent
access by any person or persons to access the premises until such evidence has
been properly processed.
   (C)   The Fire Chief shall notify the State Fire Marshal’s office, pursuant
to I.C. 36-8-17-7, for further investigation.
(Prior Code, § 91.53) (Ord. 1299, passed 11-2-1992)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-8-17-7
§ 91.56 FIRE RECORDS; REPORTS.
   (A)   The Fire Chief shall keep a record of all fires and all facts
concerning the same including investigation findings and statistics and
information as to the cause, origin, and the extent of such fires and the
damage caused thereby.
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall submit a report of each fire occurring within the
city and all other areas under the jurisdiction of the Fire Department to the
State Fire Marshal in accordance with I.C. 36-8-17-7 and in such form as
prescribed by that office.
(Prior Code, § 91.54) (Ord. 1299, passed 11-2-1992; Ord. 1356, passed 8-19-
1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-8-17-7
§ 91.57 VIOLATIONS; ORDERS.
   (A)   Whenever the Fire Chief observes an apparent or actual violation of a
provision of this chapter under the Fire Chief’s jurisdiction, the Fire Chief
shall prepare a written notice of violation and order describing the condition
deemed unsafe and specify a reasonable time for the required repairs or
improvements to be made to correct such violation. The written notice of
violation of this chapter shall be served upon the owner or other person
responsible for the conditions under violation. Such notice of violation shall
be served by delivering a copy of the same to such person or persons by
ordinary mail to the last known post office address, delivering a copy of same
in person, or by delivering it to any person in charge of the premises or, in
the case such person is not found upon the premises, by affixing a copy thereof
in a conspicuous place at an entrance door, and such procedure shall be deemed
the equivalent of personal notice.
   (B)   If the notice of violation and order is not complied with within the
time specified by the Fire Chief and if no review of such order has been
initiated under I.C. 36-8-17, the Fire Chief shall request the legal counsel of
the city to institute the appropriate legal proceedings.
   (C)   Temporary or emergency orders issued by the Fire Chief under I.C. 36-
8-17-9(b) shall be approved by the State Fire Marshal.
   (D)   When, in the opinion of the Fire Chief, there is actual and potential
danger to the occupants or those in the proximity of any building, structure,
or premises because of unsafe structural conditions or inadequacy of any means
of egress, the Fire Chief may issue an emergency order, with oral approval of
the State Fire Marshal, for the immediate evacuation of said building,
structure, or premises.
      (1)   All of the occupants so notified shall immediately leave the
building, structure, or premises; persons shall not enter or reenter until
authorized to do so by the Fire Chief.
      (2)   Any person who refuses to leave, interferes with the evacuation of
other occupants, or continues any operation after having been given an
evacuation order, except such work as that person is directed to perform to
remove a violation of unsafe condition, shall be deemed in violation of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 91.55) (Ord. 1299, passed 11-2-1992) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-8-17-1 and 36-8-17-9(b)
§ 91.58 ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW; APPEALS.
   (A)   A person who is aggrieved by an order issued pursuant to §
91.57 or I.C. 36-8-17-9 shall have an opportunity to informally discuss the
order with the State Fire Marshal’s office which might modify or reverse the
order.
   (B)   An order issued pursuant to §
91.57 or I.C. 36-8-17-9 or an order affirmed or modified by the Office of the
State Fire Marshal may be appealed to the state’s Fire Prevention and Building
Safety Commission under I.C. 4-21.5-3-7.
(Prior Code, § 91.56) (Ord. 1299, passed 11-2-1992; Ord. 1356, passed 8-19-
1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 4-21.5-3-7 and 36-8-17-9
§ 91.59 REMEDIES.
   The Attorney for the city, upon receipt of a written notice from the Fire
Chief after having issued a lawful notice and order to abate a violation of
this chapter and after a reasonable time for compliance has expired, shall
bring action in the City Court for mandatory and injunctive relief in the
enforcement of and to secure compliance with any order or orders made by the
Fire Chief, and any such action for mandatory or injunctive relief may be
joined with an action to recover the penalties provided for in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 91.57) (Ord. 1299, passed 11-2-1992)
§ 91.60 LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES.
   This chapter shall not be construed to hold the public entity or any officer
or employee responsible for any damage to persons or property by reason of the
inspection or reinspection authorized herein, provided or by reason of the
approval or disapproval of any equipment or process authorized herein, or for
any action in connection with the control or extinguishment of any fire or in
connection with any other official duties.
(Prior Code, § 91.58) (Ord. 1356, passed 8-19-1996)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   If any person, firm, or corporation shall violate any of the
provisions of this chapter or shall fail to perform any duty lawfully enjoined
within time prescribed by the Fire Chief or shall fail, neglect, or refuse to
obey any lawful order given by the Fire Chief in connection with the provisions
of this chapter, such person, firm, or corporation shall be fined for each such
violation, failure, or refusal based on current state-approved amounts and/or
as set by City Council from time to time. Each day of such unlawful activity
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   (1)   Any person found to be in violation of §
91.37 shall be subject to a minimum fine for each violation cited based on
current state-approved amounts and/or as set by City Council from time to time.
      (2)   The City Court shall be the court of jurisdiction for determining
all violations cited pursuant to §
91.37.
   (C)   Any person committing a second violation of §
91.38 within 12 months of the first violation of this section may be fined
based on current state-approved amounts and/or as set by City Council from time
to time. Any person committing a third or subsequent violation within 12 months
of the second violation of this section may receive a fine based on current
state-approved amounts and/or as set by City Council from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 91.99) (Ord. 1299, passed 11-2-1992; Ord. 1430, passed 8-21-
2000; Ord. CC 2019-007, passed 9-16-2019)
CHAPTER 92: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
92.01   Applicability; definition
   
92.02   Abandon vehicles declared nuisance
   
92.03   Responsibility of owner
   
92.04   Inability to establish right to possession
   
92.05   Vehicle abandoned on rental property
   
92.06   Vehicle abandoned on private property
   
92.07   Notice tag prepared by officer
   
92.08   Preparation of report; photographs
   
92.09   Disposition of vehicle less than five hundred dollars in value
   
92.10   Disposition of vehicle of five hundred dollars or more in value
   
92.11   Removal of abandoned vehicles
   
92.12   Abandoned vehicle report
   
92.13   Towing and service charges
   
92.14   Disposal of vehicle without notice
   
92.15   Exempt from liability
§ 92.01 APPLICABILITY; DEFINITION.
   (A)   This chapter does not apply to the following:
      (1)   A vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or constructed
for operation on privately owned raceways;
      (2)   A vehicle stored as the property of a member of the armed forces of
the United States who is on active-duty assignment;
      (3)   A vehicle located on a vehicle sale lot or at a commercial vehicle
servicing facility;
      (4)   A vehicle located upon property licensed or zoned as an automobile
scrapyard; or
      (5)   A vehicle registered and licensed under I.C. 9-18.5-34 as a
historic vehicle.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, ABANDONED VEHICLE includes, but is
not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Any vehicle located on public premises which does not have lawfully
affixed thereto or displayed thereon a valid unexpired license plate permitting
its operation upon the highways of the state;
      (2)   Any vehicle which is parked or located on public premises
continuously without being moved for a period of three days except before legal
or temporary residence of the owner;
      (3)   Any vehicle parked or located on public premises illegally or in
such a manner as to constitute a hazard or obstruction to the movement of
pedestrian or other vehicle traffic on a public right-of-way, street, or
highway;
      (4)   Any vehicle that is over six years old and mechanically inoperable
and is left unattended on private premises in a location which is visible from
public premises for more that 30 days;
      (5)   Any vehicle that has remained on private premises without the
consent of the owner or person in control of such premises for more than 48
hours; and
      (6)   Any vehicle from which there has been removed the engine or
transmission or differential or which is otherwise partially dismantled or
inoperable and left unattended on private premises in a location visible from
public premises or left unattended on public premises.
(Prior Code, § 72.55) (Ord. 1426, passed 3-6-2000) Penalty see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 9-18-12 and 9-22-1-1
§ 92.02 ABANDON VEHICLES DECLARED NUISANCE.
   The maintaining, placing, depositing, leaving, or permitting to be or remain
on any public or private property an abandoned vehicle, as defined in §
92.01(B), is hereby declared to be and shall constitute a nuisance, and in
addition to the other enforcement remedies set forth in this chapter, the
Building Inspector, Building Commissioner, Planning Director, Planning
Commissioner, or any law enforcement officer may, in his or her sole
discretion, cite a violation of §§
92.01 and
92.03 through
92.15 directly into the City Court or other court of competent jurisdiction for
enforcement of the violation. The penalty for the violation shall be in
accordance with §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 72.83) (Ord. 1476, passed 11-1-2004)
§ 92.03 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (C) below, the person who owns an
abandoned vehicle or parts is:
      (1)   Responsible for the abandonment; and
      (2)   Liable for all of the costs incidental to the removal, storage, and
disposal of the vehicle or parts under this chapter.
   (B)   The costs for storage of an abandoned vehicle may not exceed rates
based on current state-approved amounts and/or as set by City Council from time
to time.
   (C)   If an abandoned vehicle is sold by a person who removed, towed, or
stored the vehicle, the person who previously owned the vehicle is not
responsible for storage fees.
   (D)   If an abandoned vehicle is sold by a person who removed, towed, or
stored the vehicle and proceeds from the sale of the vehicle covered the
storage expenses, any remaining proceeds from the sale of the vehicle shall be
returned to the previous owner of the vehicle if the previous owner is known.
(Prior Code,§ 72.56)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 9-22-1-4
§ 92.04 INABILITY TO ESTABLISH RIGHT TO POSSESSION.
   When an officer discovers a vehicle in the possession of a person other than
the person who owns the vehicle and the person cannot establish the right to
possession of the vehicle, the vehicle shall be taken to and stored in a
suitable place.
(Prior Code, § 72.57)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 9-22-1-5
§ 92.05 VEHICLE ABANDONED ON RENTAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Notification procedures.
      (1)   A person who finds a vehicle believed to be abandoned on the
person’s rental property shall:
         (a)   Attach in a prominent place a notice tag containing the
following information:
            1.   The date, time, name, and address of the person who owns the
rental property and a telephone number to contact for information;
            2.   A declaration that the vehicle is considered abandoned;
            3.   A notice that the vehicle will be removed after 72 hours;
            4.   A statement that the owner of the vehicle will be held
responsible for all costs incidental to the removal, storage, and disposal of
the vehicle; and
            5.   A statement that the owner of the vehicle may avoid costs by
removal of the vehicle or parts within 72 hours.
         (b)   Contact the state’s Bureau of Motor Vehicles to obtain the name
and address of the person who owns the vehicle; and
         (c)   Send, by certified mail, a copy of the information contained in
the notice required under this division (A) to the person who owns the vehicle
or parts.
      (2)   The notice required by division (A) above must be mailed to the
person who owns the vehicle according to the records of the state’s Bureau of
Motor Vehicles not later than five business days after receipt of the
information in this division (A)(2).
(Prior Code, § 72.62)
   (B)   Disposition of vehicle abandoned on rental property. If after 72 hours
the person who owns a vehicle believed to be abandoned on rental property has
not removed the vehicle from the rental property, the person who owns the
rental property may have the vehicle towed from the rental property. The person
who owns the rental property shall give the towing operator a copy of the
certified letter required in division (A) above as proof that notice of the
towing has been given.
(Prior Code, § 72.63)
   (C)   Towing operator required to notify. A towing operator who tows a
vehicle under division (B) above shall give notice to the public agency and
state’s Bureau of Motor Vehicles that the abandoned vehicle is in the
possession of the towing operator.
(Prior Code, § 72.64)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 9-22-1-17
§ 92.06 VEHICLE ABANDONED ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   Upon complaint of a person who owns or controls private property that a
vehicle has been left on the property for at least 48 hours without the consent
of the person who owns or controls the property, an officer shall follow the
procedures set forth in §§
92.07 through
92.10.
(Prior Code, § 72.65)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 9-22-1-18
§ 92.07 NOTICE TAG PREPARED BY OFFICER.
   An officer who finds or is notified of a vehicle or parts believed to be
abandoned shall attach, in a prominent place, a notice tag containing the
following information:
   (A)   The date, time, officer’s name, public agency, address, and telephone
number to contact for information;
   (B)   A declaration that the vehicle or parts are considered abandoned;
   (C)   A notice that the vehicle or parts will be removed after 72 hours;
   (D)   A notice that the person who owns the vehicle will be held responsible
for all costs incidental to the removal, storage, and disposal of the vehicle;
and
   (E)   A notice that the person who owns the vehicle may avoid costs by
removal of the vehicle or parts within 72 hours.
(Prior Code, § 72.58)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 9-22-1-11
§ 92.08 PREPARATION OF REPORT; PHOTOGRAPHS.
   If a vehicle or a part tagged under §
92.07 is not removed within the 72-hour period, the officer shall prepare a
written abandoned vehicle report of the vehicle or parts including information
on the condition, missing parts, and other facts that might substantiate the
estimated market value of the vehicle or parts. Photographs shall be taken to
describe the condition of the vehicle or parts.
(Prior Code, § 72.59)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 9-22-1-12
§ 92.09 DISPOSITION OF VEHICLE LESS THAN FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS IN VALUE.
   (A)   If, in the opinion of the officer, the market value of an abandoned
vehicle or parts determined in accordance with §
92.08 is less than $500, the officer shall immediately dispose of the vehicle
to a towing service. A copy of the abandoned vehicle report and photographs
relating to the abandoned vehicle shall be forwarded to the state’s Bureau of
Motor Vehicles. The towing service may dispose of the abandoned vehicle not
less than 30 days after the date on which the towing service removed the
abandoned vehicle.
   (B)   The public agency disposing of the vehicle shall retain the original
records and photographs for at least two years.
(Prior Code, § 72.60)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 9-22-1-13
§ 92.10 DISPOSITION OF VEHICLE OF FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS OR MORE IN VALUE.
   If, in the opinion of the officer, the market value of the abandoned vehicle
or parts determined in accordance with §
92.08 is at least $500, the officer, before placing a notice tag on the vehicle
or parts, shall make a reasonable effort to ascertain the person who owns the
vehicle or parts or who may be in control of the vehicle or parts. After 72
hours, the officer shall require the vehicle or parts be towed to a storage
yard or towing service.
(Prior Code, § 72.61)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 9-22-1-14
§ 92.11 REMOVAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   To facilitate the removal of abandoned vehicles or parts, a public agency
may employ personnel; acquire equipment, property, and facilities; and enter
into towing contracts for the removal, storage, and disposition of abandoned
vehicles and parts. The Common Council may, by ordinance, establish procedures
to carry out this section.
(Prior Code, § 72.69)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 9-22-1-31
§ 92.12 ABANDONED VEHICLE REPORT.
   (A)   Within 72 hours after removal of an abandoned vehicle to a storage
yard or towing service under §§
92.05(B),
92.09, or
92.10, the public agency or storage lot shall prepare and forward to the
state’s Bureau of Motor Vehicles an abandoned vehicle report containing a
description of the vehicle including the following information concerning the
vehicle:
      (1)   Make;
      (2)   Model;
      (3)   Identification number; and
      (4)   Number of the license plate.
   (B)   The public agency or storage lot shall request that the state’s Bureau
of Motor Vehicles advise the public agency or storage lot of the name and most
recent address of the person who owns or holds a lien on the vehicle.
   (C)   Notwithstanding §
92.03, if the public agency or towing operator fails to notify the state’s
Bureau of Motor Vehicles of the removal of an abandoned vehicle within 72 hours
after the vehicle is removed, as required herein, the public agency or towing
operator:
      (1)   May not initially collect more in reimbursement for the costs of
storing the vehicle than the cost incurred for storage for 72 hours; and
      (2)   May collect further reimbursement under this chapter only for
additional storage costs incurred after notifying the state’s Bureau of Motor
Vehicles of the removal of the abandoned vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 72.66)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 9-22-1-19
§ 92.13 TOWING AND SERVICE CHARGES.
   The owner of an abandoned vehicle is responsible for the abandonment and is
liable, to the extent of the market value of the vehicle, for all of the costs
incidental to the removal, storage, and disposal of the vehicle or the parts.
The charge for towing and removing an abandoned vehicle shall not exceed rates
based on current state-approved amounts and/or as set by City Council from time
to time. The charge for storage shall not exceed per day rates based on current
state-approved amounts and/or as set by City Council from time to time and
shall be limited to the actual days of storage. The vehicle shall be removed by
an outside towing agency.
(Prior Code, § 72.68) (Ord. 1144, passed 2-7-1983)
§ 92.14 DISPOSAL OF VEHICLE WITHOUT NOTICE.
   If a vehicle or parts are in such a condition that vehicle identification
numbers or other means of identification are not available to determine the
person who owns or holds a lien on the vehicle, the vehicle may be disposed of
without notice.
(Prior Code, § 72.67)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 9-22-1-21
§ 92.15 EXEMPT FROM LIABILITY.
   The following are not liable for loss or damage to a vehicle or parts
occurring during the removal, storage, or disposition of a vehicle or parts
under this chapter:
   (A)   A person who owns, leases, or occupies property from which an
abandoned vehicle or parts are removed;
   (B)   A public agency;
   (C)   A towing service;
   (D)   An automobile scrapyard; and
   (E)   A storage yard.
(Prior Code, § 72.70)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 9-22-1-32
CHAPTER 93: NUISANCES
Section
Nuisances Generally
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Enumerated nuisances
   
93.03   Abatement of nuisance
   
93.04   Collection of fees and costs
   
93.05   Levy of fines
   
93.06   Authority and enforcement
   
93.07   Notices required
Noise Control
   
93.20   Loud and continuing noise
   
93.21   Specific restrictions
   
93.22   Determination of violation
   
93.23   Exemptions
Litter
   
93.35   Definitions
   
93.36   Littering on private property
   
93.37   Littering on vacant property prohibited
 
   
93.99   Penalty
NUISANCES GENERALLY
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. The City of Alexandria, Indiana.
   NUISANCE. The doing of an unlawful act or the omitting to perform a duty or
the suffering or permitting of any condition or thing to be or exist which act,
omission, condition, or thing either:
      (1)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or safety of
others;
      (2)   Offends decency;
      (3)   Is offensive to the senses;
      (4)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, or tends to obstruct or
renders dangerous for passage any public or private street, highway, sidewalk,
stream, ditch, or drainage;
      (5)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; and
      (6)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
(Prior Code, § 93.15) (Ord. 1348, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 93.02 ENUMERATED NUISANCES.
   (A)   The maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving, or permitting to
be or remain on any public or private property any of the following items,
conditions, or actions are hereby declared to be and constitute a nuisance;
provided, however, this enumeration shall not be deemed or construed to be
conclusive, limiting, or restrictive, to-wit:
      (1)   Vegetation which has attained a height of eight inches or more and
has not been cut, mown, or otherwise removed from private property. Vegetation
planted for some useful or ornamental purpose are exempt from this definition.
Each lot of platted real estate and each acre or part thereof of non-platted
real estate shall be treated as a separate offense;
      (2)   Vegetation, trees, or woody growth on private property which, due
to its proximity to any governmental property, right-of-way, or easements,
interferes with the public safety or lawful use of the governmental property,
right-of-way, or easement;
      (3)   A condition which causes property to become a health or safety
hazard unless specifically authorized under existing laws and regulations;
      (4)   Accumulation of rubbish, trash, refuse, junk, and other abandoned
materials, metals, lumber, or other things;
      (5)   Any condition which provides harborage for rats, mice, snakes, and
other vermin;
      (6)   Any building or other structure which is in such a dilapidated
condition that it is unfit for human habitation, kept in such an unsanitary
condition that it is a menace to the health of people residing in the vicinity
thereof or presents a more than ordinarily dangerous fire hazard in the
vicinity where it is located;
      (7)   All unnecessary or unauthorized noises and annoying vibrations and
noises;
      (8)   All disagreeable or obnoxious odors and stenches as well as the
conditions, substances, or other causes which give rise to the emission or
generation of such odors and stenches;
      (9)   The carcasses of animals or fowl not disposed of within a
reasonable time after death;
      (10)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream, lake, canal,
or body of water by sewage, dead animals, creamery, industrial wastes, or other
substances;
      (11)   Any building, structure, or other place or location where any
activity which is in violation of local, state, or federal law is conducted,
performed, or maintained;
      (12)   Any accumulation of stagnant water permitted or maintained on any
lot or piece of ground;
      (13)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas, soot, or cinders;
      (14)   The unauthorized obstruction of any public street, road, or
sidewalk;
      (15)   Any abandoned vehicle including, but not limited to, automobiles,
trucks, trailers, campers, boats, and recreational vehicles;
      (16)   Any machinery not connected with the operation of a household and
equipment including, but not limited to, refrigerators with doors intact in any
open or unfenced area or in any building or structure to which the public has
access;
      (17)   Any structure not built or manufactured for permanent residence
shall not be used as a dwelling; and
      (18)   Trash and trash receptacles placed at curbside more than 24 hours
prior to the scheduled time for pick-up. All receptacles shall be removed from
curbside within 24 hours of pick-up time.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any property owner or occupant or other
person to allow a nuisance, defined herein, to exist.
(Prior Code, § 93.16) (Ord. 1348, passed 4-15-1996; Ord. 1608, passed 5-5-2014)
§ 93.03 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   The Planning Commission, Building Commissioner, law enforcement
officer, or any designee thereof of the municipal corporation may at any time
require the owner and/or occupant of any property upon which a nuisance, as
herein defined, exists to do all things necessary to remove the nuisance from
such property by giving the owner and/or occupant ten days’ written notice of
the existence of the nuisance. The notice, as herein required, shall state the
nature of the alleged nuisance and the action deemed necessary to correct the
condition and shall fix a date not sooner than ten days from the date of the
receipt of the notice when said property owner and/or occupant may appear
before the Planning Commission to be heard on the question of the nuisance.
   (B)   Upon the failure of the owner and/or occupant to cause the abatement
of the nuisance, as required by this section, and after notice and opportunity
for hearing before the Planning Commission, the Planning Commission shall
proceed at once to cause to be abated the nuisance and charge the cost thereof
against such owner and/or occupant of the property. In effectuating the
abatement of said nuisance, the Planning Commission may authorize and designate
certain officers, personnel, and/or contractors of the municipal corporation to
enter upon the property of such owner and/or occupant and to take all
appropriate actions necessary to bring said property in compliance with this
subchapter. The liability created herein shall be joint and several as to the
owners and any occupants or tenants of the property.
(Prior Code, § 93.17) (Ord. 1348, passed 4-15-1996; Ord. 1608, passed 5-5-2014)
§ 93.04 COLLECTION OF FEES AND COSTS.
   The Planning Commission shall, upon completion of all acts necessary to
abate the nuisance, send a written statement to the owner and/or occupant of
the property notifying said owner and/or occupant of the fees and charges owing
to the city for its services. Upon the failure of the owner and/or occupant to
pay said fees and charges in full within 30 days of mailing of said written
statement or to otherwise request a hearing before the Planning Commission for
appeal of said fees and charges, the Planning Commission may cause such charges
and fees to be placed upon the tax duplicate of the property in question and
collect the same as taxes. The Planning Commission may, in the alternative,
refer said charges and fees to the City Attorney of the municipal corporation
who shall forthwith collect the fees and charges by civil process.
(Prior Code, § 93.18) (Ord. 1348, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 93.05 LEVY OF FINES.
   (A)   In addition to the foregoing remedies for the abatement of nuisances
hereunder, the Planning Commission may, after notice and hearing as prescribed
under §
93.03, levy a fine against the owner and/or occupant of the property after a
finding of violations of this subchapter in an amount based on current state-
approved amounts and/or as set by City Council from time to time. Each day the
nuisance continues to exist after the ten-day notice is sent constitutes a new
violation of this chapter; however, additional ten-day notices shall not be
required to levy a fine or penalty for each and every subsequent day as set
forth herein. Alternatively, the Planning Commission may defer fact finding and
the imposition of fines to a City Court, and thereby direct the Building
Commissioner and/or City Attorney of the Municipal Corporation to file legal
action in said Court for violations of this subchapter in the name of the
Planning Commission against the owner and/or occupant of the property.
   (B)   The Planning Commission is authorized to impose fines and penalties
within the limits of I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10) for the violation of this subchapter
and to conduct any and all administrative proceedings as may be appropriate
thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 93.19) (Ord. 1349, passed 4-15-1996; Ord. 1364, passed 11-18-
1996; Ord. 1608, passed 5-5-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
§ 93.06 AUTHORITY AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall, where necessary, designate individuals
and/or officers of the municipal corporation to institute procedures to carry
out the enforcement of this subchapter and may bring civil action through the
City Attorney of the municipal corporation to enjoin the continuance of any
nuisance defined herein.
(Prior Code, § 93.20)
   (B)   In lieu of the abatement procedure set forth in §§
93.03 through
93.07, the Building Inspector, Building Commissioner, Planning Director,
Planning Commissioner, and any law enforcement officer may, in his or her sole
discretion, cite any violation of §
93.02 directly into the City Court or other court of competent jurisdiction for
enforcement of said violations.
(Prior Code, § 93.22)
(Ord. 1348, passed 4-15-1996; Ord. 1478, passed 11-1-2004) Penalty see §
93.99
§ 93.07 NOTICES REQUIRED.
   (A)   All notices, as herein required, shall be in writing and sent by
certified return receipt mail or personal service to the occupant or owner at
the address of the property, if it be a dwelling, and to the last known address
of the owner as reflected in the tax rolls of the city, township, or the
county.
   (B)   In addition to all other notice provisions required in this chapter,
at the time of proceeding to abate a nuisance under the provisions of §
93.03 or at the time of commencing a direct enforcement under the provisions of
§
93.06(B), the Building Commissioner or other duly appointed agent of the
Planning Commission shall post a notice on the site of the violation informing
the owner of a violation.
      (1)   The notice shall be removed upon the completion of the violation
proceedings.
      (2)   The removal, destruction, or repositioning of said notice on the
site shall be unlawful and shall constitute a separate ordinance violation,
punishable pursuant to §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 93.21) (Ord. 1348, passed 4-15-1996; Ord. 1498, passed 7-17-
2006)
NOISE CONTROL
§ 93.20 LOUD AND CONTINUING NOISE.
   No person (owner, occupant, manager, agent, or operator of any business or
property) or association of persons shall cause or allow to be made and
continue to do so after having been advised to cease and desist the conduct by
a city official or a member of the Police Department any noise that
unreasonably annoys, disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose,
health, peace, safety, or welfare of any person of normal sensitivity or
precludes their enjoyment of property or affects their property’s value.
(Prior Code, § 93.01) (Ord. 1467, passed 10-4-2004) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 SPECIFIC RESTRICTIONS.
   No person (owner, occupant, manager, agent, or operator of any business or
property) or persons shall play, use, or permit to be played, used, or operated
any machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound including, but
not limited to, loudspeakers, radios, CD players, television sets, musical
instruments, phonographs, cassette players, or any other machine or tool that
produces sound or is intended to produce or reproduce sound if such machine,
device, or tool is located in or on any public property; including any public
right-of-way, highway, road, street, alley, building, sidewalk, parking lot,
public space, park, thoroughfare, or public transportation area; with the sound
generated therefrom being plainly audible by another person of reasonable
sensitivity and not a voluntary listener at a distance of 30 feet or more from
its source or located in or on any private property with the sound generated
therefrom being plainly audible across property boundaries or through
partitions common to two or more persons within a building.
(Prior Code, § 93.02) (Ord. 1467, passed 10-4-2004) Penalty see §
93.99
§ 93.22 DETERMINATION OF VIOLATION.
   The characteristics and conditions which should be considered in determining
whether a violation of these provisions exists would include, but not be
limited to, the following:
   (A)   The level of the noise;
   (B)   Whether the nature of the noise is usual or unusual;
   (C)   Whether the origin of the noise is natural or unnatural;
   (D)   The proximity of noise to sleeping facilities;
   (E)   The time of day or night the noise occurs;
   (F)   The duration of the noise; and
   (G)   Whether the noise is recurrent, intermittent, or constant.
(Prior Code, § 93.03) (Ord. 1467, passed 10-4-2004)
§ 93.23 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following are exempted from the provisions of §§
93.20 through
93.22:
   (A)   Sound emitted from authorized emergency vehicles;
   (B)   Lawn mowers, garden tractors, construction equipment, and power tools
when properly muffled between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. only;
   (C)   Burglar alarms and other warning devices when properly installed
provided that the cause for such alarm or warning device sound is investigated
and the alarm turned off within a reasonable period of time;
   (D)   Parades, festivals, carnivals, fairs, celebrations, concerts, artistic
performances, and/or other events authorized by the Board of Public Works and
Safety or another appropriate governmental entity;
   (E)   Attendant noise and sound emission connected with the actual
performance of athletic or sporting events and practices related thereto;
   (F)   The emission of sound for the purposes of alerting persons to the
existence of an emergency or for the performance of emergency work;
   (G)   Sounds associated with the use of legal fireworks or celebrations of
legal holidays;
   (H)   Sounds associated with the normal conduct of a legally established
non-transient business when such sounds are customary, incidental, and within
the normal range appropriate for such use, but in no event shall such sound be
plainly audible by any person at a distance of 350 feet from its source;
   (I)   Sounds emitted from sound-amplifying devices for which a permit has
been obtained from the Board of Public Works and Safety; and
   (J)   Sound emitted for the performance of emergency work such as work made
necessary to restore property to a safe condition following a public calamity,
work to restore public utilities, or work required to protect persons or
property from imminent exposure to danger.
(Prior Code, § 93.04) (Ord. 1467, passed 10-4-2004)
LITTER
§ 93.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED PRIVATE RECEPTACLE. A litter storage and collection container
which reasonably confines and retains litter and trash.
   GARBAGE. Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking, and consumption of food.
   LITTER. Garbage, refuse, and rubbish, as defined herein, and all other waste
material which, if thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends to create a
danger to the public health, safety, and welfare.
   PARK. A park, reservation, playground, beach, recreation center, or any
other public area in the city that is owned or used by the city and its
inhabitants and devoted to active or passive recreation.
   PRIVATE PREMISES. Any dwelling, house, building, or other structure designed
or used wholly or in part for private residential purposes, whether inhabited
or temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant and shall include any
yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps, vestibule, or mailbox belonging or
appurtenant to such dwelling, house, building, or other structure.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, sidewalk, boulevard, alley, or other public way
and any public park, square, space, grounds, or building.
   REFUSE. All putrescible and non-putrescible solid waste, except body waste,
including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals, and solid
market and industrial wastes.
   RUBBISH. Non-putrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible wastes such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, tin
cans, yard clippings, leaves, wood, glass, bedding, crockery, plastic, and
similar materials.
(Prior Code, § 93.30) (Ord. 986, passed 1-6-1975)
§ 93.36 LITTERING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied or unoccupied
private property within the city, whether owned by such person or not, except
that the owner or person in control of such private property may maintain
authorized private receptacles for collection in such manner that litter will
be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any street,
sidewalk, or other public place or upon any private property.
   (B)   The owner or person in control of any private property shall at all
times maintain the premises free of litter; however, this section shall not
prohibit the storage of litter in authorized private receptacles for
collection.
(Prior Code, § 93.31) (Ord. 986, passed 1-6-1975) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.37 LITTERING ON VACANT PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the city whether owned by such person or not.
(Prior Code, § 93.32) (Ord. 986, 1-6-1975) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of violating any provision of this chapter for which no
other penalty is set forth shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 93.99)
CHAPTER 94: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
94.01   Speed limits in parks
   
94.02   General rules and regulations
   
94.03   Traffic and parking rules for Beulah Park
   
94.04   Incorporation of Harrison Square Park
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 SPEED LIMITS IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to drive faster than ten
mph in any park.
(Prior Code, § 94.01) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Beulah Park is closed to vehicular traffic from 10:00 p.m. to 6:00
a.m.
   (B)   No alcohol, drugs, weapons, profanity, or loud abusive language is
allowed.
   (C)   No food, drinks, or smoking is allowed in designated playground areas.
   (D)   All pets shall be leashed at all times.
   (E)   Persons having pets in the park are responsible for cleaning up the
feces of the pet.
   (F)   No vehicles, bicycles, skateboards, or roller blades are allowed on
the walk path or inside buildings.
   (G)   Requests for facility reservations must be made with the park’s
caretaker.
   (H)   Open fires are allowed in grills only.
   (I)   No signs or markings are allowed on any trees, buildings, drives,
paved areas, or grounds.
   (J)   No wastewater or other unsanitary substance is allowed to drain upon
the grounds or railroad right-of-way.
   (K)   Persons/organizations using the park’s grounds and its facilities will
be responsible for repair or replacement in kind of any damages beyond normal
wear and tear.
   (L)   Swimming pool rules and hours of operation are posted in the pool
bathhouse and shall be obeyed.
   (M)   Use of a park facilities imply the acceptance of the park policy as
established by the Park Board.
   (N)   Minnesota Park, Riverview Park, and Harrison Square Park will be
closed to the public between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. for seven
days per week.
   (O)   There shall be a complete ban on smoking and the consumption of any
and all tobacco products at all city parks except that area in Beulah Park
situated on the east side of Park Lane. The ban on smoking and the consumption
of tobacco products shall specifically include that area of Beulah Park west of
Park Lane from the swimming pool parking lot to 4th Street which would include
the city pool and playground areas of said park.
(Prior Code, § 94.02) (Ord. 1460, passed 3-19-2003; Ord. 1515, passed 3-3-2008;
Ord. 1547, passed 9-21-2009) Penalty see §
94.99
§ 94.03 TRAFFIC AND PARKING RULES FOR BEULAH PARK.
   (A)   Parkway Drive. There is hereby established a limited purpose public
road named Parkway Drive in Beulah Park, identified as that drive entering from
Indiana State Road 9 and exiting south at 4th Street.
   (B)   Parkway Drive East. There is hereby established a limited purpose
public road named Parkway Drive East in Beulah Park, identified as that drive
east from the Building #2 parking lot and exiting in the southeast corner of
the park at 4th Street.
   (C)   One-way roads.
      (1)   There shall be one-way traffic going to the east from the entrance
of Beulah Park located at Indiana State Road 9 and 1st Street and ending at the
junction of the northern drives in the pool parking lot.
      (2)   There shall be one-way traffic starting from the Building #2
parking lot located in the center of the park next to the new Kiwanis’ shelter
building and continuing to the southeast and exiting at 4th Street.
   (D)   Parking for Persons with Physical Disabilities.
      (1)   There shall be four disability parking spaces located at the Emery
Lee parking lot located in the southwestern corner of the park. The four spaces
are in front of the Emery Lee building as indicated.
      (2)   There shall be four disability parking spaces located at the
Building #2 parking lot located between the new Kiwanis’ shelter building and
the old Kiwanis’ shelter building. The four spaces are located in the
southeastern corner of the parking lot as indicated.
      (3)   There shall be two disability parking spaces located at the
swimming pool parking lot. The two spaces are located in the southwestern
corner of the parking lot next to the existing concession stand as so
indicated.
   (E)   Stop signs. There shall be stop signs located at the southwestern and
southeastern corner exits of the park exiting onto 4th Street.
   (F)   Parking prohibited or restricted. There are areas within the park that
parking will be restricted or prohibited. These areas will be marked by posted
signs along the traveled portion of roadway or area and indicating the area so
affected. The Park Board is specifically authorized to determine the areas
affected and to post signs as they deem appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 94.03) (Ord. 1460, passed 3-19-2003) Penalty see §
94.99
§ 94.04 INCORPORATION OF HARRISON SQUARE PARK.
   The lands titled to the city and located on the corner of Church Street and
Harrison Street within the corporate limits and commonly know as the Harrison
Square Park, which is more particularly described legally in the ordinance
enacting this section, is hereby incorporated into the city parks system and is
hereafter and hereby deemed and designated a city park.
(Prior Code, § 94.04) (Ord. 1414, passed 6-21-1999)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   In addition to the general penalty provisions of §
10.99 for violations of this chapter, should any person under the age of 18
years accrue two violations within any six-month period, the custodial parent
or custodial guardian of said minor shall additionally become liable for said
second violation and may be separately charged for a violation of this chapter
with the penalties described in §
10.99 accruing to said violation.
(Ord. 1515, passed 3-3-2008)
CHAPTER 95: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
95.01   Policy statement
   
95.02   Definitions
   
95.03   Unlawful practice
   
95.04   Discrimination in selling or renting houses
   
95.05   Discrimination in residential real estate transactions
   
95.06   Discrimination in provision of brokerage service
   
95.07   Inference, coercion, or intimidation
   
95.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
95.09   Exemptions
   
95.10   Administration
§ 95.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the city to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the Federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, being Title VIII, 42 U.S.C. §§ 3601
et seq., as amended, the Federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974,
being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq., as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 1590, passed 8-20-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
§ 95.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-2)
   COMMISSION. The state’s Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9-1-4 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISABILITY. With respect to a person:
      (1)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one or
more of such person’s major life activities;
      (2)   A record of having such an impairment;
      (3)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
      (4)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.;
      (5)   Any other impairment defined under state law; and
      (6)   The term DISABILITY shall not include current illegal use of or
addictions to a controlled substance, as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802, nor does
the term DISABILITY include an individual solely because that individual is a
transvestite.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
95.04 through
95.08 of this chapter or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as or designed or intended for occupancy as a residence by one or
more families or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS. Discrimination on the basis of FAMILIAL STATUS means
discrimination because the person is (1) pregnant; (2) domiciled with an
individual under the age of 18 years of age in regard to whom the person is (a)
the parent or legal custodian; or (b) has the written permission of the parent
or legal custodian for domicile with that person; or (3) in the process of
obtaining legal custody of an individual younger than 18 years of age.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual, I.C. 22-9.5-2-9, with the status of
such family being further defined in FAMILIAL STATUS. Also, pursuant to 24
C.F.R. part 5, the definition of FAMILY is revised to include families
regardless of the actual or perceived sexual orientation, gender identity, or
marital status of its members.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, limited liability
companies, partnerships, associations, labor organizations, legal
representatives, mutual companies, joint-stock companies, trusts,
unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees in cases under 11 U.S.C.,
receivers, and fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, sublease, let, and otherwise grant for a
consideration the right to occupy premises not owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 1590, passed 8-20-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 22-9-1-4 et seq., 22-9.5-2-2 through 22-9-9.5-
2-4, 22-9.5-2-8, 22-9.5-2-9, 22-9.5-2-11, 22-9.5-2-13, 22-9.5-5, and 22-9.5-6
§ 95.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, §
95.09, and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale
or rental of housing set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
95.04 shall apply to all dwellings except as exempted by division (B) below and
I.C. 22-9.5-3.
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
95.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided, in the sale of such single-family house by a private
individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or exemption
shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The private
individual owner may not own any interest in nor have any owned or reserved on
his or her behalf, title to, or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds
from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses at any one
time. The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be exempted from
application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent, or salesman or any person in the
business of selling or renting dwellings or of any employee or agent of any
such broker, agent, or salesman or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting, or mailing after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
95.04(C), but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies, and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as agent,
other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in providing sales
or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions involving the sale
or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   They are the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 1590, passed 8-20-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 22-9.5-3 and 22-9.5-5-1
§ 95.04 DISCRIMINATION IN SELLING OR RENTING HOUSES.
   As made applicable by §
95.03 and except as exempted by §§
95.03(B) and
95.09, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of or otherwise make unavailable or
deny a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status, or national origin;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status, or national origin;
   (C)   To make, print, publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement, or advertisement with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status, or national origin or
an intention to make any such preference, limitation, or discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status, or national origin that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale, or rental when such dwelling is in fact so
available;
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, disability, familial status, or national origin;
   (F)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, to otherwise make unavailable,
or to deny a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a disability of:
      (1)   The buyer or renter;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (G)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling because of a diability of:
      (1)   Such person; or
      (2)   Any person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold.
(Ord. 1590, passed 8-20-2012)
§ 95.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction because of race, color, religion,
sex, disability, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used herein, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTION
means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, disability, or familial
status.
(Ord. 1590, passed 8-20-2012)
§ 95.06 DISCRIMINATION IN PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’
organization, or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation on
account of race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status, or national
origin.
(Ord. 1590, passed 8-20-2012)
§ 95.07 INFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged any
other person in the exercise or enjoyment of any right granted or protected by
§§
95.03 through
95.06.
(Ord. 1590, passed 8-20-2012)
§ 95.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whether or not acting under code or law, whoever, by force or threat of
force, willfully injures, intimidates, or interferes with or attempts to
injure, intimidate, or interfere with any of the following shall be fined
according to local, state, and federal law and, if bodily injury results, shall
be fined based on current state-approved amounts and/or as set by City Council
from time to time:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status, or national origin and because he or she is or has
been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing, or occupation of any
dwelling or applying for or participating in any service, organization, or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating; without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status, or national origin; in any of the
activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in division (A)
above; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been or in order to discourage
such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other
persons to participate; without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status, or national origin; in any of the
activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in division (A)
above or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any
denial of the opportunity to participate.
(Ord. 1590, passed 8-20-2012)
§ 95.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised, or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society from limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion or from giving preference to such persons unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color, or
national origin nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not
in fact open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or
purposes provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a
commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to
its members or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used herein, HOUSING FOR OLDER PERSONS
means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the State Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly persons, as defined in the state or federal program;
      (2)   Intended for and solely occupied by a person 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 1590, passed 8-20-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq.
§ 95.10 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner, as set forth
in division (B) below, shall be vested in the Mayor of the city.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the city, because
of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the sections of this
chapter by complainants to the State Civil Rights Commission for administrative
enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6, and the Mayor of the city shall
refer all said complaints to the Commission, as provided for under division (A)
above, for purposes of investigation, resolution, and appropriate relief as
provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the city shall administer
their departments, programs, and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the Mayor and the Commission to further such purposes.
   (D)   The Mayor of the city or the Mayor’s designee shall provide
information on remedies available to any aggrieved person or complainant
requesting such information.
(Ord. 1590, passed 8-20-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 22-9.5-4-8 and 22-9.5-6
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   AMUSEMENT ARCADES
      
111.   VEHICLES FOR HIRE
      
112.   TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
      
113.   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110: AMUSEMENT ARCADES
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Licenses
   
110.03   Hours of operation
   
110.04   Minors
   
110.05   Alcohol
   
110.06   Maintaining order and safety
   
110.07   Gambling
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMUSEMENT ARCADE. Any public place in which a total of three or more coin-
operated amusement devices, mechanical amusement devices, or pool or billiard
tables are maintained for hire by the public solely within one enclosure. This
definition does not include an establishment which possesses an alcoholic
beverage permit issued by the State Alcoholic Beverage Commission.
   BILLIARD OR POOL TABLE. A table surrounded by an elastic ledge of cushions
with balls which are impelled by a cue including carom billiards, pocket
billiards, pool, three-cushion billiards, and English billiards.
   COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICE. Any coin-automated amusement or exhibition
machine. This term is not considered a mechanical amusement device.
   MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICE. Any machine or device commercially used which;
upon the insertion of a coin, slug, token, plate or disc, or by the payment of
any price; may be operated for use as entertainment or amusement; whether a
score is established or not; when a prize is not offered, when the element of
skill in such manipulation predominates over chance or luck, and when no form
of pay-off, credit, prize, or reward is dispensed. AMUSEMENT DEVICE or
MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICE, for the purpose of this chapter, does not include
a music box, juke box, or cigarette or food dispensing machine or device.
(Prior Code, § 110.01) (Ord. 1078, passed 5-7-1979)
§ 110.02 LICENSES.
   (A)   License required. Any individual, firm, association, joint-stock
company, syndicate, partnership, or corporation operating an amusement arcade
shall obtain license to do so as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 110.02)
   (B)   Issuance and revocation of license. Every applicant for a license
shall file an application with the Clerk-Treasurer stating:
      (1)   The names and addresses of the applicant and owners;
      (2)   Whether it is a corporation, partnership, company, or other
business entity;
      (3)   The names and addresses of the individuals or officers if a
business entity;
      (4)   The address of the amusement arcade; and
      (5)   The number of coin-operated amusement devices, mechanical amusement
devices, and/or pool or billiard tables located in or to be located in the
amusement arcade.
(Prior Code, § 110.03)
   (C)   License fees.
      (1)   The fee for an amusement arcade having a total of any combination
of three and no more than ten coin-operated amusement devices, mechanical
amusement devices, or pool or billiard tables shall be based on current state-
approved amounts and/or as set by City Council from time to time. The fee for
an amusement arcade having at least 11 of any combination of coin-operated
amusement devices, mechanical amusement devices, or pool or billiard tables
shall be based on current state-approved amounts and/or as set by City Council
from time to time. The entire sum of the fee shall be submitted with the
application. No amusement arcade shall be required to possess more than one
license at any time.
      (2)   All applications shall be submitted to the Common Council for
approval. If the Council does not approve the application, the license fee
which accompanied the application shall be returned to the applicant.
      (3)   Any amusement arcade permit may be revoked by the Council after a
hearing for the failure of the licensee to comply with this chapter. The
Council shall give at least ten days’ written notice to the applicant prior to
the date and time the Council will consider revocation of the license.
(Prior Code, § 110.04)
   (D)   Term of license. A license shall be valid for one calendar year or
part of a year according to its terms.
(Prior Code, § 110.05)
(Ord. 1078, passed 5-7-1979)
§ 110.03 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   No amusement arcade shall open for business prior to 9:00 a.m. and
each amusement arcade shall close at 11:00 p.m. each night Sunday through
Thursday and shall close at 12:00 a.m. each Friday and Saturday night.
   (B)   If an amusement arcade is located in a common enclosure with a
restaurant, snackbar, or other food establishment, that enclosure does not have
to be closed, but no coin-operated amusement device, mechanical amusement
device, or pool or billiard table shall be allowed to be played, used, or
operated other than during the hours indicated in division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 110.06) (Ord. 1078, passed 5-7-1979) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.04 MINORS.
   No person shall allow a person under the age of 13 years to play or operate
a coin-operated amusement device or a mechanical amusement device or play or
shoot billiards or pool in an amusement arcade unless that person is
accompanied by his or her parent or legal guardian.
(Prior Code, § 110.07) (Ord. 1078, passed 5-7-1979) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.05 ALCOHOL.
   No person, firm, partnership, or corporation engaged in the business of
operating an amusement arcade shall sell, offer for sale, or knowingly permit
to be sold or offered for sale or to be dispensed or consumed or brought on the
licensed premises any alcoholic beverages.
(Prior Code, § 110.08) (Ord. 1078, passed 5-7-1979) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.06 MAINTAINING ORDER AND SAFETY.
   (A)   Order. The licensee shall maintain order within the licensed premises
at all times.
(Prior Code, § 110.09)
   (B)   Crowds. The licensee shall ensure that the licensed premises do not
become crowded so as to constitute a hazard to the health or safety of any
person on the premises.
(Prior Code, § 110.10)
   (C)   Attendant. The licensee shall provide an attendant over the age of 18
years of age to be present on the licensed premises at all times during the
business hours.
(Prior Code, § 110.11)
(Ord. 1078, passed 5-17-1979) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.07 GAMBLING.
   The licensee shall not allow gambling in any form to occur on the licensed
premises.
(Prior Code, § 110.12) (Ord. 1078, passed 5-7-1979) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 111: VEHICLES FOR HIRE
Section
Taxicabs
   
111.01   Definition
   
111.02   License required; issuance
   
111.03   Refund or revocation of license
   
111.04   Insurance
   
111.05   Drivers responsible
   
111.06   Vehicle identification
TAXICABS
§ 111.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, TAXICAB shall mean any vehicle used to
carry passengers for hire to destinations designated by passengers but not
operating on fixed schedules or routes.
(Prior Code, § 111.01)
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIRED; ISSUANCE.
   (A)   License required. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any
taxicab without a license.
(Prior Code, § 111.02)
   (B)   Compliance prerequisite. A taxicab license shall be issued only upon
compliance by the applicant with all requirements of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 111.03)
   (C)   License application. Any person desiring a taxicab license shall apply
for same to the Clerk-Treasurer. On the application, the applicant shall
furnish the following information:
      (1)   The name of the applicant;
      (2)   Whether it is corporation or company;
      (3)   The names of the officers thereof;
      (4)   The addresses of officers thereof;
      (5)   The business address of the corporation; and
      (6)   Evidence of financial responsibility.
(Prior Code, § 111.04)
   (D)   License fee. No taxicab license shall be issued or renewed until the
annual license fee per taxicab, based on current state-approved amounts and/or
as set by City Council from time to time, is paid.
(Prior Code, § 111.05)
   (E)   License transfers. No taxicab license shall be transferred from one
taxicab to another or from one person to another.
(Prior Code, § 111.08)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03 REFUND OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Refund. No fee paid for a taxicab license shall be refunded.
(Prior Code, § 111.06)
   (B)   Revocation. In addition to any other penalty provided by law, a
taxicab license may be revoked by the Mayor after a hearing for the failure of
the licensee to comply with this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 111.11)
§ 111.04 INSURANCE.
   No taxicab license shall be issued unless the applicant for same has in
force and effect a current automobile insurance policy issued by an insurance
company licensed to do business in the state. The minimum amounts of insurance
shall be based on current state-approved amounts and/or as set by City Council
from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 111.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.05 DRIVERS RESPONSIBLE.
   The driver of any taxicab must be thoroughly responsible and licensed as
required by state law.
(Prior Code, § 111.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.06 VEHICLE IDENTIFICATION.
   Each taxicab shall have the name of its owner placed on its exterior in such
a location and of such letter size as to be readily identified.
(Prior Code, § 111.09) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112: TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
Section
   
112.01   Definition
   
112.02   License issuance
   
112.03   License form and identification
   
112.04   License revocation
   
112.05   Prohibited hours for solicitation
   
112.06   Prohibited premises for solicitation
§ 112.01 DEFINITION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, TRANSIENT MERCHANT shall mean any
person who, either as a principal or agent, engages in or transacts any
temporary or transient retail business or who travels from place to place
selling or offering for sale any goods, wares, or merchandise at retail
including those who, for the purpose of carrying on such business, hire, lease,
or occupy any permanent or mobile building, structure, or real estate for the
exhibition by means of samples, catalogues, photographs, and price lists or
sale of such goods, wares, or merchandise.
   (B)   TRANSIENT MERCHANT shall not include any person who grows the goods,
wares, or merchandise which he or she offers for sale.
(Prior Code, § 112.01)
§ 112.02 LICENSE ISSUANCE.
   (A)   License required. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate as a
transient merchant without a license issued to him or her by the Clerk-
Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 112.02)
   (B)   License applications. Each person applying for a transient merchant’s
license shall apply in writing to the Clerk-Treasurer on a form to be furnished
by the Clerk-Treasurer. The applicant shall state on the license application
his or her full name, residence, and age; the type of work in which he or she
expects to engage; for whom he or she is selling; and the name of at least one
character reference.
(Prior Code, § 112.03)
   (C)   License information to be furnished to Police Department. An applicant
for a transient merchant’s license shall furnish the same information as was
given to the Clerk-Treasurer on the license application together with a
photograph of said applicant to the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 112.04)
   (D)   License fee. The fee to be paid for a transient merchant’s license
shall be based on current state-approved amounts and/or as set by City Council
from time to time, payable when the license application is made.
(Prior Code, § 112.05)
   (E)   Investigation and issuance. No transient merchant’s license shall be
issued until the Police Department investigates the character, qualifications,
and record of the applicant therefor. If the same is found to be in good order,
the Clerk-Treasurer shall issue the license.
(Prior Code, § 112.06)
   (F)   Effect of license. A transient merchant’s license shall in no way be
interpreted as a recommendation for any article or thing which the merchant may
offer for sale.
(Prior Code, § 112.08)
§ 112.03 LICENSE FORM AND IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Form. A transient merchant’s license shall be in the form of a card
bearing a photograph of the licensee which is similar to the one on file with
the Police Department. Such license shall be signed by the Clerk-Treasurer and
the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 112.07)
   (B)   Identification. Every holder of a transient merchant’s license shall
exhibit the same at the request of any police officer or any citizen and shall
immediately, upon making contact with a prospect, exhibit it and identify
himself or herself.
(Prior Code, § 112.09)
§ 112.04 LICENSE REVOCATION.
   In addition to any other penalty imposed by law, a transient merchant’s
license may, after the proper notice and hearing, be revoked by the Mayor for:
   (A)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statements in the license
application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made by the licensee
in the course of carrying on said business;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter by the licensee;
   (D)   Any conviction of the licensee of any crime involving moral turpitude;
or
   (E)   The licensee conducts said business in an unlawful manner so as to
constitute a breach of the peace or a menace to the health, safety, or general
welfare of the public.
(Prior Code, § 112.12)
§ 112.05 PROHIBITED HOURS FOR SOLICITATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any transient merchant to solicit business as such
at night or on Sundays or other legal holidays.
(Prior Code, § 112.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.06 PROHIBITED PREMISES FOR SOLICITATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any transient merchant to solicit any business as
such on any premises where the owner or occupant thereof has displayed on such
premises a sign or notice which is readily visible from street stating “no
peddlers” or “no solicitors” or other words of similar import; provided,
however, the provisions of this section shall not apply where such owner or
occupant invites the transient merchant onto his or her premises.
(Prior Code, § 112.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 113: SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
General Provisions
   
113.01   Purpose and findings
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   Classification
   
113.04   Minors prohibited
   
113.05   Public nudity
Licenses
   
113.20   License required
   
113.21   License issuance
   
113.22   Fees
   
113.23   Inspection
   
113.24   Expiration, suspension, and revocation
   
113.25   Transfer of license
Operations and Regulations
   
113.40   Location
   
113.41   Hours of operation
   
113.42   Exterior of business
   
113.43   Signage
   
113.44   Adult motel regulations
   
113.45   Exhibition of sexually-explicit materials or entertainment
   
113.46   Regulations for escort agencies
   
113.47   Regulations for nude model studios
 
   
113.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.01 PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose and object of this chapter to regulate
sexually-oriented businesses in order to promote the health, safety, morals,
and general welfare of the citizens of the city and to establish reasonable and
uniform regulations to prevent the deleterious location and concentration of
sexually-oriented businesses within the city. The provisions of this chapter
have neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on
the content of any communicative materials including sexually-oriented
materials. Similarly, it is not the intent nor effect of this chapter to
restrict or deny access by adults to sexually-oriented materials protected by
the First Amendment or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of
sexually-oriented entertainment to their intended market and neither is it the
intent nor effect of this chapter to condone or legitimize the distribution of
obscene material.
   (B)   Findings. Based on evidence concerning the adverse secondary effects
of adult uses on the community presented in hearings and in reports made
available to the Council and on findings incorporated in the cases of City of
Renton v. Playtime Theatres, Inc. (475 U.S. 41 (1986)), Young v. American Mini
Theatres (426 U.S. 50 (1976)), and Barnes v. Glen Theatre, Inc. (501 U.S. 560
(1991)) and on studies in other communities including, but not limited to,
Phoenix, Arizona; Minneapolis, Minnesota; Houston, Texas; Indianapolis,
Indiana; Amarillo, Texas; Garden Grove, California; Los Angeles, California;
Whittier, California; Austin, Texas; Seattle, Washington; Oklahoma City,
Oklahoma; Cleveland, Ohio; and Beaumont, Texas and also on findings from the
report of the Attorney General’s “Working Group on the Regulation of Sexually-
Oriented Businesses” (June 6, 1989, State of Minnesota), the Council finds the
following.
      (1)   Sexually-oriented businesses lend themselves to support unlawful
and unhealthy activities that are presently uncontrolled by the operators of
the establishments. Further, there is presently no mechanism to make the owners
of these establishments responsible for the activities that occur on their
premises.
      (2)   Certain employees of sexually-oriented businesses, defined herein
as adult theaters and cabarets, engage in higher incidence of certain types of
illicit sexual behavior than employees of other establishments.
      (3)   Sexual acts, including masturbation and oral and anal sex, occur at
sexually- oriented businesses, especially those which provide private or semi-
private booths or cubicles for viewing films, videos, or live sex shows.
      (4)   Offering and providing such space encourages such activities which
creates unhealthy conditions.
      (5)   Persons frequent certain adult theaters, adult arcades, and other
sexually-oriented businesses for the purpose of engaging in sex within the
premises of such sexually-oriented businesses.
      (6)   At least 50 communicable diseases may be spread by activities
occurring in sexually-oriented businesses including, but not limited to,
syphilis, gonorrhea, human immunodeficiency virus infection (HIV/AIDS), genital
herpes, hepatitis B, Non A, Non B amebiasis, salmonella infections, and
shigella infections.
      (7)   Since 1981 and to the present, there has been an increasing
cumulative number of reported cases of AIDS caused by the human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) in the United States: 600 in 1982; 2,200 in 1983;
4,600 in 1984; 8,555 in 1985; 253,448 through December 31, 1992; and 437,982
through December 31, 2005.
      (8)   As of December 2004, there have been 4,901 reported cases of AIDS
in the state.
      (9)   Since 1981 and to the present, there have been increasing numbers
of persons testing positive for the HIV anti-body test in the state.
      (10)   The number of cases of early, less than one year, syphilis in the
United States reported annually has risen, with 33,613 cases reported in 1982
and 45,200 through November of 1990.
      (11)   The number of cases of gonorrhea in the United States reported
annually remains at a high level, with 339,573 cases reported in 2000.
      (12)   The Surgeon General of the United States, in his report of October
22, 1986, has advised the American public that AIDS and HIV infection may be
transmitted through sexual contact, intravenous drug abuse, exposure to
infected blood and blood components, and from an infected mother to her
newborn.
      (13)   According to the best scientific evidence, AIDS and HIV infection
as well as syphilis and gonorrhea are principally transmitted by sexual acts.
      (14)   Sanitary conditions in some sexually-oriented businesses are
unhealthy, in part because the activities conducted there are unhealthy and in
part because of the unregulated nature of the activities and the failure of the
owners and the operators of the facilities to self-regulate those activities
and maintain those facilities.
      (15)   Numerous studies and reports have determined that semen is found
in the areas of sexually-oriented businesses where persons view adult-oriented
films.
      (16)   The findings noted in divisions (B)(1) through (B)(15) above raise
substantial governmental concerns.
      (17)   Sexually-oriented businesses have operational characteristics
which should be reasonably regulated in order to protect those substantial
governmental concerns.
      (18)   A reasonable licensing procedure is an appropriate mechanism to
place the burden of that reasonable regulation on the owners and the operators
of the sexually-oriented businesses. Further, such a licensing procedure will
place a heretofore nonexistent incentive on the operators to see that the
sexually-oriented business is run in a manner consistent with the health,
safety, and welfare of its patrons and employees as well as the citizens of the
city. It is appropriate to require reasonable assurances that the licensee is
the actual operator of the sexually-oriented business and fully in possession
and control of the premises and activities occurring therein.
      (19)   Removal of doors on adult booths and requiring sufficient lighting
on premises with adult booths advances a substantial governmental interest in
curbing the illegal and unsanitary sexual activity occurring in adult theaters.
      (20)   Requiring licensees of sexually-oriented businesses to keep
information regarding current employees and certain past employees will help
reduce the incidence of certain types of criminal behavior by facilitating the
identification of potential witnesses or suspects and by preventing minors from
working in such establishments.
      (21)   The disclosure of certain information by those persons ultimately
responsible for the day-to-day operation and maintenance of the sexually-
oriented business, where such information is substantially related to the
significant governmental interest in the operation of such uses, will aid in
preventing the spread of sexually transmitted diseases.
      (22)   It is desirable in the prevention of the spread of communicable
diseases to obtain a limited amount of information regarding certain employees
who may engage in the conduct, which this chapter is designed to prevent, or
who are likely to be witnesses to such activity.
      (23)   The fact that an applicant for an adult use license has been
convicted of a sexually related crime leads to the rational assumption that the
applicant may engage in that conduct in contravention of this chapter.
      (24)   The baiting of such individuals from the management of adult uses
for a period of years serves as a deterrent to and prevents conduct which leads
to the transmission of sexually transmitted diseases.
      (25)   The general welfare, health, morals, and safety of the citizens of
the city will be promoted by the enactment of this chapter.
(Ord. 1511, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin-operated, slug operated, or electronically, electrically, or mechanically
controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, video, laser disc
players, or other image-producing devices are maintained to show images to five
or fewer persons per machine at anyone time and where the images so displayed
are distinguished or characterized by the depicting or describing of “specified
sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas.”
   ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, or ADULT VIDEO STORE.
      (1)   A commercial establishment which, as one of its principal purposes,
offers for sale or rental for any form of consideration any one or more of the
following:
         (a)   Books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes/DVDs or video
reproductions, slides, or other visual representations which are characterized
by the depiction or description of “specified sexual activities”or “specified
anatomical areas;” or
         (b)   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed for
use in connection with “specified sexual activities.”
      (2)   A commercial establishment may have other principal business
purposes that do not involve the offering for sale or rental of material
depicting or describing “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical
areas” and still be categorized as ADULT BOOK STORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, or
ADULT VIDEO STORE. Such other business purposes will not serve to exempt such
commercial establishments from being categorized as an ADULT BOOK STORE, ADULT
NOVELTY STORES, or ADULT VIDEO STORE so long as one of its principal business
purposes is the offering for sale or rental for consideration the specified
materials which are characterized by the depiction or description of “specified
sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas.”
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant, or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features:
      (1)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or are semi-nude;
      (2)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
“specified anatomical areas” or by “specified sexual activities;” or
      (3)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other
photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or
description of “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas.”
   ADULT MOTEL. A hotel, motel, or similar commercial establishment which:
      (1)   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration;
provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions which
are characterized by the depiction or description of “specified sexual
activities”or “specified anatomical areas;” and has a sign visible from the
public right-of-way that advertises the availability of this adult type of
photographic reproductions;
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time less than ten
hours; or
      (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to subrent the room
for a period of time that is less than ten hours.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where, for any form
of consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar
photographic reproductions are regularly shown which are characterized by the
depiction or description of “specified sexual activities” or “specified
anatomical areas.”
   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features persons who appear in a state of nudity
or are semi-nude or live performances which are characterized by the exposure
of “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas.”
   EMPLOYEE. A person who performs any service on the premises of a sexually-
oriented business on a full-time, part-time, or contract basis whether or not
the person is denominated an employee, independent contractor, agent, or
otherwise and whether or not said person is paid a salary, wage, or other
compensation by the operator of said business. EMPLOYEE does not include a
person exclusively on the premises for repair or maintenance of the premises or
equipment on the premises or for the delivery of goods to the premises.
   ESCORT. Any person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide, or date for another person or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary purposes for a
fee, tip, or other consideration.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually-oriented business as a
new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually-
oriented business, to any sexually-oriented business;
      (3)   The additions of any sexually-oriented business to any other
existing sexually- oriented business; or
      (4)   The relocation of any sexually-oriented business.
   LICENSEE. A person in whose name a license to operate a sexually-oriented
business has been issued as well as the individual listed as an applicant on
the application for a license and, in the case of an employee, a person in
whose name a license has been issued authorizing employment in a sexually-
oriented business.
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person who appears semi-nude, in a
state of nudity, or who displays “specified anatomical areas” and is provided
to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculpted, photographed, or similarly
depicted by other persons who pay money or any form of consideration. NUDE
MODEL STUDIO shall not include a proprietary school licensed by the state or a
college, junior college, or university supported entirely or in part by public
taxation; a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or in a
structure:
      (1)   That has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and no
other advertising that indicates a nude or semi-nude person is available for
viewing;
      (2)   Where, in order to participate in a class, a student must enroll at
least three days in advance of the class; and
      (3)   Where no more than one nude or semi-nude model is on the premises
at any one time.
   NUDITY or A STATE OF NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female
genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft, or cleavage with less than fully
opaque covering; the showing of the female breast with less than a fully opaque
covering of any part of the nipple; or the showing of the covered male genitals
in a discernibly turgid state.
   PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal entity.
   SEMI-NUDE or SEMI-NUDE CONDITION. The showing of the female breast below a
horizontal line across the top of the areola at its highest point or the
showing of the male or female buttocks. This definition shall include the
entire lower portion of the human female breast but shall not include any
portion of the cleavage of the human female breast exhibited by a dress,
blouse, skirt, leotard, bathing suit, or other wearing apparel provided the
areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise that, as one of
its principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration:
      (1)   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
persons of the opposite sex; or
      (2)   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the
same sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-nude.
   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult novelty
store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture
theater, adult theater, escort agency, nude model studio, or sexual encounter
center.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   The human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered; or
      (2)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, or female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola.
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY.
      (1)   Any of the following offenses: prostitution or promotion of
prostitution; dissemination of obscenity; sale, distribution, or display of
harmful material to a minor; sexual performance by a child; possession or
distribution of child pornography; public lewdness; indecent exposure;
indecency with a child; engaging in organized criminal activity; sexual
assault; molestation of a child; gambling; distribution of a controlled
substance; or any similar offenses to those described above under the criminal
or penal code of other states or countries for which:
         (a)   Less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction or
the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever is
the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
         (b)   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement for the conviction, whichever is the
later date, if the conviction is of a felony offense; or
         (c)   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the last conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the convictions are of two or more misdemeanor
offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring within any 24-month
period.
      (2)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect
on the disqualification of the applicant or a person residing with the
applicant.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Any of the following:
      (1)   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus, or female breasts;
      (2)   Actual or stimulated sex acts, normal or perverted, including
intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation, or sodomy; or
      (3)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in divisions (1) and (2) above.
   SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT OF A SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS. The increase in
floor areas occupied by the business by more than 25%, as the floor areas exist
on the date this chapter takes effect.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS. Any of the
following:
      (1)   The sale, lease, or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest
in the business whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal device
which transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer
by bequest or other operation of law, upon the death of the person possessing
the ownership or control.
(Ord. 1511, passed 3-5-2007)
113.03 CLASSIFICATION.
   Sexually-oriented businesses are classified as follows:
   (A)   Adult arcades;
   (B)   Adult bookstores, adult novelty stores, or adult video stores;
   (C)   Adult cabarets;
   (D)   Adult motels;
   (E)   Adult motion picture theaters;
   (F)   Adult theaters;
   (G)   Escort agencies;
   (H)   Nude model studios; and
   (I)   Sexual encounter centers.
(Ord. 1511, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 113.04 MINORS PROHIBITED.
   A person commits an offense if the person knowingly allows a person under
the age of 18 years on the premises of a sexually-oriented business.
(Ord. 1511, passed 3-5-2007) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.05 PUBLIC NUDITY.
   (A)   Violations.
      (1)   It shall be an offense for a person who knowingly and
intentionally, in a sexually- oriented business, appears in a state of nudity
or depicts specified sexual activities.
      (2)   It shall be an offense for a person who knowingly or intentionally,
in a sexually- oriented business, appears in a semi-nude condition unless the
person is an employee who, while semi-nude, shall be at least ten feet from any
patron or customer and on a stage at least two feet from the floor.
      (3)   It shall be an offense for an employee, while semi-nude in a
sexually-oriented business, to solicit any pay or gratuity from any patron or
customer or for any patron or customer to pay or give any gratuity to any
employee while said employee is semi-nude in a sexually-oriented business.
      (4)   It shall be an offense for an employee, while semi-nude, to touch a
customer or the clothing of a customer.
   (B)   Exemptions. It is a defense to prosecution under division (A) above
that a person appearing in a state of nudity did so in a modeling class
operated:
      (1)   By a proprietary school, licensed by the state, or a college,
junior college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
      (2)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
      (3)   In a structure:
         (a)   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and
no other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing;
         (b)   Where, in order to participate in a class, a student must enroll
at least three days in advance of the class; and
         (c)   Where no more than one nude model is on the premises at any one
time.
(Ord. 1511, passed 3-5-2007) Penalty, see §
113.99
LICENSES
§ 113.20 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful:
      (1)   For any person to operate a sexually-oriented business without a
valid sexually- oriented business license issued by the city pursuant hereto;
      (2)   For any person who operates a sexually-oriented business to employ
a person to work for the sexually-oriented business who is not licensed as a
sexually-oriented business employee by the city pursuant to this chapter; and
      (3)   For any person to obtain employment with a sexually-oriented
business without having secured a sexually-oriented business employee license
pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   An application for a license must be made on a form provided by the
city.
   (C)   All applicants must be qualified according to the provisions of this
chapter. The application may request and the applicant shall provide such
information as to enable the city to determine whether the applicant meets the
qualifications established in this chapter.
   (D)   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually-oriented business is an
individual, the person must sign the application for a license as the
applicant. If a person who wishes to operate a sexually- oriented business is
other than an individual, each individual who has a 20% or greater interest in
the business must sign the application for a license as an applicant. Each
applicant must be qualified under §
113.21 and each applicant shall be considered a licensee if a license is
granted.
   (E)   The completed application for a sexually-oriented business license
shall contain the following information and shall be accompanied by the
following information:
      (1)   If the applicant is:
         (a)   An individual, the individual shall state his or her legal name
and any aliases and submit proof that he or she is 18 years of age;
         (b)   A partnership, the partnership shall state its complete name and
the names of all partners, whether the partnership is general or limited, and a
copy of the partnership agreement, if any; or
         (c)   A corporation, the corporation shall state its complete name;
date of its incorporation; evidence that the corporation is in good standing
under the laws of its state of incorporation; the names and capacity of all
officers, directors, and principal stockholders; and the name of the registered
corporate agent and the address of the registered office for service of
process.
      (2)   If the applicant intends to operate the sexually-oriented business
under a name other than that of the applicant, the sexually-oriented business’
fictitious name and the required registration documents;
      (3)   Whether the applicant or a person residing with the applicant has
been convicted of a specified criminal activity, as defined in this chapter,
and, if so, the date, place, and jurisdiction of each;
      (4)   Whether the applicant or a person residing with the applicant, has
had a previous license under this chapter or other similar sexually-oriented
business ordinance from another city or county denied, suspended, or revoked
including the name and location of the sexually-oriented business for which the
permit was denied, suspended, or revoked as well as the date of the denial,
suspension, or revocation and whether the applicant or a person residing with
the applicant has been a partner in a partnership or an officer, director, or
principal stockholder of a corporation that is licensed under this chapter
whose license has previously been denied, suspended, or revoked including the
name and location of the sexually-oriented business for which the permit was
denied, suspended, or revoked as well as the date of denial, suspension, or
revocation;
      (5)   Whether the applicant or a person residing with the applicant holds
any other licenses under this chapter or other similar sexually-oriented
business ordinance from another city or county and, if so, the names and
locations of such other licensed businesses;
      (6)   The single classification of license for which the applicant is
filing;
      (7)   The location of the proposed sexually-oriented business including a
legal description of the property, street address, and telephone number(s), if
any;
      (8)   The applicant’s mailing address and residential address;
      (9)   A recent photograph of the applicant(s);
      (10)   The applicant’s driver’s license number, Social Security number,
and/or his or her state or federally issued tax identification number;
      (11)   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared, but it must be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches;
      (12)   A current certificate and straight-line drawing prepared within 30
days prior to application by a registered land surveyor depicting the property
lines and the structures containing any existing sexually-oriented businesses
within 2,000 feet of the property to be certified and the property line of any
established religious institution/synagogue, school, or public park or
recreation area within 2,000 feet of the property to be certified. For purposes
of this section, a use shall be considered existing or established if it is in
existence at the time an application is submitted; and
      (13)   If an applicant wishes to operate a sexually-oriented business,
other than an adult motel, which shall exhibit on the premises in a viewing
room or booth less than 150 square feet in floor space films, video cassettes,
or other video reproductions or live entertainment which depict specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, then the applicant shall
comply with the application requirements set forth in §
113.45.
   (F)   Before any applicant may be issued a sexually-oriented business
employee license, the applicant shall submit on a form to be provided by the
city the following information:
      (1)   The applicant’s name or any other name, including “stage” names or
aliases, used by the individual;
      (2)   Age, date, and place of birth;
      (3)   Height, weight, and hair and eye color;
      (4)   Present residence address and telephone number;
      (5)   Present business address and telephone number;
      (6)   Date, issuing state, and number of driver’s permit or other
identification card information;
      (7)   Social Security number; and
      (8)   Proof that the individual is at least 18 years of age.
   (G)   Attached to the application form for a sexually-oriented business
employee license, as provided in division (F) above, shall be the following:
      (1)   A color photograph of the applicant clearly showing the applicant’s
face. Any fees for the photographs shall be paid by the applicant;
      (2)   A statement detailing the license history of the applicant for the
five years immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application
including whether such applicant previously operated or is seeking to operate a
business, in this or any other county, city, state, or country; has ever had a
license, permit, or authorization to do business denied, revoked, or suspended;
or had any professional or vocational license or permit denied, revoked, or
suspended. In the event of any such denial or revocation or suspension, state
the name, the name of the issuing or denying jurisdiction, and describe in full
the reason for the denial, revocation, or suspension. A copy of any order of
denial, revocation, or suspension shall be attached to the application; and
      (3)   A statement whether the applicant has been convicted of a specified
criminal activity, as defined in this chapter, shall be included and, if so,
the specified criminal activity involved, the date, place, and jurisdiction of
each.
(Ord. 1511, passed 3-5-2007) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.21 LICENSE ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon the filing of said application for a sexually-oriented business
employee license, the city shall issue a temporary license to said applicant.
The application shall then be referred to the appropriate city departments for
an investigation to be made on such information as is contained on the
application. The application process shall be completed within 30 days from the
date the completed application is filed. After the investigation, the city
shall issue a license unless it is determined by a preponderance of the
evidence that one or more of the following findings is true:
      (1)   The applicant has failed to provide information reasonably
necessary for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or
request for information on the application form;
      (2)   The applicant is under the age of 18 years;
      (3)   The applicant has been convicted of a “specified criminal activity”
as defined herein;
      (4)   The sexually-oriented business employee license is to be used for
employment in a business prohibited by local or state law, statute, rule, or
regulation or prohibited by particular provision of this chapter; or
      (5)   The applicant has had a sexually-oriented business employee license
revoked by the city within two years of the date of the current application. If
the sexually-oriented business employee license is denied, the temporary
license previously issued is immediately deemed null and void. Denial,
suspension, or revocation of a license issued pursuant to this division (A)(5)
shall be subject to appeal as set forth in §
113.24(C).
   (B)   A license granted pursuant to this section shall be subject to annual
renewal upon the written application of the applicant and a finding by the city
that the applicant has not been convicted of any specified criminal activity,
as defined herein, or committed any act during the existence of the previous
license which would be grounds to deny the initial license application. The
renewal of the license shall be subject to the payment of the fee as set forth
in §
113.22.
   (C)   Within 30 days after receipt of a completed sexually-oriented business
application, the city shall approve or deny the issuance of a license to an
applicant. The city shall approve the issuance of the license to an applicant
unless it is determined by a preponderance of the evidence that one or more of
the following findings is/are true:
      (1)   An applicant is under 18 years of age;
      (2)   An applicant or a person with whom the applicant is residing is
overdue in payment to the city of taxes, fees, fines, or penalties assessed
against or imposed upon him or her in relation to any business;
      (3)   An applicant has failed to provide information reasonably necessary
for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or request for
information on the application form;
      (4)   An applicant or a person with whom the applicant is residing has
been denied a license by the city to operate a sexually-oriented business
within the preceding 12 months or whose license to operate a sexually-oriented
business has been revoked within the preceding 12 months;
      (5)   An applicant or a person with whom the applicant is residing has
been convicted of a specified criminal activity, defined herein;
      (6)   The premises to be used for the sexually-oriented business have not
been approved by the Health Department, Fire Department, and the Building
Official as being in compliance with applicable laws and ordinances;
      (7)   The license fee required herein has not been paid; and/or
      (8)   The applicant of the proposed establishment is in violation of or
is not in compliance with any of the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the
person or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date, the address of
the sexually-oriented business, and the classification for which the license is
issued pursuant to §
113.03. All licenses shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the
entrance to the sexually-oriented business so that they may be easily read at
any time.
   (E)   The Health Department, Fire Department, and the Building Official
shall complete their certification that the premises is in compliance or not in
compliance within 20 days of receipt of the application by the city.
   (F)   A sexually-oriented business license shall be issued for only one
classification, as found in §
113.03.
(Ord. 1511, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 113.22 FEES.
   (A)   Every application for a sexually-oriented business license, whether
for a new license or for renewal of an existing license, shall be accompanied
by a non-refundable application and investigation fee based on current state-
approved amounts and/or as set by City Council from time to time.
   (B)   In addition to the application and investigation fee required in
division (A) above, every sexually-oriented business that is granted a license,
new or renewal, shall pay to the city an annual non-refundable license fee
based on current state-approved amounts and/or as set by City Council from time
to time within 30 days of license issuance or renewal.
   (C)   Every application for a sexually-oriented business employee license,
whether for new license or for renewal of an existing license, shall be
accompanied by an annual non-refundable application, investigation, and license
fee based on current state-approved amounts and/or as set by City Council from
time to time.
   (D)   All license applications and fees shall be submitted to the Clerk-
Treasurer of the city.
(Ord. 1511, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 113.23 INSPECTION.
   (A)   An applicant or licensee shall permit representatives of the Police
Department, Health Department, Fire Department, Zoning Department, or other
city departments or agencies to inspect the premises of a sexually-oriented
business for the purpose of insuring compliance with the law at any time it is
occupied or open for business.
   (B)   A person who operates a sexually-oriented business or his or her agent
or employee commits an offense if he or she refuses to permit such lawful
inspection of the premises at any time it is open for business.
(Ord. 1511, passed 3-5-2007) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.24 EXPIRATION, SUSPENSION, AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Expiration.
      (1)   Each license shall expire one year from the date of issuance and
may be renewed only by making application as provided in §
113.20. Application for renewal shall be made at least 30 days before the
expiration date. When made less than 30 days before the expiration date, the
expiration of the license will not be affected.
      (2)   When the city denies renewal of a license, the applicant shall not
be issued a license for one year from the date of denial. If, subsequent to
denial, the city finds that the basis for denial of the renewal license has
been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license if at least 90
days have elapsed since the date denial became final.
   (B)   Suspension. The city shall suspend a license for a period not to
exceed 30 days if it determines that a licensee or an employee of a licensee
has:
      (1)   Violated or is not in compliance with this chapter; or
      (2)   Refused to allow an inspection of the sexually-oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter.
   (C)   Revocation.
      (1)   The city shall revoke a license if a cause of suspension in
division (B) above occurs and the license has been suspended within the
preceding 12 months.
      (2)   The city shall revoke a license if it determines that:
         (a)   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process;
         (b)   A licensee has knowingly allowed possession, use, or sale of
controlled substances on the premises;
         (c)   A licensee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the premises;
         (d)   A licensee knowingly operated the sexually-oriented business
during a period of time when the licensee’s license was suspended;
         (e)   Except in the case of an adult motel, a licensee has knowingly
allowed any act of sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation,
or other sex act to occur in or on the licensed premises; or
         (f)   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the city, county, or
state for any taxes or fees past due.
      (3)   When the city revokes a license, the revocation shall continue for
one year, and the licensee shall not be issued a sexually-oriented business
license for one year from the date the revocation became effective. If,
subsequent to revocation, the city finds that the basis for the revocation has
been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license if at least 90
days have elapsed since the date the revocation became effective.
      (4)   After denial of an application or denial of a renewal of an
application or suspension or revocation of any license, the applicant or
licensee may seek prompt judicial review of such administrative action in any
court of competent jurisdiction. The administrative action shall be promptly
reviewed by the court.
(Ord. 1511, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 113.25 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another nor shall a
licensee operate a sexually-oriented business under the authority of a license
at any place other than the address designated in the application.
(Ord. 1511, passed 3-5-2007) Penalty, see §
113.99
OPERATIONS AND REGULATIONS
§ 113.40 LOCATION.
   (A)   A person commits an offense if that person operates or causes to be
operated a sexually- oriented business in any zoning district other than
industrial, as defined and described in the city’s Zoning Code.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if the person operates or causes to be
operated a sexually- oriented business within 1,000 feet of:
      (1)   A church, synagogue, mosque, temple, or building which is used
primarily for religious worship and related religious activities;
      (2)   A public or private educational facility including, but not limited
to, child day care facilities, nursery schools, preschools, kindergartens,
elementary schools, private schools, intermediate schools, junior high schools,
middle schools, high schools, vocational schools, secondary schools,
continuation schools, special education schools, junior colleges, and
universities; SCHOOL includes the school grounds, but does not include
facilities used primarily for another purpose and only incidentally thereto;
      (3)   A boundary of a residential district, defined in the city’s Zoning
Code;
      (4)   A public park or recreational area which has been designated for
park or recreational activities including, but not limited to, a park,
playground, nature trail, swimming pool, reservoir, athletic field, basketball
or tennis court, pedestrian/bicycle path, wilderness area, or other similar
public land within the city which is under the control, operation, or
management of the city park and recreation authorities;
      (5)   The property line of a lot which is devoted to a residential use,
defined in the city’s Zoning Code;
      (6)   The property line of a lot which is devoted to an existing
residential use or land used primarily for residential use as defined in the
county’s Zoning Ordinance;
      (7)   An entertainment business which is oriented primarily towards
children or family entertainment; or
      (8)   A licensed premises, licensed pursuant to alcoholic beverage
control regulations of the state.
   (C)   A person commits an offense if that person causes or permits the
operation, establishment, substantial enlargement, or transfer of ownership or
control of a sexually-oriented business within 1,000 feet of another sexually-
oriented business.
   (D)   A person commits an offense if that person causes or permits the
operation, establishment, or maintenance of more than one sexually-oriented
business in the same building, structure, or portion thereof, or the increase
of floor area of any sexually-oriented business in any building, structure, or
portion thereof containing another sexually-oriented business.
   (E)   For the purpose of division (B) above, measurement shall be made in a
straight line, without regard to the intervening structures or objects, from
the nearest portion of the building or structure used as the part of the
premises where a sexually-oriented business is conducted to the nearest
property line of the premises of a use listed in division (B) above. Presence
of a city, county, or other political subdivision boundary shall be irrelevant
for purposes of calculating and applying the distance requirements of this
section.
   (F)   For purposes of division (C) above, the distance between any two
sexually-oriented businesses shall be measured in a straight line, without
regard to the intervening structures or objects or political boundaries, from
the closest exterior wall of the structure in which each business is located.
   (G)   Any sexually-oriented business lawfully operating on the date of the
adoption of this chapter that is in violation of divisions (A) through (F)
above shall be deemed a nonconforming use. Such nonconforming uses shall not be
increased, enlarged, extended, or altered except that the use may be changed to
a conforming use. If a nonconforming use goes unused for 180-consecutive
calendar days due to the owner’s actions, it may not be reinstated.
   (H)   A sexually-oriented business lawfully operating as a conforming use is
not rendered a nonconforming use by the location, subsequent to the grant or
renewal of the sexually-oriented business license, of a use listed in division
(B) above within 1,000 feet of the sexually-oriented business. This provision
applies only to the renewal of a valid license, and does not apply when an
application for a license is submitted after a license has expired or been
revoked.
(Ord. 1511, passed 3-5-2007) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.41 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No sexually-oriented business, except for an adult motel, may remain open at
any time on federal or state holidays, Sundays, nor between the hours of 11:00
p.m. and 10:00 a.m. on weekdays and Saturdays.
(Ord. 1511, passed 3-5-2007) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.42 EXTERIOR OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   No merchandise or activities of a sexually-oriented business licensed
under this chapter shall be visible from a point outside the establishment.
   (B)   No flashing lights or any words, lettering, photographs, silhouettes,
drawings, or pictorial representations of any manner except to the extent
permitted by the provisions herein shall be permitted or used on the exterior
of a sexually-oriented business licensed under this chapter.
   (C)   Exterior portions of any sexually-oriented business licensed under
this chapter shall not be painted any color other than a single achromatic
color. This provision shall not apply to a sexually-oriented business if the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   The sexually-oriented business is a part of a commercial multi-unit
center; and
      (2)   The exterior portions of each individual unit in the commercial
multi-unit center, including the exterior portions of the sexually-oriented
business, are painted the same color as one another or are painted in such a
way so as to be a component of the overall architectural style or pattern of
the commercial multi-unit center.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require the painting of
an otherwise unpainted exterior portion of a sexually-oriented business.
(Ord. 1511, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 113.43 SIGNAGE.
   (A)   Neither the owner nor operator of any sexually-oriented business nor
any other person shall be permitted to erect, construct, or maintain any sign
for the sexually-oriented business other than the one primary sign and one
secondary sign, as provided herein. To the extent any of these provisions
conflict with or are inconsistent with other ordinances, the most restrictive
provisions shall apply.
   (B)   Primary signs shall have no more than two display surfaces. Each such
display surface shall:
      (1)   Not contain any flashing lights;
      (2)   Be a flat plane, rectangular in shape; and
      (3)   Not exceed 75 square feet in area.
   (C)   Primary signs shall contain no photographs, silhouettes, drawings, or
pictorial representations in any manner and may contain only the name of the
enterprise.
   (D)   Each letter forming a word on a primary sign shall be of solid color,
and each such letter shall be the same print-type size and color. The
background behind such lettering on the display surface of a primary sign shall
be of a uniform and solid color.
   (E)   Secondary signs shall have only one display surface. Such display
surface shall be a canopy sign affixed to the exterior of the premises over a
door or window, or:
      (1)   Be a flat plane, rectangular in shape;
      (2)   Not exceed 50 square feet in area; and
      (3)   Be affixed or attached to any wall or door of the enterprise.
(Ord. 1511, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 113.44 ADULT MOTEL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel, motel, or similar commercial
establishment has been rented and vacated two or more times in a period of time
that is less than ten hours creates a rebuttable presumption that the
establishment is an adult motel as defined herein.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if, as the person in control of a sleeping
room in a hotel, motel, or similar commercial establishment that does not have
a sexually-oriented business license, he or she rents or subrents a sleeping
room to a person and, within ten hours from the time the room is rented, he or
she rents or subrents the same sleeping room again.
   (C)   For purposes of division (B) above, the terms RENT or SUBRENT mean the
act of permitting a room to be occupied for any form of consideration.
(Ord. 1511, passed 3-5-2007) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.45 EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY-EXPLICIT MATERIALS OR ENTERTAINMENT.
   (A)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually-oriented
business, other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in a
viewing room of less than 150 square feet of floor space, a film, video
cassette, live entertainment, or other video reproduction which depicts
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas shall comply with the
following requirements.
      (1)   Upon application for a sexually-oriented business license, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof that specifies the location of one or more manager’s stations and the
location of all overhead lighting fixtures and designates any portion of the
premises in which patrons will not be permitted. A manager’s station may not
exceed 32 square feet of floor area. The diagram shall also designate the place
at which the permit will be conspicuously posted, if granted. A professionally
prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer’s or architect’s blueprint shall
not be required; however, each diagram should be oriented to the north or to
some designated street or object and should be drawn to a designated scale or
with marked dimensions sufficient to show the various internal dimensions of
all areas of the interior of the premises to any accuracy of plus or minus six
inches. The city may waive the foregoing diagram for renewal applications if
the applicant adopts a diagram that was previously submitted and certifies that
the configuration of the premises has not been altered since it was prepared.
      (2)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
      (3)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a station may be
made without the prior approval of the city.
      (4)   It is the duty of the licensee of the premises to ensure that at
least one licensed employee is on duty and situated in each manager’s station
at all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
      (5)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager’s station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If the
premises has two or more manager’s stations designated, then the interior of
the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed
view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for
any purpose from at least one of the manager’s stations. The view required in
this division (A)(5) must be by direct line of sight from the manager’s
station.
      (6)   It shall be the duty of the licensee to ensure that the view area
specified in division (A)(5) above remains unobstructed by any doors, curtains,
partitions, walls, merchandise, display racks, or other materials and, at all
times, to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of the premises
which has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be permitted in
the application files pursuant to division (A)(1) above.
      (7)   No viewing room may be occupied by more than one person at any
time.
      (8)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than 5.0 foot-candles as measured at the
floor level.
      (9)   It shall be the duty of the licensee to ensure that the
illumination described in division (A)(8) above is maintained at all times that
any patron is present in the premises.
      (10)   No licensee shall allow openings of any kind to exist between
viewing rooms or booths.
      (11)   No person shall make or attempt to make an opening of any kind
between viewing booths or rooms.
      (12)   The licensee shall, during each business day, regularly inspect
the walls between the viewing booths to determine if any openings or holes
exist.
      (13)   The licensee shall cause all floor coverings in viewing booths to
be nonporous, easily cleanable surfaces with no rugs or carpeting.
      (14)   The licensee shall cause all wall surfaces and ceiling surfaces in
viewing booths to be constructed of or permanently covered by nonporous, easily
cleanable material. No wood, plywood, composition board, or other porous
material shall be used within 48 inches of the floor.
   (B)   A person having a duty under divisions (A)(1) through (A)(14) above
commits an offense if he or she knowingly fails to fulfill that duty.
(Ord. 1511, passed 3-5-2007) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.46 REGULATIONS FOR ESCORT AGENCIES.
   (A)   An escort agency shall not employ any person under the age of 18
years.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if the person acts as an escort or agrees
to act as an escort, for any purpose, under the age of 18 years.
(Ord. 1511, passed 3-5-2007) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.47 REGULATIONS FOR NUDE MODEL STUDIOS.
   (A)   A nude model studio shall not employ any person under the age of 18
years.
   (B)   A person under the age of 18 years commits an offense if the person
appears semi-nude or in a state of nudity in or on the premises of a nude model
studio. It is a defense to prosecution under this division if the person under
18 years was in a restroom not open to public view or visible to any other
person.
   (C)   A person commits an offense if the person appears in a state of nudity
or knowingly allows another to appear in a state of nudity in an area of a nude
model studio premises which can be viewed from the public right-of-way.
   (D)   A nude model studio shall not place or permit a bed, sofa, or mattress
in any room on the premises except that a sofa may be placed in a reception
room open to the public.
(Ord. 1511, passed 3-5-2007) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually-oriented
business without a valid license or in violation of §
113.40 is subject to a suit for injunction. Such violations shall be punishable
by a fine based on current state-approved amounts and/or as set by City Council
from time to time. Each day a sexually-oriented business so operates is a
separate offense or violation.
(Ord. 1511, passed 3-5-2007)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Interference
   
130.01   Interference with city officers and employees
   
130.02   Interference with or destroying city property
Weapons
   
130.15   Definition
   
130.16   Discharge prohibited; exceptions
Social Host Regulations
   
130.30   Definitions
   
130.31   Prevention of underage drinking
 
   
130.99   Penalty
INTERFERENCE
§ 130.01 INTERFERENCE WITH CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with or obstruct, hamper,
or hinder any city officer or employee engaged in the lawful performance of his
or her duties.
(Prior Code, § 130.01) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 INTERFERENCE WITH OR DESTROYING CITY PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally interfere with or
destroy any city property.
(Prior Code, § 130.02) Penalty, see §
130.99
WEAPONS
§ 130.15 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, DEADLY WEAPON shall mean:
   (A)   A firearm;
   (B)   A destructive device, weapon, electronic stun weapon, equipment,
chemical substance, or other material that in the manner it is used, could
ordinarily be used, or is intended to be used is readily capable of causing
serious bodily injury; or
   (C)   A biological disease, virus, or organism that is capable of causing
serious bodily injury.
(Prior Code, § 130.21) (Ord. 1468, passed 3-1-2004)
§ 130.16 DISCHARGE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge any firearm, as defined in I.C. 35-47-1-5,
as presently existing or hereinafter modified or release a deadly weapon as
defined herein within the municipal limits of the city.
   (B)   However, this section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Any military unit performing military duties;
      (2)   Any police officer while in the discharge of his or her duty;
      (3)   Any police officer or military organization while the members of
such organization are engaged in practice on a safely and properly conducted
indoor/outdoor range which meets all applicable state and federal licensing
requirements, health and safety regulations, or other applicable legal
requirements;
      (4)   Any safely and properly conducted indoor/outdoor range which meets
all applicable state and federal licensing requirements or other applicable
legal requirements provided that the location of such range shall also meet all
applicable zoning regulations set out in
Chapter 155; or
      (5)   Any person acting in defense of his or her own life or the lives of
others.
(Prior Code, § 130.20) (Ord. 1468, passed 3-1-2004) Penalty see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 35-47-1-5
SOCIAL HOST REGULATIONS
§ 130.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. The compound C2H5OH (known as ethyl alcohol), hydrated oxide of
ethyl, or spirits of wine from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. A liquid or solid that:
      (1)   Is or contains 0.5% or more alcohol by volume;
      (2)   Is fit for human consumption; and
      (3)   Is reasonably likely or intended to be used as a beverage.
   LOUD OR UNRULY PARTY OR GATHERING. A gathering or party of at least two or
more persons at a residence or on other private property or rented public
property on which loud or unruly conduct occurs and at which alcohol is
consumed by minors. Such LOUD OR UNRULY GATHERINGS include, but are not limited
to, gatherings resulting in:
      (1)   Excessive noise;
      (2)   Excessive traffic;
      (3)   Obstruction of public streets and/or the presence of unruly crowds
that have spilled out into the street;
      (4)   Public drunkenness or unlawful public consumption of alcohol or
alcoholic beverages;
      (5)   Assaults, batteries, fights, domestic violence, or other
disturbances of the peace;
      (6)   Vandalism;
      (7)   Litter; or
      (8)   Any other conduct which constitutes a threat to the public health,
safety, or quiet enjoyment of residential property or the general welfare.
   MINOR. A person less than 21 years of age.
   RESIDENCE.
      (1)   The premises in which a person resides and includes the aggregation
of the rooms inhabited by him or her including the cellar and basement; and
      (2)   A room equipped for sleeping or a suite located in a hotel when
actually occupied by a traveler or by a person as his or her bona fide
residence.
(Ord. 1563, passed 8-2-2010)
§ 130.31 PREVENTION OF UNDERAGE DRINKING.
   (A)   Any person who permits, allows, or hosts a loud or unruly gathering at
his or her place of residence or other private property, public place, or any
other premises under his or her control who permits minors to consume or be in
possession of alcoholic beverages shall be in violation of this subchapter
unless that person takes all reasonable steps to prevent the consumption or
possession of alcoholic beverages by any minor at the gathering. Reasonable
steps include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Controlling access to alcoholic beverages at the gathering;
      (2)   Controlling the quantity of alcoholic beverages at the gathering;
      (3)   Verifying the age of persons attending the gathering through
drivers licenses or other forms of state issued identification to ensure that
minors do not consume alcoholic beverages at the gathering; and
      (4)   Monitoring the activities of minors at the gathering.
   (B)   A person who hosts a loud or unruly gathering shall not be in
violation of this subchapter if:
      (1)   Prior to any other person making a complaint to the Police
Department or other law enforcement agency about the gathering, he or she:
         (a)   Seeks the assistance of the Police Department or other law
enforcement agency to remove any person who refuses to abide by the host’s
performance of duties imposed by this subchapter; or
         (b)   Terminates the gathering because the host has been unable to
prevent minors from consuming alcoholic beverages despite having taken all the
reasonable steps to do so.
      (2)   Any person at the gathering seeks emergency assistance to respond
to any medical emergency occurring on the premises.
(Ord. 1563, passed 8-2-2010) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Nothing in §
130.31 in any way limits any other remedy that may be available to the city or
state or any penalty that may be imposed by the city or state.
      (2)   Hosting a social gathering and allowing minors to consume or
possess alcoholic beverages shall result in a penalty and court fees, totaling
an amount based on current state-approved amounts and/or as set by City Council
from time to time. The indicated penalty and court cost shall be self-adjusting
when court costs are changed from time to time such that the total costs for a
violation of §
130.31 shall remain at the amount based on current state-approved amounts and/
or as set by City Council from time to time.
(Ord. 1563, passed 8-2-2010)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
      
152.   TREES
      
153.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
154.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
155.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Title
   
150.02   Purpose
   
150.03   Authority
   
150.04   Scope
   
150.05   Adoption of rules by reference
   
150.06   Statutes adopted by reference
   
150.07   Workmanship and violations
Permits, Inspections, and Administration
   
150.20   Permit required
   
150.21   Permit application
   
150.22   Permit compliance
   
150.23   Fees
   
150.24   Application review
   
150.25   Inspections; inspection assistance
   
150.26   Entry
   
150.27   Stop order
   
150.28   Certificate of occupancy
   
150.29   Right of appeal
   
150.30   Remedies
 
   
150.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fire prevention, see
Chapter 91
   Flood damage prevention, see
Chapter 154
   Zoning, see
Chapter 155
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 TITLE.
   This chapter and all supplemental or amendatory ordinances hereto shall be
known as the “Building Code,” may be cited as such, and will be referred to
herein as “this chapter.”
(Prior Code, § 150.01) (Ord. 1185, passed 2-18-1985; Ord. 1212, passed 7-20-
1987; Ord. 1229, passed 8-15-1988)
§ 150.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide minimum standards for the
protection of life, health, environment, public safety, and general welfare and
for the conservation of energy in the design and construction of buildings and
structures.
(Prior Code, § 150.02) (Ord. 1185, passed 2-18-1985; Ord. 1212, passed 7-20-
1987; Ord. 1229, passed 8-15-1988)
§ 150.03 AUTHORITY.
   The Building Commissioner is authorized and directed to administer and
enforce all of the provisions of this chapter. Whenever, in this chapter, it is
provided that anything must be done to the approval of or subject to the
direction of the Building Commissioner or any other officer of the city, this
shall be construed to give such officer only the discretion of determining
whether this chapter has been complied with; no such provision shall be
construed as giving any officer discretionary powers as to what this chapter
shall be or power to require conditions not prescribed by ordinances or to
enforce this chapter in an arbitrary or discretionary manner. Any variance from
adopted building rules are subject to approval under I.C. 22-13-2-7(b).
(Prior Code, § 150.03) (Ord. 1185, passed 2-18-1985; Ord. 1212, passed 7-20-
1987; Ord. 1229, passed 8-15-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 22-13-2-7(b)
§ 150.04 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this chapter apply to the construction, alteration,
repair, use, occupancy, and addition to all buildings and structures in the
city other than industrialized building systems or mobile structures certified
under I.C. 22-15-4.
(Prior Code, § 150.04) (Ord. 1185, passed 2-18-1985; Ord. 1212, passed 7-20-
1987; Ord. 1229, passed 8-15-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 22-15-4
§ 150.05 ADOPTION OF RULES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Building rules of the State Fire and Prevention and Building Safety
Commission, as set out in the following articles of 675 I.A.C., are hereby
incorporated by reference in this chapter and shall include later amendments to
those articles as the same are published in the State Register or State
Administrative Code with effective dates as fixed therein:
      (1)   Article 13, Building Codes:
         (a)   State Building Code; and
         (b)   State Building Code standards.
      (2)   Article 14, One- and Two-Family Dwelling Codes, including the State
Residential Code;
      (3)   Article 16, Plumbing Codes: State Plumbing Code;
      (4)   Article 17, Electrical Codes: State Electrical Code;
      (5)   Article 18, Mechanical Codes: State Mechanical Code;
      (6)   Article 19, Energy Conservation Code: State Energy Conservation
Code; and
      (7)   Article 20, Swimming Pool Codes: State Swimming Pool Code.
   (B)   Copies of adopted building rules, codes, and standards are on file in
the office of the Building Commissioner, 125 N. Wayne Street, Alexandria,
Indiana 46001.
(Prior Code, § 150.05) (Ord. 1185, passed 2-18-1985; Ord. 1212, passed 7-20-
1987; Ord. 1229, passed 8-15-1988)
§ 150.06 STATUTES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   I.C. 36-7-9 et seq. and all amendatory provisions thereto, are hereby
adopted hereunder and deemed to be a part of the building regulations of the
city.
   (B)   The definition of SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTERESTS, as defined under
I.C. 36-7-9-2 and as related to the property interests affected by this
section, is incorporated herein by reference.
   (C)   The Plan Commission and the Building Commissioner are hereby
designated and appointed to administer this section and the provisions of I.C.
36-7-9 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 150.20) (Ord. 1406, passed 2-1-1999)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-7-9 et seq.
§ 150.07 WORKMANSHIP AND VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Workmanship. All work on the construction, alteration, and repair of
buildings and other structures shall be performed in a good and workman-like
manner according to accepted standards and practices in the trade.
(Prior Code, § 150.16)
   (B)   Violations. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation;
whether as owner, lessee, sub-lessee, or occupant; to erect, construct,
enlarge, alter, repair, improve, remove, convert, demolish, equip, use, occupy,
or maintain any building or structure, other than fences, in the city or cause
or permit the same to be done contrary to or in violation of the provisions of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 150.17)
(Ord. 1185, passed 2-18-1985; Ord. 1212, passed 7-20-1987; Ord. 1229, passed 8-
15-1988) Penalty, see §
150.99
PERMITS, INSPECTIONS, AND ADMINISTRATION
§ 150.20 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   A permit shall be obtained before beginning construction, alteration,
repair, or demolition of any building or structure the cost of which exceeds
$1,000 using forms furnished by the Building Commissioner, and all fees
required by this chapter shall be paid to the city. A permit for demolition
shall expire 30 days from date of issuance; all other permits issued under this
section shall expire within one year from date of issuance. Once expired, the
permit required herein must be reissued after inspection by the Building
Commissioner, and the reissued permit shall have a limited time within which to
complete the project as determined by the Building Commissioner.
   (B)   All permits for beginning construction, alteration, repair, or
demolition of any building or structure issued prior to the enactment of
Ordinance No. 1366, November 18, 1996, shall expire one year from the date of
publication of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 150.07) (Ord. 1366, passed 11-18-1996; Ord. 1376, passed 6-2-
1997; Ord. 1494, passed 12-19-2005) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.21 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   No building permit shall be issued for the foregoing purposes unless the
application for a permit is accompanied by a plat or sketch of the proposed
location showing lot boundaries and by plans and specifications showing the
work to be done. In addition, a copy of a design release, issued by the State
Building Commissioner and the State Fire Marshal pursuant to I.C. 22-15-3-1,
shall be provided to the Building Commissioner before issuance of a permit for
construction covered by such design release.
(Prior Code, § 150.06) (Ord. 1185, passed 2-18-1985; Ord. 1212, passed 7-20-
1987; Ord. 1229, passed 8-15-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 22-15-3-1
§ 150.22 PERMIT COMPLIANCE.
   All work done under any permit shall be in full compliance with all
ordinances pertaining thereto, and in addition to the fees for permits, there
shall be paid the fees prescribed in such ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 150.08) (Ord. 1185, passed 2-18-1985; Ord. 1212, passed 7-20-
1987; Ord. 1229, passed 8-15-1988) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.23 FEES.
   Fees shall be in the amounts established by ordinance of the Common Council
from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 150.09)
§ 150.24 APPLICATION REVIEW.
   Prior to the issuance of any building permit, the Building Commissioner
shall:
   (A)   Review all building permit applications to determine full compliance
with the provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   Review all building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements to determine whether proposed building sites will be
reasonably safe from flooding; and
   (C)   Review building permit applications for major repairs within the flood
plain area having special flood hazards to determine if the proposed repair
uses construction materials and utility equipment that are resistant to flood
damage; is designed or modified and anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or
lateral movement of the structure and flood damage; and uses construction
methods and practices that will minimize flood damage.
(Prior Code, § 150.10) (Ord. 1185, passed 2-18-1985; Ord. 1212, passed 7-20-
1987; Ord. 1229, passed 8-15-1988)
§ 150.25 INSPECTIONS; INSPECTION ASSISTANCE.
   (A)   Inspections. After the issuance of any building permit, the Building
Commissioner shall make or cause to be made inspections of the work being done
as are necessary to ensure full compliance with the provisions of this chapter
and the terms of the permit. Reinspections of work found to be incomplete or
not ready for inspection are subject to assessment of reinspection fees as
prescribed in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 150.11)
   (B)   Assistance. The Chief of the Fire Department or his or her designated
representative shall assist the Building Commissioner in the inspection of fire
suppression, detection, and alarm systems and shall provide reports of such
inspection to the Building Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 150.12)
(Ord. 1185, passed 2-18-1985; Ord. 1212, passed 7-20-1987; Ord. 1229, passed 8-
15-1988)
§ 150.26 ENTRY.
   Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Building Commissioner or his or
her duly authorized representatives may enter at reasonable times any building,
structure, or premises in the city to perform any duty imposed upon him or her
by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 150.13) (Ord. 1185, passed 2-18-1985; Ord. 1212, passed 7-20-
1987; Ord. 1229, passed 8-15-1988) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.27 STOP ORDER.
   Whenever any work is being done contrary to the provisions of this chapter,
the Building Commissioner may order the work stopped by notice in writing
served on any such persons engaged in the doing or causing of such work to be
done, and any such persons shall forthwith stop such work until authorized by
the Building Commissioner to proceed with the work.
(Prior Code, § 150.14) (Ord. 1185, passed 2-18-1985; Ord. 1212, passed 7-20-
1987; Ord. 1229, passed 8-15-1988) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.28 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No certificate of occupancy for any building or structure constructed after
the adoption of this chapter shall be issued unless such building or structure
was in compliance with the provisions herein. It shall be unlawful to occupy
any such building or structure unless a full, partial, or temporary certificate
of occupancy has been issued by the Building Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 150.15) (Ord. 1185, passed 2-18-1985; Ord. 1212, passed 7-20-
1987; Ord. 1229, passed 8-15-1988) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.29 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   All persons shall have the right to appeal any order of the Building
Commissioner first through the Board of Zoning Appeals of the city and then to
the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission of the state in accordance
with the provisions of I.C. 22-13-2-7 and I.C. 4-21.5-3-7.
(Prior Code, § 150.18) (Ord. 1185, passed 2-18-1985; Ord. 1212, passed 7-20-
1987; Ord. 1229, passed 8-15-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 4-21.5-3-7 and 22-13-2-7
§ 150.30 REMEDIES.
   The Building Commissioner shall, in the name of the city, bring actions in
the Circuit or Superior Courts of the county for mandatory and injunctive
relief in the enforcement of and to secure compliance with any order or orders
made by the Building Commissioner, and any such action for mandatory or
injunctive relief may be joined with an action to recover the penalties
provided for in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 150.19) (Ord. 1185, passed 2-18-1985; Ord. 1212, passed 7-20-
1987; Ord. 1229, passed 8-15-1988)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   If any person, firm, or corporation shall violate any of the provisions of
this chapter or shall do any act prohibited herein or shall fail to perform any
duty lawfully enjoined within the time prescribed by the Building Commissioner
or shall fail, neglect, or refuse to obey any lawful order given by the
Building Commissioner in connection with the provisions of this chapter, such
person, firm, or corporation shall be fined for each such violation, failure,
or refusal based on current state-approved amounts and/or as set by City
Council from time to time. Each day of such unlawful activity as is prohibited
herein shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 150.99) (Ord. 1185, passed 2-18-1985; Ord. 1212, passed 7-20-
1987; Ord. 1229, passed 8-15-1988)
CHAPTER 151: STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
Section
Excavations
   
151.01   Permit
   
151.02   Bond
   
151.03   Guarding excavations
   
151.04   Compliance with orders
Installation of Objects on Public Ways
   
151.15   Coin-operated vending machines
   
151.16   Permit
   
151.17   Permit revocations
   
151.18   Installation and repairs
   
151.19   Control of installation and removal
Sidewalk and Curb Construction and Repair
   
151.30   Notice to property owners
   
151.31   Compliance with notice
   
151.32   Assessment of costs
   
151.33   Conformity
   
151.34   Permit
   
151.35   Supervision of work; inspection of materials
   
151.36   Sidewalk construction regulations
   
151.37   Sidewalk construction specifications
   
151.38   Use of concrete for sidewalks
   
151.39   Disposition of material after construction
   
151.40   Disturbing or defacing
   
151.41   Tampering with grade stakes
   
151.42   Curbs
   
151.43   Installation by city; liability
EXCAVATIONS
§ 151.01 PERMIT.
   (A)   Excavations without permit. It shall be unlawful for any person to dig
or excavate or in any manner interfere with any of the streets, sidewalks,
alleys, or other public places without a written permit issued by the Street
Commissioner.
   (B)   Contents of permit. An excavation permit shall state the name of said
street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place and what is permitted to be done
to the same by the permittee and the time within which the work shall be
completed and the street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place restored to
its former condition.
   (C)   Permit application. Any person wishing an excavation permit shall
apply in writing to the Street Commissioner.
   (D)   When permit may be granted. The Street Commissioner shall grant an
excavation permit only if it is in the public interest to do so.
(Prior Code, § 95.015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.02 BOND.
   Before any excavation permit is effective, the person requesting it shall
file with the city a bond to cover the costs of repairing the excavation site.
The bond shall be in such a sum as the Street Commissioner determines
sufficient to cover such repairs, but in no case shall such a bond be less than
rates based on current state-approved amounts and/or as set by City Council
from time to time. Such bond shall either be a surety bond with sureties
satisfactory to the Mayor or his or her delegate or a cash bond; in any event,
it shall be conditioned on the permittee complying with all of the conditions
imposed in the excavation permits, and all rules and other restrictions that
may be imposed by the Street Commissioner and further conditioned upon such
person restoring the street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place to its
original conditions for a period of at least six months after the completion of
such work.
(Prior Code, § 95.016)
§ 151.03 GUARDING EXCAVATIONS.
   Proper barricades and danger lights shall be maintained by the excavation
permittee until the pavement, sidewalk, or excavation has been repaired.
(Prior Code, § 95.017)
§ 151.04 COMPLIANCE WITH ORDERS.
   (A)   Whenever any person acting pursuant to an excavation permit disturbs
or interferes with any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place, the
person shall restore the same to its original condition under the direction and
to the satisfaction of the Board of Public Works and Safety and the Street
Commissioner. Such person shall do all things directed by them concerning the
performance of such work, the guarding against any injury or damage to any
person or property, the restoration of such place to its former condition, and
the maintenance of same for six months thereafter.
   (B)   If the permittee should fail to comply with such directions, the Board
of Public Works and Safety may order the work done and proceed to do anything
proper to procure compliance with such orders. The permittee and/or his or her
principals and sureties shall be liable for all expenses so incurred.
(Prior Code, § 95.018)
INSTALLATION OF OBJECTS ON PUBLIC WAYS
§ 151.15 COIN-OPERATED VENDING MACHINES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or cause to be placed a coin-
operated vending machine upon or within three feet of any public sidewalk,
street, or alley except newspaper machines.
(Prior Code, § 95.002) (Ord. 832, passed 3-20-1961) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.16 PERMIT.
   (A)   Placing objects without permit. It shall be unlawful for any person to
place any chair, bench, or planter on any public sidewalk, street, or other
public land without a permit issued by the Street Commissioner.
   (B)   Permit application. An application for a permit required by this
subchapter shall be made in writing to the Street Commissioner. The application
shall state that the applicant intends to install either chairs, benches, or
planters, as appropriate, and shall contain a general description of their
construction and the type of advertising, if any, to be placed upon them
together with a statement as to the number to be installed and a general
description of the general areas in which the applicant wishes to install them.
   (C)   Investigation and determination of whether permit should be issued.
      (1)   The Street Commissioner shall investigate an application for the
permit required by this subchapter and determine whether the benches, chairs,
or planters will be constructed of durable and substantial materials which are
suitable for the use intended and which will not create a danger to the public
safety and whether any advertising thereon would offend the public morals or
create a public nuisance. He or she shall also determine the numbers of such
chairs, benches, or planters that the applicant may install, taking into
consideration the number of such items then existing.
      (2)   If, in the opinion of the Street Commissioner, the proposed
benches, chairs, or planters would not be constructed of suitable materials or
the advertising thereon would offend the public morals and create a public
nuisance or the granting of the permit would cause an unnecessary number of
such structures to be installed so as to spoil the beauty of the city, he or
she shall refuse to issue the permit.
   (D)   Insurance. Prior to the issuance of any permit required by this
subchapter, the applicant for same shall furnish the Clerk-Treasurer with a
certificate of insurance from a reputable insurance company incorporating the
terms of the hold harmless agreement set forth in the permit.
   (E)   Issuance of permit; fee. If the Street Commissioner approves an
application for the permit required by this subchapter, he or she shall direct
the Clerk-Treasurer to issue the applicant a permit for the installation of a
given number of such structures at a cost based on current state-approved
amounts and/or as set by City Council from time to time, which the applicant
shall pay to the Clerk-Treasurer at the time of its issuance. The permit shall
be executed in duplicate and signed by both the Clerk- Treasurer and the
applicant with the original being retained by the city and the duplicate being
given to the applicant.
   (F)   Permit length. A permit required by this subchapter shall be valid for
a period of one year.
   (G)   Form of permit. A permit required by this subchapter shall be in the
following form:
 
   PERMIT
   Date                
    (Name of permittee)  of  (city) ,  (state)  is hereby permitted to place  (number)  benches, chairs, or planters for a period of one year from
the date of this instrument for the use of the general public and on the public sidewalks, streets, and other public places of the City of
Alexandria, Indiana, subject to all the terms and conditions of §
151.16 of the City Code of Alexandria, Indiana, and all regulations of the Street Commissioner of the City of Alexandria, Indiana, under the
authority of §
151.16. By the terms of this permit,  (name of permittee)  hereby agrees to hold and save harmless said City of Alexandria, Indiana, from any and
all liability of any kind and nature resulting from the placement of said structures and the maintenance thereof and agrees to carry a liability
insurance policy to cover this exposure, a copy of which is to be filed with the Clerk-Treasurer of the City of Alexandria, Indiana.
                                                                         
   Clerk-Treasurer            Permittee
 
(Prior Code, § 95.030) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.17 PERMIT REVOCATIONS.
   In addition to any other penalty provided by law, any permit issued under
the provisions of this subchapter may be revoked by the Mayor, after a hearing
on such matter, for the failure of the permittee to comply with the provisions
of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 95.034) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.18 INSTALLATION AND REPAIRS.
   (A)   Installation. No bench, chair, or planter placed under the authority
of this subchapter shall be installed so as to interfere with the normal and
ordinary use of any sidewalk, street, or other public land.
(Prior Code, § 95.031)
   (B)   Repairs. No bench, chair, or planter installed under the authority of
this subchapter shall be allowed to remain installed after it has become
unsightly or in a state of bad repair.
(Prior Code, § 95.032)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.19 CONTROL OF INSTALLATION AND REMOVAL.
   The control of the installation of any bench or chair on public sidewalks,
streets, or public lands shall remain with the Street Commissioner and the
permittee may be compelled to remove any such bench or chair upon ten days’
notice in writing signed by the Street Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 95.033) Penalty, see §
10.99
SIDEWALK AND CURB CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
§ 151.30 NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNERS.
   (A)   If the Board of Public Works and Safety desires to improve or repair
any sidewalks or curbs and adopts a final resolution therefor, the Board may,
if it sees fit, elect to order and require the owners of abutting property to
construct or repair their own sidewalks or curbs, designating in the order the
kind of sidewalk or curb to be constructed or the character of repairs
required.
   (B)   A notice of the order of the Board of Public Works and Safety
promulgated pursuant to this subchapter shall be served upon the abutting
property owners either in person or by mail; provided, the mailing of the
notice to the names of the owners as they appear on the County Assessor’s books
shall be considered a compliance with this requirement.
(Prior Code, § 95.045) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.31 COMPLIANCE WITH NOTICE.
   (A)   Any property owner who receives a notice promulgated pursuant to this
subchapter shall have 30 days from the date of said notice within which to
construct the sidewalks or curbs or make the repairs as required by the notice.
   (B)   If any property owner should fail to construct or repair a curb or
sidewalk within 30 days from the date of the required notice to him or her,
then the Board of Public Works and Safety may cause the sidewalk or curb to be
constructed or the repairs to be made by an independent contractor.
(Prior Code, § 95.046)
§ 151.32 ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   If the Board of Public Works and Safety has to hire an independent
contractor to construct or repair a sidewalk or curb pursuant to the provisions
of this subchapter, the costs thereof shall be levied and assessed in
accordance with the City and Town Street, Alley, and Other Public Improvement
Act of 1969.
(Prior Code, § 95.047)
§ 151.33 CONFORMITY.
   Only those sidewalks which are now installed, replaced, or repaired shall be
made in conformity with the provisions of this subchapter and the grades,
profiles, and specifications furnished by the Clerk-Treasurer and on file in
that office, as adopted and approved by the Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 95.048)
§ 151.34 PERMIT.
   (A)   Except where laid in accordance with a special improvement resolution,
it shall be unlawful for any person to build, replace, or repair any sidewalk
without a permit issued by the Board of Public Works and Safety.
   (B)   An application for a permit to build, replace, or repair a sidewalk
shall be made to the Clerk-Treasurer who shall cause it to be transmitted to
the Board of Public Works and Safety. The application shall be signed by the
owner or agent of the property abutting the location where the sidewalk is to
be built, replaced, or repaired.
(Prior Code, § 95.049) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.35 SUPERVISION OF WORK; INSPECTION OF MATERIALS.
   (A)   Supervision. All sidewalk repair or construction work shall be done
under the supervision of the Street Commissioner who shall inspect and report
on the work before its approval and acceptance by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 95.050)
   (B)   Inspection. The material used for all sidewalk construction or repair
shall be inspected and approved by the Street Commissioner before use.
(Prior Code, § 95.051)
§ 151.36 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Sidewalk block to be replaced. No sidewalk block made at the time of
the original construction of the sidewalk shall be cut in order to save a part
of the original block at the time of any repairs. Rather, the entire block
shall be replaced.
(Prior Code, § 95.052)
   (B)   Location. All sidewalks shall be laid from the inner edge of the
abutting property line unless special permission to do otherwise is obtained
from the Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 95.053)
   (C)   Driveway crossings. Where a driveway is to be built across a sidewalk,
it shall conform to the sidewalk grade and shall be six inches in depth and of
the same quality and material as that specified for sidewalks.
(Prior Code, § 95.054)
   (D)   Alley crossings. Where an alley crosses a sidewalk, said crossing
shall be constructed of concrete six inches thick and be of the same finish and
material as that specified for sidewalks and shall be either concave or
straight as may be ordered by the Street Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 95.055)
§ 151.37 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Subgrade. The subgrade of all sidewalks shall be constructed to the
required depth below the finished surface in accordance with the plans and
specifications provided by the Street Commissioner and shall be thoroughly
compacted to a firm, smooth surface. All soft or spongy places not affording a
suitable subgrade must be removed and replaced with a suitable material and
compacted according to these specifications.
(Prior Code, § 95.056)
   (B)   Forms. All forms used in sidewalk construction shall be of metal or
wood and be straight and free from warp and of sufficient strength to resist
springing during the process of depositing concrete against them. If made of
wood, they shall be of two-inch surfaced plank. If made of metal, they shall be
approved by the Street Commissioner. The forms shall be the full depth of the
walk and shall be securely staked, braced, and held firmly to required line and
grade. All forms shall be thoroughly cleaned and oiled before concrete is
placed therein.
(Prior Code, § 95.057)
   (C)   Expansion joints. Expansion joints shall be placed in sidewalks at
intervals not exceeding 25 feet. A preformed filler shall be used in the
expansion joints and be composed of a durable elastic compound of mineral or
vegetable matter. The thickness of an expansion joint shall not be less than
one-half inch, and its length shall be equal to the sidewalk width, and its
width shall not be less than the thickness of the sidewalk. Preformed filler of
one-inch thickness shall be placed where the sidewalk joins with any curb or
gutter.
(Prior Code, § 95.058)
   (D)   Dimension and grade of sidewalk.
      (1)   Slope. All sidewalks shall have a slope of one-quarter of an inch
to the foot toward the center of the adjoining street.
      (2)   Grade. The surface of any sidewalk, when completed, shall be in
conformity with the grade given by the Street Commissioner.
      (3)   Width. All sidewalks shall be a minimum of five feet in width
except in case of the continuation of a pre-existing sidewalk which is less
than five feet in width, but in no event shall a sidewalk be constructed that
is less than four feet in width. If the sidewalk under construction is a gap
between preexisting sidewalks in the same block it shall be constructed
according to the width of the wider sidewalk adjoining it.
      (4)   Thickness. All sidewalks shall be four inches in thickness.
(Prior Code, § 95.060)
§ 151.38 USE OF CONCRETE FOR SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Composition of concrete. Every cubic yard of concrete used in sidewalk
construction in place shall contain approximately one and one-half barrels of
cement. The fine aggregate shall be concrete sand No. 14 and shall meet the
latest State Highway Commission’s standard specifications. The course aggregate
shall be concrete aggregate “L” No. 5 and shall meet the latest State Highway
Commission’s standard specifications. The concrete shall consist of one part of
the best Portland cement, two parts of fine aggregate, and three parts of
course aggregate accurately measured. All water for use with the cement or in
concrete shall be clear from oil, acid, injurious alkali, and/or vegetable
matter.
   (B)   Mixing of concrete.
      (1)   All concrete shall be thoroughly mixed in an approved batch mixer
so designed, constructed, and operated that a thorough mixing of the materials
is assured and the consistency of all batches is the same. All of the material
shall remain in the drum of the mixer for a period of not less than two
minutes, during which time the drum shall revolve not less than 14 and not more
than 20 revolutions per minute. The entire contents of each batch shall be
removed from the drum before the materials for the succeeding batches are
placed therein.
      (2)   The volume of material mixed per batch shall not exceed the
manufacturer’s rating.
      (3)   If the actual construction work of the sidewalk is done by the
property owner himself or herself, the mixing may be done by hand provided the
workmanship meets the specifications set out in this subchapter.
   (C)   Consistency of concrete. The consistency of all concrete used in
sidewalk construction shall be measured as described in Tentative Method of
Test for Consistency of Portland Cement, ASTM serial designation D 138-32T. The
slump shall not be less than one inch nor more than three inches.
   (D)   One course concrete required. All sidewalks shall be of one course
concrete.
   (E)   Laying of concrete.
      (1)   The subgrade of a sidewalk shall be wet down before the concrete is
placed therein. The concrete shall be deposited within the required forms upon
the subgrade to such a depth that, after being compacted, it shall be the
required thickness. It shall be leveled off and tamped sufficiently to bring
the mortar to the surface; after which, it shall be finished smooth and even by
means of a wood float. The edges shall be rounded with an edger having a radius
of one-quarter inch. Transverse joints shall be cut in the concrete with a
jointer having a radius of one-quarter inch and at intervals not greater than
the width of the sidewalk being constructed unless otherwise directed by the
Street Commissioner. When completed, the sidewalk shall be covered with wet
burlap, straw, or sisalkraft paper and kept wet for a period of not less than
48 hours.
      (2)   No concrete work shall be done during freezing weather. When there
is danger that the temperature shall reach the freezing point, sufficient straw
or other suitable material shall be added to the covering material to prevent
freezing of the concrete before it is thoroughly cured.
(Prior Code, § 95.059)
§ 151.39 DISPOSITION OF MATERIAL AFTER CONSTRUCTION.
   Whenever any sidewalk shall have been built, repaired, re-laid, or replaced,
the dirt removed may be used by the city in improvement of the street on which
building or repairs are being made or on streets, alleys, or public places the
grading of which is of the same general plan. In case the city does not so use
the dirt, the property owner must remove it together with all old material
within five days from the completion of such work. In case the property owner
fails to do so, the contractor shall proceed to remove the same, and the cost
thereof shall be collected as part of the cost of the improvement.
(Prior Code, § 95.061)
§ 151.40 DISTURBING OR DEFACING.
   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to disturb or deface any
sidewalk which is in the process of construction or repair.
(Prior Code, § 95.062) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.41 TAMPERING WITH GRADE STAKES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to tamper with or in
any way interfere with any grade stake for any sidewalk.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the contractor who is building, repairing, re-
laying, or replacing a sidewalk to prevent any tampering with said grade
stakes.
(Prior Code, § 95.063) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.42 CURBS.
   (A)   Installation of curbs. Any person desiring to install a curb in an
existing driveway shall notify the Street Department at least 24 hours in
advance of the commencement of such work.
(Prior Code, § 95.064)
   (B)   Where curbs required. Where the use of a driveway has ceased, the
abutting property owner shall install curbs after the city directs him or her
to do so following the procedures set forth in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 95.065)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.43 INSTALLATION BY CITY; LIABILITY
   If any abutting property owner should fail to install a curb where the use
of a driveway has ceased after notice from the city to do so, the city shall
install such curb and the cost thereof shall be borne by the owner.
(Prior Code, § 95.066)
CHAPTER 152: TREES
Section
City Tree Board
   
152.01   Definitions
   
152.02   Creation and establishment
   
152.03   Term of office; compensation
   
152.04   Duties and responsibilities
   
152.05   Operation
   
152.06   Urban Forestry Standards and Specifications Manual
   
152.07   Review by Board of Public Works and Safety
Tree Care and Responsibility
   
152.20   Planting of trees
   
152.21   Planting; city responsible
   
152.22   Planting; owner or occupant responsible
   
152.23   Public utilities responsible
   
152.24   Street tree care
   
152.25   Tree removal
   
152.26   Emergency tree care
   
152.27   Construction projects
   
152.28   Injury to trees
   
152.29   Permits
   
152.30   Arborist’s certification
Obstructions
   
152.45   Definitions
   
152.46   Height in critical visibility zone
   
152.47   Not to obscure traffic-control signs and signals
   
152.48   Abatements by city; liability
   
152.49   Correction of violations
 
   
152.99   Penalty
CITY TREE BOARD
§ 152.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CERTIFIED ARBORIST. A person certified by the Tree Board to perform tree
care on city street trees within the limits of this subchapter. The
requirements for arborist certification are described in §
152.30.
   CITY FORESTER. A person charged with the responsibility of aiding with the
implementation of this subchapter as agent for the Board of Public Works and
Safety; a person to be appointed by the Mayor. The position of City Forester
shall be applied to an existing city employee who should be trained, or receive
training, in the knowledge and skills of urban forestry.
   CITY MANUAL OF URBAN FORESTRY STANDARDS. A document containing all the
technical data, rules, and regulations specific to the administration of this
subchapter, hereafter referred to as the STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS MANUAL.
   STREET TREES. Trees lying on real estate owned or within rights-of-way
controlled by the city, excluding the real estate owned or controlled by the
Parks and Recreation Department.
   TOPPING. The cutting back of the leading shoot or shoots of major limbs
which form the natural canopy of the tree so as to disfigure the tree’s crown.
   TREE. A large, woody, perennial plant having a clearly recognizable trunk.
   TREE CARE. Any tree maintenance or horticultural work intended for the
enhancement or preservation of street trees and the removal and prevention of
any and all damages to any street trees caused by tree pests, blights, or
diseases.
(Prior Code, § 95.090) (Ord. 1339, passed 8-28-1995)
§ 152.02 CREATION AND ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created and established a Tree Board for the city which
shall consist of six members, two being members of the Common Council, one
being a member of the Planning Commission, one being a member of the Park
Board, and one being a member of the Board of Public Works and Safety. The
first Tree Board shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the
Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 95.091) (Ord. 1339, passed 8-28-1995)
§ 152.03 TERM OF OFFICE; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Term of office.
      (1)   The terms of all Tree Board members shall be four years, beginning
on January 1 following its appointment.
      (2)   Upon expiration of any Tree Board members’ term, he or she may be
reappointed or a new member may be appointed by the Mayor, with approval of the
Common Council. In the event that a vacancy shall occur during the term of any
member, his or her successor shall be appointed by the Tree Board for the
unexpired portion of the term.
(Prior Code, § 95.092)
   (B)   Compensation. Members of the Tree Board shall serve without
compensation.
(Prior Code, § 95.093)
(Ord. 1339, passed 8-28-1995)
§ 152.04 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Tree Board or its designees, without being so restricted, shall:
   (A)   Meet at least once each calendar quarter or more often as needed;
   (B)   Establish a pattern of orderly, periodic inspection of the condition
of the street trees and fully document that inspection;
   (C)   Develop a master plan for the care, preservation, pruning, planting,
removal, and disposition of street trees. This plan must be approved by the
Board of Public Works and Safety as shall be any future substantive changes in
the plan;
   (D)   Coordinate its efforts with related projects of other local, federal,
and state agencies;
   (E)   Promulgate rules and regulations for the proper administration of this
chapter. All technical rules and regulations shall be contained in a separate
document called the City Manual of Urban Forestry Standards. This document and
any substantive changes to it shall be approved by the Board of Public Works
and Safety; (See §
152.06.)
   (F)   Review with the City Engineer all public utility placements, street
curb permits, and road and sidewalk projects which might endanger existing
street trees;
   (G)   Cause or order to be removed any street tree or part thereof which is
in an unsafe condition or is affected with any injurious fungus, insect, or
other pest or which, by reason of its nature, is injurious to sewers, electric
power lines, gas lines, water lines, or other public improvements;
   (H)   Issue permits as required by this chapter; (See §
152.29.)
   (I)   Govern all aspects of the city’s Arborist Certification Program; (See
§
152.30.)
   (J)   Conduct educational and fundraising campaigns as necessary and work
with private and public agencies and organizations to establish programs for
planting and care of street trees; and
   (K)   Establish the Non-Reverting Tree Capital Improvement Fund to be used
by the Board to accept public and private sector resources for programs of the
Board. In the event of the discontinuance of the Tree Board, the remainder of
this fund shall revert to the General Operating Fund of the city. All fees and
fines connected to the enforcement of this subchapter shall be deposited into
this fund.
(Prior Code, § 95.094) (Ord. 1339, passed 8-28-1995)
§ 152.05 OPERATION.
   The Board shall choose its own officer(s), make its own operating rules and
regulations within the bounds established by this subchapter, and keep a
journal of its proceedings. A majority of the members shall be a quorum for the
transaction of business.
(Prior Code, § 95.095) (Ord. 1339, passed 8-28-1995)
§ 152.06 URBAN FORESTRY STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS MANUAL.
   (A)   The Tree Board, in consultation with the City Forester, shall create a
Manual of Urban Forestry Standards detailing the regulations regarding city
street trees. This manual and any substantive changes to it shall be approved
by the Board of Public Works and Safety. This manual shall consist of, but not
be limited to, the following issues:
      (1)   List of tree species, varieties, and cultivars desirable for
planting on public property. Species not on this list may not be planted on
public property without the express written permission of the City Forester or
Tree Board. Other species, varieties, and cultivars may be added or deleted as
experience demonstrates their superiority;
      (2)   Tree planting guidelines; and
      (3)   Tree pruning guidelines.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any of the provisions in §
152.21, the Board shall have the power and authority to vary such provisions as
may be necessary and proper in the case of a circumstance due to the
characteristics of a physical site or an environmental constraint.
(Prior Code, § 95.096) (Ord. 1339, passed 8-28-1995)
§ 152.07 REVIEW BY BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS AND SAFETY.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall have the right to review the
conduct, acts, and decisions of the City Tree Board. Any person may appeal any
ruling or order of the City Tree Board to the Board of Public Works and Safety
which may hear the matter and make a final decision.
(Prior Code, § 95.107) (Ord. 1339, passed 8-28-1995)
TREE CARE AND RESPONSIBILITY
§ 152.20 PLANTING OF TREES.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall have authority and control over
the planting of all trees in streets and sidewalks
(Prior Code, § 95.001)
§ 152.21 PLANTING; CITY RESPONSIBLE.
   Except as provided in §§
152.23 through
152.25, the planting of all street trees shall be done according to the Tree
Board’s City Tree Plan, at the expense of the city, and with proper permit. The
requirements of the Standards and Specifications Manual, §
152.06, shall be adhered to.
(Prior Code, § 95.097) (Ord. 1339, passed 8-28-1995)
§ 152.22 PLANTING; OWNER OR OCCUPANT RESPONSIBLE.
   (A)   The owner or occupant of property abutting public ways may plant
street trees at his or her own expense in accordance with the Standards and
Specifications Manual, §
152.06, provided he or she secures a permit from the Tree Board or its
designee.
   (B)   If an owner or occupant plants a street tree not on the Standards and
Specifications Manual list of desirable trees or without permit, the Tree Board
may require the tree to be removed.
(Prior Code, § 95.098) (Ord. 1339, passed 8-28-1995)
§ 152.23 PUBLIC UTILITIES RESPONSIBLE.
   Public utilities are not exempt from the responsibility for the replacement
of street trees which must be removed in order to maintain utility lines. The
requirements of the Standards and Specifications Manual, §
152.06, shall be adhered to.
(Prior Code, § 95.099) (Ord. 1339, passed 8-28-1995)
§ 152.24 STREET TREE CARE.
   (A)   Within the limits of the City Tree Plan and of the City Tree Budget
and except as provided by divisions (C) through (G) below, the city shall
assume the expense of tree care, defined in §
152.01, for street trees.
   (B)   All street tree care undertaken by the city shall be undertaken by
city workers or a certified arborist.
   (C)   The owner or occupant shall be responsible for the routine care of
street trees in the right-of-way between his or her property and the street
such as watering and raking and preparing leaves, twigs, and other debris for
removal by the city. No permit is required for such activity.
   (D)   The owner or occupant shall be responsible so as to not permit limbs
or branches to obstruct moving vehicles or pedestrians along streets, alleys,
or sidewalks in the city. Such limbs shall be trimmed in a manner as to not
obstruct the view of any street light, traffic sign, signal device, or street
intersection. In the case the owner or occupant is unable to safely perform
these duties, he or she shall be responsible to notify the City Forester when
such tree maintenance is needed. No permit shall be required for this.
   (E)   Should an owner or occupant wish to perform routine trimming on a
street tree beyond that which is described in divisions (C) and (D) above, he
or she may do so at his or her own risk and shall be held responsible for his
or her actions but subject to the limits of division (G) below. A permit is
required for this activity.
   (F)   An owner or occupant may hire a certified arborist, defined in §
152.30, to perform routine care. The arborist must then secure a permit from
the Tree Board or its designee. (See §
152.29.)
   (G)   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person to top (see
the definition for TOPPING in §
152.01) or prune horizontally a branch of more than one inch in diameter or cut
limbs within the tree’s canopy back to stubs larger than three inches in
diameter on any street tree unless approved by the Tree Board or City Forester.
(Prior Code, § 95.100) (Ord. 1339, passed 8-28-1995) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.25 TREE REMOVAL.
   (A)   All street tree removal shall be the responsibility of the city. An
owner or occupant may hire a certified arborist to remove a street tree but
only after obtaining a proper permit.
   (B)   An owner or occupant who gains a permit to remove a healthy tree shall
be required by the Tree Board to replace that tree. The requirements of the
Standards and Specifications Manual, §
152.06, shall be adhered to.
   (C)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall have all the powers
consistent with due process and the laws and constitution of the state to
promote the health, safety, and welfare of the city by removing, or causing to
be removed through appropriate legal means, any tree on private property within
the city which constitutes a threat or menace to public safety or the health of
other trees and to seek such legal redress, including penalties and costs, as
may be appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 95.101) (Ord. 1339, passed 8-28-1995) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.26 EMERGENCY TREE CARE.
   The City Street Commissioner or public utilities may act to trim or remove
trees in extreme emergency situations and, if necessary, may resort to topping.
All such incidents shall be reported to the Tree Board.
(Prior Code, § 95.102) (Ord. 1339, passed 8-28-1995)
§ 152.27 CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS.
   (A)   In order to protect existing trees intended for preservation,
developers and construction firms shall go to all reasonable efforts, including
the use of tree barriers, to ensure that no street tree will be damaged in any
way by any construction project. If it is foreseen by a developer or
construction firm that a project may in fact damage street trees, the City
Forester shall be consulted before such work commences.
   (B)   Any street tree removed or significantly damaged as a result of a
construction project shall be replaced at the cost of the developer or
construction firm. The requirements of the Standards and Specifications Manual,
§
152.06, shall be adhered to.
(Prior Code, § 95.103) (Ord. 1339, passed 8-28-1995)
§ 152.28 INJURY TO TREES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to in any way injure or deface or permit
any animal to injure or deface any street tree.
(Prior Code, § 95.104) (Ord. 1339, passed 8-28-1995) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.29 PERMITS.
   (A)   No person shall plant, treat, spray, or prune a street tree or hire a
certified arborist to care for a street tree unless the Tree Board or its
designee shall have first granted a proper permit. Said permits may be issued
to property owners or to certified arborists.
   (B)   No person shall remove a street tree unless the Tree Board or its
designee shall first have granted a proper permit. Said permits may be issued
only to certified arborists, defined in §
152.30.
   (C)   No permits shall be necessary in the emergency situations detailed in
§
152.26.
   (D)   Every permit issued by the Tree Board or its designee shall
specifically describe the work to be done.
   (E)   An annual permit may be issued to any public utility for trimming
trees in public rights-of- way. The utility subcontractor shall meet the
requirements of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 95.105) (Ord. 1339, passed 8-28-1995) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.30 ARBORIST’S CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any person desiring to work for hire on the care of street trees
within the city must first apply for and procure an arborist’s certificate from
the Tree Board or its designee; provided, however, none shall be required of
city employees doing such work in pursuit of their public service endeavors.
   (B)   Work done by employees of the holders of arborist’s certificates shall
be deemed in compliance with this section.
   (C)   Before any certificate shall be issued, each applicant shall
demonstrate to the Tree Board or to its designee that he or she has adequate
knowledge of arboriculture and adequate equipment and insurance.
   (D)   Each applicant must provide evidence of possession of liability
insurance in the minimum amounts of:
      (1)   Three hundred thousand dollars per occurrence for death or bodily
injury; and
      (2)   Fifty thousand dollars per occurrence for property damage
indemnifying the city from any person injured or damaged resulting from the
pursuit of such endeavors as herein described.
   (E)   Cancellation or other termination of any insurance policy issued for
or in compliance with the provision hereof shall automatically terminate any
arborist’s certificate unless another policy complying with the provisions
hereof shall be provided and in full force and effect at the time such
cancellation or termination becomes effective.
   (F)   The certificate fee shall be based on current state-approved amounts
and/or as set by City Council from time to time and paid in advance to the Tree
Board.
   (G)   The Tree Board may revoke certification when it has evidence of the
arborist’s failure to apply principles of good arboriculture and may hear
appeals of any person whose application for an arborist’s certificate has been
denied.
(Prior Code, § 95.106) (Ord. 1339, passed 8-28-1995)
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 152.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL EXIT. Any vehicular exit from any automobile service station,
shopping center, store, medical or professional center, or other similar public
place.
   CRITICAL VISIBILITY ZONE. The area within which the presence of obstructions
to vision, such as trees, shrubbery, and signs, could prevent the driver of a
motor vehicle which is stopped behind the stop line of any street, highway,
alley, or commercial exit at its intersection with any other street or highway
from seeing any other vehicle which is approaching on the intersecting street
or highway and is within 200 feet of the intersection.
   SHRUBBERY. Any bush, hedge, flowering or ornamental plant, weed growth, low-
growing evergreen, or other form of vegetation.
   SIGN. Any temporary or permanent structure, banner, pennant, or string of
pennants used for advertising or decorative purposes.
   STOP LINE. The actual obedience line if there is one; if there is none, one
shall be assumed to exist four feet before the nearest edge of the intersecting
street or highway.
   TREE. A large, woody, perennial plant having a clearly recognizable trunk.
(Prior Code, § 95.080) (Ord. 1017, passed 9-7-1976)
§ 152.46 HEIGHT IN CRITICAL VISIBILITY ZONE.
   (A)   Signs. It shall be unlawful for any person to place or cause to be
placed in any critical visibility zone any sign of which any part thereof is
higher than 36 inches above grade level unless the lowest portion of the sign,
exclusive of a supporting structure, is no wider than 12 inches in its greatest
dimension is at least eight feet above grade level.
(Prior Code, § 95.081)
   (B)   Trees and shrubbery. It shall be unlawful for any person owning or
controlling property to cause or permit any tree within any critical visibility
zone to remain untrimmed below a height of eight feet above the ground, or to
permit any shrubbery within any critical visibility zone to grow to a height
greater than 36 inches above the ground.
(Prior Code, § 95.082)
(Ord. 1017, passed 9-7-1976) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.47 NOT TO OBSCURE TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or controlling property to permit
the foliage of any tree or shrubbery growing on the property to obscure any
driver’s view of any lawfully placed stop sign or traffic-control signal during
any part of the last 200 feet of this approach to the sign or traffic-control
device.
(Prior Code, § 95.083) (Ord. 1017, passed 9-7-1976) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.48 ABATEMENTS BY CITY; LIABILITY.
   (A)   Any obstruction maintained in violation of §§
152.45 through
152.49 shall be deemed to be a nuisance after notice upon the owner thereof.
After failure to abate the same within 20 days after posting upon the premises
of a notice signed by the Chief of Police to abate the nuisance, the Chief of
Police may authorize entry upon the premises and the removal or elimination of
the obstruction.
   (B)   If the city has to remove any such obstruction, the expenses of its
removal shall be assessed against the person owning the property upon which it
is located and collected either by placing them upon the tax duplicate or by
lawsuit.
(Prior Code, § 95.084) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.49 CORRECTION OF VIOLATIONS.
   Any person violating any section of this subchapter shall, upon receipt of
official notification from the Traffic Division that violation has taken place,
correct the cause of the violation within 14 days from the date of notification
or be subject to the penalties provided by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 95.085) (Ord. 1017, passed 9-7-1976) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §§
152.01 through
152.07 and
152.20 through
152.30, upon conviction thereof, shall pay a fine not to exceed rates based on
current state-approved amounts and/or as set by City Council from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 95.999) (Ord. 1339, passed 8-28-1995)
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Title and purpose
   
153.02   Compliance
   
153.03   Hardship
   
153.04   Conflict
   
153.05   Jurisdiction
   
153.06   Definitions
   
153.07   Appeals
Plat Submissions and Specifications
   
153.20   Submission of plats
   
153.21   Plat specifications
   
153.22   Design standards
Improvements
   
153.35   Improvements
   
153.36   Inspection
   
153.37   Maintenance
   
153.38   Acceptance
 
   
153.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Building regulations, see
Chapter 150
   Flood damage prevention, see
Chapter 154
   Street, sidewalk and excavation regulations, see
Chapter 151
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 TITLE AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Title. This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Subdivision
Control Code of the city.
(Prior Code, § 151.01)
   (B)   Purpose. This chapter is adopted in accordance with the city’s
Comprehensive Plan for the following purposes:
      (1)   Assist the orderly and efficient development of the city;
      (2)   Promote the health, safety, morals, and general welfare of the
residents of the city; and
      (3)   Secure equitable handling of all subdivision plans by providing
uniform procedures and standards.
(Prior Code, § 151.02)
(Ord. 908, passed 9-15-1969)
§ 153.02 COMPLIANCE.
   No lot in a subdivision shall be sold, nor permit to erect, alter, or repair
any building upon land in a subdivision be issued, nor building be erected in a
subdivision, unless and until a subdivision plan has been approved and, where
required, recorded and until the improvements required by the Plan Commission
in connection therewith have either been constructed or guaranteed as herein
provided.
(Prior Code, § 151.03) (Ord. 908, passed 9-15-1969) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.03 HARDSHIP.
   Where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of this chapter
would result in unnecessary hardship, the Plan Commission may make such
reasonable exception thereto as will not be contrary to the public interest and
may permit the sale of a lot, issuance of a permit, and erection of a building,
subject to conditions necessary to assure adequate streets and other public
improvements.
(Prior Code, § 151.04) (Ord. 908, passed 9-15-1969)
§ 153.04 CONFLICT.
   Whenever there is a difference between minimum standards or dimensions
specified herein and those contained in other regulations, resolutions, or
ordinances of the city, county, or state, the highest standards shall govern.
(Prior Code, § 151.05) (Ord. 908, passed 9-15-1969)
§ 153.05 JURISDICTION.
   This chapter shall apply to all incorporated land within the city and the
contiguous unincorporated land within the jurisdictional area of the city,
shown on the Jurisdictional Area Map on file with the Clerk-Treasurer and with
the County Recorder.
(Prior Code, § 151.06) (Ord. 908, passed 9-15-1969)
§ 153.06 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A permanent service way providing secondary means of access to
abutting lands.
   BLOCK. Property abutting on one side of a street and lying between the two
nearest intersections or intercepting streets and railroad rights-of-way,
waterways, unsubdivided areas, or other definite barrier.
   BUILDING. Any structure, or part thereof, affixed to the land.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line extending across a lot establishing the
minimum open space to be provided between the front line of buildings and the
front lot line.
   CLEAR SIGHT TRIANGLE. An area of unobstructed vision at street intersections
defined by lines of sight between points at a given distance from the
intersection of street lines.
   COMMISSION or PLAN COMMISSION. The Plan Commission of the city.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The Comprehensive Plan of the city, on file with the
Clerk- Treasurer, indicating the general locations recommended for circulation
facilities, community improvements, and land uses.
   CROSSWALK. A public right-of-way which crosses a block to furnish access for
pedestrians to adjacent streets or properties.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A short street having one end open to traffic and being
permanently terminated by a vehicle turn-around.
   ENGINEER. The designated Engineer or Engineering Consultant of the city.
   HALF STREET. One side of a street divided longitudinally by a property line.
   HEALTH BOARD. The State Board of Health.
   INSPECTOR. An authorized representative of the city or county assigned to
make any or all necessary inspections of the work performed and materials
furnished by the developer.
   LOT. A portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land intended as a unit
for transfer of ownership or for development. In determining the size of a LOT,
no part of a street right-of-way or crosswalk may be included.
   LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lines of
a lot.
   LOT, DOUBLE-FRONTAGE. A lot, the generally opposite ends of which both abut
on streets.
   LOT WIDTH. The mean horizontal distance between side property lines of a
lot.
   PLAT. A map or chart indicating the subdivision or resubdivision of land
intended to be filed for record.
   STREET. A right-of-way which affords the principal means of access to
abutting property. A STREET may be designated as a highway, thoroughfare,
parkway, boulevard, road avenue, drive, or other appropriate name. A STREET may
also be identified according to type of use as follows.
      (1)   ARTERIAL STREETS. Streets providing for traffic movements between
traffic generation areas.
      (2)   COLLECTOR STREETS. Streets providing connection primarily between
arterial streets or arterial and local streets.
      (3)   LOCAL STREETS. Streets serving primarily as access to abutting
properties not intended as major arteries carrying through traffic.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person who undertakes the subdivision of land as defined
herein. The SUBDIVIDER may be the owner or the authorized agent of the owner of
the land to be subdivided.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of a single lot, tract, or parcel of land or a
part thereof into two or more lots, tracts, or parcels of land for the purpose,
whether immediate or future, of transfer of ownership for residential,
commercial, or industrial purposes or the division of a single lot, tract, or
parcel of land or a part thereof into two or more lots, tracts, or parcels by
means of buildings, building groups, streets, alleys, parking areas, or
leaseholds for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of building
development for residential, commercial, or industrial purposes; provided,
however, divisions of land for agricultural purposes only, not involving any
new street or easement of access, shall not be included.
   WATERCOURSE. Includes channel, creek, ditch, drain, river, and stream.
(Prior Code, § 151.07) (Ord. 908, passed 9-15-1969)
§ 153.07 APPEALS.
   Any decision or requirement of the Plan Commission made under the authority
of this chapter is subject to the right of appeal and review by certiorari.
(Prior Code, § 151.15) (Ord. 908, passed 9-15-1969)
PLAT SUBMISSIONS AND SPECIFICATIONS
§ 153.20 SUBMISSION OF PLATS.
   (A)   Grading and improvements before plat approval. No person proposing a
subdivision shall proceed with any grading and improvements for streets or
installation of public utilities until the preliminary plat of the proposed
subdivision is approved by the Plan Commission.
   (B)   Selling or transferring lot or commencing construction before plat
approval. No person proposing a subdivision shall sell, agree to sell,
transfer, lease, or otherwise convey any lot, parcel, or tract in a subdivision
or construct or commence the construction of any building in a subdivision
until the final plat of the proposed subdivision is approved by the Commission
and recorded in accordance with the provisions hereof.
   (C)   Advisory meeting. A person desiring approval of a plat of a
subdivision may appear before the Plan Commission to discuss his or her
proposal before filing an application for preliminary plat approval. No fee or
formal application is required for this meeting. Its purpose is to save the
subdivider time and money. The subdivider should be prepared to discuss the
details of his or her proposed subdivision, including such items as the
proposed use, existing features of the area, existing covenants, land
characteristics, availability of community facilities and utilities, size of
development, play areas or public areas proposed protective covenants, and
proposed utilities and street improvements. The subdivider may submit a sketch
plan as outlined in §
153.21(B).
   (D)   Preliminary plat. After the advisory meeting, the subdivider shall
submit an application for approval of a preliminary plat to the Plan
Commission.
      (1)   The application shall be accompanied by the following:
         (a)   Four copies of all maps and data as set forth in §
153.21(C); and
         (b)   A certified check or money order, in an amount, with a minimum
total charge to cover the cost of checking and verifying the proposed plat,
based on current state-approved amounts and/or as set by City Council from time
to time.
      (2)   The Plan Commission shall review the application and give it
tentative approval or return the application to the subdivider with reasons for
disapproval. If tentatively approved, the Commission shall send one copy of
each of the maps and data sheets submitted with the application to the
Engineer.
      (3)   Upon receipt of recommendations from the Engineer, if the same has
been received within a period of 30 days of such transmittal or such reasonable
further time as may be requested by the Engineer, the Commission shall set a
date for a hearing, notify the applicant in writing, and notify by general
publication or otherwise any person or governmental unit having a probable
interest in the proposed plat.
      (4)   After the hearing, the Commission shall approve the plat proposed
in application, subject to receipt of an acceptable final plat as set forth in
§
153.21(D), or shall conditionally approve or disapprove the plat, setting forth
its reasons and providing the subdivider with a copy. If the plat is
disapproved, the subdivider shall submit a new preliminary plat.
   (E)   Final plat. After preliminary plat approval is obtained, the
subdivider shall submit a final plat to the Plan Commission as set forth in §
153.21(D).
      (1)   The final plat shall be accompanied by:
         (a)   Three black or blue line prints and one reproducible print of
the plat; and
         (b)   A certificate that all improvements required herein and all
other applicable city and county codes and ordinances have been installed in
strict accordance with the standards of construction of the city and county or
a guarantee that the improvements will subsequently be installed by the owner
in the form of a bond or deposit of funds or securities in escrow that will
cover the cost of the improvements as estimated by the Engineer and approved by
the Commission.
      (2)   If the Plan Commission finds that the final plat is in accordance
with the requirements of this subchapter, they shall affix the Commission’s
seal upon the plat and the President and Secretary or other authorized members
shall endorse the plat and return it to the subdivider. If disapproved, the
President shall attach to the original tracing of the final plan a statement of
the reasons for such action and return it to the subdivider.
   (F)   Recording. The subdivider shall present a copy of the approved final
plat to the County Recorder. Unless the plat is duly recorded within 90 days
from the date of final plat approval, the Commission’s approval of the plat
shall expire and shall be of no effect until subsequently reinstated.
(Prior Code, § 151.08) (Ord. 908, passed 9-15-1969) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.21 PLAT SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Waiving certain data requirements. In a subdivision for residential
use of less than five lots and where the lots abut existing public roads and
utilities, the Commission may waive data requirements such as topographic
street and utility information, where the Commission deems such information is
unnecessary.
   (B)   Sketch plan. The subdivider may prepare a sketch plan to present to
the Plan Commission at the advisory meeting. This plan may be drawn as a
freehand pencil sketch and does not require precise dimensions or any special
sheet size. This sketch plan may be used to show the Plan Commission the
location, proposed street, and lot layout and any other significant features of
the proposed subdivision.
   (C)   Preliminary plat. The following maps and data shall be submitted with
the application for preliminary plat approval, and these maps and data may be
on separate sheets or combined on one sheet, depending on the size and
complexity of the proposed subdivision:
      (1)   A location map of the proposed subdivision showing:
         (a)   A location within the city jurisdiction area;
         (b)   Zoning of the tract and adjacent properties; and
         (c)   Existing related streets including the distances therefrom.
      (2)   A site map of the proposed subdivision and all lands within at
least 100 feet of its boundaries showing:
         (a)   Contours of the site at vertical intervals of two feet if the
general slope is less than 10% and at intervals of five feet if the general
slope is greater than 10%;
         (b)   Character and location of natural or artificial features
existing on the land which would affect the design of the subdivision such as
wooded areas, streams, direction and gradient of ground slope, embankments,
retaining walls, buildings, or nonresidential usage of land;
         (c)   Names of owners or properties adjacent to the subdivision;
         (d)   Existing and proposed streets and rights-of-way including
dedicated widths, roadway widths, approximate gradients, types and widths of
pavements, curbs, and sidewalks;
         (e)   Existing and proposed easements including widths and purposes;
         (f)   Utilities including the size, capacity, and location of sanitary
sewers, storm sewers, drainage facilities, water lines, gas mains, and power
lines;
         (g)   Areas subject to periodic overflow of flood or stormwater;
         (h)   Subsurface conditions including information about groundwater
levels and stability of subsoils;
         (i)   Tract boundary lines by calculated distances and bearings; and
         (j)   Title, graphic scale, north point, and date.
      (3)   A subdivision plat of the proposed subdivision drawn at a scale no
smaller than 100 feet to one inch showing:
         (a)   Subdivision name;
         (b)   Names and addresses of owner, subdivider, and person who
prepared the plan;
         (c)   Street pattern including the names (which shall not duplicate
existing streets in the city unless it is an extension of an existing street),
widths of rights-of-way of streets, widths of easements for alleys, approximate
grades of streets, widths of easements for alleys, and approximate grades of
streets where they exceed 8%;
         (d)   Layout of lots, including dimensions, numbers, building setback
lines, or front yard lines;
         (e)   Parcels of land dedicated to or reserved for schools, parks,
playgrounds, or other public or community use; and
         (f)   Key plan, legend, notes, graphic scale, north point, and date.
      (4)   Engineering plans for the proposed subdivision showing:
         (a)   Profiles, cross-sections, and specifications for proposed street
improvements;
         (b)   Profiles and other explanatory data concerning installation of
water distribution systems, storm sewers, and sanitary sewers;
         (c)   A report on the feasibility of connection to an existing
sewerage system including distances to the nearest public sewer, service load
of the subdivision, and capacity of the treatment plant;
         (d)   If connection to a public sewerage system is not feasible, a
report on the feasibility of a separate sewerage system and treatment works for
the subdivision including the design population, type, and location of the
treatment plant and the receiving stream; and
         (e)   If connection to a public or a private sewerage system is not
feasible, a report on the feasibility of on-lot sewerage disposal including a
detailed map of the physical conditions of the site, contours, finished grades,
watercourses, groundwater table elevations, and the results of soil percolation
tests for each individual lot conducted in accordance with the recommended
practices of the State Board of Health.
      (5)   A draft of the protective covenants or private restrictions to be
adopted in the final subdivision plat.
   (D)   Final plat. The final plat shall be drawn at a scale no smaller than
100 feet to one inch. The final plat shall show:
      (1)   Subdivision names, names and addresses of owner and subdivider,
source of title of land as shown by the books of the County Recorder, graphic
scale, north point, date, and certificate of approval of Plan Commission;
      (2)   Survey data with certification by a registered professional
engineer or land surveyor, showing:
         (a)   Calculated distances and bearings of the subdivision boundaries,
lots, utility easements, streets, alleys, building setback lines, and parcels
of reserved or dedicated land for community purposes;
         (b)   Location and distances to the nearest established street corners
or official monuments and of the streets intersecting the boundaries of the
subdivision;
         (c)   Location, type, material, and size of monuments;
         (d)   Complete curve data; and
         (e)   Lot numbers and street names.
      (3)   Notations as to whether improvements are dedicated or not.
(Prior Code, § 151.09) (Ord. 908, passed 9-15-1969)
§ 153.22 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Character of land. The Commission shall not approve any plat unless
the land whereon buildings are to be constructed shall be of such character
that it can be used for building purposes without danger to health or peril
from fire, flood, or other hazard.
   (B)   Natural features. Existing natural features which would add value to
the subdivision and the city; such as trees, valleys, watercourses, historic
spots, and similar irreplaceable assets; shall be preserved, insofar as
possible, through harmonious design of the subdivision.
   (C)   Streets. The Commission shall not approve any plat unless all streets
shown thereon shall be of sufficient width and proper grade and shall be so
located as to accommodate the probable volume of traffic thereon, afford
adequate light and air, facilitate fire protection, provide access of
firefighting equipment to buildings, and provide a coordinated system of
streets conforming to the city’s Thoroughfare Plan.
      (1)   Local streets shall be so planned as to discourage through traffic.
      (2)   Wherever there exists a dedicated or platted portion of a street or
alley along a boundary of the tract being subdivided, the remainder of said
street or alley, to the prescribed width, shall be platted within the proposed
subdivision.
      (3)   Half streets shall not be provided except where it is essential to
the reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with the other
requirements of these regulations or where it becomes necessary to acquire the
remaining half by condemnation so that it may be approved in the public
interest.
      (4)   Cul-de-sacs shall normally not be longer than 500 feet including a
turnaround which shall be provided at the closed end with an outside curb
radius of at least 40 feet and a right-of- way radius of not less than 50 feet.
The maximum grade of the turnaround portion of the cul-de-sac shall be 5%.
      (5)   Alleys shall not be provided in residential districts, but shall be
included in commercial and industrial areas where needed for loading and
unloading or access purposes.
      (6)   The minimum distance between center line of parallel or
approximately parallel streets intersecting a cross street from opposite
directions shall be 125 feet.
      (7)   Intersections of more than two streets at one point shall be
avoided.
      (8)   Dead-end streets shall be prohibited unless provided with a
turnaround or cul-de- sac arrangement.
      (9)   Right-of-way requirements may be increased where anticipated
traffic flow warrants it or if drainage easements should reasonably parallel
such thoroughfares. Such increased width will be established by the Commission
with the advice of the Engineer.
      (10)   Minimum right-of-way widths, paving widths, angle of intersection,
curb radius, distance along sides of sight triangles, horizontal alignments,
vertical alignments, and maximum grades shall be in accordance with the
following table:
Design         Arterial Collector Local Streets Cul-de- Sacs Crosswalks Alley
Characteristic Streets  Streets
Design         Arterial Collector  Local      Cul-de-    Crosswalks Alley
Characteristic Streets  Streets    Streets    Sacs
Grades for 25
feet before    3%       3%         3%         3%                    3%
intersection
Horizontal
alignment
(Minimum radii 600 feet 400 feet   200 feet   100 feet              100 feet
of center
line)
Maximum grade  7.5%     12%        14%        14%                   14%
Minimum angle  90                                                   70 degree
for            degrees  80 degrees 70 degrees 70 degrees            s
intersection
Minimum curb   35 feet  25 feet    15 feet    15 feet               5 feet
radius
Paving width   40 feet  26 feet    24 feet    24 feet    10 feet    20 feet
Right-of-way   70 feet  60 feet    50 feet    40 feet    12 feet    33 feet
width
Site triangles
(distance
along sides    500feet/ 500 feet/  250 feet/  250 feet/             50 feet/20
of) through    3 0 feet 30 feet    25 feet    25 feet               feet
street/stop
street
Vertical
curves         500 feet 350 feet   200 feet   100 feet              100 feet
(minimum sight
distance)
 
   (D)   Blocks. Blocks shall ordinarily not exceed 1,000 feet in length. Where
it is necessary for blocks to exceed this length, pedestrian ways and/or
easements may be required near the center of the block.
   (E)   Lots. The lot and yard sizes shall conform with the requirements of
the Zoning Code and the lots shall be designed in accordance with the following
design standards.
      (1)   Every lot shall be provided with access adequate for the use of
public safety vehicles and other public and private purposes and shall be
served by a public or private street system, improved in accordance with this
chapter, and connected to the general street system.
      (2)   Sidelines of lots shall be approximately right angles to straight
streets and on radial lines on curved streets wherever feasible. Pointed or
very irregular lots shall be avoided unless such variations shall improve the
overall neighborhood design.
      (3)   Double-frontage lots shall be avoided.
      (4)   When a tract is subdivided into larger than required building lots
and there is no covenant preventing resubdivision of the lots, such lots or
parcels shall be so arranged as to permit a logical location and opening of
future streets and resubdividing with provision for adequate utility
connections for each subdivision.
   (F)   Easements. Easements for utilities and drainage shall have a minimum
width of ten feet with access available to all portions of the easement. Where
a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, there shall be provided a
stormwater easement or drainage right-of-way of width sufficient for the
purpose.
   (G)   Water and sewer systems. The water supply and sewage disposal systems
for the subdivision shall meet the design standards and requirements of the
State Board of Health and the City Water and Sewer Departments.
   (H)   Planned unit development. The design standards of this chapter may be
modified by the Commission in the case of a plan utilizing an unusual concept
of development which meets the requirements of this section. The planned unit
development provision is intended to encourage original and imaginative
subdivision design which preserves the natural amenities of the site and
provides for the general welfare of the city.
      (1)   The unit plan shall be consistent with the spirit and intent of
this chapter.
      (2)   The unit plan shall conform to §
155.27.
      (3)   The area of land to be developed shall not be less than five acres.
      (4)   Properties adjacent to the unit plan shall not be adversely
affected.
(Prior Code, § 151.10)
(Ord. 908, passed 9-15-1969)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 153.35 IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Improvement compliance. All of the required improvements specified in
this subchapter shall be constructed in accordance with
Chapter 150 and all other applicable city, county, and state regulations.
   (B)   Monuments and markers. Concrete monuments shall be set at the
intersection of all lines forming angles in the boundary of the subdivision.
Iron or steel markers shall be set at the beginning and ending of all curves
along street property lines; at all points where lot lines intersect curves,
either front or rear; at all angles in property lines of lots; and at all other
lot corners.
   (C)   Streets. The streets shall be graded to the grades and dimensions
shown on plans and profiles and approved by the Commission and shall include
the following improvements.
      (1)   Suitable drainage structures, culverts, storm sewers, ditches, and
related installations shall be provided to ensure adequate drainage of all
points along the streets.
      (2)   Curbs of concrete shall be required on all streets.
      (3)   Pavement shall be required on all streets and shall be of a
material and thickness approved by the City Engineer in accordance with the
latest Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction and Maintenance
from the State Highway Commission.
      (4)   Street shoulders shall be constructed which are uniformly and
thoroughly compacted by rolling and level with the tops of curbs.
   (D)   Storm drainage. The construction of a storm drainage system shall
conform to the following requirements.
      (1)   Drainage ditches or channels shall have a minimum gradient of 1%.
      (2)   Open watercourses shall have adequate capacity and erosion control
to ensure safe and healthful disposal of storm water.
      (3)   When top soil has been removed from the surface of a lot on a slope
where erosion will cause a displacement of loose materials, the subdivider
shall be required to seed or provide other means to prevent the wash from
damaging adjacent property or accumulation on street surfaces.
   (E)   Water supply. Where public water supply is available, as determined by
the Commission, the subdivider shall connect to such public water supply and
construct a system of water mains with a connection for each lot.
      (1)   Where public water is not available, the subdivider shall supply
acceptable evidence of the availability of water. The subdivider may be
required to make one or more test wells in the area to be platted if such
evidence is deemed not acceptable. Copies of well logs from said test wells
that are obtained shall include the name and address of the well driller and
shall be submitted with the plan to the Commission.
      (2)   If a private water supply is permitted, individual private wells
shall be located at least 25 feet from property lines, 50 feet from all septic
tanks, approximately 100 feet from all tile disposal fields and other sewage
disposal facilities, ten feet from all cast iron sewer lines, 30 feet from any
vitrified sewer tile lines, and shall not be located within any floor plan.
   (F)   Sewers. Where the municipal sewer system is reasonably accessible to
the subdivision, the subdivider shall provide the subdivision with a complete
sanitary sewer system to be connected to the municipal sanitary system. Where
the municipal sewer system is not reasonably accessible to the subdivision and,
in the judgement of the Commission, extension of the municipal sewage system to
the subdivision will not take place in the foreseeable future, an approved
package plant sewage disposal system serving the entire subdivision may be
permitted, or if the soils and land area permit, private sewage disposal
systems on individual lots consisting of septic tanks and tile absorption
fields may be permitted.
   (G)   Utilities. Every lot in a subdivision shall be capable of being served
by utilities, and the necessary easements shall be provided. Electric, gas, and
other utility distribution lines shall be installed within public rights-of-way
or within properly designated easements. To the fullest extent possible,
underground utility lines located in street rights-of-way shall not be
installed beneath existing or proposed paved areas and in any case shall be
installed prior to the placement of any paving.
   (H)   Trees. Trees may be planted along the streets and throughout the
subdivision. The location and types of trees must meet the approval of the
Commission.
   (I)   Street signs. Street name signs of a type adopted or approved by the
Commission shall be installed at each street intersection by the subdivider on
a location specified by the Commission.
(Prior Code § 151.11) (Ord. 908, passed 9-15-1969)
§ 153.36 INSPECTION.
   When the plans of streets and other improvements have been approved as
provided in this chapter, the subdivider shall first notify the City or County
Inspector of his or her intention to proceed with the construction or
installation of the streets and improvements; notification shall be made at
least 24 hours before any such construction or installation shall commence so
as to give the Inspector an opportunity to inspect the site prior to
commencement of work and to inspect installation or construction of the streets
and improvements during the course of work being performed. In order to defray
a part of the costs incurred by the city or county in inspecting the
installation of the improvements required by this chapter, the subdivider
shall, before he or she proceeds with any construction or installation, present
a certified check or money order made payable to the city or county in an
amount equal to 1.5% of the Engineer’s estimate of the cost of the
improvements.
(Prior Code, § 151.12) (Ord. 908, passed 9-15-1969)
§ 153.37 MAINTENANCE.
   Prior to any street or other improvement being accepted by the city or
county, as hereinafter provided, the subdivider shall post a maintenance bond
and/or other security naming the city or county as obligee in an amount deemed
adequate by the city or county to ensure maintenance of the improvements for a
period of at least 12 months from the date of acceptance by the city or county.
(Prior Code, § 151.13) (Ord. 908, passed 9-15-1969)
§ 153.38 ACCEPTANCE.
   After streets and improvements have been installed and constructed pursuant
to the requirements contained in this chapter and in the event that the
subdivider desires to have the city or county accept the streets or
improvements, the subdivider shall notify the proper city or county officials
that the construction or installation has been completed and shall supply the
city or county with a minimum of four copies of the as-built plan on which the
street or improvement in question has been constructed or installed. The four
copies of the plan shall show thereon the signatures of all agencies and
individuals who have approved the plan and contain a notice thereon as to where
and when the plan was recorded in the County Recorder’s office. The portion of
a street or improvement which the subdivider desires to have the city or county
accept shall be shaded or colored on each of the four copies. The plan shall
also clearly designate the number of lineal feet of the street or improvement
which the subdivider desires to be accepted by the city or county.
(Prior Code, § 151.14) (Ord. 908, passed 9-15-1969)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of an
infraction and, upon conviction, shall be fined based on current state-approved
amounts and/or as set by City Council from time to time. Each day the violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 151.99) (Ord. 908, passed 9-15-1969)
CHAPTER 154: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Authorization; findings of fact
   
154.02   Purpose
   
154.03   Methods for reducing flood loss
   
154.04   Definitions
   
154.05   Application
   
154.06   Basis for establishment
   
154.07   Compliance
   
154.08   Abrogation; greater restrictions
   
154.09   Discrepancies
   
154.10   Interpretation; liability
Administration
   
154.25   Floodplain development permit established; requirements
   
154.26   Designation of Administrator
   
154.27   Floodplain Administrator duties
   
154.28   Administrative procedures
   
154.29   Map maintenance activities
   
154.30   Variance procedures
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
154.45   Floodplain status standards
   
154.46   General standards
   
154.47   Specific standards
   
154.48   Subdivision and new development standards
   
154.49   Critical facilities standards
 
   
154.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 AUTHORIZATION; FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. The state legislature has, in I.C. 36-1-4-11,
granted the power to local government units to control land use within its
jurisdictions. Therefore, the Common Council does hereby adopt the following
floodplain management regulations.
   (B)   Findings of fact. The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to
periodic inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and
safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax
base, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general
welfare. Additionally, structures that are inadequately elevated, flood-
proofed, or otherwise protected from flood damage also contribute to the flood
loss. In order to minimize the threat of such damages and to achieve the
purposes hereinafter set forth, these regulations are adopted.
(Ord. 2022-007-C, passed 11-7-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-1-4-11
§ 154.02 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood-control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains; electric, telephone, and sewer lines; and streets and bridges
located in floodplains;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood- prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood-blight
areas;
   (G)   Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their actions;
   (H)   Minimize the impact of development on adjacent properties within and
near flood-prone areas;
   (I)   Ensure that the flood storage and conveyance functions of the
floodplain are maintained;
   (J)   Minimize the impact of development on the natural, beneficial values
of the floodplain;
   (K)   Prevent floodplain uses that are either hazardous or environmentally
incompatible; and
   (L)   Meet community participation requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
(Ord. 2022-007-C, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 154.03 METHODS FOR REDUCING FLOOD LOSS.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, these regulations include methods and
provisions for:
   (A)   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety,
and property due to water hazards or which result in damaging increases in
flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels,
and natural protective barriers which help accommodate or channel flood waters;
   (D)   Controlling filling, grading, dredging, excavating, and other
development which may increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards in other
areas.
(Ord. 2022-007-C, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 154.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure with a floor area of 400 square feet or
less that is on the same parcel of property as a principal structure and the
use of which is incidental to the use of the principal structure; an ACCESSORY
STRUCTURE specifically excludes structures used for human habitation.
      (1)   ACCESSORY STRUCTURES are considered walled and roofed where the
structure includes at least two outside, rigid walls and a fully secured roof.
      (2)   Examples of ACCESSORY STRUCTURES include, but are not necessarily
limited to, two-car detached garages (or smaller), carports, storage and tool
sheds, and small boathouses.
      (3)   The following may have uses that are incidental or accessory to the
principal structure on a parcel but are generally not considered to be
ACCESSORY STRUCTURES by the NFIP:
         (a)   Structures in which any portion is used for human habitation,
whether as a permanent residence or as temporary or seasonal living quarters
such as a detached garage or carriage house that includes an apartment or guest
quarters or a detached guest house on the same parcel as a principal residence;
         (b)   Structures used by the public such as a place of employment or
entertainment; and
         (c)   Development that does not meet the NFIP definition of a
structure for floodplain management purposes. Examples include, but are not
necessarily limited to, a gazebo, pavilion, picnic shelter, or carport that is
open on all sides (roofed but not walled).
   ADDITION TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE. Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition that is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls is new construction.
   ALTERATION OF A WATERCOURSE. A dam, impoundment, channel relocation, change
in channel alignment, channelization, or change in cross-sectional area of the
channel or the channel capacity or any other modification which may alter,
impede, retard, or change the direction and/or velocity of the flow of water
during conditions of the base flood.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter, a request for a variance, or a
challenge of a Board decision.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land within a community subject to a 1% or
greater chance of being flooded in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year. The BASE FLOOD may also be referred to as the ONE-PERCENT ANNUAL
CHANCE FLOOD or 100-YEAR FLOOD.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The water surface elevation of the base flood in
relation to a specified datum, usually the North American Vertical Datum of
1988.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a structure having its floor subgrade, below ground
level, on all sides.
   BEST AVAILABLE FLOOD LAYER (BAFL). Floodplain studies and any corresponding
floodplain maps prepared and/or approved by the State Department of Natural
Resources which provide base flood elevation information, floodplain limits,
and/or floodway delineations for flood hazards identified by approximate
studies on the currently effective FIRM (Zone A) and/or for waterways where the
flood hazard is not identified on available floodplain mapping.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity that has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the areas within its jurisdiction.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, and police, fire, and emergency response
installations and installations which produce, use, or store hazardous
materials or hazardous waste.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   For floodplain management purposes, any human-made change to
improved or unimproved real estate including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a structure or any
addition to a structure;
         (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
         (c)   Installing utilities, erecting walls and fences, constructing
roads, or similar projects;
         (d)   Construction of flood-control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements, and the like;
         (e)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation, or drilling
operations;
         (f)   Construction and/or reconstruction of boat lifts, docks, piers,
and seawalls;
         (g)   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
         (h)   Storage of materials; or
         (i)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance of
existing structures and facilities such as painting, re-roofing, re-surfacing
roads, or agricultural practices like gardening, plowing, and the like that do
not involve tilling, grading, excavation, or the construction of permanent
structures.
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A FEMA form routinely reviewed and approved by the
White House Office of Management and Budget under the Paperwork Reduction Act
that is encouraged to be used to collect certified elevation information.
   ENCLOSED AREA (ENCLOSURE). An area of a structure enclosed by walls on all
sides.
   ENCLOSURE BELOW THE LOWEST FLOOR. See LOWEST FLOOR and ENCLOSED AREA.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FILL. For floodplain management purposes, any material deposited or placed
which has the effect of raising the level of the ground surface above the
natural grade elevation. FILL material includes, but is not limited to,
consolidated material such as concrete and brick and unconsolidated material
such as soil, sand, gravel, and stone.
   FLOOD or FLOODING.
      (1)   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from:
         (a)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters;
         (b)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters
from any source; and
         (c)   Mudslides (such as mudflows) which are proximately caused by
flooding and are akin to a river of liquid and flowing mud on the surfaces of
normally dry land areas when earth is carried by a current of water and
deposited along the path of the current.
      (2)   FLOOD or FLOODING also includes the collapse or subsidence of land
along the shore of a lake or similar body of water as a result of erosion or
undermining caused by waves or currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical
levels that result in a FLOOD as defined herein.
   FLOOD HAZARD AREA. Areas subject to the 1% annual chance flood. (See SPECIAL
FLOOD HAZARD AREA.)
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community. A FIRM that has been made available
digitally is called a DIGITAL FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (DFIRM).
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official hydraulic and hydrologic report
provided by FEMA. The report contains flood profiles as well as the FIRM and
the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPG). The BFE plus two feet at any given location in
the SFHA.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source. (See FLOOD.)
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood-control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. Zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance, and erosion-control
ordinance), and other applications of police power which control development in
flood-prone areas. The term describes such state or local regulations in any
combination thereof which provide standards for the purpose of flood damage
prevention and reduction.
   FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area acknowledged by a community as being
susceptible to inundation by water from any source. (See FLOODPLAIN.)
   FLOOD-PROOFING or DRY FLOOD-PROOFING. A method of protecting a structure
that ensures that the structure, along with attendant utilities and sanitary
facilities, is watertight to the flood- proofed design elevation with walls
that are substantially impermeable to the passage of water. All structural
components of these walls are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy, and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOOD-PROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form used to certify compliance for
nonresidential structures as an alternative to elevating structures to or above
the FPG.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulative increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated
height.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood.
   FRINGE or FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain lying outside the
floodway.
   FUNCTIONALLY-DEPENDENT USE. A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship-building and ship-repair
facilities but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HARDSHIP. As related to variances of this chapter, the exceptional HARDSHIP
that would result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The HARDSHIP
must be exceptional, unusual, and peculiar to the property involved. Mere
economic or financial HARDSHIP alone is not exceptional. Inconvenience,
aesthetic considerations, physical disabilities, personal preferences, or the
disapproval of one’s neighbors likewise cannot, as a rule, qualify as an
exceptional HARDSHIP. All of these problems can be resolved through other means
without granting a variance even if the alternative is more expensive or
requires the property owner to build elsewhere or put the parcel to a different
use than originally intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to the start of construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places, a
listing maintained by the Department of the Interior, or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified by an
approved state program as determined by the Secretary of Interior or directly
by the Secretary of Interior in states without approved programs.
   HYDROLOGIC AND HYDRAULIC ENGINEERING ANALYSIS. Analyses performed by a
professional engineer licensed by the state in accordance with standard
engineering practices that are accepted by the State Department of Natural
Resources and FEMA and used to determine the base flood, other frequency
floods, flood elevations, floodway information and boundaries, and flood
profiles.
   INTERNATIONAL CODE COUNCIL-EVALUATION SERVICE (ICC-ES) REPORT. A document
that presents the findings, conclusions, and recommendations from a particular
evaluation. ICC-ES reports provide information about what code requirements or
acceptance criteria were used to evaluate a product and how the product should
be identified and installed.
   LETTER OF FINAL DETERMINATION (LFD). A letter issued by FEMA during the
mapping update process which establishes final elevations and provides the new
flood map and flood study to the community. The LFD initiates the six-month
adoption period. The community must adopt or amend its floodplain management
regulations during this six-month period unless the community has previously
incorporated an automatic adoption clause.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). A general term used to refer to the several
types of revisions and amendments to FEMA maps that can be accomplished by
letter. They are broken down into the following categories:
      (1)   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR). FEMA’s comment on a
proposed project that would, upon construction, result in modification of the
SFHA through the placement of fill outside the existing regulatory floodway;
      (2)   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (CLOMR-F). A
letter from FEMA stating that a proposed structure that will be elevated by
fill would not be inundated by the base flood;
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment by letter to the
currently effective FEMA map that establishes that a building or land is not
located in a SFHA through the submittal of property specific elevation data. A
LOMA is only issued by FEMA;
      (4)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT OUT AS SHOWN (LOMA-OAS). An official
determination by FEMA that states the property or building is correctly shown
outside the SFHA as shown on an effective NFIP map. Therefore, the mandatory
flood insurance requirement does not apply. An out-as-shown determination does
not require elevations;
      (5)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official revision to the
currently effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones,
delineations, and elevations; and
      (6)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). FEMA’s modification
of the SFHA shown on the FIRM based on the placement of fill outside the
existing regulatory floodway.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The lowest elevation, after completion of
construction, of the ground, sidewalk, patio, deck support, or basement
entryway immediately next to the structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR. For floodplain management purposes, the lowest elevation
described among the following:
      (1)   The LOWEST FLOOR of a building;
      (2)   The basement floor;
      (3)   The garage floor if the garage is connected to the building;
      (4)   The first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or pillars;
      (5)   The floor level of any enclosure, other than a basement, below an
elevated structure where the walls of the enclosure provide any resistance to
the flow of floodwaters. Designs for meeting the flood opening requirement must
either be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet
or exceed the following criteria:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters.
         (b)   At least two openings are designed and maintained for the entry
and exit of floodwater, and these openings provide a total net area of at least
one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed area. The bottom of all
such openings shall be no higher than one foot above the exterior grade or the
interior grade immediately beneath each opening, whichever is higher. Doorways
and windows do not qualify as openings.
      (6)   The first floor of a building elevated on pilings or columns in a
coastal high hazard area, defined in 44 C.F.R. § 59.1, as long as it meets the
requirements of 44 C.F.R. § 60.3.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel or contiguous parcels of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of MITIGATION
is two-fold: to protect people and structures and to minimize the cost of
disaster response and recovery.
   NATURAL GRADE. For floodplain management purposes, the elevation of the
undisturbed natural surface of the ground. Fill placed prior to the date of the
initial identification of the flood hazard on a FEMA map is also considered
NATURAL GRADE.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For floodplain management purposes, any structure for
which the start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of a
floodplain management regulations adopted by a community and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 (NAVD 88). As adopted in 1993, a
Vertical Control Datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, canalization,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation, or other material in, along, across, or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard, or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water or, due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
   ONE-PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. The flood that has a 1% chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year. (See REGULATORY FLOOD.)
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR). An official re-publication of a community’s
FEMA map to effect changes to base (1% annual chance) flood elevations,
floodplain boundary delineations, regulatory floodways, and planimetric
features. These changes typically occur as a result of structural works or
improvements, annexations resulting in additional flood hazard areas, or
correction to base flood elevations or SFHAs.
   PREFABRICATED BUILDING. A building that is manufactured and constructed
using prefabrication. It consists of factory-made components or units that are
transported and assembled on-site to form the complete building.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure, less land value, is above ground.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
quarters for recreational camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure that is acceptable
to and approved by the State Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The REGULATORY FLOOD elevation at any location is
as defined in §
154.06. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the term BASE FLOOD, ONE-PERCENT
ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD, and 100-YEAR FLOOD.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on the average, equaled or exceeded 25% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, and the like.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. Any facility involved in the storage or
disposal of non-liquid, non-soluble materials ranging from municipal garbage to
industrial wastes that contain complex and sometimes hazardous substances.
SOLID WASTE also includes sewage sludge, agricultural refuse, demolition
wastes, mining wastes, and liquids and gases stored in containers.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). Synonymous with AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD
HAZARD and FLOODPLAIN; those lands within the jurisdiction of the city subject
to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD
AREAS are designated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency on Flood
Insurance Rate Maps and Flood Insurance Studies as Zones A, AE, AH, AO, Al -30,
A99, or VE. The SFHA includes areas that are flood-prone and designated from
other federal, state, or local sources of data including, but not limited to,
best available flood layer maps provided by or approved by the State Department
of Natural Resources, historical flood information reflecting high water marks,
previous flood inundation areas, and flood-prone soils associated with a
watercourse.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement and means the date
the building permit was issued provided that the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION,
repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The actual START means either the first placement of permanent construction of
a structure on a site, such as the pouring of a slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading, and filling nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers,
foundations, or the erection of temporary forms nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank, which is principally above ground. The term includes a manufactured home,
as well as a prefabricated building. It also includes recreational vehicles
installed on a site for more than 180-consecutive days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred repetitive loss
or substantial damage regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term
does not include improvements of structures to correct existing violations of
state or local health, sanitary, or safety requirements.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter consistent
with the VARIANCE conditions herein.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter.
   WALLED AND ROOFED. A building that has two or more exterior rigid walls and
a fully secured roof and is affixed to a permanent site.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel, or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
(Ord. 2022-007-C, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 154.05 APPLICATION.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard (SFHAs) within
the jurisdiction of the city, identified in §
154.06, including any additional areas of special flood hazard annexed by the
city.
(Ord. 2022-007-C, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 154.06 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for the
studied SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the city, delineated as an AE Zone on
the county and incorporated areas’ Flood Insurance Rate Map dated May 3, 2011,
shall be determined from the 1% annual chance flood profiles in the Flood
Insurance Study of the county and incorporated areas and the corresponding
Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM) dated May 3, 2011, as well as any subsequent
updates, amendments, or revisions prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency with the most recent date. Should the floodway limits not be delineated
on the Flood Insurance Rate Map for a studied SFHA designated as an AE Zone,
the limits of the floodway will be according to the best available flood layer
as provided by the State Department of Natural Resources.
   (B)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for each
of the SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the city; delineated as an A Zone on
the county and incorporated areas’ Flood Insurance Rate Map, dated May 3, 2011,
along with any subsequent updates, amendments, or revisions, prepared by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most recent date; shall be
according to the best available flood layer provided by the State Department of
Natural Resources provided that the upstream drainage area from the subject
site is greater than one square mile. Whenever a party disagrees with the best
available flood layer data, the party needs to replace existing data with
better data that meets current engineering standards. To be considered, this
data must be submitted to the State Department of Natural Resources for review
and subsequently approved.
   (C)   In the absence of a published FEMA map or identification on a FEMA
map, the regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits of any
watercourse in the community’s known flood-prone areas shall be according to
the best available flood layer, as provided by the State Department of Natural
Resources, provided that the upstream drainage area from the subject site is
greater than one square mile.
   (D)   Upon issuance of a letter of final determination (LFD), any more
restrictive data in the new (not yet effective) mapping/study shall be utilized
for permitting and construction (development) purposes, replacing all
previously effective, less restrictive flood hazard data provided by FEMA.
(Ord. 2022-007-C, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 154.07 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   No structure shall hereafter be located, extended, converted, or
structurally altered within the SFHA without full compliance with the terms of
this chapter and other applicable regulations.
   (B)   Where an existing or proposed structure or other development is
affected by multiple flood zones, multiple base flood elevations, or both, the
development activity must comply with the provisions of this chapter applicable
to the most restrictive flood zone and the most conservative (highest) base
flood elevation affecting any part of the existing or proposed structure or for
other developments affecting any part of the area of the development.
   (C)   No land or stream within the SFHA shall hereafter be altered without
full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable
regulations.
(Ord. 2022-007-C, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 154.08 ABROGATION; GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. 2022-007-C, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 154.09 DISCREPANCIES.
   (A)   In cases where there is a discrepancy between the mapped floodplain
(SFHA) with base flood elevations provided (riverine or lacustrine Zone AE) on
the FIRM and the actual ground elevations, the elevation provided on the
profiles or table of still water elevations shall govern.
   (B)   If the elevation of the site in question is below the base flood
elevation, that site shall be included in the SFHA and regulated accordingly.
   (C)   If the natural grade elevation of the site in question is at or above
the base flood elevation and a LOMA or LOMR-FW is obtained, the floodplain
regulations will not be applied provided the LOMA or LOMR-FW is not
subsequently superseded or invalidated.
(Ord. 2022-007-C, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 154.10 INTERPRETATION; LIABILITY.
   (A)   Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of this chapter,
all provisions shall be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
      (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      (3)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   (B)   Liability. The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is
considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available
information derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger
floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Therefore, this chapter does not
create any liability on the part of the city, the State Department of Natural
Resources, or the state for any flood damage that results from reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decision made lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 2022-007-C, passed 11-7-2022)
ADMINISTRATION.
§ 154.25 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT ESTABLISHED; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Established. A floodplain development permit shall be required in
conformance with the provisions of this ordinance prior to the commencement of
any development activities in areas of special flood hazard.
   (B)   Requirements. An application for a floodplain development permit shall
be made to the Floodplain Administrator for all development activities located
wholly within, partially within, or in contact with an identified special flood
hazard area. Such application shall be made by the owner of the property or his
or her authorized agent, herein referred to as the applicant, prior to the
actual commencement of such construction on a form furnished for that purpose.
Such applications shall include, but not be limited to, plans drawn to scale
showing the nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area in
question; existing or proposed structures; earthen fill; storage of materials
or equipment; drainage facilities; and the location of the foregoing.
Specifically, the following information is required:
      (1)   Application stage.
         (a)   A description of the proposed development;
         (b)   Location of the proposed development, sufficient to accurately
locate property and structure, in relation to existing roads and streams;
         (c)   A legal description of the property site;
         (d)   For the reconstruction, rehabilitation, or improvement of an
existing structure or an addition to an existing building, a detailed quote and
description of the total work to be completed including, but not limited to,
interior work, exterior work, and labor as well as a certified valuation of the
existing (pre-improved or pre-damaged) structure;
         (e)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed
development locations and existing and proposed land grades;
         (f)   A letter from a licensed professional surveyor or engineer
noting that an elevation reference benchmark has been established or confirmed
for those projects requiring elevations to be met;
         (g)   Verification that connection to either a public sewer system or
to an approved on-site septic system is available and approved by the
respective regulatory agency for proposed structures to be equipped with a
restroom, kitchen, or other facilities requiring disposal of wastewater;
         (h)   Plans showing elevation of the top of the planned lowest floor,
including basements, of all proposed structures in Zones A and AE. Elevation
should be in NAVD 88;
         (i)   Plans showing elevation, in NAVD 88, to which any nonresidential
structure will be flood-proofed;
         (j)   Plans showing location and specifications for flood openings for
any proposed structure with enclosed areas below the flood protection grade;
         (k)   Plans showing materials to be used below the flood protection
grade for any proposed structure are flood resistant;
         (l)   Plans showing how any proposed structure will be anchored to
resist flotation or collapse;
         (m)   Plans showing how any electrical, heating, ventilation,
plumbing, air conditioning equipment, and other service facilities are designed
and/or located. Elevation should be in NAVD 88;
         (n)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development. A hydrologic and
hydraulic engineering analysis is required, and any watercourse changes must
submitted to the Department of Natural Resources for approval. Once the
Department of Natural Resources’ approval is obtained, a FEMA conditional
letter of map revision must be obtained prior to construction, §§
154.27(B)(8) and
154.29; and
         (o)   Any additional information, as requested by the Floodplain
Administrator, which may be necessary to determine the disposition of a
proposed development or structure with respect to the requirements of this
chapter.
      (2)   Construction stage. Upon establishment of the lowest floor of an
elevated structure or structure constructed on fill, it shall be the duty of
the applicant to submit to the Floodplain Administrator an elevation
certificate for the building under construction. The Floodplain Administrator
shall review the elevation certificate. Any deficiencies detected during the
review shall be corrected by the applicant before work is allowed to continue.
Failure to submit the survey or failure to make said corrections required
hereby shall cause to be issued a stop-work order for the project.
      (3)   Finished construction.
         (a)   Upon completion of construction of any structure requiring
certification of elevation, an elevation certificate which depicts the as-built
lowest floor elevation and other applicable elevation data is required to be
submitted by the applicant to the Floodplain Administrator. The elevation
certificate shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
registered land surveyor and certified by the same.
         (b)   Upon completion of construction of an elevated structure
constructed on fill, a fill report is required to be submitted to the
Floodplain Administrator to verify the required standards were met including
compaction.
         (c)   Upon completion of construction of a flood-proofing measure, a
flood- proofing certificate is required to be submitted by the applicant to the
Floodplain Administrator. The flood-proofing certificate shall be prepared by
or under the direct supervision of a registered professional engineer or
architect and certified by same.
(Ord. 2022-007-C, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 154.26 DESIGNATION OF ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Common Council hereby appoints the Building Commissioner or other duly
appointed individual to administer and implement the provisions of this
ordinance and is herein referred to as the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2022-007-C, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 154.27 FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR DUTIES.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or designated staff is hereby
authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The
administrator is further authorized to render interpretations of this chapter
which are consistent with its spirit and purpose.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Enforce the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Evaluate application for permits to develop in special flood hazard
areas to assure that the permit requirements of this chapter have been
satisfied;
      (3)   Interpret floodplain boundaries and provide flood hazard and flood
protection elevation information;
      (4)   Issue permits to develop in special flood hazard areas when the
provisions of these regulations have been met or refuse to issue the same in
the event of noncompliance;
      (5)   Advise permittee that additional federal, state, and/or local
permits may be required. If specific federal, state, and/or local permits are
known, copies of such permits are required to be provided and maintained on
file with the floodplain development permit;
      (6)   Conduct substantial damage determinations to determine whether
existing structures damaged from any source and in special flood hazard areas
meet the development standards of these regulations;
      (7)   For applications to improve structures, including alterations,
movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of occupancy, additions,
rehabilitations, renovations, substantial improvements, repairs of substantial
damage, and any other improvement of or work on such buildings and structures,
the Floodplain Administrator shall:
         (a)   Verify and document the market value of the pre-damaged or pre-
improved structure;
         (b)   Compare the cost to perform the improvement or the cost to
repair a damaged building to its pre-damaged condition or the combined costs of
improvements and repair, if applicable, to the market value of the pre-damaged
or pre-improved structure. The cost of all work must be included in the project
costs, including work that might otherwise be considered routine maintenance.
Items/activities that must be included in the cost shall be kept with guidance
published by FEMA to ensure compliance with the NFIP and to avoid any conflict
with future flood insurance claims of policyholders within the community;
         (c)   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; the determination
requires evaluation of previous permits issued for improvements and repairs as
specified in the definition of substantial improvement for proposed work to
repair damage caused by flood. The determination requires evaluation of
previous permits issued to repair flood-related damage, specified in the
definition of substantial damage; and
         (d)   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work
constitutes substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that
compliance with the applicable general and specific standards in §§
154.46 and
154.47 of this chapter are required.
      (8)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Floodplain Coordinator
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit copies of
such notifications to FEMA;
      (9)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
State Department of Natural Resources for all development projects subject to §
154.45(A), (C)(1), and (D) of this chapter and maintain a record of such
authorization (either copy of actual permit/authorization or floodplain
analysis/regulatory assessment);
      (10)   Verify the upstream drainage area of any proposed development site
near any watercourse not identified on a FEMA map to determine if division (B)
(9) above is applicable;
      (11)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is
not diminished;
      (12)   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor,
including basement, of all new or substantially improved structures, in
accordance with §
154.25(B);
      (13)   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new or
substantially improved structures have been flood-proofed in accordance with §
154.25(B);
      (14)   Make on-site inspections of projects in accordance with §
154.28;
      (15)   Coordinate with insurance adjusters prior to permitting any
proposed work to bring any flood-damaged structure covered by a standard flood
insurance policy into compliance, either a substantially-damaged structure or a
repetitive loss structure, to ensure eligibility for ICC funds;
      (16)   Ensure that an approved connection to a public sewer system or an
approved on-site septic system is planned for any structure, residential or
nonresidential, to be equipped with a restroom, kitchen, or other facilities
requiring disposal of wastewater;
      (17)   Provide information, testimony, or other evidence as needed during
variance hearings;
      (18)   Serve notices of violations, issue stop-work orders, revoke
permits, and take corrective actions in accordance with §
154.28;
      (19)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request local
permit documents, damaged structure inventories, substantial damage
determinations, regulatory flood data, SFHA maps, letters of map change (LOMC),
copies of Department of Natural Resources permits, letters of authorization,
floodplain analysis and regulatory assessments (letters of recommendation),
federal permit documents, and as-built elevation and flood-proofing data for
all buildings constructed subject to this chapter in accordance with §
154.28;
      (20)   Coordinate map maintenance activities and associated FEMA follow-
up in accordance with §
154.29;
      (21)   Utilize and enforce all letters of map change (LOMC) or physical
map revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently effective SFHA maps of the
community; and
      (22)   Request any additional information which may be necessary to
determine the disposition of a proposed development or structure with respect
to the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-007-C, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 154.28 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant to a permit
progresses, the Floodplain Administrator shall make as many inspections of the
work as may be necessary to ensure that the work is being done according to the
provisions of the local ordinance and terms of the permit. In exercising this
power, the Administrator has a right, upon presentation of proper credential,
to enter on any premises within the territorial jurisdiction at any reasonable
hour for the purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
   (B)   Stop-work orders.
      (1)   Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator, work on any
building, structure, or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease.
      (2)   Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner of
the property or to his or her agent or to the person doing the work and shall
state the conditions under which work may be resumed.
   (C)   Revocation of permits.
      (1)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval issued
under the provisions of this chapter in cases where there has been any false
statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application or
plans on which the permit or approval was based.
      (2)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon determination
that the construction, erection, alteration, repair, moving, demolition,
installation, or replacement of the structure for which the permit was issued
is in violation of or not in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Floodplain management records.
      (1)   Regardless of any limitation on the period required for retention
of public records, records of actions associated with the administration of
this subchapter shall be kept on file and maintained under the direction of the
Floodplain Administrator in perpetuity. These records include permit
applications, plans, certifications, Flood Insurance Rate Maps, letter of map
change, records of issuance of permits and denial of permits, determinations of
whether proposed work constitutes substantial improvement or repair of
substantial damage, required design certifications and documentation of
elevations required by this subchapter, notifications to adjacent communities
and FEMA and the state related to alterations of watercourses, assurances that
the flood carrying capacity of altered watercourses will be maintained,
documentation related to appeals and variances (including justification for
issuance or denial), and records of enforcement actions taken pursuant to this
chapter.
      (2)   These records shall be available for public inspection at City
Hall, 125 North Wayne Street, Alexandria, IN 46001.
   (E)   Periodic inspection. Once a project is completed, periodic inspections
may be conducted by the Floodplain Administrator to ensure compliance. The
Floodplain Administrator shall have a right, upon presentation of proper
credential, to enter on any premises within the territorial jurisdiction of the
department at any reasonable hour for the purposes of inspection or other
enforcement action.
(Ord. 2022-007-C, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 154.29 MAP MAINTENANCE ACTIVITIES.
   To meet NFIP minimum requirements to have flood data reviewed and approved
by FEMA and to ensure that the city flood maps, studies, and other data
identified in §
154.06 accurately represent flooding conditions so appropriate floodplain
management criteria are based on current data, the following map maintenance
activities are identified.
   (A)   Requirement to submit new technical data.
      (1)   For all development proposals that impact floodway delineations or
base flood elevations, the community shall ensure that technical data
reflecting such changes be submitted to FEMA within six months of the date such
information becomes available. These development proposals include:
         (a)   Floodway encroachments that increase or decrease base flood
elevations or alter floodway boundaries;
         (b)   Fill sites to be used for the placement of proposed structures
where the applicant desires to remove the site from the special flood hazard
area; and
         (c)   Alteration of watercourses that result in a relocation or
elimination of the special flood hazard area, including the placement of
culverts, and subdivision or large-scale development proposals requiring the
establishment of base flood elevations.
      (2)   It is the responsibility of the applicant to have required
technical data for a conditional letter of map revision or letter of map
revision and submitted to FEMA. The State Department of Natural Resources will
review the submittals as part of a partnership with FEMA. The submittal should
be mailed to the State Department of Natural Resources at the address provided
on the FEMA form (MT-2) or submitted through the online letter of map change
website. Submittal and processing fees for these map revisions shall be the
responsibility of the applicant.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator shall require a conditional letter of
map revision prior to the issuance of a floodplain development permit for
proposed floodway encroachments that increase the base flood elevation.
      (4)   Floodplain development permits issued by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be conditioned upon the applicant obtaining a letter of map
revision from FEMA for any development proposal subject to this section.
   (B)   Right to submit new technical data. The Floodplain Administrator may
request changes to any of the information shown on an effective map that does
not impact floodplain or floodway delineations or base flood elevations such as
labeling or planimetric details. Such a submission shall include appropriate
supporting documentation made in writing by the Mayor of the city and may be
submitted to FEMA at any time.
   (C)   Annexation/detachment. Upon occurrence, the Floodplain Administrator
shall notify FEMA in writing whenever the boundaries of the city have been
modified by annexation or the community has assumed authority over an area or
no longer has authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations
for a particular area. In order that the county and incorporated areas’ Flood
Insurance Rate Map accurately represents the city boundaries, a copy of a map
of the city suitable for reproduction clearly showing the new corporate limits
or the new area for which the city has assumed or relinquished floodplain
management regulatory authority shall be included within such notification.
(Ord. 2022-007-C, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 154.30 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   As established by Common Council, the Board of Zoning Appeals, herein
referred to as the “Board,” shall hear and decide appeals and requests for
variances from requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged an error in
any requirement, decision, or determination is made by the Floodplain
Administrator in the enforcement or administration of this chapter. Any person
aggrieved by the decision of the Board may appeal such decision to the County
Circuit Court.
   (C)   In considering such applications, the Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (6)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (7)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
      (8)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (9)   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the floodwaters at the site; and
      (10)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems and streets and
bridges.
   (D)   A written report addressing each of the factors in divisions (C)(1)
through (C)(10) shall be submitted with the application for a variance.
   (E)   Variances from the provisions of this chapter shall only be granted
when the Board can make positive findings of fact based on evidence submitted
at the hearing for the following:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship, defined in §
154.04; and
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, nuisances, fraud or victimization of the public, or conflict
with existing laws or ordinances.
   (F)   No variance for a residential use within a floodway, subject to §
154.45(A), (C)(1), or (D) may be granted.
   (G)   Any variance granted in a floodway subject to §
154.45(A), (C)(1), or (D) will require a permit from the State Department of
Natural Resources. Variances shall not be issued within any designated
regulatory floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base flood
discharge would result.
   (H)   Variances to the provisions for flood hazard reduction of §§
154.45 through
154.49 may be granted only when a new structure is to be located on a lot of
one-half acre or less in size and contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the flood protection grade.
   (I)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and
that the variance is the minimum to preserve the historic character and design
of the structure.
   (J)   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial
improvements, and other development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally-dependent use.
   (K)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (L)   Upon consideration of the factors listed in divisions (C) through (K)
above and the purposes of this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such
conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the
purposes of this chapter.
   (M)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the flood protection grade and the
elevation to which the lowest floor is to be built and stating that the cost of
the flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from
the reduced lowest floor elevation.
   (N)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency or
the State Department of Natural Resources upon request.
(Ord. 2022-007-C, passed 11-7-2022)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 154.45 FLOODPLAIN STATUS STANDARDS.
   (A)   Floodways (riverine). Located within SFHAs, established in §
154.06, are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters which carry debris and
potential projectiles and has erosion potential. Under the provisions of the
Flood Control Act (I.C. 14-28-1) a permit for construction in a floodway from
the State Department of Natural Resources is required prior to the issuance of
a local building permit for any excavation, deposit, construction, or
obstruction activity located in the floodway. This includes land preparation
activities such as filling, grading, clearing, and paving undertaken before the
actual start of construction of the structure. General licenses and exemptions
to the requirements of the Flood Control Act (I.C. 14-28-1 and 312 I.A.C. 10)
may apply to qualified additions/improvements to existing lawful residential
structures, rural bridges, logjam removals, wetland restoration, utility line
crossings, outfall projects, creek rock removal, and prospecting.
      (1)   If the site is in a regulatory floodway, as established in §
154.06, the Floodplain Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the
application along with all pertinent plans and specifications to the State
Department of Natural Resources and apply for approval for construction in a
floodway provided the activity does not qualify for a general license or
exemption (I.C. 14-28-1 or 312 I.A.C. 10).
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
approval has been granted by the State Department of Natural Resources for
construction in the floodway or evidence provided by an applicant that the
development meets specified criteria to qualify for a general license or
exemption to the requirement of the Flood Control Act. The floodplain
development permit shall meet the provisions contained in this section.
      (3)   The floodplain development permit cannot be less restrictive than
an approval issued for construction in a floodway issued by the State
Department of Natural Resources or the specified criteria used to qualify for a
general license or exemption to the Flood Control Act for a specific site/
project. However, a community’s more restrictive regulations, if any, shall
take precedence.
      (4)   In floodway areas identified on the FIRM, development shall cause
no increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge
without first obtaining a conditional letter of map revision and meeting
requirements of §
154.29(A). A conditional letter of map revision cannot be issued for
development that would cause an increase in flood levels affecting a structure,
and such development should not be permitted.
      (5)   In floodway areas identified by the State Department of Natural
Resources through detailed or approximate studies but not yet identified on the
effective FIRM as floodway areas, the total cumulative effect of the proposed
development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated development,
shall not adversely affect the efficiency of or unduly restrict the capacity of
the floodway. This adverse effect is defined as an increase in the elevation of
the regulatory flood of at least 0.15 feet as determined by comparing the
regulatory flood elevation under the project condition to that under the
natural or pre-floodway condition and proven with hydraulic analyses.
      (6)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill, including
levees, the city shall submit the data and request that the Federal Emergency
Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data per mapping standard
regulations found at 44 C.F.R. §
   (B)   Fringe (riverine). If the site is in the fringe, either identified on
the FIRM or identified by the State Department of Natural Resources through
detailed or approximate studies and not identified on a FIRM, the Floodplain
Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit provided the
provisions contained in this section have been met.
   (C)   SFHAs without established base flood elevation and/or floodways/
fringes (riverine).
      (1)   Drainage area upstream of the site is greater than one square mile.
         (a)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of
the floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area
upstream of the site is greater than one square mile, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application along with
all pertinent plans and specifications to the State Department of Natural
Resources for review and comment.
         (b)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
written approval from the State Department of Natural Resources (approval for
construction in a floodway, letter of authorization, or evidence of general
license qualification) or a floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment citing
the 1% annual chance flood elevation and the recommended flood protection grade
has been received from the State Department of Natural Resources.
         (c)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper
written approval, evidence of general license qualification, or floodplain
analysis/regulatory assessment approving the proposed development from the
State Department of Natural Resources, a floodplain development permit may be
issued; provided, the conditions of the floodplain development permit are not
less restrictive than the conditions received from the State Department of
Natural Resources and the provisions contained in this section have been met.
      (2)   Drainage area upstream of the site is less than one square mile.
         (a)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of
the floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area
upstream of the site is less than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator
shall require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the
limits of the floodplain and 1% annual chance flood elevation for the site.
         (b)   Upon receipt, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
floodplain development permit provided the provisions contained herein have
been met.
   (D)   SFHAs not identified on a map.
      (1)   If a proposed development site is near a waterway with no SFHA
identified on a map, the Floodplain Administrator shall verify the drainage
area upstream of the site. If the drainage area upstream of the site is
verified as being greater than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator
shall require the applicant to forward the application along with all pertinent
plans and specifications to the State Department of Natural Resources for
review and comment.
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
written approval from the State Department of Natural Resources (approval for
construction in a floodway, letter of authorization, or evidence of general
license qualification) or a floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment citing
the 1% annual chance flood elevation and the recommended flood protection grade
has been received from the State Department of Natural Resources.
      (3)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper written
approval, evidence of general license qualification, or floodplain analysis/
regulatory assessment approving the proposed development from the State
Department of Natural Resources, a floodplain development permit may be issued
provided the conditions of the floodplain development permit are not less
restrictive than the conditions received from the State Department of Natural
Resources and the provisions contained in this section have been met.
(Ord. 2022-007-C, passed 11-7-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 14-28-1
§ 154.46 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   All new construction, reconstruction, or repairs made to a repetitive
loss structure and substantial improvements shall be anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage below the FPG.
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements must incorporate methods
and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (D)   (1)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, and other service facilities shall be located at/above the FPG for
residential structures.
      (2)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, and other service facilities shall be located at/above the FPG or
designed so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components below the FPG for nonresidential structures.
      (3)   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines, submersible
pumps, and other waterproofed service facilities may be located below the FPG.
   (E)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (H)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a structure
that is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of new construction as contained herein.
   (I)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development, including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions, which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five acres.
   (J)   Where an existing or proposed structure or other development is
affected by multiple flood zones, multiple base flood elevations, or both, the
development activity must comply with the provisions of this chapter applicable
to the most restrictive flood zone and the highest base flood elevation
affecting any part of the existing or proposed structure or for other
developments affecting any part of the area of the development.
   (K)   Fill projects that do not involve a structure must be protected
against erosion and scour during flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or bulk
heading. If vegetative cover is used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three
feet horizontal to one foot vertical.
   (L)   Non-conversion agreements shall be required for all new or
substantially improved elevated structures with an enclosure beneath the
elevated floor, accessory structures, and open-sided shelters.
   (M)   Construction of new solid waste disposal facilities, hazard waste
management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted in areas of special flood hazard.
(Ord. 2022-007-C, passed 11-7-2022)
154.47 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data or
flood depths have been provided, as set forth in §
154.06, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   Building protection requirement. In addition to the general standards
described in §
154.46, structures to be located in the SFHA shall be protected from flood
damage below the FPG. This building protection requirement applies to the
following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of a residential structure;
      (2)   Construction or placement of a nonresidential structure;
      (3)   Addition or improvement made to an existing structure where the
cost of the addition or improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the
existing structure, excluding the value of the land. An addition and/or
improvement project that is continuous in scope or time is considered as one
project for permitting purposes;
      (4)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged structure where the
costs of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure, excluding the value of the
land, before damage occurred; the costs of any proposed additions or
improvements beyond restoring the damaged structure to its before-damaged
condition must be included in the cost;
      (5)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site;
      (6)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days; and
      (7)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive loss structure.
   (B)   Residential construction.
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvement of any residential
structures shall meet provisions described in §
154.45 and applicable general standards described in §
154.46.
      (2)   In Zone A and Zone AE, new construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
at or above the FPG. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate
a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of
floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of division (B)
(3) below. Should fill be used to elevate a structure, the standards of
division (B)(4) below must be met.
      (3)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls
below the flood protection grade shall meet the following requirements:
         (a)   Designed to preclude finished living space and designed to allow
for the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters to equalize hydrostatic flood
forces on exterior walls. Flood openings must be designed and installed in
compliance with criteria set out in FEMA Technical Bulletin 1. Flood openings
must be designed and certified by a registered design professional, which
requires supporting engineering certification or make/model specific ICC-ES
report, or meet the following criteria for non-engineered flood openings.
            1.   A minimum of two openings on different sides of an enclosure
must be provided. If there are multiple enclosed areas, each is required to
meet the requirements for enclosures including the requirement for flood
openings in exterior walls, having a total net area of not less than one square
inch for every one square foot of enclosed area.
            2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot
above the higher of the final interior grade, or floor, and the finished
exterior grade immediately under each opening.
            3.   Doors and windows do not qualify as openings.
            4.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or
other coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of
floodwaters in both directions.
            5.   Openings are to be not less than three inches in any direction
in the plane of the wall. This requirement applies to the hole in the wall,
excluding any device that may be inserted such as typical foundation air vent
devices.
         (b)   The floor of such enclosed area at or above grade on at least
one side.
      (4)   A residential structure may be constructed on fill in accordance
with the following.
         (a)   Fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the
standard or modified proctor test method. The results of the test showing
compliance shall be retained in the permit file.
         (b)   Fill shall extend ten feet beyond the foundation of the
structure before sloping below the BFE.
         (c)   Fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or bulk heading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three feet horizontal to one foot
vertical.
         (d)   Fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
      (5)   A residential structure may be constructed using a stem wall
foundation (also called chain wall, raised-slab-on-grade, and slab-on-stem-
wall-with-fill). Any backfilled stem wall foundation must be backfilled with
compacted structural fill, concrete, or gravel that supports the floor slab. No
flood openings are required for this type of construction.
   (C)   Nonresidential construction.
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvement of any nonresidential
structures, excluding accessory structures, shall meet provisions described in
§
154.25 and applicable general standards described in §
154.46.
      (2)   In Zone A and Zone AE, new construction or substantial improvement
of any commercial, industrial, or nonresidential structure, excluding accessory
structures, shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to
or above the FPG or be flood-proofed to or above the FPG. Should solid
foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient
to facilitate the unimpeded movements of floodwaters shall be provided in
accordance with the standards of division (C)(4) below. Should fill be used to
elevate a structure, the standards of division (C)(4) must be met.
      (3)   Fully enclosed areas formed by a foundation and other exterior
walls below the flood protection grade shall meet the following requirements:
         (a)   Designed to preclude finished living space and designed to allow
for the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters to equalize hydrostatic flood
forces on exterior walls. Flood openings must be designed and installed in
compliance with criteria set out in FEMA Technical Bulletin 1. Flood openings
must be designed and certified by a registered design professional, which
requires supporting engineering certification or make/model specific ICC-ES
report, or meet the following criteria for non-engineered flood openings.
            1.   A minimum of two openings on different sides of an enclosure
must be provided. If more than one enclosed area is present, each must have
openings on exterior walls, having a total net area of not less than one square
inch for every one square foot of enclosed area.
            2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot
above the higher of the final interior grade, or floor, and the finished
exterior grade immediately under each opening.
            3.   Doors and windows do not qualify as openings.
            4.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or
other coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of
floodwaters in both directions.
            5.   Openings are to be not less than three inches in any direction
in the plane of the wall. This requirement applies to the hole in the wall,
excluding any device that maybe inserted such as typical foundation air vent
devices.
         (b)   The floor of such enclosed area at or above grade on at least
one side.
      (4)   A nonresidential structure may be constructed on fill and:
         (a)   Shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep before
compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the standard or
modified proctor test method. The results of the test showing compliance shall
be retained in the permit file;
         (b)   Shall extend ten feet beyond the foundation of the structure
before sloping below the BFE;
         (c)   Shall be protected against erosion and scour during flooding by
vegetative cover, riprap, or bulk heading. If vegetative cover is used, the
slopes shall be no steeper than three feet horizontal to one foot vertical; and
         (d)   Shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage from or
onto neighboring properties.
      (5)   A nonresidential structure may be flood-proofed in accordance with
the following.
         (a)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify
that the structure has been designed so that below the FPG, the structure and
attendant utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the
effects of the regulatory flood. The structure design shall take into account
flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures, and impacts
from debris or ice. Such certification shall be provided to the Floodplain
Administrator.
         (b)   Flood-proofing measures shall be operable without human
intervention and without an outside source of electricity.
      (6)    A nonresidential structure may be constructed using a stem wall
foundation (also called chain wall, raised-slab-on-grade, and slab-on-stem-
wall-with-fill). Any backfilled stem wall foundation must be backfilled with
compacted structural fill, concrete, or gravel that supports the floor slab. No
flood openings are required for this type of construction.
   (D)   Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
      (1)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on
a site in the SFHA.
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor shall be at or above the FPG and securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of flood waters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in division (B)(3).
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (2)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site in the SFHA shall either:
         (a)   Be on-site for less than 180 days and be fully licensed and
ready for use on a public highway, defined as being on its wheels or jacking
system; is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and
security devices; and has no permanently attached additions; or
         (b)   Meet the requirements for manufactured homes in division (D)(1)
above.
   (E)   Accessory structures. Within SFHAs, new construction or placement of
an accessory structure must meet the following standards:
      (1)   Have a floor area of 400 square feet or less;
      (2)   Uses limited to parking of vehicles and limited storage;
      (3)   Not be used for human habitation;
      (4)   Constructed of flood-resistant materials;
      (5)   Constructed and placed on the lot to offer the minimum resistance
to the flow of flood waters;
      (6)   Firmly anchored to prevent flotation;
      (7)   Service facilities, such as electrical and heating equipment, shall
be elevated or flood-proofed to or above the FPG;
      (8)   Designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required
for elevated structures in division (C)(3) above; and
      (9)   Not have subsequent additions or improvements that would preclude
the structure from its continued designation as an accessory structure.
   (F)   Free-standing pavilions, gazebos, decks, carports, and similar
development. Within SFHAs, new construction or placement of free-standing
pavilions, gazebos, decks, carports, and similar development must meet the
following standards:
      (1)   Have open sides, having not more than one rigid wall;
      (2)   Anchored to prevent flotation or lateral movement;
      (3)   Constructed of flood-resistant materials below the FPG;
      (4)   Be located at/above the FPG for any electrical, heating, plumbing,
and other service facilities; and
      (5)   Not have subsequent additions or improvements that would preclude
the development from its continued designation as a free-standing pavilion,
gazebo, carport, or similar open-sided development.
   (G)   Above ground gas or liquid storage tanks. Within SFHAs, all newly
placed above ground gas or liquid storage tanks shall meet the requirements for
a nonresidential structure as required in division (C) above.
(Ord. 2022-007-C, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 154.48 SUBDIVISION AND NEW DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals and all other proposed new development shall
be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals and all other proposed new development shall
have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals and all other proposed new development shall
have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data
are not available, the applicant shall provide a hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering analysis that generates base flood elevations for all subdivision
proposals and all other proposed new development, including manufactured home
parks and subdivisions, which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five
acres, whichever is less.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals shall minimize development in the SFHA and/
or limit density of development permitted in the SFHA.
   (F)   All subdivision proposals shall ensure safe access into/out of SFHA
for pedestrians and vehicles, especially emergency responders.
   (G)   Streets, blocks lots, parks and other public grounds shall be located
and laid out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural streams and
channels. Wherever possible, the floodplains shall be included within parks or
other public grounds.
(Ord. 2022-007-C, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 154.49 CRITICAL FACILITIES STANDARDS.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA. Construction of new critical facilities
shall be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated to or above the FPG at the site. Flood-proofing and
sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be
displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above
the FPG shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 2022-007-C, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit in the SFHA or
failure to comply with the requirements of a floodplain development permit or
conditions of a variance shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter. All
violations shall be considered a common nuisance and be treated as such in
accordance with the provisions of the Zoning Code for the city.
   (B)   All violations shall be punishable by a fine based on current state-
approved amounts and/or as set by City Council from time to time.
      (1)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the
violation continues to exist.
      (2)   The City Floodplain Administrator shall inform the owner that any
such violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and
therefore may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be
suspended.
      (3)   Nothing herein shall prevent the city from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 2022-007-C, passed 11-7-2022)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
155.01   Title; purpose
   
155.02   Authorization and compliance
   
155.03   Application and jurisdiction
   
155.04   Definitions
District Regulations
   
155.15   Zone maps; district boundaries
   
155.16   Zoning districts
   
155.17   District summarization
   
155.18   Permitted uses
   
155.19   Lot and yard requirements
   
155.20   Height regulations
   
155.21   Floor area
   
155.22   Nonconforming uses
   
155.23   Accessory uses
   
155.24   Off-street parking and loading
   
155.25   Mobile home parks
   
155.26   Manufactured housing
   
155.27   Planned unit residential, business, and industrial projects
   
155.28   Temporary structures
   
155.29   Signs
   
155.30   Advertising signs
   
155.31   Home occupation
Administration and Enforcement
   
155.45   Building Commissioner
   
155.46   Improvement location permits
   
155.47   Method of appeal
   
155.48   Zoning petition and certification fees
   
155.49   Board of Zoning Appeals
   
155.50   Variances
   
155.51   Special exceptions; requirements
   
155.52   Authorization of nonconforming uses
   
155.53   Amendments
   
155.54   Violations
 
   
155.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.01 TITLE; PURPOSE.
   (A)   Title. The official title of this chapter is the Zoning Code of the
city.
(Prior Code, § 153.02)
   (B)   Purpose.
      (1)   This chapter:
         (a)   Regulates the location and use of structures and land for
residences, business, industry, and other purposes;
         (b)   Regulates the location and height of structures, the size of
yards and other open spaces, automobile parking, and the density of population;
         (c)   Provides a method of administration by establishing a Board of
Zoning Appeals and prescribing duties and powers of officials; and
         (d)   Prescribes penalties for violations.
      (2)   This chapter is in accordance with a Comprehensive Plan and is
adopted so that:
         (a)   Adequate light, air, convenience of access, and safety from
fire, flood, and other danger may be secured;
         (b)   Congestion in public streets may be lessened or avoided; and
         (c)   The public health, safety, comfort, morals, convenience, and
general public welfare may be promoted.
      (3)   This chapter is made with reasonable regard to existing conditions,
the character of buildings erected in each district, the most desirable use for
which the land in each district may be adopted, and the conservation of
property values throughout the territory under the jurisdiction of the City
Plan Commission.
(Prior Code, § 153.01) (Ord. 907, passed 9-15-1969; Ord. 1162, passed 11-7-
1983)
§ 155.02 AUTHORIZATION AND COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Authorization. This chapter is adopted pursuant to Chapter 174 of the
Acts of the General Assembly of the state, 1947, and all acts supplemental and
amendatory thereto.
(Prior Code, § 153.03)
   (B)   Compliance. No structure shall be located, erected, constructed,
reconstructed, moved, converted, or enlarged nor shall any structure or land be
used or be designed to be used except in full compliance with all the
provisions of this chapter and after the lawful issuances of permits required
by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 153.04)
(Ord. 907, passed 9-15-1969)
§ 155.03 APPLICATION AND JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Application. It is not intended by this chapter to interfere with,
abrogate, or amend any existing easements, covenants, or other agreements
between parties nor is it intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate, annul,
or in any way interfere with any existing provisions of laws or ordinances or
any rules, regulations, or permits previously adopted or issued pursuant to law
relating to the use of buildings or premises. However, where this chapter
imposes a greater restriction upon the use of buildings or premises than is
imposed or required by such existing provisions of law or by such rules,
regulations, agreements, covenants, or permits, the provisions of this chapter
shall control, but where such private covenants, permits, agreements, rules, or
regulations impose a greater restriction than is imposed by this chapter, the
greater restrictions shall control.
(Prior Code, § 153.07)
   (B)   Jurisdiction. This chapter shall apply to all incorporated land within
the city and the contiguous unincorporated land within the jurisdictional area
as shown on the Jurisdictional Area Zone Map on file with the City Clerk-
Treasurer and County Recorder.
(Prior Code, § 153.06)
(Ord. 907, passed 9-15-1969)
§ 155.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal
use and located on the same lot as the principal use.
   AGRICULTURE. Any use of land or structures for farming, dairying, pasturage,
agriculture, horticulture, floriculture, arboriculture, or animal or poultry
husbandry. Accessory uses permitted in conjunction with an agricultural use may
include barns, stables, corn cribs, silos, and any other use or structure that
is clearly a part of an agricultural operation.
   AREA. Calculated from dimensions derived by horizontal projection of the
site.
   BASEMENT. A story having more than 50% of its clear height below finished
grade.
   BOARD. The Board of Zoning Appeals established by this chapter.
   CLINIC. Any establishment where human patients are examined and treated by
doctors or dentists but not hospitalized overnight.
   CLUB. An establishment operated for social, recreational, or educational
purposes but open only to members and not the general public.
   COVERAGE. The percentage of the lot area covered by principal and accessory
use structures.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any structure or part of a structure designed or used as the
living quarters for one family.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. The erection, construction, alteration, or maintenance
by public utilities or municipal or other governmental agencies of underground
or overhead gas, electrical, steam, or water transmission or distribution
systems; including poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduit cables,
fire alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic signals, hydrants, street signs,
and other similar equipment and accessories in connection therewith; reasonably
necessary for the furnishing of adequate service by such public utilities or
municipal or other governmental agencies or for the public health or safety or
general welfare but not including buildings.
   FAMILY. One or more persons occupying a premises and living as a single
housekeeping unit, distinguished from a group occupying a boarding house,
lodging house, club, fraternity, or hotel.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation carried on in a dwelling unit which is
clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the building for dwelling
purposes and which does not change the character thereof.
   JUNK YARDS or SALVAGE YARDS. Any automobile wrecking yard and a lot or
portion thereof used for the storage, keeping, or abandonment of junk which
shall include scrap metal and/or metal parts or vehicle parts, machinery, and/
or parts thereof and any other items of salvage which are stored or maintained
as part of an on-going or existing business or occupation of real estate.
   LIGHT INDUSTRIAL. The processing and fabrication of certain materials and
products where no process involved will produce noise, vibration, air
pollution, fire hazard, or noxious emission which will disturb or endanger
neighboring properties.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied or capable of being occupied by one or more
structures.
   LOT, DEPTH OF. A mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines.
   LOT, MINIMUM AREA OF. The horizontally projected area of a lot computed
exclusive of any portion of the right-of-way of any public thoroughfare.
   LOT OF RECORD. Any lot which individually, or as a part of a subdivision,
has been recorded in the office of Recorder of Deeds of the County.
   LOT, WIDTH OF. The mean width measured at right angles to its depth.
   MOBILE HOME. Any mobile vehicle used or designed to be used for living
purposes whether the wheels be attached or not. A travel trailer, as defined
herein, shall be considered a MOBILE HOME if occupied.
   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE. A structure designed, converted, or adapted for a
use prior to the adoption of provisions prohibiting such use in this location.
   NONCONFORMING USE. Any use or arrangement of land or structures legally
existing at the time of the enactment of this chapter or any of its amendments
which does not conform to the provisions herein.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected which requires a fixed location
on the ground for use including, in addition to buildings, billboards,
carports, porches, and other building features but not including sidewalks,
drives, fences, and patios.
   SUPPLY YARDS. A commercial establishment storing or offering for sale
building supplies, coal, heavy equipment, feed and grain, and similar goods.
SUPPLY YARDS do not include the wrecking, salvaging, dismantling, or storage of
automobiles and similar vehicles.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A mobile vehicle with wheels designed for overnight living
or camping purposes, capable of being towed by a passenger automobile and
having an overall length of less than 25 feet and an overall width of less than
eight feet.
(Prior Code, § 153.08) (Ord. 907, passed 9-15-1969; Ord. 1213, passed 8-3-1987)
DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 155.15 ZONE MAPS; DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Maps. Two copies of the map captioned “City of Alexandria Zone Map,
1983” are hereby adopted and incorporated by reference into this chapter. These
maps are on file and available for public inspection in the office of the
Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 153.20)
   (B)   Boundaries. District boundaries shown within the lines of streets,
streams, and transportation rights-of-way shall be deemed to follow the center
lines. The vacation of streets shall not affect the location of such district
boundaries. When the Building Commissioner cannot definitely determine the
location of a district boundary by such center lines by the scale or dimensions
stated on the Zone Map or by the fact that it clearly coincides with a property
line, he or she shall refuse action, and the Board of Zoning Appeals, upon
appeal, shall interpret the location of the district boundary with reference to
the scale of the Zone Map and the purposes set forth in all relevant provisions
of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 153.22)
(Ord. 907, passed 9-15-1969; Ord. 1162, passed 11-7-1983)
§ 155.16 ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The city and its unincorporated jurisdictional area are divided into
the districts stated in this chapter, as shown by the district boundaries on
the zone maps.
   (B)   The districts are:
      (1)   C-1, Conservation;
      (2)   A-1, Agriculture-Residential;
      (3)   R-1, Residential;
      (4)   R-2, Residential;
      (5)   B-1, Business;
      (6)   B-2, Business; and
      (7)   I-1, Industrial.
(Prior Code, § 153.21) (Ord. 907, passed 9-15-1969)
§ 155.17 DISTRICT SUMMARIZATION.
   (A)   Conservation District. The district designated for conservation, C-1,
is limited to agricultural, recreational, and certain other open land uses.
Residential and related uses are permitted if approved by the Board of Zoning
Appeals. The purpose of this district is to prevent intensive development of
land that is unsuitable for development because of topography, soil conditions,
or periodic flooding.
   (B)   Agriculture-Residential District. The district designated for
agriculture-residential use, A-1, is intended to preserve and protect
agricultural land from undesirable urban growth while permitting limited
residential development on large-size lots which provide adequate space for
private water and sewerage facilities. Planned residential subdivisions with
smaller-size lots may be approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals if the
development provides for common utilities systems and meets the requirements of
§
155.27.
   (C)   Residential districts. Districts designated for residential use, R-
1 and R-2, are limited to dwellings and public or semi-public uses which are
normally associated with residential neighborhoods. The only uses permitted in
the residential districts are those which would not detract from the
residential character of the neighborhood. The purpose of these two districts
is to create an attractive, stable, and orderly residential environment.
However, the families per dwelling and the lot and yard requirements are
different in the two districts to provide for the various housing needs and
desires of the citizens.
   (D)   Business districts. The districts designated for business, B-1 and B-
2, are limited to business, public, and certain residential uses. By
establishing compact districts for such uses, more efficient traffic movement,
parking facilities, fire protection, and police protection may be provided.
Industrial uses are excluded in order to reduce the hazards caused by extensive
truck and rail movements normally associated with such uses. The purpose of
these districts is to provide unified shopping districts conveniently located.
   (E)   Industrial District. The district designated for industry, I-1,
provides suitable space for existing industries and their expansion as well as
for future industrial development. Performance standards, parking
specifications, and yard regulations are set forth in this chapter in order to
ensure safe industrial development that is compatible with adjacent uses. The
locations of the districts are near railroads or highways in order to meet the
transportation needs of industry.
(Prior Code, § 153.23) (Ord. 907, passed 9-15-1969)
§ 155.18 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   The permitted uses and special exceptions for each district are shown
on the following table.
   (B)   Uses given in the following categories shall be according to the
common meaning of the term or according to definitions given in §
155.03(A). Uses not specifically listed or defined to be included in the
categories under this section shall not be permitted.
Permitted Uses Special Exceptions (§
               155.51(A))
Permitted Uses                           Special Exceptions (§
                                         155.51(A))
C-1 Conservation District
   1. Agriculture                        1. Single-family dwellings
   2. Public parks and playgrounds       2. Riding stables
   3. Game preserves                     3. Churches
   4. Essential services                 4. Swimming pools
   5. Accessory uses                     5. Cemeteries
                                           6. Golf courses
                                           7. Water and sewage treatment plants
A-1 Agriculture-Residential District
   1. Agriculture                        1. Noncommercial recreational uses
   2. Single-family dwellings            2. Nursery schools
   3. Public and parochial schools       3. Hospitals and clinics
   4. Public parks and playgrounds       4. Public utility buildings
   5. Churches                           5. Swimming pools
   6. Essential services                 6. Fire stations
   7. Accessory uses                     7. Municipal buildings and libraries
                                           8. Planned unit residential projects
                                           9. Cemeteries
                                           10. Rest homes
                                           11. Mobile home parks
                                           12. Parking lots
                                           13. Golf courses
                                           14. Private clubs
                                           15. Home occupations
                                           16. Greenhouses
                                           17. Water and sewerage treatment
                                         plants
R-1 Residential District
   1. Single-family dwellings            1. Nursery schools
   2. Public and parochial schools       2. Hospitals and clinics
   3. Public parks and playgrounds       3. Public utility buildings
   4. Churches                           4. Swimming pools
   5. Essential services                 5. Fire stations
   6. Accessory uses                     6. Municipal buildings and libraries
   7. Golf courses*                      7. Planned unit residential projects
                                           8. Private clubs
                                           9. Parking lots
                                           10. Home occupations
                                           11. Cemeteries
R-2 Residential District
   1. Single-family dwellings            1. Nursery schools
   2. Two-family dwellings               2. Hospitals and clinics
   3. Public and parochial schools       3. Public utility buildings
   4. Churches                           4. Swimming pools
   5. Public parks and playgrounds       5. Fire stations
   6. Essential services                 6. Municipal buildings and libraries
   7. Accessory uses                     7. Planned unit residential projects
   8. Three-family dwellings             8. Multiple-family dwellings
                                           9. Rest homes
                                           10. Private clubs
                                           11. Parking lots
                                           12. Home occupations
                                           13. Funeral homes
B-1 Business District
   1. Retail businesses                  1. Research laboratories
   2. Eating and drinking establishmen   2. Theaters
   3. Offices and banks                  3. Planned unit business projects
   4. Personal and professional servic   4. Multiple-family dwellings
   5. Fire stations and municipal        5. Single-family dwellings
buildings
   6. Public parks                       6. Automobile sales, service, and
                                         repair
   7. Parking lots                       7. Wholesale business
   8. Essential services                 8. Hotels and motels
   9. Accessory uses                     9. Commercial schools
                                           11. Public utility buildings
                                           10. Commercial recreation
                                           12. Printing shops
                                           13. Churches
                                           14. Public and parochial schools
                                           15. Cleaners and laundries
                                           16. Light glass manufacturing
                                           17. Private clubs
                                           18. Clinics
B-2 Business District
   1. Retail business                    1. Theaters
   2. Eating and drinking establishmen   2. Supply yards
   3. Offices and banks                  3. Commercial recreation
   4. Personal and professional servic   4. Planned unit business projects
   5. Fire stations and municipal        5. Dairies
buildings
   6. Public utility buildings           6. Single-family dwellings
   7. Parking lots                       7. Multiple-family dwellings
   8. Public parks                       8. Wholesale businesses
   9. Accessory uses                     9. Printing shops
   10. Essential services                10. Warehouses
   11. Automobile sales, service, and    11. Commercial schools
repair
   12. Hotels and motels                 12. Churches
   13. Cleaners and laundries            13. Public and parochial schools
   14. Mobile home sales                 14. Hospitals and clinics
                                           15. Funeral homes
                                           16. Farm implement sale, service,
                                         repair
                                           17. Mobile home parks
                                           18. Junk or salvage yards
                                           19. Light glass manufacturing
                                           20. Private clubs
I-1 Industrial District
   1. Research and testing laboratorie   1. Motels
   2. Offices                            2. Planned unit industrial projects
   3. Warehouses                         3. Restaurants
   4. Parking lots                       4. Truck and railroad terminals
   5. Light industrial                   5. Supply yards
   6. Essential services                 6. Agriculture
   7. Accessory uses                     7. Fire stations and municipal
                                         buildings
   8. Wholesale businesses               8. Water-sewage treatment plants
                                           9. Grain elevators
                                           10. Junk or salvage yards
NOTES TO TABLE:
*GOLF COURSE means an area of land no less than 120 acres and yard improvements
that are predominately used to play the game of golf. A GOLF COURSE consists of
18 holes, each consisting of a teeing area, fair-way, rough, and other hazards
and the green with the pin and cup.
 
(Prior Code, § 153.24) (Ord. 1614, passed 10-20-2014; Ord. 2016-46, passed 12-
19-2016; Ord. CC 2019-008, passed 10-21-2019)
§ 155.19 LOT AND YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The minimum lot area, minimum width of lot, minimum depth of front
yard, minimum width of each side yard, and minimum depth of rear yard for each
district shall be as shown on the following table.
         Minimum Lot Minimum Lot Minimum Lot Minimum     Minimum    Minimum
District Area (Sq.   Area Per    Width       Depth Front Width Side Depth Rear
         Ft.)        Family (Sq. (Feet)      Yard (Feet) Yard       Yard
                     Ft.)                                (Feet)*    (Feet)*
         Minimum Lot Minimum Lot Minimum Lot Minimum     Minimum    Minimum
District Area (Sq.   Area Per    Width       Depth Front Width Side Depth Rear
         Ft.)        Family (Sq. (Feet)      Yard (Feet) Yard       Yard
                     Ft.)                                (Feet)*    (Feet)*
A-1      40,000      40,000      150         40          20         20
         3,000 for
B-1      comm. use   4,000       30          0           0          0
         4,000 for
         res. use
B-2      5,000       5,000       50          20          10         5
C-1      40,000      40,000      150         40          20         20
I-1      20,000      N/A         100         30          20         10
R-1      5,500       10,000      70          35          10         10
R-2      4,000       3,500       45          30          8          10
NOTES TO TABLE:
* Principal structure.
 
   (B)   Lots which abut on more than one street shall provide the required
front yards along every street.
   (C)   No portion of a principal structure, whether open or enclosed;
including garages, porches, carports, balconies, roofs, or platforms above
normal grade level; shall project into any minimum front, side, or rear yard.
Accessory structures may be located within five feet of the side and rear
property lines.
   (D)   Any lot of record existing at the effective date of this chapter and
then held in separate ownership different from the adjoining lots may be used
for the erection of a structure conforming to the use or regulations of the
district in which it is located even though its area and width are less than
the minimum requirements of this chapter.
   (E)   In any residential district where at least 25% of the lots in a block
are occupied by existing residential structures, the minimum depth of a front
yard may be the average of the depths of the front yards of the existing
residential structures.
   (F)   (1)   In any business or industrial district hereafter or in any
district area where there exists a junk yard, salvage yard, or automobile
wrecking yard, at the time of adopting this section, the junk yard, salvage
yard, or auto wrecking yard must be completely surrounded by a suitable solid
fence or wall at least eight feet in height which shall be continuously
maintained by the owner and/or operator.
      (2)   Any and all automobile wrecking yards, junkyards, or salvage yards
which are not enclosed and are in existence at the time of the passing of this
section shall be surrounded by solid fencing or walls within 180 days of the
passage of this section; the fencing or wall is to comply with the requirements
set forth herein. In the alternative, said junk, salvage, or auto wrecking yard
shall be cleared and all such items of junk or salvage removed within the 180-
day period. Each day that a condition of noncompliance exists hereunder shall
constitute a violation under §
155.54.
      (3)   Prior to the erection of any fence or wall to be built to comply
herewith, the responsible party building said wall or fence shall submit the
specifications of type of fence or wall and materials to be utilized in the
erection thereof to the City Building Commissioner for a certificate of
appropriateness prior to proceeding with the construction thereof.
(Prior Code, § 153.25) (Ord. 907, passed 9-15-1969; Ord. 1213, passed 8-3-1987;
Ord. 2022-001-C, passed 6-20-2022)
§ 155.20 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No principal structure shall exceed 35 feet in height above average
ground level, and no accessory building shall exceed 16 feet in height above
ground level unless approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (B)   The Board may authorize a variance to this height regulation in any
district if:
      (1)   All front and side yard depths are increased one foot for each
additional foot of height; or
      (2)   The structure is any of the following and does not constitute a
hazard to an established airport: television and radio towers, church spires,
belfries, monuments, tanks, water and fire towers, stage towers and scenery
lots, cooling towers, ornamental towers and spires, chimneys, silos, elevator
bulkheads, smokestacks, conveyors, and flagpoles.
(Prior Code, § 153.26) (Ord. 907, passed 9-15-1969)
§ 155.21 FLOOR AREA.
   No residential structure shall be erected or altered so that its floor area
is less than 750 square feet, exclusive of porches, terraces, garages, and
exterior stairs. Mobile homes shall have a floor area of at least 500 square
feet.
(Prior Code, § 153.27) (Ord. 907, passed 9-15-1969)
§ 155.22 NONCONFORMING USES.
   The following provisions shall apply to all nonconforming uses.
   (A)   A nonconforming use may be continued but may not be extended,
expanded, or changed, unless to a conforming use, except as permitted by the
Board of Zoning Appeals in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Any nonconforming structure damaged by fire, flood, explosion, or
other casualty may be reconstructed and used as before if such reconstruction
is performed within 12 months of such casualty and if the restored structure
has no greater coverage and contains no greater cubic content than before such
casualty.
   (C)   In the event that any nonconforming use conducted in a structure or
otherwise ceases, for whatever reason, for any period of one year or is
abandoned for any period, such nonconforming use shall not be resumed.
(Prior Code, § 153.28) (Ord. 907, passed 9-15-1969)
§ 155.23 ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   Accessory uses and structures such as private garages, tool sheds,
fences, retaining walls, and landscaping are permitted in all districts in
conjunction with a primary use or structure provided the accessory use does not
change the character of the district in which it is located.
   (B)   The accessory structures authorized hereunder shall not include
trailers, mobile homes, or any other structure or containment system originally
created or manufactured for some purpose other than that purpose for which the
accessory use is intended. Accessory uses require a permit prior to
construction or placement.
      (1)   Fences may be permitted as an accessory use upon the following.
         (a)   Fences may not be greater than eight feet in height and must be
oriented such that the non-exposed post side, good side, of the fence will face
outward from the property.
         (b)   No fence shall be constructed so as to obstruct or restrict
vehicular line of sight to a street or an intersection.
         (c)   If the location of the fence is agreed upon by the neighbor
regarding the location of such fence with the property line, a written
statement to that fact must be furnished to the Building Commissioner.
         (d)   If the property line is not established, a survey must be
obtained.
         (e)   If the property line is established and the neighbor disagrees
with the location of the property line, said fence must be set back four to six
inches from the property line.
         (f)   Prior to acquiring a building permit, a drawing/sketch must be
provided to the Building Commissioner to show the location of the fence in
regard to the property line.
         (g)   Nothing contained herein shall be construed to add to or detract
from state law regarding adverse possession and/or acquiescence.
         (h)   All fencing must receive a permit regardless of the cost of the
project.
      (2)   A private swimming pool may be permitted as an accessory use if it
is surrounded by a wall or fence at least five feet high so as to prevent
uncontrolled access by children.
   (C)   A mobile home may be permitted as an accessory use in the A-1 district
if it is in conjunction with an existing permanent dwelling unit situated on at
least one acre of land and if the mobile home is occupied by a relative or
employee of the family resident in the permanent dwelling unit.
(Ord. 1564, passed 8-2-2010).
§ 155.24 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   (A)   Off-street parking.
      (1)   Off-street parking spaces shall be provided in accordance with the
specifications in this section in all districts (except the B-1, Business
District) whenever any new use is established or existing use is enlarged.
Use Parking Spaces Required
Use                                     Parking Spaces Required
Bowling alleys                          5 for each alley
Church and school                       1 per 6 seats in principal assembly
                                        room
Hospitals and rest homes                1 per 3 beds and 1 for each 2 employees
                                        on the maximum shift
Hotels and motels                       1 for each living or sleeping unit
Industrial                              1 for each two employees on the maximum
                                        working shift
Private club or lodge                   1 per 4 members
Professional offices, wholesale houses, 1 for every 250 sq. ft. of floor space
and medical clinics
Recreational or assembly places, like
dance halls and night clubs, and        1 for every 100 sq. ft. of floor space
funeral homes
Residential                             2 per dwelling unit
Retail businesses, eating and drinking
places, and personal service            1 for every 100 sq. ft. of floor space
establishments
Theater                                 1 per 4 seats
 
      (2)   Parking spaces may be located on a lot other than that containing
the principal use with the approval of the Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (3)   Any off-street parking lot for more than five vehicles shall be
graded for proper drainage and surfaced so as to provide a durable and dustless
surface.
      (4)   Any lighting used to illuminate any off-street parking lot shall be
so arranged as to reflect the light away from adjoining premises in any
residential district.
(Prior Code, § 153.30)
   (B)   Off-street loading. Every building which requires the receipt of
distribution by vehicles of material or merchandise shall provide off-street
loading berths of a size and arrangement appropriate for the types of vehicles
utilizing this space. In no case will loading or unloading be permitted within
the public rights-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 153.37)
(Ord. 907, passed 9-15-1969)
§ 155.25 MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   Mobile home parks, where permitted, shall be in accordance with the Mobile
Home Parks Act of 1955, as amended; the State Board of Health regulations, as
amended; and the requirements of this section.
   (A)   The minimum area of a mobile home park shall be five acres.
   (B)   Each mobile home site within the mobile home park shall have a minimum
area of 3,600 square feet.
   (C)   Each mobile home site shall have a minimum width of 40 feet.
   (D)   Not less than 10% of the gross area of the mobile home park shall be
improved for recreational activities for the residents of the park.
   (E)   The mobile home park shall be appropriately landscaped and screened
from adjacent properties.
   (F)   The mobile home park shall meet all applicable requirements of
Chapter 153.
   (G)   Coin-operated laundries, laundry and dry-cleaning pick-up stations,
and other commercial convenience establishments may be permitted in mobile home
parks provided they meet the following requirements.
      (1)   They are subordinate to the residential character of the park.
      (2)   They are located, designed, and intended to serve only the needs of
persons living in the park.
      (3)   The establishments and the parking areas related to their use shall
not occupy more than 10% of the total area of the park.
      (4)   The establishments shall present no visible evidence of their
commercial nature to areas outside the park.
   (H)   Each mobile home site shall be provided with a stand consisting of
either a solid concrete slab or two concrete ribbons of a thickness and size
adequate to support the maximum anticipated loads during all seasons. When
concrete ribbons are used, the area between the ribbons shall be filled with a
layer of crushed rock.
(Prior Code, § 153.31) (Ord. 907, passed 9-15-1969)
§ 155.26 MANUFACTURED HOUSING.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      MANUFACTURED HOME. A dwelling unit fabricated on or after June 15, 1976,
in an off-site manufacturing facility for installation or assembly at the
building site bearing a seal certifying that it is built in compliance with the
federal Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Code, being 24
C.F.R. part 3280, or I.C. 22-11-1-1, as promulgated by the State Administrative
Building Council (now repealed and superseded by I.C. 22-12-2).
      MANUFACTURED HOUSING CONSTRUCTION AND SAFETY STANDARDS CODE. Title IV of
the 1974 Housing and Community Development Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq., as
amended (previously known as the Federal Mobile Home Construction and Safety
Act), and the rules and regulations adopted thereunder which include the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development-approved information supplied by
the home manufacturer and regulations and interpretations of said code by the
State Administrative Building Council.
      ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY DWELLING CODE, STATE. The mandatory statewide
Building Code adopted by the State Administrative Building Council for one- and
two-family residential dwellings.
      SECTION. A unit of manufactured home at least 14 feet in width and 30
body feet in length.
      SPECIAL EXCEPTION PERMIT. A device for permitting a use within a district
other than a principally permitted one.
   (B)   Compatibility standards for manufactured housing.
      (1)   The main body of the house shall be a rectangle.
      (2)   The main roof shall be pitched rather than flat.
      (3)   The house shall face the street and, ordinarily, the long axis
shall be parallel to the street.
      (4)   The exterior walls shall look like wood or masonry regardless of
their actual composition.
      (5)   The main roof shall be shingled.
      (6)   The foundation shall form a complete enclosure under exterior
walls.
      (7)   Apparent bulk shall be about the same throughout the neighborhood.
An occasional larger house shall be permitted, but none shall be permitted that
look substantially smaller than the general run.
   (C)   Permitted placement. The establishment, location, and use of
manufactured homes as scattered-site residences shall be permitted in any zone
permitting installation of a dwelling unit subject to requirements and
limitations applying generally to residential uses in the district and provided
those homes shall meet the following requirements and limitations.
      (1)   The home shall meet all requirements applicable to single-family
dwellings and possess all necessary improvements, building and occupancy
permits, and other certification required by this chapter.
      (2)   The home shall be of double-section construction and meet the
minimum square footage requirements for the appropriate zone.
      (3)   The home shall be attached and anchored to a permanent foundation
in conformance with the regulations in the state’s One- and Two-Family Dwelling
Code and with the manufacturer’s installation specifications.
      (4)   The home shall be covered with an exterior material customarily
used on site-built residential dwellings. The material shall extend over the
top of the foundation or meet the city’s site-built residential dwelling home
standards.
      (5)   The home shall have a roof composed of a material customarily used
on site-built residential dwellings; such as asbestos, fiberglass, shake,
asphalt, or tile; which shall be installed onto a surface appropriately pitched
for the materials used.
   (D)   Placement with permit. Any person placing manufactured housing in R-
1 and R-2 districts shall obtain a special exception permit from the Board of
Zoning Appeals.
   (E)   Removal. Any home sited upon property in violation of this section
shall be subject to removal from such property. However, the home owner shall
be given a reasonable opportunity to bring the property into compliance with
this section before the home is removed. If the home is removed, all expenses
incurred shall constitute a lien against the property.
   (F)   Removal method. The Commission or its designated administrator may
institute a suit in an appropriate court for injunctive relief to cause any
violation to be prevented, abated, or removed.
(Prior Code, § 153.32) (Ord. 907, passed 9-15-1969) Penalty, see §
155.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 22-11-1-1 and 22-12-2
§ 155.27 PLANNED UNIT RESIDENTIAL, BUSINESS, AND INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS.
   (A)    Planned unit developments shall be reviewed, approved, and amended in
accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-1501, et. al.
   (B)   Planned unit developments are intended to encourage original and
imaginative development and/or subdivision design which preserve the natural
amenities of the site and provide for the general welfare of the city.
   (C)   After the planned unit development is approved, all development,
construction, design standards, and use shall be in accordance with that plan,
unless the plan is subsequently amended in accordance with Indiana law.
   (D)   Planned unit development requirements shall include:
      (1)   Properties adjacent to the unit plan shall not be adversely
affected.
      (2)   In planned unit residential projects, the minimum lot and front/
side yard requirements may be reduced; however, the average density of dwelling
units in the total unit plan shall not be higher than that permitted in the
district in which the plan is located.
      (3)   In planned unit business and industrial projects, the minimum lot
and front/side yard requirements may be reduced; however, the total land area
of the unit plan shall equal the accumulative lot area requirements of each use
or structure contained within the unit plan.
      (4)   When possible, the unit plan shall seek to reserve land suitable
for the common use of the public or the owners in a particular development.
This may be accomplished by dedication, covenant, or easement. This land may be
for future public facilities, for recreational or scenic open space, or for a
landscaped buffer zone as approved by the Plan Commission.
      (5)   The use of the land shall not differ substantially from the uses
permitted in the district in which the plan is located except that limited
business facilities intended to serve only the planned unit residential project
area and fully integrated into the design of the project may be considered, and
multiple-family dwellings may be considered in single-family residential
districts if they are so designed and sited that they do not detract from the
character of the neighborhood in which they occur.
      (6)   The unit plan shall be consistent with the purpose of this chapter.
   (E)   Any development contrary to the approved unit plan shall constitute a
violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 153.33) (Ord. 907, passed 9-15-1969; Ord. 2024-004-C, passed 3-
18-2024)  Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.28 TEMPORARY STRUCTURES.
   Temporary structures used in conjunction with construction work, seasonal
sales, or emergencies may be permitted by the Board of Zoning Appeals if the
proposed site is acceptable and neighboring uses are not adversely affected.
They shall be removed promptly when their function has been fulfilled. Permits
for temporary structures may be issued for a period not to exceed six months.
Residing in basement or foundation structures shall not be permitted.
(Prior Code, § 153.34)
§ 155.29 SIGNS.
   (A)   In any district, a sign not exceeding two square feet in surface size
is permitted which announces the name, address, or professional activity of the
occupant of the premises on which said sign is located.
   (B)   A bulletin board not exceeding 24 square feet is permitted in
connection with any church, school, or similar public building.
   (C)   A temporary real estate or construction sign of reasonable size is
permitted on the property being sold, leased, or developed. Such sign shall be
removed promptly when it has fulfilled its function.
   (D)   Business signs shall be permitted in connection with any legal
business or industry when located on the same premises and if they meet the
following requirements.
      (1)   Signs shall not contain information or advertising for any product
not sold or produced on the premises.
      (2)   Signs shall not have an aggregate surface size greater than five
square feet for each foot of width of the principal structure on the premises.
      (3)   Signs shall not project over public rights-of-way.
      (4)   Signs shall not be illuminated in any manner which causes undue
distraction, confusion, or hazard to vehicular traffic.
   (E)   Fees for displaying permanent signs are based on current state-
approved amounts and/or as set by City Council from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 153.35) (Ord. 1256, passed 3-5-1990; Ord. 1367, passed 11-18-
1996; Ord. 1565, passed 8-2-2010)
§ 155.30 ADVERTISING SIGNS.
   (A)   Definition. OFF-PREMISES OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGN is a sign, including
the supporting sign structure, which is visible from a street or highway and
advertises goods or services not usually located on the premises and/or
property upon which the sign is located; also called a BILLBOARD. The following
shall not be considered an OFF-PREMISES SIGN for the purposes of this section:
      (1)   Directional or official signs authorized by law;
      (2)   Real estate signs; and
      (3)   On-premises signs (those physically located on the owner’s
property).
   (B)   General provisions. There shall be no off-premises outdoor advertising
signs within the city except as provided herein.
   (C)   Legal, nonconforming advertising. An off-premises, outdoor advertising
sign and supporting structure which is located within the city on the date of
the adoption of this section is eligible for characterization as a legal,
nonconforming advertising structure and is permitted provided it also meets the
following requirements.
      (1)   The off-premises, outdoor advertising sign and its supporting
structure was, in all respects, in conformity with all applicable laws prior to
the adoption of this section.
      (2)   The individual advertising structure has been at its particular
location for the duration of its normal life, subject to customary maintenance.
      (3)   A pre-existing advertising structure covered by a grandfather
clause which does not comply with the provisions of this chapter has the status
of legally nonconforming sign.
      (4)   Any nonconforming sign which does not fit the definition of a
legal, nonconforming sign is an unlawful sign. Subject to the provisions
hereunder, a legal, nonconforming sign shall retain such status subject to
normal maintenance and reduction.
      (5)   A legally nonconforming, off-premises, outdoor advertising sign
shall immediately lose its nonconforming designation if one or more of the
following conditions are met.
         (a)   The advertising structure is relocated.
         (b)   More than 60% of the complete advertising structure is destroyed
or replaced.
         (c)   The condition under which the advertising structure was placed
has expired such as the termination of its lease.
         (d)   The advertising structure is not kept in good repair and/or in
safe condition or ceases to display advertising matter and said conditions
continue for six months.
         (e)   The advertising structure is altered to the following extent:
            1.   Sign face is increased;
            2.   Size of the advertising structure is increased; and
            3.   Use changes.
      (6)   In order to maintain and continue a legally nonconforming
advertising structure, the following conditions apply.
         (a)   The advertising sign structure must have been actually in
existence, as distinguished from contemplated, at the time this section became
effective (such as a lease or agreement with the property owner) and must
continue to be lawfully maintained.
         (b)   If a legally nonconforming advertising structure or portion of a
structure becomes physically unsafe or unlawful by reason of physical
condition, it shall not thereafter be restored, repaired, or rebuilt.
         (c)   The advertising structure must remain substantially the same as
it was on the effective date with the provisions of this section as amended.
Reasonable repair and maintenance of the advertising sign structure, including
a change of advertising message, is not a change which would terminate
nonconforming rights.
         (d)   The legally nonconforming advertising structure and/or sign may
be sold, leased, or otherwise transferred without affecting its status, but its
location may not be changed.
         (e)   A legally nonconforming advertising sign structure removed as a
result of a right-of-way taking or for any other lawful government purpose may
be relocated, as approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals but cannot be
reestablished at a new location as a nonconforming use.
         (f)   On any legally nonconforming advertising structure or portion of
a structure containing a nonconforming sign, work may be done in any period of
12-consecutive months on ordinary repairs or on repair or replacement to an
extent not to exceed 10% of the annual replacement cost of the legally
nonconforming advertising structure or legally nonconforming portion of the
structure, whichever the case may be, provided that the sign area existing when
it became legally nonconforming shall not be increased.
         (g)   Any and all permits issued pursuant to this chapter shall be
renewed every six months on or before the anniversary date of the prior permit.
      (7)   As an exception, the legally nonconforming advertising structure
may continue as long as it is not destroyed, abandoned, or discontinued. An
exception may be made for a nonconforming advertising structure destroyed due
to vandalism and other criminal or tortious acts.
         (a)   Any legally nonconforming advertising structure which, for a
designated period of time of six months, displays obsolete advertising matter
or is without advertising matter or is in need of substantial repair may
constitute abandonment or discontinuance. Similarly, a nonconforming
advertising structure damaged in excess of 60% of its replacement cost shall be
considered destroyed.
         (b)   Where an existing legally nonconforming advertising structure
ceases to display advertising matter for a period of six months and where new
content is not put on a structure within 30 days after the passage of the
designated period of time of six months, the use of the structure as a
nonconforming outdoor advertising sign structure is terminated and shall
constitute an abandonment or discontinuance. This established period may be
waived for an involuntary discontinuance such as the closing of a local road or
state highway for repair in front of the advertising sign structure.
   (D)   Variances.
      (1)   The Board of Zoning Appeals is authorized to grant variances from
the exclusion of off-premises signs upon facts and circumstances as they deem
appropriate on a per-application basis at a non-refundable cost based on
current state-approved amounts and/or as set by City Council from time to time.
Any variance granted herein shall be valid for only one year unless renewed
with a non-refundable renewal fee based on current state-approved amounts and/
or as set by City Council from time to time. Additionally, it is a general
statement of policy that off-premises signs should not be closer to each other
than 1,500 feet.
      (2)   Any application for a variance authorized pursuant to this division
(D)(2) shall be accompanied by an INDOT permit, if the location is to be on a
state highway, together with a copy of the lease from the landlord granting the
applicant permission to place a sign at that particular location.
(Ord. 1545, passed 6-1-2009)
§ 155.31 HOME OCCUPATION.
   A home occupation may be permitted as a special exception if it complies
with the requirements of this section.
   (A)   The home occupation shall be carried on by a member of the family
residing in the dwelling unit with not more than one employee who is not part
of the family.
   (B)   The home occupation shall be carried on wholly within the principal or
accessory structures.
   (C)   Exterior displays or signs other than those permitted under §
155.29(A), exterior storage of materials, and exterior indication of the home
occupation or variation from the residential character of the principal
structure shall not be permitted.
   (D)   Objectionable noise, vibration, smoke, dust, electrical disturbance,
odors, heat, or glare shall not be produced.
   (E)   The home occupation shall not create any traffic or parking problems.
(Prior Code, § 153.36) (Ord. 907, passed 9-15-1969)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 155.45 BUILDING COMMISSIONER.
   The Building Commissioner shall:
   (A)   Administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   Issue improvement location permits;
   (C)   Maintain a permanent file of all improvement location permits and
applications as public records; and
   (D)   Inspect all city-owned buildings at six-month intervals and make
recommendations to the Mayor concerning any needed maintenance or repair.
(Prior Code, § 153.50) (Ord. 907, passed 9-15-1969; Ord. 1156, passed 8-1-1983)
§ 155.46 IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMITS.
   (A)   An improvement location permit shall be obtained before any person
(contractors and builders as well as owners) may:
      (1)   Occupy or use any vacant land;
      (2)   Occupy or use any structure hereafter constructed, reconstructed,
moved, or enlarged;
      (3)   Change the use of structure or land to a different use;
      (4)   Change a nonconforming use;
      (5)   Begin to remodel, alter, repair, replace, or enlarge the interior
structure or finish an existing building;
      (6)   Begin to alter, replace, relocate, or add to a plumbing, heating,
or electrical system;
      (7)   Begin demolition of any structure; or
      (8)   Begin the erection of a fence.
   (B)   An application for an improvement location permit shall be accompanied
by a plot plan showing clearly and completely the location, dimensions, and
nature of any structure involved and such other information as the Building
Commissioner may require for administration of this chapter together with
filing fees based on current state-approved amounts and/or as set by City
Council from time to time.
   (C)   There shall be a late fee based on current state-approved amounts and/
or as set by City Council from time to time should construction of any
structure or thing begin prior to obtaining the required permit. Additionally,
the construction of any structure or thing without a permit for which one is
required herein shall constitute a nuisance, pursuant to Chapter 93, and shall
be subject to the sanctions and remedies provided for therein.
(Ord. 1566, passed 8-2-2010)
§ 155.47 METHOD OF APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved or affected by any provision of this chapter or by any
decision of the Building Commissioner may appeal to the Board of Zoning Appeals
within a reasonable time, as provided by the rules of the Board, by filing a
notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. Every decision of the Board
shall be subject to review by certiorari.
(Prior Code, § 153.52) (Ord. 907, passed 9-15-1969)
§ 155.48 ZONING PETITION AND CERTIFICATION FEES.
   (A)   Fees for the filing of zoning petitions and certificates are based on
current state-approved amounts and/or as set by City Council from time to time.
   (B)   No part of any filing fee for re-zoning, special exceptions, or
variances shall be returnable to the applicant. All monies shall be payable to
Clerk-Treasurer and shall be deposited according to procedures established by
the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 153.53) (Ord. 1257, passed 3-5-1990)
§ 155.49 BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   (A)   In accordance with state law, the Mayor shall appoint and organize a
Board of Zoning Appeals which shall adopt rules to govern its procedure. The
Board shall hold meetings, keep minutes, and, pursuant to notice, conduct
hearings, compel the attendance of witnesses, take testimony, and render
decisions in writing, all as required by law. A fee shall be charged for any
appeal or proceeding filed with the Board in accordance with a schedule of fees
established by the Board.
   (B)   The Board shall have the power to hear and decide appeals from any
order, requirement, decision, grant, or refusal made by the Building
Commissioner in the administration of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 153.60) (Ord. 907, passed 9-15-1969)
§ 155.50 VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Board, upon appeal, shall have the power to authorize variances
from the requirements of this chapter and to attach such conditions to the
variances as it deems necessary to assure compliance with the purpose of this
chapter.
   (B)   A variance may be permitted if all the following requirements are met:
      (1)   Literal enforcement of the chapter would result in an unnecessary
hardship with respect to the property;
      (2)   Such unnecessary hardship results because of unique characteristics
of the property; and
      (3)   The variance observes the spirit of this chapter, produces
substantial justice, and is not contrary to the public interest.
(Prior Code, § 153.61) (Ord. 907, passed 9-15-1969)
§ 155.51 SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Board shall have the power to authorize special exceptions if the
following requirements are met.
      (1)   The special exception shall be listed as such in §
155.18 for the district requested.
      (2)   The special exception shall not involve any element or cause any
condition that may be dangerous, injurious, or noxious to any other property or
persons and shall comply with the performance standards of division (B) below.
      (3)   The special exception shall be sited, oriented, and landscaped to
produce a harmonious relationship of buildings and grounds to adjacent
buildings and properties.
      (4)   The special exception shall produce a total visual impression and
environment which is consistent with the environment of the neighborhood.
      (5)   The special exception shall organize vehicular access and parking
to minimize traffic congestion in the neighborhood.
      (6)   The special exception shall preserve the purpose of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 153.62)
   (B)   All special exceptions shall comply with the requirements of this
section. In order to determine whether a proposed use will conform to the
requirements of this chapter, the Board may also obtain a qualified consultant
to testify whose cost for services shall be borne by the applicant.
      (1)   Fire protection. Fire prevention and fighting equipment acceptable
to the Fire Department of the city shall be readily available when any activity
involving the handling or storage of flammable or explosive materials is
carried on.
      (2)   Electrical disturbance. No activity shall cause electrical
disturbance adversely affecting radio or other equipment in the vicinity.
      (3)   Noise. Noise which is determined to be objectionable because of
volume, frequency, or beat shall be muffled or otherwise controlled; except,
fire sirens and related apparatus used solely for public purposes shall be
exempt from this requirement.
      (4)   Vibrations. Vibrations detectable without instruments on
neighboring property in any district shall be prohibited.
      (5)   Odors. No malodorous gas or matter shall be permitted which is
discernible on any adjoining lot or property.
      (6)   Air pollution. No pollution of air by fly ash, dust, smoke, vapors,
or other substance shall be permitted which is harmful to health, animals,
vegetation, or property.
      (7)   Glare. Lighting devices which produce objectionable direct or
reflected glare on adjoining properties or thoroughfares shall not be
permitted.
      (8)   Erosion. No erosion by wind or water shall be permitted which will
carry objectionable substances onto neighboring properties.
      (9)   Water pollution. Water pollution shall be subject to the standards
established by the State Stream Pollution Control Board.
(Prior Code, § 153.63)
(Ord. 907, passed 9-15-1969)
§ 155.52 AUTHORIZATION OF NONCONFORMING USES.
   The Board shall have the power to authorize changes of lawful nonconforming
uses as follows.
   (A)   A nonconforming use which occupies a portion of a structure or
premises may be extended within such structure or premises as they existed when
the prohibitory provision took effect but not in violation of the area and yard
requirements of the district in which such structures or premises are located.
No change of a nonconforming use shall entail structural alterations or any
additions other than those required by law for the purpose of safety and
health.
   (B)   The Board may impose such conditions as it deems necessary for the
protection of adjacent property and the public interest.
(Prior Code, § 153.64) (Ord. 907, passed 9-15-1969)
§ 155.53 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Introduce and consider amendments. The Council may introduce and
consider amendments to this chapter and to the Zone Maps, as proposed by
Council, by the Plan Commission or by a petition by the owners of 50% or more
of the area involved in the petition.
   (B)   Petitions. Petitions for amendment shall be filed with the City Clerk-
Treasurer, and the petitioner, upon such filing, shall, whether or not the
proposed amendment is enacted, pay all costs and expenses connected with the
petition including the drafting, advertising, and recording of the code.
   (C)   Referral. Any proposed amendment not originating from the Plan
Commission shall be referred to the Plan Commission for consideration and
report before any final action is taken by the Council. The Plan Commission
shall hold a public hearing, as prescribed by law, and report its findings and
recommendations in writing to the Council within such reasonable time after the
public hearing as the Council may specify in the referring action.
   (D)   Action. After receiving the Plan Commission’s report, the Common
Council may proceed to take action on the proposed amendment. In the event the
report of the Plan Commission is adverse to the proposed amendment, the
amendment ordinance shall not be passed except by an affirmative vote of at
least 75% of the members of the Council. Failure of the Council to pass such
proposed amendment ordinance by said affirmative vote within 90 days after its
rejection by the Plan Commission shall constitute rejection of the proposed
amendments, and it shall not be reconsidered by the Plan Commission or Council
until the expiration of one year after the date of its original rejection by
the Plan Commission.
(Prior Code, § 153.65)
§ 155.54 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to locate, erect, construct, reconstruct, enlarge,
change, maintain, or use any structure or land in violation of this chapter or
any regulation enacted hereunder by the Plan Commission. The Plan Commission or
Board of Zoning appeals may institute a suit for a mandatory injunction
directing the removal of a structure erected in violation of this chapter or
the removal of other materials existing in violation of this chapter including
junk or salvage. Any structure or use that violates this chapter shall be
deemed to be a common nuisance, and the owner or any person with an ownership
interest in said property, including a lessor as well as the operator of any
business upon such real estate in violation of this chapter, shall be liable
for maintaining a common nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 153.98) (Ord. 907, passed 9-15-1969; Ord. 1213, passed 8-1-1987)
Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, whether owner, individual with an ownership interest,
lessor, or operator of a business who violates any provision of this chapter
for which no other penalty is set forth shall be guilty of an infraction and,
upon conviction or judgment, shall be fined by a fine based on current state-
approved amounts and/or as set by City Council from time to time. Each day the
violation continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense and
violation for which assessment of penalty may accrue.
   (B)   Each day a violation of the provisions of §
155.26 continues constitutes a separate and distinct code violation. A fine
based on current state-approved amounts and/or as set by City Council from time
to time may be assessed for violation of said section.
(Prior Code, § 153.99) (Ord. 907, passed 9-15-1969; Ord. 1213, passed 8-1-1987)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   AGREEMENTS
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS
      
III.   VACATIONS
      
IV.   STREET NAME CHANGES
      
V.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
      
VI.   FRANCHISES
      
VII.   ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
TABLE I: AGREEMENTS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Res. 86-3     - - 1986    Grant Agreement No. C-86-001 with the Indiana
                          Department of Commerce.
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
1255  2-5-   Annexing 1.26 acres of land known as Lot No. 1 in Mini- Plat No. 146.
      1990
1259  5-7-   Annexing certain property owned by the Alexandria First Baptist Church,
      1990   containing approximately 6.00 acres of land.
1274  - -    Annexing certain property owned by Equity One Inc. and Roselynn L.
      1991   Brown, containing approximately 5.298 acres of land.
1618  6-15-  Annexing 8201 North State Road 9 and 8239 North State Road 9.
      2015
16-35 8-15-  Annexing Lots No. 1, 2, and 3 in Block No. 2 in Edward C. Ward’s First
      2016   Addition.
2017- 8-7-   Annexing 6.166 acres of land incorporated in Council District 1.
121   2017
CC-   10-15- Annexing property owned by Ultimate Ethanol, LLC containing 224.863
2018- 2018   acres and 981 East 1300 North, containing five acres.
006
 
TABLE III: VACATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
1265          8-20-1990   Vacating a platted alley running from Grant Street on
                          the south to State Road 28 on the north.
                          Closing the east end of the alley running between
1362          11-4-1996   Polk Street and Tyler Street, which portion of said
                          alley intersects with Harrison Street.
                          Vacating two alleys, one beginning at Lot 381 and the
1470          8-2-2004    other at Lot 376, vesting title thereto in the Roman
                          Catholic Diocese of Lafayette.
                          Vacating an alley beginning at the southeast corner
1471          8-2-2004    of Lot 51 in Williams and Walkers Riverview Addition
                          and vesting thereto in H. and R. Justice.
                          Vacating two streets, one beginning at the southwest
1480          1-18-2005   corner and the other at the northwest corner of Lot
                          80.
1604          1-8-2014    Vacating unopened street beginning at Lot No. 320.
1625          12-21-2015  Vacating an alley containing 0.03 acre abutting
                          Midwest Classic Radio Cinema.
1629          6-20-2016   Vacating an alley containing 0.02 acre owned by Cox
                          Supermarkets Inc.
16-36         8-15-2016   Vacating an alley between Washington Street and Berry
                          Street and between Harrison Street and Canal Street.
2018-002      4-16-2018   Vacating public right-of-way containing 0.04 acre
                          beginning at Lot No. 470.
CC-O-2018-003 6-18-2018   Vacating a right-of-way containing 0.1 acre of land
                          beginning at Lot No. 106.
                         
 
TABLE IV: STREET NAME CHANGES
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
1619          6-15-2015   Pugh Street renamed Henry Brown Avenue from its point
                          of beginning to its terminus.
                          Pugh Street renamed Henry Brown Avenue from its point
2016-39       10-3-2016   of beginning at North State Road 9 to its point of
                          connection with E. Walter Street.
                         
 
TABLE V: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Rezoning Lots No. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 65, 66, 67, 68, 69,
1268          -           and 70 and adjacent property; Lots No. 207, 208, 209,
                          210, and 211; and part of vacated Broadway Street to
                          the I-1 District.
1260          6-4-1990    Rezoning certain property located on State Road 9
                          South to the B-2 District.
1508          1-16-2007   1015 Sullivan Street is rezoned from R-1 to B-2.
1544          5-4-2009    215 E. Water Street is rezoned from R-2 to B-1.
1560          6-7-2010    Jackson Street is rezoned from R-1 to B-2.
1567          9-20-2010   711 S. Black Street is rezoned from B-2 to R-1.
15-99         10-7-2013   Section 25, Township 21 North, Range 7 East is
                          rezoned from R-1 to B-2.
1601          10-21-2013  Lot No. 421 and the east-half of Lot No. 422 are
                          rezoned from R-2 to I-1.
2021-004-C    8 - -2021   Yule Golf Course is rezoned from R-1 to R-2.
                         
 
TABLE VI: FRANCHISES
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
1169          2-6-1984    Granting a franchise for a cable television system to
                          Horizon Telecommunications, Inc.
                          Renewal and extension of cable television franchise
1466          3-3-2004    to construct and operate a cable television system
                          with current franchise holder, Insight Communications
                          Midwest, LLC.
 
TABLE VII: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Establishing an economic development target area in
                          certain areas of Farrington Place, Green Valley
                          Estates, Timberlake Estates, Autumn Blaze, Downtown
1457          2-18-2003   Residential Alexandria, North Park Avenue, Central
                          Park Avenue, Park Avenue, South Park Avenue, Downtown
                          Alexandria, Al-Man, Towns of Alladin and Banner Rock,
                          Gimco City, and Sloss.
                         
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cite Code Section
I.C. Cite                     Code Section
1-1-1-5                       10.04
1-1-1-7                       10.12
1-1-1-8                       10.06
1-1-4-5                       10.05
1-1-5-1                       10.11
1-1-6-1                       10.08
4-21.5                        53.33
4-21.5-1-1 through 4-21.5-7-9 53.33
4-21.5-3-7                    91.58,
                              150.29
4-22                          53.33
4-22-2-0.1 through 4-22-10-5  53.33
5-2-8-6                       70.06
5-4-1-18                      31.02
5-11-10-1.6                   30.038
5-16-9                        72.20,
                              72.23
6-6-4.1-13(e)                 70.03
7.1-1-3-5                     73.40
8-1.5-3-3                     30.018
8-1.5-3-4                     30.018
8-1.5-5                       30.018
9-13-2-1                      70.03
9-13-2-2.5                    70.03
9-13-2-69.7                   73.20
9-13-2-105                    72.20
9-13-2-121                    70.03
9-13-2-188                    70.03
9-13-2-196                    70.03
9-14                          70.03
9-14.1                        70.03
9-17                          70.03
9-18.1-14-1                   73.41
9-18.1-14-11                  73.44
9-18.5-1                      72.23
9-18.5-5                      72.21,
                              72.23
9-18.5-8                      72.21,
                              72.23
                              72.20,
9-18.5-8-1                    72.21,
                              72.23
9-18.5-34                     92.01
9-20                          70.03
9-20 through 9-22             70.03
9-21                          70.03
9-21-1-3.3                    73.99
9-21-5-1(b)                   71.08
9-21-8-3                      70.03
9-21-13-5                     70.26
9-21-20-2                     70.03
9-21-20-3                     70.03
9-22                          70.03
9-22-1                        70.03
9-22-1-1                      92.01
9-22-1-4                      92.03
9-22-1-5                      92.04
9-22-1-11                     92.07
9-22-1-12                     92.08
9-22-1-13                     92.09
9-22-1-14                     92.10
9-22-1-17                     92.05
9-22-1-18                     92.06
9-22-1-19                     92.12
9-22-1-21                     92.14
9-22-1-31                     92.11
9-22-1-32                     92.15
9-25                          70.03
9-26-2-2                      70.23
9-26-2-3                      70.23
9-26-3-4                      70.23
9-30-5                        70.03
9-30-6                        70.03
9-30-8                        70.03
9-30-9                        70.03
13-18-27                      54.25
13-21-3-12(4)                 54.26
14-8-2                        70.03
14-8-2-185                    73.40
14-16-1-1.5                   73.40
14-16-1-4                     73.40
14-16-1-4 through 14-16-1-7   73.40
14-16-1-5                     73.40
14-16-1-6                     73.40
14-16-1-7                     73.40
14-16-1-20(a)                 73.45
14-16-1-20(b)                 73.43
14-16-1-20(c)                 73.42
14-16-1-21(a)                 73.44
14-16-1-21(b)                 73.44
14-16-1-23(a)                 73.46
14-16-1-23(b)                 73.46
14-16-1-33                    73.44
14-28-1                       154.45
14-32                         54.20
14-34                         54.23,
                              54.24
16-18-2-110                   70.03
22-9-1-4 et seq.              95.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.              95.01
22-9.5-2-2                    95.02
22-9.5-2-2 through 22-9.5-2-4 95.02
22-9.5-2-3                    95.02
22-9.5-2-4                    95.02
22-9.5-2-5                    95.02
22-9.5-2-8                    95.02
22-9.5-2-9                    95.02
22-9.5-2-11                   95.02
22-9.5-2-13                   95.02
22-9.5-3                      95.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.              95.09
22-9.5-4-8                    95.10
22-9.5-5                      95.02
22-9.5-5-1                    95.03
22-9.5-6                      95.02,
                              95.10
22-11-1-1                     155.26
22-11-14-1                    91.38
22-12-2                       155.26
22-13-2-7                     150.29
22-13-2-7(b)                  150.03
22-15-3-1                     150.21
22-15-4                       150.04
34-6-2-86(1)(B)               54.26
34-28-5-1 through 34-28-5-15  10.99
34-28-5-1(b)                  54.26
34-28-5-17                    10.99
35-47-1-5                     130.16
36-1-3-8(a)(10)               93.05
36-1-4-11                     154.01
36-1-5-4                      31.24
36-1-6-9(e)                   54.26
36-1-6-9(f)                   54.26
36-1-8.5-1                    32.18
36-1-20.2                     31.24
36-1-21                       31.24
36-4-5                        30.015
36-4-6-4                      30.035
36-4-6-9                      31.37
36-4-6-11                     31.24
36-4-9-12                     30.039
36-4-10                       30.037
36-5-2-9-4                    31.24
36-7-2-9                      91.50
36-7-4                     30.020
36-7-4-901                    30.052
36-7-4-1501, et al.           155.27
36-7-9 et seq.                150.06
36-7-9-2                      150.06
36-7-14-1 et seq.             30.019
36-7-14-6.1                   30.019
36-7-25-1 et seq.             30.019
36-8-1-5                      33.05,
                              33.24
36-8-3-1 et seq.              30.050
36-8-3-20                     33.06
36-8-14                       32.19
36-8-17                       91.57
36-8-17-5(a)                  91.50
36-8-17-7                     91.55,
                              91.56
36-8-17-9                     91.58
36-8-17-9(b)                  91.57
36-8-17-9(d)                  91.03
36-10-3-4                     30.053
                              
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2023 Code
Prior Code                2023 Code
11.01                     11.01
30.01                     30.001
30.10                     30.015
31.01                     31.01
31.02                     31.02
31.03                     31.02
31.04                     31.02
31.05                     31.03
31.06                     31.04
31.07                     31.05
31.08                     31.20
31.09                     31.06
31.15                     31.35
31.16                     31.35
31.17                     31.35
31.25                     31.36
31.26                     31.36
31.27                     31.36
31.28                     31.36
31.40                     31.37
31.41                     31.37
31.42                     31.37
31.43                     31.06
32.01                     32.15
32.02                     32.16
32.03                     32.17
32.04                     32.15
32.05                     32.03
32.06                     32.03
32.07                     32.03
32.08                     32.19
32.09                     32.20
32.10                     32.22
33.01                     33.01
33.02                     33.03
33.03                     33.03
33.04                     33.02
33.05                     33.04
33.06                     33.05
33.07                     33.06
33.20                     33.20
33.21                     33.22
33.22                     33.21
33.23                     33.22
33.24                     33.23
33.25                     33.24
33.26                     33.25
50.02                     50.02
50.03                     50.03
50.05                     50.21
50.06                     50.21
50.07                     50.22
50.08                     50.22
50.09                     50.23
50.10                     50.04
50.11                     50.05
50.12                     50.25
50.13                     50.06
50.14                     50.24
50.15                     50.07
50.16                     50.08
50.18                     50.09
50.19                     50.09
50.20                     50.20
50.33                     50.42
50.34                     50.40
50.99                     50.99
52.01                     52.001
52.02                     52.065
52.03                     52.004
52.04                     52.002
52.05                     52.003
52.06                     52.003
52.07                     52.003
52.08                     52.003
52.09                     52.003
52.10                     52.004
52.11                     52.003
52.12                     52.006
52.13                     52.023
52.14                     52.007
52.15                     52.008
52.16                     52.005
52.30                     52.020
52.31                     52.021
52.32                     52.022
52.33                     52.024
52.34                     52.025
52.35                     52.040
52.36                     52.026
52.37                     52.041
52.38                     52.042
52.39                     52.043
52.40                     52.043
52.41                     52.043
52.42                     52.043
52.43                     52.043
52.44                     52.044
52.45                     52.042
52.46                     52.045
52.47                     52.046
52.48                     52.047
52.49                     52.047
52.50                     52.046
52.51                     52.048
52.52                     52.049
52.53                     52.050
52.65                     52.067
52.66                     52.065
52.67                     52.065
52.68                     52.066
52.71                     52.069
52.72                     52.070
52.73                     52.071
52.74                     52.072
52.75                     52.068
52.76                     52.009
52.77                     52.027
52.98                     52.999
53.01                     53.28
53.16                     53.02
53.17                     53.03
53.18                     53.04
53.19                     53.05
53.20                     53.06
53.21                     53.07
53.22                     53.02
53.23                     53.02
53.24                     53.08
53.34                     53.27
53.41                     53.31
70.01                     70.01
70.02                     70.02
70.03                     70.02
70.04                     70.03
70.15                     70.20
70.16                     70.22
70.17                     70.21
70.18                     70.23
70.19                     70.23
70.20                     70.23
70.21                     70.24
70.22                     70.25
70.23                     70.26
70.24                     70.20
70.25                     70.21
70.26                     70.04
70.27                     70.05
70.28                     70.27
70.40                     70.06
70.41                     70.06
70.42                     70.06
70.99                     70.99
71.01                     71.01
71.02                     71.01
71.03                     71.01
71.04                     71.02
71.05                     71.03
71.06                     71.01
71.07                     71.04
71.08                     71.05
71.09                     71.06
71.10                     Chapter 74, Schedule X
71.11                     71.07
71.25                     71.08
71.40                     71.09
71.41                     71.09
72.01                     72.01
72.02                     72.02
72.03                     72.35
72.04                     72.35
72.05                     72.35
72.06                     72.35
72.07                     72.03
72.08                     72.35
72.09                     72.35
72.10                     72.35
72.11                     72.04
72.25                     72.20
72.26                     72.21
72.27                     72.22
72.28                     72.23
72.40                     72.35
72.41                     72.05
72.55                     92.01
72.56                     92.03
72.57                     92.04
72.58                     92.07
72.59                     92.08
72.60                     92.09
72.61                     92.10
72.62                     92.05
72.63                     92.05
72.64                     92.05
72.65                     92.06
72.66                     92.12
72.67                     92.14
72.68                     92.13
72.69                     92.11
72.70                     92.15
72.80                     72.36
72.81                     72.36
72.82                     72.37
72.83                     92.02
73.15                     73.02
73.16                     73.04
73.17                     73.05
73.18                     73.07
73.19                     73.03
73.20                     73.06
73.21                     73.07
73.99                     73.99
Chapter 74, Schedule I    Chapter 74, Schedule I
Chapter 74, Schedule II   Chapter 74, Schedule II
Chapter 74, Schedule III  Chapter 74, Schedule III
Chapter 74, Schedule IV   Chapter 74, Schedule IV
Chapter 74, Schedule V    Chapter 74, Schedule V
Chapter 74, Schedule VI   Chapter 74, Schedule VI
Chapter 74, Schedule VII  Chapter 74, Schedule VII
Chapter 74, Schedule VIII Chapter 74, Schedule VIII
Chapter 74, Schedule IX   Chapter 74, Schedule IX
Chapter 74, Schedule X    71.10
Chapter 75, Schedule I    Chapter 75, Schedule I
Chapter 75, Schedule II   Chapter 75, Schedule II
Chapter 75, Schedule III  Chapter 75, Schedule III
91.01                     91.01
91.02                     91.02
91.03                     91.03
91.04                     91.04
91.15                     91.15
91.16                     91.16
91.17                     91.17
91.30                     91.30
91.31                     91.31
91.32                     91.31
91.33                     91.32
91.34                     91.33
91.35                     91.34
91.36                     91.35
91.37                     91.36
91.38                     91.31
91.39                     91.37
91.50                     91.50
91.51                     91.51
91.52                     91.52
91.53                     91.55
91.54                     91.56
91.55                     91.57
91.56                     91.58
91.57                     91.59
91.58                     91.60
91.99                     91.99
92.01                     33.40
92.02                     33.41
92.04                     33.42
93.01                     93.20
93.02                     93.21
93.03                     93.22
93.04                     93.23
93.15                     93.01
93.16                     93.02
93.17                     93.03
93.18                     93.04
93.19                     93.05
93.20                     93.06
93.21                     93.07
93.22                     93.06
93.30                     93.35
93.31                     93.36
93.32                     93.37
93.99                     93.99
94.01                     94.01
94.02                     94.02
94.03                     94.03
94.04                     94.04
95.001                    152.20
95.002                    151.15
95.015                    151.01
95.016                    151.02
95.017                    151.03
95.018                    151.04
95.030                    151.16
95.031                    151.18
95.032                    151.18
95.033                    151.19
95.034                    151.17
95.045                    151.30
95.046                    151.31
95.047                    151.32
95.048                    151.33
95.049                    151.35
95.050                    151.35
95.051                    151.35
95.052                    151.36
95.053                    151.36
95.054                    151.36
95.055                    151.36
95.056                    151.37
95.057                    151.37
95.058                    151.37
95.059                    151.38
95.060                    151.37
95.061                    151.39
95.062                    151.40
95.063                    151.41
95.064                    151.42
95.065                    151.42
95.066                    151.43
95.080                    152.45
95.081                    152.45
95.082                    152.45
95.083                    152.47
95.084                    152.48
95.085                    152.49
95.090                    152.01
95.091                    152.02
95.092                    152.03
95.093                    152.03
95.094                    152.04
95.095                    152.05
95.096                    152.06
95.097                    152.21
95.098                    152.22
95.099                    152.23
95.100                    152.24
95.101                    152.25
95.102                    152.26
95.103                    152.27
95.104                    152.28
95.105                    152.29
95.106                    152.30
95.107                    152.07
95.999                    152.99
110.01                    110.01
110.02                    110.02
110.03                    110.02
110.04                    110.02
110.05                    110.02
110.06                    110.03
110.07                    110.04
110.08                    110.05
110.09                    110.06
110.10                    110.06
110.11                    110.06
110.12                    110.07
111.01                    111.01
111.02                    111.02
111.03                    111.02
111.04                    111.02
111.05                    111.02
111.06                    111.03
111.07                    111.04
111.08                    111.02
111.09                    111.06
111.10                    111.05
111.11                    111.03
112.01                    112.01
112.02                    112.02
112.03                    112.02
112.04                    112.02
112.05                    112.02
112.06                    112.02
112.07                    112.03
112.08                    112.02
112.09                    112.03
112.10                    112.05
112.11                    112.06
112.12                    112.04
130.01                    130.01
130.02                    130.02
130.20                    130.16
130.21                    130.15
150.01                    150.01
150.02                    150.02
150.03                    150.03
150.04                    150.04
150.05                    150.05
150.06                    150.21
150.07                    150.20
150.08                    150.22
150.09                    150.23
150.10                    150.24
150.11                    150.25
150.12                    150.25
150.13                    150.26
150.14                    150.27
150.15                    150.28
150.16                    150.07
150.17                    150.07
150.18                    150.29
150.19                    150.30
150.20                    150.06
150.99                    150.99
151.01                    153.01
151.02                    153.01
151.03                    153.02
151.04                    153.03
151.05                    153.04
151.06                    153.05
151.07                    153.06
151.08                    153.20
151.09                    153.21
151.10                    153.22
151.11                    153.35
151.12                    153.36
151.13                    153.37
151.14                    153.38
151.15                    153.07
151.99                    153.99
153.01                    155.01
153.02                    155.01
153.03                    155.02
153.04                    155.02
153.06                    155.03
153.07                    155.03
153.08                    155.04
153.20                    155.15
153.21                    155.16
153.22                    155.15
153.23                    155.17
153.24                    155.19
153.25                    155.19
153.26                    155.20
153.27                    155.21
153.28                    155.22
153.30                    155.24
153.31                    155.25
153.32                    155.26
153.33                    155.27
153.34                    155.28
153.35                    155.29
153.36                    155.31
153.37                    155.24
153.50                    155.45
153.52                    155.47
153.53                    155.48
153.60                    155.49
153.61                    155.50
153.62                    155.51
153.63                    155.51
153.64                    155.52
153.65                    155.53
153.98                    155.54
153.99                    155.99
                          
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
86-3     - -1986     TSO, Table I
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.      Date Passed Code Section
1268          - -         TSO, Table V
                          52.007,
                          52.025,
804           1-3-1958    52.067,
                          53.27,
                          53.31
832           3-20-1961   151.15
                          50.02 through
                          50.06,
869           11-14-1966  50.20 through
                          50.23,
                          50.25
882           5-4-1967    53.02 through
                          53.05
                          155.01 through
                          155.04,
                          155.15 through
                          155.17,
                          155.19 through
                          155.22,
                          155.24 through
907           9-15-1969   155.27,
                          155.31,
                          155.45,
                          155.47,
                          155.49 through
                          155.52,
                          155.54,
                          155.99
                          153.01 through
                          153.07,
                          153.20 through
908           9-15-1969   153.22,
                          153.35 through
                          153.38,
                          153.99
986           1-6-1975    93.35 through
                          93.37
                          152.45 through
1017          9-7-1976    152.47,
                          152.49
1078          5-7-1979    110.01 through
                          110.07
1097          2-4-1980    33.04
1107          1-19-1981   31.06
                          53.02,
1115          6-15-1981   53.03,
                          53.24
                          52.067,
1116          6-15-1981   53.27,
                          53.31
1124          12-28-1981  32.03
1130          7-5-1982    31.05,
                          32.03
1140          11-15-1982  31.06
                          70.01 through
                          70.05;
                          70.20 through
                          70.27;
                          71.01 through
                          71.07;
                          71.09;
                          72.01 through
                          72.03;
                          72.05;
1144          2-7-1983    72.35 through
                          72.37;
                          73.02 through
                          73.07,
                          73.99,
                          92.13;
                          Chapter 74, Schedule I through
                          Chapter 74, Schedule VIII;
                          Chapter 74, Schedule X; 
                          Chapter 75, Schedule I;
                          Chapter 75, Schedule II
1156          8-1-1983    155.45
                          30.001,
                          30.015,
1160          8-29-1983   31.37,
                          33.05,
                          33.24
1162          11-7-1983   155.01,
                          155.15
                          52.001,
                          52.027,
1166          1-2-1984    52.067,
                          53.27,
                          53.31
                          52.001 through
                          52.006,
                          52.008,
                          52.009,
                          52.020 through
                          52.024,
                          52.026,
                          52.040,
1167          1-2-1984    52.041,
                          52.043,
                          52.046 through
                          52.050,
                          52.065,
                          52.066,
                          52.068 through
                          52.072,
                          52.999
1169          2-6-1984    TSO, Table VI
                          150.01 through
                          150.05,
                          150.07,
1185          2-18-1985   150.21,
                          150.22,
                          150.24 through
                          150.30,
                          150.99
1208          3-16-1987   32.15 through
                          32.17
1211          6-17-1987   Chapter 74, Schedule V
                          150.01 through
                          150.05,
                          150.07,
1212          7-20-1987   150.21,
                          150.22,
                          150.24 through
                          150.30,
                          150.99
                          155.04,
1213          8-3-1987    155.19,
                          155.54,
                          155.99
1224          6-20-1988   53.28
1225          7-5-1988    33.40 through
                          33.42
1230          8-1-1988    70.06
                          150.01 through
                          150.05,
                          150.07,
1229          8-15-1988   150.21,
                          150.22,
                          150.24 through
                          150.30,
                          150.99
                          72.20 through
1237          2-6-1989    72.23;
                          Chapter 75, Schedule III
1246          9-5-1989    Chapter 74, Schedule IV
1248          12-4-1989   Chapter 75, Schedule I
1249          12-4-1989   Chapter 75, Schedule II
1255          2-5-1990    TSO, Table II
1256          3-5-1990    155.29
1257          3-5-1990    155.48
1258          3-5-1990    Chapter 75, Schedule II
1259          5-7-1990    TSO, Table II
1260          6-4-1990    TSO, Table V
1261          7-16-1990   72.04
1265          8-20-1990   TSO, Table III
1274          - - 1991    TSO, Table II
                          50.07,
                          50.08,
1289          6-15-1992   50.20,
                          50.22 through
                          50.24
1291          6-15-1992   11.01
1292          6-15-1992   32.20
1296          8-3-1992    32.19
                          91.01 through
                          91.04,
                          91.15 through
                          91.17,
                          91.30,
                          91.32 through
1299          11-2-1992   91.36,
                          91.50 through
                          91.52,
                          91.55 through
                          91.58,
                          91.60,
                          91.99
1301          12-7-1992   Chapter 75, Schedule II
1307          4-5-1993    91.51
1311          4-5-1993    33.41
1315          8-23-1993   50.09
1338          4-3-1995    91.34,
                          91.51
                          152.01 through
                          152.07,
1339          8-28-1995   152.21 through
                          152.30,
                          152.99
                          93.01 through
1348          4-15-1996   93.04,
                          93.06,
                          93.07
1349          4-15-1996   93.05
1351          6-3-1996    Chapter 74, Schedule IV
1354          7-22-1996   10.99,
                          70.99
                          91.04,
                          91.31,
1356          8-19-1996   91.50,
                          91.56,
                          91.58,
                          91.60
1362          11-4-1996   TSO, Table III
1364          11-18-1996  93.05
1365          11-18-1996  70.03
1366          11-18-1996  150.20
1367          11-18-1996  155.29
1368          12-2-1996   Chapter 75, Schedule I;
                          Chapter 75, Schedule II
1371          3-17-1997   Chapter 75, Schedule II
1375          6-2-1997    73.03
1376          6-2-1997    150.20
1385          5-18-1998   33.25
1387          6-1-1998    Chapter 74, Schedule IV
1390          6-6-1998    Chapter 74, Schedule IV
1394          10-5-1998   Chapter 74, Schedule VI
1395          11-2-1998   Chapter 74, Schedule I
1398          11-2-1998   Chapter 75, Schedule II
1403          12-14-1998  50.09
1406          2-1-1999    150.06
1410          5-3-1999    Chapter 74, Schedule III
1413          6-21-1999   Chapter 75, Schedule II
1414          6-21-1999   94.04
1415          6-21-1999   Chapter 75, Schedule III
1416          7-19-1999   31.06
                          50.40,
1423          2-7-2000    50.42,
                          50.99
1424          2-7-2000    33.06
1426          3-6-2000    92.01
1430          8-21-2000   91.37,
                          91.99
1440          8-6-2001    Chapter 74, Schedule IX
1443          12-3-2001   32.22
1445          4-1-2002    Chapter 74, Schedule IV
1452          12-2-2002   33.04
1454          1-21-2003   91.31
1457          2-18-2003   TSO, Table VII
1450          3-17-2003   Chapter 74, Schedule I
                          Chapter 74, Schedule I;
1459          3-17-2003   Chapter 75, Schedule II;
                          Chapter 75, Schedule III
1460          3-19-2003   94.02,
                          94.03
1461          8-4-2003    Chapter 75, Schedule II
                          50.40,
1465          2-2-2004    50.42,
                          50.99
1468          3-1-2004    130.15,
                          130.16
1466          3-3-2004    TSO, Table VI
1470          8-2-2004    TSO, Table III
1471          8-2-2004    TSO, Table III
1467          10-4-2004   93.20 through
                          93.23
1476          11-1-2004   92.02
1477          11-1-2004   Chapter 74, Schedule I
1478          11-1-2004   93.06
1479          12-20-2004  31.20
1148          1-18-2005   Chapter 74, Schedule IV
1480          1-18-2005   TSO, Table III
1481          1-18-2005   Chapter 74, Schedule IV
1494          12-19-2005  150.20
1498          7-17-2006   93.07
1488          8-7-2006    73.01,
                          73.03
1500          8-7-2006    72.36
1506          11-6-2006   Chapter 74, Schedule I
1507          11-6-2006   33.07
1508          1-16-2007   TSO, Table, V
1509          2-20-2007   Chapter 74, Schedule II;
                          75, Schedule II
                          113.01 through
                          113.05,
                          113.20 through
1511          3-5-2007    113.25,
                          113.40 through
                          113.47,
                          113.99
1512          5-21-2007   32.18
1513          6-4-2007    Chapter 74, Schedule I
                          91.03,
1516          8-20-2007   91.04,
                          91.53,
                          91.54
1522          12-3-2007   31.22
1515          3-3-2008    94.02,
                          94.99
                          53.20 through
                          53.22,
                          53.25,
1524          3-3-2008    53.26,
                          53.29,
                          53.30,
                          53.32 through
                          53.33
1531          6-18-2008   31.21
1535          9-15-2008   Chapter 74, Schedule I;
                          Chapter 74, Schedule IV
1536          9-15-2008   32.04
                          50.01,
1540          2-2-2009    50.40,
                          50.43
1541          3-16-2009   53.02
1542          4-6-2009    Chapter 75, Schedule III
1544          5-4-2009    TSO, Table V
1545          6-1-2009    155.30
1547          9-21-2009   94.02
1551          10-19-2009  73.20 through
                          73.25
1552          11-16-2009  Chapter 75, Schedule III
1553          1-4-2010    Chapter 74, Schedule III
1556          2-16-2010   70.07
1558          2-16-2010   72.06
1559          3-1-2010    32.21
1561          5-3-2010    Chapter 74, Schedule IV
1560          6-7-2010    TSO, Table V
1562          7-19-2010   Chapter 75, Schedule II
                          130.30,
1563          8-2-2010    130.31,
                          130.99
1564          8-2-2010    155.23
1565          8-2-2010    155.29
1566          8-2-2010    155.46
1567          9-20-2010   TSO, Table V
1572          11-15-2010  Chapter 75, Schedule II
1581          2-21-2012   10.99
1582          2-21-2012   Chapter 75, Schedule II
1583          3-5-2012    Chapter 75, Schedule II
1584          3-19-2012   33.43
1586          5-21-2012   Chapter 74, Schedule III
1587          6-4-2012    10.99
1588          6-18-2012   31.24
1590          8-20-2012   95.01 through
                          95.10
1596          3-18-2013   50.41
15-99         10-7-2013   TSO, Table V
1601          10-21-2013  TSO, Table V
1604          1-8-2014    TSO, Table III
                          93.02,
1608          5-5-2014    93.03,
                          93.05
                          Chapter 74, Schedule I;
1611          8-18-2014   75, Schedule II;
                          Chapter 75, Schedule III
1614          10-20-2014  155.19
1617          5-4-2015    33.23
1618          6-15-2015   TSO, Table II
1619          6-15-2015   TSO, Table IV
1621          8-3-2015    Chapter 74, Schedule III
1622          9-8-2015    31.37
1625          12-21-2015  TSO, Table III
1629          6-20-2016   TSO, Table III
16-31         8-1-2016    53.01
16-32         8-1-2016    53.23,
                          53.24
16-33         8-15-2016   Chapter 74, Schedule IV
16-34         8-15-2016   Chapter 75, Schedule II
16-35         8-15-2016   TSO, Table II
16-36         8-15-2016   TSO, Table III
-             9-6-2016    Chapter 75, Schedule II
16-40         10-3-2016   53.01
2016-39       10-3-2016   TSO, Table IV
2016-45       12-19-2016  Chapter 74, Schedule I
2016-46       12-19-2016  155.19
17-100        4-3-2017    Chapter 75, Schedule II
17-102        4-17-2017   53.01
2017-121      8-7-2017    TSO, Table II
2018-002      4-16-2018   TSO, Table II
CC-O-2018-001 6-18-2018   54.01 through
                          54.08
CC-O-2018-003 6-18-2018   TSO, Table, III
CC 2018-005   9-4-2018    31.23
CC-2018-006   10-15-2018  TSO, Table II
CC-2018-011   11-19-2018  51.01 through
                          51.11
CC 2019-006   9-3-2019    Chapter 75, Schedule III
-             9-6-2019    Chapter 75, Schedule II
CC 2019-007   9-16-2019   91.38,
                          91.99
1546          9-21-2009   91.31
CC 2019-008   10-21-2019  155.19
CC 2019-010   12-16-2019  Chapter 75, Schedule I
2020–004-C  7-23-2020   Chapter 74, Schedule IV
                          73.40 through
2020-006-C    10-19-2020  73.48,
                          73.99
2021-004-C    8 - 2021    TSO, Table V
2021-001-C    3-1-2021    32.02
2021-002-C    3-15-2021   32.01
                          90.001 through
                          90.012,
                          90.025 through
                          90.029,
                          90.040 through
                          90.046,
2022-005-C    6-6-2022    90.060 through
                          90.065,
                          90.080 through
                          90.088,
                          90.100 through
                          90.104,
                          90.999
2022-001-C    6-20-2022   155.19
                          154.01 through
                          154.10,
                          154.25 through
2022-007-C    11-7-2022   154.30,
                          154.45 through
                          154.49,
                          154.99
2022-008-C    11-7-2022   Chapter 75, Schedule III
2023-002-C    6-19-2023   54.20 through
                          54.26
2023-003-C    6-19-2023   54.27
2024-004-C    3-18-2024   155.27
2024-006-C    5-6-2024    50.40 through
                          50.42
                          30.001,
                          30.015 through
                          30.021,
2024-009-C    12-2-2024   30.035 through
                          30.039,
                          30.050 through
                          30.053
                         
 
