TOWN OF ANDREWS, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2022 S-5 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2022-6, passed 8-8-2022; and
State legislation current through Indiana Legislative Service,
2022 Acts, Pamphlet No. 3
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street Suite 310 Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TOWN OFFICIALS
OF
ANDREWS, INDIANA
 
TOWN COUNCIL
President       John Harshbarger
Member          Laura A. Dillon
Member          Roger Newsome, Jr.
TOWN ADMINISTRATION
Clerk-Treasurer Laury L. Powell
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE 2013-5
Synopsis: This ordinance, if adopted, will supplement and update the Code of
Ordinances of the Town of Andrews, Indiana.
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE TOWN OF ANDREWS, INDIANA
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the first supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Andrews, Indiana, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of this Political Subdivision;
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana Code;
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Town Council of the Town of Andrews, Indiana,
to accept these updated sections in accordance with the changes of the law of
the State of Indiana; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
on the earliest date possible.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Town Council of the Town of Andrews,
Indiana:
Section 1:   That the first supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Andrews, Indiana, as submitted by the American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2:   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Town Council and the Clerk-Treasurer is hereby
authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the copy of the Code of
Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
A motion to consider for Final Adoption on the same day of introduction was
[NOT OFFERED or NOT SUSTAINED or SUSTAINED] by a vote of  2  in favor and  0
opposed.
Adopted on First Reading this  13th  day of  May , 2013, by a vote of  2  in
favor and  0  opposed.
Adopted on Final Reading this  13th  day of  May , 2013, by a vote of  2  in
favor and  0  opposed.
TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF ANDREWS, INDIANA
Voting in Favor:                  Voting Opposed:
John Harshbarger /s/     John
Harshbarger                                           
             (President)
Raymond Tackett /s/     Raymond
Tackett                                           
                                         Michael
Rohler                                           
ATTEST:
By William K. Johnson /s/ as Clerk-
(William K. Johnson)    Treasurer
ORDINANCE 2014-6
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE TOWN OF ANDREWS, INDIANA
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
competed the 2014 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of Andrews,
which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Andrews, Indiana; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
maker reference to sections of the Indiana Code; and changes of the law of the
State of Indiana; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Town Council for the Town of Andrews,
Indiana to accept these updated sections in accordance with changes of the law
of the State of Indiana.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Town Council for the Town of Andrews,
Indiana as follows:
Section 1.   That the 2014 supplement to the Code of Ordinance of the Town of
Andrews, Indiana as submitted by American Legal Corporation of Cincinnati,
Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as
if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Town Council and the Clerk-Treasurer is hereby
authorized and ordered to insert each supplement into the copy of the Code of
Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 3.   This ordinance is effective upon its adoption and in accordance
with applicable law.
A motion to consider for Final Adoption on the same day of introduction was
[NOT OFFERED or NOT SUSTAINED or SUSTAINED] by a vote of  3  in favor and  0
opposed.
Adopted on First Reading this  14th  day of  July , 2013, by a vote of  3  in
favor and  0  opposed.
Adopted on Final Reading this  14th  day of  July , 2013, by a vote of  3  in
favor and  0  opposed.
TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF ANDREWS, INDIANA
Voting in Favor:                  Voting Opposed:
Michael Rohler     Michael Rohler                                           
             (President)
Raymond Tackett /s/     Raymond
Tackett                                           
John Harshbarger /s/     John
Harshbarger                                           
 
ATTEST:
By William K. Johnson /s/ as Clerk-Treasurer
(William K. Johnson)
ORDINANCE 2019-4
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE TOWN OF ANDREWS, INDIANA
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2017 & 2018 supplements to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Andrews, which supplements contain all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town
of Andrews, Indiana; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana Code; and changes of the law of the
State of Indiana; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Town Council for the Town of Andrews,
Indiana to accept these updated sections in accordance with changes of the law
of the State of Indiana.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Town Council for the Town of Andrews,
Indiana as follows:
Section 1.   That the 2017 & 2018 supplements to the Code of Ordinance of the
Town of Andrews, Indiana as submitted by American Legal Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same are hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in their entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Town Council and the Clerk-Treasurer is hereby
authorized and ordered to insert each supplement into the copy of the Code of
Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 3.   This ordinance is effective upon its adoption and in accordance
with applicable law.
 
A motion to consider for Final Adoption on the same day of introduction was
[NOT OFFERED or NOT SUSTAINED or SUSTAINED] by a vote of  3  in favor and  0
opposed.
Adopted on First Reading this  8th  day of  July , 2019, by a vote of  3  in
favor and  0  opposed.
Adopted on Final Reading this  8th  day of  July , 2019, by a vote of  3  in
favor and  0  opposed.
TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF ANDREWS, INDIANA
Voting in Favor:                  Voting Opposed:
William K Johnson /s/  William K
Johnson                                        
             (President)
John Harshbarger /s/     John
Harshbarger                                        
Bonnie Walker /s/     Bonnie Walker                                            
            
ATTEST:
By Laura A. Dillon /s/ as Clerk-Treasurer
(Laura A. Dillon)         
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Short title
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the Town of Andrews
Code for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified ordinances” or
“code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing ordinances, orders
and resolutions, amendments, and newly enacted ordinances. Any previously
existing ordinance, order or resolution or amendment thereto adopted by this
code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it had not been repealed by
this code. All rules and regulations adopted under any ordinance, order or
resolution in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless repealed
or amended subsequent to the adoption of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and adopted by this code is continued only
for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally adopted. The ordinance
most recently adopted supersedes any conflicting ordinance or section.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the number in the original ordinance, order
or resolution.
   (F)   All references within a section of this code to any section of any
previously existing ordinance, order or resolution refer to the new code
numbers assigned to that ordinance, order or resolution.
   (G)   (1)   The numerical prefixes assigned to the various titles, chapters
and sections of this code, as originally adopted or as added by amendment, are
an integral part of this code and may be altered by only specific amendment.
      (2)   The descriptive headings assigned to the various titles and
chapters of this code, as originally adopted, or as added by amendment, are not
law, and may be altered by the compilers of this or any subsequent
codification, in any official publication, to more clearly indicate its
content. These descriptive headings are for organizational purposes only, and
do not affect the meaning, application or construction of the law they precede.
      (3)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only, and is not a part of the section.
   (H)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town Council.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council.
      COUNTY. Huntington County, State of Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      STATE. State of Indiana
      TOWN. Town of Andrews.
      TOWNSHIP. Township of Dallas, County of Huntington, State of Indiana.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a statute stating that the provisions of an act are
severable as provided in division (B) of this section does not affect the
operation of division (B) with respect to that act.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution refers to any
board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is incorrectly
stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the effective
date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that entity are or
were transferred to a different entity; then the named board, bureau,
commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
any ordinance under a resolution adopted prior to the adoption of this code,
the former section or law is not revived unless it so expressly provides. The
repeal of any section shall not extinguish or release and forfeiture, liability
or penalty incurred under the section, unless the repealing section so
expressly provides. That section shall remain in force for the purpose of
sustaining any proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the
forfeiture, liability or penalty.
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of a period of limitations or a requirement of notice contained
in a law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to the
prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in any ordinance, resolution or order repealed by and included in
this code is not affected by the repeal and inclusion. Litigation, proceedings
and prosecution for causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective
date of this code may be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if
this code had not been adopted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the town and subsequently amended, the previous code section
number shall be indicated in the history by (Prior Code, §           ).
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   TOWN COUNCIL
      
32.   TOWN OFFICIALS
      
33.   TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
      
34.   FINANCE
      
35.   ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
      
36.   TOWN POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Compensation of officers and employees
   
30.02   Use of credit card
   
30.03   Fixed assets
   
30.04   Charges related to services requested
   
30.05   Cell phone use; town employees
Access to Public Records
   
30.20   Policy
   
30.21   Definitions
   
30.22   Records Access Officers; guidelines
   
30.23   Request to inspect or copy public record; time for response
   
30.24   List of names and addresses
   
30.25   Non-disclosure of certain public records
   
30.26   Partial or full denial of the request
   
30.27   Fees
   
30.28   Deposit of fees
   
30.29   Unauthorized alteration of a public record
Internal Control Standards
   
30.35   Internal control standards
 
   
30.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 COMPENSATION OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   Officers and employees of the town shall be compensated at a rate as
established by Town Council ordinance from time to time.
§ 30.02 USE OF CREDIT CARD.
   (A)   The administration of the town is hereby authorized to secure and
maintain credit card(s) in the name of the town for use by properly authorized
town representatives in carrying out the business of the town and to pay a
reasonable annual fee if to do so is determined to be in the town's best
interests. Authorized representatives, who may be issued individual cards as
distributed by the bank administering the cards, may include but are not
limited to the Clerk-Treasurer, Utility Superintendent, Town Council, and all
other staff members.
   (B)   Charges shall only be made on the credit card to purchase items or
services which are included and authorized in the budget of the town and with
the approval of the town council.
   (C)   Within 72 hours of the purchase, the person using the credit card
shall provide the Clerk-Treasurer with a copy of the purchase receipt.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall maintain a list of authorized cardholders,
and shall pay or challenge the credit card invoices promptly to the end that no
improper charges, interest, carrying charges, or penalties shall be incurred.
   (E)   No credit card issued to the town or individuals under the town's
account shall be used for a private or other non-town purchase.
   (F)   Appropriate discipline shall be taken by the town against any card
user who improperly uses the town's credit card. Improperly documented charges
or those charges shown to be unnecessary in carrying out the town's business,
and any finance charges resulting from the use of the card, shall be the
responsibility of the person making the charge and subject to collection as any
other town claim.
(Prior Code, § 171.01) (Ord. 1996-06, passed 6-10-1996; Ord. 2016-6, passed 6-
27-2016)
§ 30.03 FIXED ASSETS.
   Anything with a value of over $5,000 will be listed on the fixed asset
ledger. A complete inventory list will be given to the Clerk-Treasurer by
January 31 of each year. This list will include every item of inventory.
(Prior Code, § 171.02) (Ord. 1996-14, passed 11-25-1996; Res. 2001-10, passed
5-7-2001)
§ 30.04 CHARGES RELATED TO SERVICES REQUESTED.
   These services will be available to the general public at the following
rate:
   (A)   Copies: $0.25 per page, black and white; $0.50 per page, color.
   (B)   Outgoing fax: $1.50 for the first page, and $0.75 for subsequent
pages.
   (C)   Incoming fax: $1.00 per page;
   (D)   Legal documents copies: $1.00 per page.
(Prior Code, § 171.04) (Res. 1996-01, passed 1-8-1996; Res. 2005-02, passed - -
; Ord. 2017-5, passed 4-24-2017)
§ 30.05 CELL PHONE USE; TOWN EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The town has five cell phones: three for the full-time police
officers; and two for the utility workers.
   (B)   Only three personal phone calls per day incoming or outgoing is
permitted by the user unless it is an emergency.
   (C)   For any overage charge due by misuse of cell phones, the employee will
be responsible to pay.
   (D)   All personal cell phones shall remain in their personal vehicles or at
the office of the employees’ work places during working hours.
   (E)   If an employee is out of town for training, they will be able to call
home twice a day. If there is a charge for this service, the town will be
responsible to pay for that charge within reasonable time spent on the phone.
   (F)   Any lost or stolen cell phone shall be reported to the supervisor and
service for the cell phone shall be cancelled.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 12-20-2007)
ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 30.20 POLICY.
   A fundamental philosophy of the American constitutional form of
representative government is that government is the servant of the people and
not their master. Accordingly, it is the public policy of the town that all
persons are entitled to information regarding the affairs of government and the
official acts of those who represent them as public officials and employees as
provided by applicable law. This Council hereby adopts the provisions of I.C.
5-14-3-1 to 5-14-3-10, as presently in effect and as amended.
(Ord. 2009-9, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 30.21 DEFINITIONS.
   All definitions contained in I.C. 5-14-3-2 as presently in effect and as
amended are hereby adopted. The following definitions are set out for ease of
reference and supplement those in I.C. 5-14-3-2.
   PUBLIC AGENCY. Among other things, the town or any other entity or any
office thereof, by whatever name designated. Any advisory commission, committee
or body created by statute, ordinance or executive order to advise the town.
The definition includes any entity or office that is subject to a budget review
of either the Department of Local Government Finance, the governing body of a
county, city, town, township or school corporation, or subject to an audit by
the State Board of Accounts.
   PUBLIC RECORD. Any writing, paper, report, study, map, photograph, book,
card, tape recording or other material that is created, received, retained,
maintained or filed by or with a public agency and which is generated on paper,
paper substitutes, photographic media, chemically based media, magnetic or
machine readable media, electronically stored data or other material,
regardless of form or characteristics.
(Ord. 2009-9, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 30.22 RECORDS ACCESS OFFICERS; GUIDELINES.
   (A)   In order to implement this subchapter, the Clerk-Treasurer, with the
knowledge and consent of the Council President, is hereby designated as the
person responsible for the public records release decisions, and will be
referred to herein as the Records Access Officer.
   (B)   The Records Access Officer shall be guided by the Access to Public
Records Act (I.C. 5-14-3-1 to 5-14-3-10), as then in force, and shall also be
guided by this policy and any state and federal law regarding privacy,
confidentiality and disclosure requirements of records.
(Ord. 2009-9, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 30.23 REQUEST TO INSPECT OR COPY PUBLIC RECORD; TIME FOR RESPONSE.
   (A)   Any person may inspect and copy the public records of the town during
regular business hours, unless the records are otherwise exempted from
disclosure as provided herein (I.C. 5-14-3-4, as amended) or other applicable
state or federal law. This section is subject to I.C. 5-14-3-5, as amended,
relating to information that must be disclosed relating to an individual’s
arrest.
   (B)   A request for inspection or copying must:
      (1)   Identify with reasonable particularity the record being requested;
and
      (2)   Be in writing on a form designated by the town.
   (C)   The town must reply (approval or denial of request) to hand-delivered
written requests within 24 business hours. The town must reply to written
requests received by mail or facsimile within seven calendar days. Although the
town must provide a reply within the proscribed time period, this does not
require the town to actually produce the record(s) requested within that
proscribed time period, but the reply must be made within a reasonable time
following the request.
   (D)   If a request will be granted, the town shall either provide the
requested copies or allow copies to be made on the town’s equipment or on the
requester’s own equipment.
(Ord. 2009-9, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 30.24 LIST OF NAMES AND ADDRESSES.
   (A)   (1)   The town is not required to create lists of names and addresses
unless the town is required to publish those lists and disseminate them to the
public pursuant to statute. However, if the town has created a list of names
and addresses, it must permit a person to inspect and make memoranda abstracts
from the list unless access to the list is prohibited by law.
      (2)   The following lists of names and addresses may not be disclosed by
the town to any individual or entity for political purposes or any commercial
entity for commercial purposes:
         (a)   A list of employees of the town; or
         (b)   A list of persons attending conferences or meetings at a state
institution of higher education.
   (B)   A person receiving information on computer disk may not use the
information for commercial purposes including to sell, advertise or solicit the
purchase of merchandise, goods or services, or sell, loan, give away or
otherwise deliver the information obtained by the request to any other person
for these purposes. However, use of the information in connection with the
preparation or publication of news, for non-profit activities or for academic
research is not prohibited. A person violating this section may be prohibited
from obtaining a copy or further data on computer disk.
(Ord. 2009-9, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 30.25 NON-DISCLOSURE OF CERTAIN PUBLIC RECORDS.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-4(a), as amended, certain public records
listed therein are exempted from public disclosure and may not be disclosed
unless access to the record is specifically required by a state or federal
statute or is ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction under the rules of
discovery.
   (B)   The town hereby has exercised its discretion to exempt from disclosure
the public records listed in I.C. 5-14-3-4(b), as amended.
(Ord. 2009-9, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 30.26 PARTIAL OR FULL DENIAL OF THE REQUEST.
   (A)   If a public record contains disclosable and nondisclosable
information, the information that is disclosable must be made available for
inspection. The Records Access Officer shall separate, or redact, the
nondisclosable information.
   (B)   If any written request is denied by the Records Access Officer, the
Records Access Officer must:
      (1)   Deny the request in writing and sign as the Records Access Officer;
and
      (2)   Include a statement of the specific statutory reason for
nondisclosure of the information.
   (C)   No request may be denied because the person making the request refuses
to state the purpose for the request, unless that condition is required by
other applicable statute.
(Ord. 2009-9, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 30.27 FEES.
   (A)   The town may not charge any fee for its cost of labor to inspect a
public record, or to search for, examine or review a record to determine
whether the record may be disclosed.
   (B)   The town shall charge a uniform fee as follows:
 
Service       Fee
Certification $5 per document
Copying       $0.10 per page for black and white copies
Facsimile     $1.50 per page (outgoing)
 
   (C)   Fees shall be paid in advance. If the exact fee cannot be determined
at the time the request is made, an estimated fee shall be paid in advance with
any balance due prior to delivery of the public documents. Any overpayment of
fees will be refunded to the person making the request at the time of delivery.
   (D)   The town exempts from this section all reasonable requests for
documents received from newspapers as defined by I.C. 5-3-1.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision in this section, the town shall collect
any certification, copying or facsimile machine transmission, or search fee, as
required by statute or by court order.
(Ord. 2009-9, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 30.28 DEPOSIT OF FEES.
   All fees received pursuant to §
30.27 shall be deposited into the town’s General Fund.
(Ord. 2009-9, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 30.29 UNAUTHORIZED ALTERATION OF A PUBLIC RECORD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person having or obtaining access to a public
record to alter the content of the public record from its original state.
(Ord. 2009-9, passed 8-10-2009) Penalty, see §
30.99
 INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS
§ 30.35 INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   (A)   The town adopts as its policy the minimum requirements of I.C. § 5-11-
1-27, and shall authorize the development and implementation of specific
policies to effectuate those requirements;
   (B)   The town finds that its objectives as related to an internal control
system are as follows:
      (1)   Operations objectives, which are designed to analyze operational
and performance goals, along with the effectiveness and efficiencies of the way
governmental services are performed and the safeguarding of assets;
      (2)   Reporting objectives, which are designed to consider the
dissemination of financial and non-financial information, internally and
externally; and
      (3)   Compliance objectives, which are designed to assure adherence to
applicable laws and regulations.
   (C)   The minimum requirements of I.C. § 5-11-1-27 adopted by the town shall
specifically include the five components as described in the Uniform Internal
Control Standards for Indiana Political Subdivision guidance document from the
State Board of Accounts dated September 2015, and any subsequent version
thereof, which are the following: (1) control environment; (2) risk assessment;
(3) control activities; (4) information and communication; and (5) monitoring.
   (D)   The town specifically adopts the following principles to effectuate
the five components above:
      (1)   Control environment.
         (a)   The oversight body and management demonstrate a commitment to
integrity and ethical values;
         (b)   The oversight body oversees the town's internal control system;
         (c)   Management establishes an organizational structure, assigns
responsibility, and delegates authority to achieve the town's objectives;
         (d)   Management demonstrates a commitment to attract, develop, and
retain competent individuals; and
         (e)   Management evaluates performance and holds individuals
accountable for their internal control responsibilities.
      (2)   Risk assessment.
         (a)   Management defines objectives clearly to enable the
identification of risks and defines risk tolerances;
         (b)   Management identifies, analyzes, and responds to risk related to
achieving the defined objectives;
         (c)   Management considers the potential for fraud when identifying,
analyzing, and responding to risks; and
         (d)   Management identifies, analyzes, and responds to significant
changes that could impact the internal control system.
      (3)   Control activities.
         (a)   Management designs control activities to achieve objectives and
respond to risks;
         (b)   Management designs the town's information system and related
control activities to achieve objectives and respond to risks; and
         (c)   Management implements control activities through policies.
      (4)   Information and communication.
         (a)   Management uses quality information to achieve the town's
objectives;
         (b)   Management internally communicates the necessary quality
information to achieve the town's objectives; and
         (c)   Management externally communicates the necessary quality
information to achieve the town's objectives.
      (5)   Monitoring activities.
         (a)   Management establishes and operates monitoring activities to
monitor the internal control system and evaluate the results; and
         (b)   Management remediates identified internal control deficiencies
on a timely basis.
   (E)   The Town Council directs that the above principles be used to design,
implement, operate, and modify current operations, reporting, and compliance
objectives, where necessary, to establish and ensure that the minimum internal
control standards and procedures are met or exceeded.
   (F)   The Town Council authorizes the Town Council President and Clerk-
Treasurer to review the current internal control system of the town and to
implement a policy that ensures that the minimum internal control standards and
procedures are met or exceeded in compliance with I.C. § 5-11-1-27.
   (G)   The personnel whose official duties include receiving, processing,
depositing, disbursing, or otherwise having access to funds that belong to the
federal government, state government, a political subdivision, or another
governmental entity shall comply with the minimum internal control standards
and procedures and any other policy implemented to effectuate or surpass those
standards, and that they shall be trained at least once during a calendar year
and annually thereafter, unless on leave status, on the adopted and implemented
control standards and procedures.
   (H)   The fiscal officer of the town shall certify in writing that the
minimum internal control standards and procedures have been adopted by the town
and that the personnel, who are not otherwise on leave status, have received
training, which shall be filed annually with the State Board of Accounts at the
same time as the annual financial report required by I.C. § 5-11-1 -4(a).
   (I)   The town authorizes the Town Council President and Clerk-Treasurer to
determine which personnel must receive the required training and to notify such
personnel;
   (J)   All elected and appointed officials of the town are hereby directed to
abide by and to cooperate fully in the implementation and modification of the
internal control system.
(Ord. 2016-4, passed 6-27-2016)
§ 30.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating §
30.29 shall be subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500 for each offense. A
complaint for violation seeking the imposition of the fine may be filed with
any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2009-9, passed 8-10-2009)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
31.001   Term of office
   
31.002   Residency required
   
31.003   Powers and duties
   
31.004   President
Meetings; General Provisions
   
31.015   Board meetings
   
31.016   Open meetings
   
31.017   Executive sessions
   
31.018   Notice of meetings
   
31.019   Agenda
   
31.020   Record of meetings
   
31.021   Quorum
   
31.022   Clerk of Council; tie-breaking vote
Meetings; Rules of Procedure
   
31.035   Presiding officer
   
31.036   Quorum for conducting business
   
31.037   Absence of President
   
31.038   Duties of the President
   
31.039   Duties of Council members
   
31.040   Seconding of motions required
   
31.041   Withdrawal of motions
   
31.042   Division of questions
   
31.043   Record of motions
   
31.044   Vote
   
31.045   Precedence of motion
   
31.046   Undebatable motions and exceptions to order
   
31.047   Motion to adjourn
   
31.048   Motion to postpone indefinitely
   
31.049   Motion to amend
   
31.050   Amendments
   
31.051   Reconsideration
   
31.052   Visitors and petitioners
   
31.053   Reports, communications, petitions and the like
   
31.054   Adoption of Robert’s Rules of Order, revised
   
31.055   Temporary suspension of rules; amendment of rules
Ordinances and Resolutions
   
31.070   Majority vote; when required
   
31.071   Two-thirds vote; when required
   
31.072   Date of adoption; publication
   
31.073   Record of ordinances
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.001 TERM OF OFFICE.
   Except as otherwise provided in I.C. 36-5-2-3(b), (c), (d) or (e), the term
of office of a member of the Town Council is four years, beginning at 12:00
p.m. January 1 after the member’s election and continuing until the member’s
successor is elected and qualified.
(I.C. 36-5-2-3(a))
§ 31.002 RESIDENCY REQUIRED.
   (A)   A member of the Town Council must reside within:
      (1)   The town as provided in the Indiana Constitution, Article 6, § 6;
and
      (2)   The district from which the member was elected, if applicable.
   (B)   A member of the Town Council who is elected by the voters of a
district forfeits office if the member ceases to be a resident of the district.
   (C)   A member of the Town Council who is elected by the voters of the
entire town but is elected or selected as a candidate from a district forfeits
office if the member ceases to be a resident of the district.
   (D)   An at-large member of the Town Council forfeits office if the member
ceases to be a resident of the town.
(I.C. 36-5-2-6)
§ 31.003 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Town Council may:
   (A)   Adopt ordinances and resolutions for the performance of functions of
the town;
   (B)   Purchase, hold and convey any interest in property for the use of the
town; and
   (C)   Adopt and use a common seal.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9)
§ 31.004 PRESIDENT.
   The Town Council shall select one of its members to be its President for a
definite term, which may not exceed his or her term of office as a member of
the Town Council.
(I.C. 36-5-2-7)
MEETINGS; GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.015 BOARD MEETINGS.
   Regular meetings of the Town Council shall be held on the second and fourth
Monday of each month at 6:00 p.m. at the Andrews Municipal Building unless
otherwise noticed in accordance with applicable law.
(Prior Code, § 171.20) (Ord. 2004-01, passed 1-19-2004; Ord. 2005-04, passed 5-
2-2005; Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-13-2009; Ord. 2013-01, passed 2-25-2013)
Cross-reference:
   Notice of meetings, see §
31.018
§ 31.016 OPEN MEETINGS.
   All meetings of the Town Council shall be held in accordance with state law
regarding open meetings, being I.C. 5-14-1.5.
§ 31.017 EXECUTIVE SESSIONS.
   (A)   As used in this section, PUBLIC OFFICIAL means a person:
      (1)   Who is a member of a governing body of a public agency; or
      (2)   Whose tenure and compensation are fixed by law and who executes an
oath.
   (B)   Executive sessions may be held only in the following instances:
      (1)   Where authorized by federal or state statute;
      (2)   For discussion of strategy with respect to any of the following:
         (a)   Collective bargaining;
         (b)   Initiation of litigation or litigation that is either pending or
has been threatened specifically in writing. As used in this clause, LITIGATION
includes any judicial action or administrative law proceeding under federal or
state law;
         (c)   The implementation of security systems;
         (d)   A real property transaction including: (i) a purchase; (ii) a
lease as lessor; (iii) a lease as lessee; (iv) a transfer; (v) an exchange; or
(vi) a sale by the Town Council up to the time a contract or option is executed
by the parties. This clause does not affect a political subdivision’s duty to
comply with any other statute that governs the conduct of the real property
transaction, including I.C. 36-1-10 or I.C. 36-1-11. However, all strategy
discussions must be necessary for competitive or bargaining reasons and may not
include competitive or bargaining adversaries;
         (e)   School consolidation.
      (3)   For discussion of the assessment, design and implementation of
school safety and security measures, plans and systems;
      (4)   (a)    Interviews and negotiations with industrial or commercial
prospects or agents of industrial or commercial prospects by:
            1.   The Indiana economic development corporation;
            2.   The office of tourism development (before July 1, 2020) or the
Indiana destination development corporation (after June 30, 2020);
            3.   The Indiana finance authority;
            4.   The ports of Indiana;
            5.   An economic development commission;
            6.   The Indiana state department of agriculture;
            7.   The Indiana White River state park development commission;
            8.   A local economic development organization that is a nonprofit
corporation established under state law whose primary purpose is the promotion
of industrial or business development in Indiana, the retention or expansion of
Indiana businesses, or the development of entrepreneurial activities in
Indiana; or
            9.   A governing body of a political subdivision.
         (b)   However, this subdivision does not apply to any discussions
regarding research that is prohibited under I.C. 16-34.5-1-2 or under any other
law.
      (5)   To receive information about and interview prospective employees;
      (6)   With respect to any individual over whom the Town Council has
jurisdiction:
         (a)   To receive information concerning the individual’s alleged
misconduct; and
         (b)   To discuss, before a determination, the individual’s status as
an employee, a student or an independent contractor who is a physician or a
school bus driver.
      (7)   For discussion of records classified as confidential by state or
federal statute;
      (8)   To discuss before a placement decision an individual student’s
abilities, past performance, behavior and needs;
      (9)   To discuss a job performance evaluation of individual employees.
This division does not apply to a discussion of the salary, compensation or
benefits of employees during a budget process;
      (10)   When considering the appointment of a public official, to do the
following:
         (a)   Develop a list of prospective appointees;
         (b)   Consider applications;
         (c)   Make one initial exclusion of prospective appointees from
further consideration; and
         (d)   Notwithstanding I.C. 5-14-3-4(b)(12), the Town Council may
release and shall make available for inspection and copying in accordance with
I.C. 5-14-3-3 identifying information concerning prospective appointees not
initially excluded from further consideration. An initial exclusion of
prospective appointees from further consideration may not reduce the number of
prospective appointees to fewer than three unless there are fewer than three
prospective appointees. Interviews of prospective appointees must be conducted
at a meeting that is open to the public.
      (11)   To train School Board members with an outside consultant about the
performance of the role of its members as public officials;
      (12)   To prepare or score examinations used in issuing licenses,
certificates, permits or registrations under I.C. 25; and
      (13)   To discuss information and intelligence intended to prevent,
mitigate or respond to the threat of terrorism.
      (14)   To train members of a board of aviation commissioners appointed
under I.C. 8-22-2 or members of an airport authority board appointed under I.C.
8-22-3 with an outside consultant about the performance of the role of the
members as public officials. A board may hold not more than 1 executive session
per calendar year under this division.
   (C)   A final action must be taken at a meeting open to the public.
   (D)   Public notice of executive sessions must state the subject matter by
specific reference to the enumerated instance or instances for which executive
sessions may be held under division (B) above. The requirements stated in §
31.020 for memoranda and minutes being made available to the public is modified
as to executive sessions in that the memoranda and minutes must identify the
subject matter considered by specific reference to the enumerated instance or
instances for which public notice was given. The Town Council shall certify by
a statement in the memoranda and minutes of the Town Council that no subject
matter was discussed in the executive session other than the subject matter
specified in the public notice.
   (E)   The Town Council may not conduct an executive session during a
meeting, except as otherwise permitted by applicable statute. A meeting may not
be recessed and reconvened with the intent of circumventing this division (E).
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-6.1)
§ 31.018 NOTICE OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the Town Council shall be held on the second and
fourth Monday of each month at 6:00 p.m. at the Andrews Municipal Building
unless otherwise noticed in accordance with applicable law.
   (B)   Public notice of the date, time and place of any meetings, executive
sessions or of any rescheduled or reconvened meeting shall be given by the Town
Council by posting a copy of the notice at the principal office of the Town
Council, or if no such office exists, at the building where the meeting is to
be held.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 2-25-2013)
Cross-reference:
   Time and place of regular meetings, see §
31.015
§ 31.019 AGENDA.
   (A)   The Town Council, when utilizing an agenda, shall post a copy of the
agenda at the entrance to the location of the meeting prior to the meeting. A
rule, regulation, ordinance or other final action adopted by reference to
agenda number or item alone is void.
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-4(a))
   (B)   The Town Council shall designate a person who shall prepare the agenda
for each meeting.
§ 31.020 RECORD OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   As the meeting progresses, the following memoranda shall be kept:
      (1)   The date, time and place of the meeting;
      (2)   The members of the Town Council recorded as either present or
absent;
      (3)   The general substance of all matters proposed, discussed or
decided;
      (4)   A record of all votes taken, by individual members if there is a
roll call; and
      (5)   Any additional information required under I.C. 5-14-1.5-3.5 or I.C.
5-14-1.5-3.6 or any other statute that authorizes a governing body to conduct a
meeting using an electronic means of communication.
   (B)   The memoranda are to be available within a reasonable period of time
after the meeting for the purpose of informing the public of the Town Council’s
proceedings. The minutes, if any, are to be open for public inspection and
copying.
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-4(b) and (c))
§ 31.021 QUORUM.
   A majority of all the elected members of the Town Council constitutes a
quorum.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.2)
§ 31.022 CLERK OF COUNCIL; TIE-BREAKING VOTE.
   (A)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is the Clerk of the Town Council.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is an ex officio member for the purpose of casting
the deciding vote to break a tie.
(I.C. 36-5-2-8)
MEETINGS; RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 31.035 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   The Council President shall take the chair at the hour appointed, or to
which the Council shall have adjourned, and shall immediately call the members
to order; whereupon, the Clerk of Council shall proceed to call the roll of
members. If a quorum is present, the Clerk of Council shall so announce and the
Council shall proceed with the order of business.
Cross-reference:
   Election of Council President, see §
31.004
   Town Clerk-Treasurer serves as Clerk of Council, see §
31.022
§ 31.036 QUORUM FOR CONDUCTING BUSINESS.
   (A)   A quorum shall consist of a majority of the entire Council, including
the Council President. A quorum shall be necessary to transact the business of
the Town Council.
   (B)   If no quorum is present, the Council shall not thereby stand
adjourned, but the members present shall adjourn or recess the Council by a
majority vote.
§ 31.037 ABSENCE OF PRESIDENT.
   At any meeting of the Council where a majority shall be assembled, and if
the President is temporarily absent but within or near the community, the Clerk
of Council shall preside and call the roll, whereupon the Council shall elect a
temporary Chairperson from its membership. In the event that the absence of the
President shall be of a more permanent nature, a President Pro Tem shall be
elected.
§ 31.038 DUTIES OF THE PRESIDENT.
   (A)   The President shall serve as the Chair, shall preserve order and
decorum and may speak to points of order in preference to other members, and
shall decide all questions of order subject to appeal.
   (B)   If the President refuses to allow the Council members to exercise
their right to appeal a decision of the Chair, the Council members may consider
and pass upon the matter in spite of the Chair’s failure to grant them appeal.
   (C)   The President shall have the power to require the Council room to be
cleared, or to have any disorderly person or persons ejected, in case of any
disturbances or disorderly conduct which prevent the meeting from being
continued in an orderly manner.
   (D)   Nothing in this code shall preclude the President from making or
seconding a motion, or from voting on any matters coming before the Council.
§ 31.039 DUTIES OF COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   (A)   While the President is stating the motion, or deciding a point of
order, the members shall be seated and no member shall leave the Council room
during the session without permission from the presiding officer.
   (B)   Every member, prior to his or her speaking, making a motion or
seconding the same, shall address the presiding officer and shall not proceed
with his or her remarks until recognized and named by the Chair.
   (C)   A member so recognized by the Chair shall confine himself or herself
to the question under debate.
   (D)   No member shall speak more than once on the same question, except by
permission of the Chair, and then not until every other member desiring to
speak shall have had an opportunity to do so.
   (E)   No member shall speak longer than five minutes at any one time, except
by consent of the Chair.
   (F)   While a member is speaking, no member shall hold any private
discussion, nor pass between the speaker and the Chair.
   (G)   A member, when called to order by the Chair, shall thereupon
discontinue speaking. The order or ruling of the Chair shall be binding and
conclusive, subject only to the right to appeal.
   (H)   Any member may appeal to the Council from a ruling of the Chair and,
if the appeal is seconded, the member making the appeal may briefly state his
or her reason for the same, and the Chair may briefly explain his or her
ruling; but there shall be no debate on the appeal and no other member shall
participate in the discussion. The Chair shall then put the question, “Shall
the decision of the Chair be overruled?” Otherwise, it shall be sustained.
   (I)   The right of a member to address the Council on a question of personal
privilege shall be limited to cases in which his or her integrity, character or
motives are assailed, questioned or impugned.
§ 31.040 SECONDING OF MOTIONS REQUIRED.
   No motion shall be put or debated in the Council or in committee unless it
be seconded. When a motion is seconded, it shall be stated by the presiding
officer before debate.
§ 31.041 WITHDRAWAL OF MOTIONS.
   After a resolution or a motion is stated by the President, it shall be
deemed to be in the possession of the Council, but it may be withdrawn by the
maker thereof with or without the consent of the Council member seconding the
motion prior to the call for the vote by the President.
§ 31.042 DIVISION OF QUESTIONS.
   If any question under consideration contains several distinct propositions,
the Council, by a majority vote of the members present, may divide the
questions.
§ 31.043 RECORD OF MOTIONS.
   In all cases where a resolution or motion is entered in the journal, the
names of the members moving and seconding the same shall be entered.
§ 31.044 VOTE.
   (A)   The ayes and nays shall be taken upon the passage of all ordinances
and on all propositions to create any liability against the town, or for the
expenditure or appropriation of its money, and upon any question and in all
other cases at the request of any member of the Council. When the Clerk of
Council has commenced to call the roll of the Council for the taking of a vote
by “Ayes” and “Nays,” all debate on the question before the Council shall be
deemed concluded, and during the taking of the vote a member shall be permitted
to briefly explain his or her vote and shall respond to the calling of his or
her name by the Clerk of Council by answering “Aye” or “Nay,” as the case may
be.
   (B)   The names of each member of the Council shall be listed on the
official copy of every ordinance passed indicating specifically the names of
those voting “Aye” and those voting “Nay.”
   (C)   An abstention is neither an affirmative vote nor a negative vote.
Regardless of the number of abstentions, and except as otherwise provided by
law, an affirmative vote of the majority of the Council members is required to
pass a motion, ordinance, resolution or other action of the Town Council.
   (D)   The President shall announce the result of the Council’s vote and the
votes shall be entered in the journal of the proceedings.
Cross-reference:
   Two-thirds vote; when required, see §
31.071
§ 31.045 PRECEDENCE OF MOTION.
   When a question is before the Council, no motion shall be received, except
as specified in this section, and which shall have precedence in the following
order:
   (A)   To fix the time to which to adjourn;
   (B)   To adjourn;
   (C)   To take a recess;
   (D)   To raise a question of privilege;
   (E)   To call for the orders of the day;
   (F)   To lay on the table;
   (G)   To call for the previous question;
   (H)   To postpone to a certain time;
   (I)   To refer to committee;
   (J)   To amend;
   (K)   To postpone indefinitely; and
   (L)   To the main motion.
§ 31.046 UNDEBATABLE MOTIONS AND EXCEPTIONS TO ORDER.
   The motion to adjourn or to lay on the table shall be decided without
debate, and the motion to fix the time to which to adjourn and the motion to
adjourn shall always be in order, except:
   (A)   When a member is in possession of the floor;
   (B)   When the roll call votes are being called;
   (C)   While the members are voting;
   (D)   When adjournment was the last preceding motion; or
   (E)   When it has been decided that the previous question shall be taken.
§ 31.047 MOTION TO ADJOURN.
   A motion to adjourn cannot be amended; but a motion to adjourn to a given
day or time shall be open to amendment and debate.
§ 31.048 MOTION TO POSTPONE INDEFINITELY.
   When a question is postponed indefinitely, it shall not be taken up again
before the next regular meeting.
§ 31.049 MOTION TO AMEND.
   A motion to amend an amendment shall be in order, but a motion to amend an
amendment to an amendment shall not be entertained.
§ 31.050 AMENDMENTS.
   Only one amendment at a time may be offered to any question before the
Council. The vote shall first be taken on the amendment and, if the amendment
passes, then further amendments may be proposed. Finally, a vote shall be taken
on the principal motion as finally amended.
§ 31.051 RECONSIDERATION.
   (A)   (1)   A vote or question may be reconsidered at any time during the
same meeting, or at the first regular meeting held thereafter.
      (2)   A motion for reconsideration, once having been made and decided in
the negative, shall not be renewed.
      (3)   A matter once having been decided and a motion to reconsider the
matter having been defeated, it may nonetheless come before the Council at a
future time by way of a motion to rescind or as a new motion.
      (4)   If the Chair determines that new facts are to be presented to the
Council, or that there is a likelihood that the Council will reverse its
previous decision, the Chair shall rule the motion in order. If a motion is
continuously brought before the Council and rejected, the Chair may rule its
reintroduction under a motion to rescind or as a new motion to be out of order.
   (B)   No motion to reconsider the approval or denial of the recommendation
of an advisory body required to hold public hearings shall be entertained
except at the same meeting at which the original action was taken or after the
matter has been referred to the advisory body for a further hearing and
recommendation.
   (C)   A motion to reconsider must be made and seconded by members who voted
on the prevailing side of the question to be reconsidered, unless otherwise
provided by law; provided, however, that where a motion has received a majority
vote in the affirmative, but is declared lost solely on the ground that a
greater number of affirmative votes is required by statute for the passage or
adoption of the motion, then in that case a motion to reconsider may be made
and seconded only by those who voted in the affirmative on the question to be
reconsidered, so long as the issue presented is the same, no new information is
forthcoming, and the rights of third parties have not intervened.
§ 31.052 VISITORS AND PETITIONERS.
   Except during the time allotted for public discussion and comments, no
person other than a member of the Council shall address that body, except with
the consent of a majority of the members present.
§ 31.053 REPORTS, COMMUNICATIONS, PETITIONS AND THE LIKE.
   All communications, reports, petitions or any other papers addressed to the
Council shall be made available to the Clerk of Council prior to the meeting.
The Clerk of Council shall endeavor to distribute copies or read the material
to the members of the Council.
§ 31.054 ADOPTION OF ROBERT’S RULES OF ORDER, REVISED.
   The rules of parliamentary practice comprised in the latest published
edition of Robert’s Rules of Order, revised, shall govern the Council in all
cases to which they are applicable and in which they are not inconsistent with
the ordinances of the town, including these rules, or the statutes of the
state.
§ 31.055 TEMPORARY SUSPENSION OF RULES; AMENDMENT OF RULES.
   The rules of the Council may be temporarily suspended, altered or amended,
by concurrence of a majority vote of all the Council members then in office.
ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
§ 31.070 MAJORITY VOTE; WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   A requirement that an ordinance, resolution or other action of the
Town Council be passed by a majority vote means at least a majority vote of all
the elected members.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.4(a))
   (B)   A majority vote of the Town Council is required to pass an ordinance
unless a greater vote is required by statute.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.6)
Cross-reference:
   Effect of abstentions, see §
31.044
§ 31.071 TWO-THIRDS VOTE; WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   A requirement that an ordinance, resolution or other action of the
Town Council be passed by a two-thirds vote means at least a two-thirds vote of
all the elected members.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.4(b))
   (B)   A two-thirds vote of all the elected members, after unanimous consent
of the members present to consider the ordinance, is required to pass an
ordinance of the Town Council on the same day or at the same meeting at which
it is introduced.
   (C)   Division (B) above does not apply to the following:
      (1)   A zoning ordinance or an amendment to a zoning ordinance adopted
under I.C. 36-7; or
      (2)   An ordinance to increase the number of Town Council members adopted
under I.C. 36-5-2-4.2, unless the ordinance also establishes new legislative
body districts.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.8)
§ 31.072 DATE OF ADOPTION; PUBLICATION.
   (A)   An ordinance, order, or resolution passed by the Town Council is
considered adopted when it is signed by the President of Council. If required
by statute, an adopted ordinance, order, or resolution must be promulgated or
published before it takes effect.
   (B)   An ordinance prescribing a penalty or forfeiture for a violation must,
before it takes effect, be published in the manner prescribed by I.C. 5-3-
1 unless:
      (1)   It is published under division (C); or
      (2)   It declares an emergency requiring its immediate effectiveness and
is posted in:
         (a)   One public place in each district in the town; or
         (b)   A number of public places in the town equal to the number of
Town Council members, if the town has abolished legislative body districts
under I.C. 36-5-2-4.1.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (E), if a town publishes any of its
ordinances in book or pamphlet form, no other publication is required. If an
ordinance prescribing a penalty or forfeiture for a violation is published
under this division, it takes effect two weeks after the publication of the
book or pamphlet. Publication under this division, if authorized by the
legislative body, constitutes presumptive evidence:
      (1)   Of the ordinances in the book or pamphlet;
      (2)   Of the date of adoption of the ordinances; and
      (3)   That the ordinances have been properly signed, attested, recorded,
and approved.
   (D)   This section (other than division (F)) does not apply to a zoning
ordinance or amendment to a zoning ordinance, or a resolution approving a
comprehensive plan, that is adopted under I.C. 36-7.
   (E)   An ordinance increasing a building permit fee on new development must:
      (1)   Be published one time in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1, and not later
than 30 days after the ordinance is adopted by the Town Council in accordance
with I.C. 5-3-1; and
      (2)   Delay the implementation of the fee increase for 90 days after the
date the ordinance is published under division (D)(1) of this section.
   (F)   Subject to division (J), the legislative body shall:
      (1)   Subject to division (G), give written notice to the Department of
Environmental Management not later than 60 days before amendment or repeal of
an environmental restrictive ordinance; and
      (2)   Give written notice to the Department of Environmental Management
not later than 30 days after passage, amendment, or repeal of an environmental
restrictive ordinance.
   (G)   Upon written request by the legislative body, the Department of
Environmental Management may waive the notice requirement of division (F)(1).
   (H)   An environmental restrictive ordinance passed or amended after 2009 by
the legislative body must state the notice requirements of division (F).
   (I)   The failure of an environmental restrictive ordinance to comply with
division (H) does not void the ordinance.
   (J)   The notice requirements of division (F) of this section apply only if
the municipal corporation received under I.C. 13-25-5-8.5(f) written notice
that the department is relying on the environmental restrictive ordinance
referred to in division (F) as part of a risk based remediation proposal:
      (1)   Approved by the department; and
      (2)   Conducted under I.C. 13-22, I.C. 13-23, I.C. 13-24, I.C. 13-25-4,
or I.C. 13-25-5.
(I.C. 36-5-2-10)
§ 31.073 RECORD OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Within a reasonable time after an ordinance of the Town Council is
adopted, the Clerk-Treasurer shall record it in a book kept for that purpose.
The record must include:
      (1)   The signature of the President of Council;
      (2)   The attestation of the Clerk-Treasurer; and
      (3)   The date of each recorded item.
   (B)   The record or a certified copy of it constitutes presumptive evidence
of the adoption of the ordinance.
(I.C. 36-5-2-10.2)
CHAPTER 32: TOWN OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Prorating of fire pay
   
32.02   Nomination of candidates for town offices in primary elections
   
32.03   Employee Handbook
   
32.04   Drug and alcohol random testing
   
32.05   Nepotism in employment and contracting
Clerk-Treasurer
   
32.15   Residency requirement
   
32.16   Election; term of office
   
32.17   Powers and duties
   
32.18   [Reserved]
   
32.19   Office space
   
32.20   Training
Town Marshal
   
32.35   Appointment; compensation
   
32.36   Removal from office; discipline
   
32.37   Powers and duties
   
32.38   Service as Street Commissioner and Fire Chief
   
32.39   Deputy Marshals; Humane Officer
   
32.40   Body armor
   
32.41   Reserve Deputy Marshals
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 PRORATING OF FIRE PAY.
   Volunteer firefighters’ pay may be prorated on a monthly basis for
volunteers who are leaving the Department when moving out of state only.
(Prior Code, § 171.21) (Ord. 1989-05, passed 8-14-1989)
§ 32.02 NOMINATION OF CANDIDATES FOR TOWN OFFICES IN PRIMARY ELECTIONS.
   Each candidate for an elective town office shall be nominated by primary
election to be conducted by the County Election Board in accordance with
statutes governing primary elections for towns, and otherwise in accordance
with I.C. 3-8-5-2 and other applicable provisions of state law, as those
presently exist and are hereafter modified or superceded.
(Prior Code, § 171.24) (Ord. 2001-20, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 32.03 EMPLOYEE HANDBOOK.
   The Employment Handbook is hereby examined and approved, and the policies,
procedures and provisions contained therein shall supersede prior employment
policies to the extent these policies are inconsistent with express provisions
contained in that Employment Handbook; provided, however, that any new
privilege or benefit set forth in the Handbook shall apply only prospectively
after adoption. The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized and directed to show
the Employment Handbook adopted as of the date of this resolution and arrange
for duplication and distribution of the Employment Handbook to the town’s
employees, with a copy to be made a part of the permanent record in the office
of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 171.31) (Ord. 1995-04, passed 9-25-1995; Ord. 2011-3, passed 2-
14-2011; Res. - - , passed 3-11-2013)
§ 32.04 DRUG AND ALCOHOL RANDOM TESTING.
   (A)   The town has drug and alcohol random testing in effect.
   (B)   The drug and alcohol random testing shall be in correspondence with
the county community school program.
   (C)   The town adopts a .01 alcohol tolerance.
(Prior Code, § 174.01) (Res. 1996-05, passed 2-26-1996)
§ 32.05 NEPOTISM IN EMPLOYMENT AND CONTRACTING.
   (A)   Minimum requirements. The town’s nepotism policy and contracting with
the town by certain relatives policy are established hereby and do, and at all
times hereafter shall, comply with all then applicable requirements of Indiana
law as to those matters, including but not limited to the provisions of I.C.
36-1-20.2 and 36-1-21, which requirements and provisions are a part hereof as
if fully set out, and are hereby incorporated, herein. Further, two copies of
I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21, and as they are hereafter supplemented or
amended, are and shall continuously be maintained on file in the office of the
Clerk-Treasurer for public inspection as may be required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
   (B)   More stringent or detailed provisions regarding nepotism. Anti-
nepotism provisions which are more stringent or detailed than the provisions of
state law may be adopted and implemented by the town except as otherwise
prohibited by applicable authority.
   (C)   Non-compliance. Failure to comply with the requirements and provisions
of this section may result in remedial and/or disciplinary action, as allowed
by law.
(Ord. 2012-5, passed 6-11-2012)
CLERK-TREASURER
§ 32.15 RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT.
    The Clerk-Treasurer must reside within the town as provided in the Indiana
Constitution Article 6, § 6. The Clerk-Treasurer forfeits office if the Clerk-
Treasurer ceases to be a resident of the town. An individual who resides in
territory that is annexed by the town before the election is considered a
resident of the town for purposes of this section, even if the annexation took
effect less than one year before the election.
(I.C. 36-5-6-3(a))
§ 32.16 ELECTION; TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Election. The Clerk-Treasurer shall be elected under I.C. 3-10-6 or 3-
10-7 by the voters of the whole town.
(I.C. 36-5-6-4)
   (B)   Term of office. Except as provided in I.C. 36-5-6-3(c) or (d), the
term of office of the Clerk-Treasurer is four years, beginning at 12:00 p.m. on
January 1 after election and continuing until a successor is elected and
qualified.
(I.C. 36-5-6-3(b))
§ 32.17 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)    Except as provided in I.C. 36-5-6.5, the Clerk-Treasurer is both the
Town Clerk and the Town Fiscal Officer.
(I.C. 36-5-6-2)
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer may administer oaths, take depositions and take
acknowledgments of instruments required by statute to be acknowledged.
(I.C. 36-5-6-5)
   (C)   This section does not apply to a town that has adopted an ordinance
under I.C. 36-5-6.5.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall do the following:
      (1)   Receive and care for all town money and pay the money out only on
order of the Town Council;
      (2)   Keep accounts showing when and from what sources the Clerk-
Treasurer has received town money, and when and to whom the Clerk-Treasurer has
paid out town money;
      (3)   Prescribe payroll and account forms for all town offices;
      (4)   Prescribe the manner in which creditors, officers and employees
shall be paid;
      (5)   Manage the finances and accounts of the town and make investments
of town money;
      (6)   Prepare for the Town Council the budget estimates of miscellaneous
revenue, financial statements and the proposed tax rate;
      (7)   Maintain custody of the town seal and the records of the Town
Council;
      (8)   Issue all licenses authorized by statute and collect the fees fixed
by ordinance;
      (9)   Serve as Clerk of the Town Council by attending its meetings and
recording its proceedings;
      (10)   Administer oaths, take depositions and take acknowledgment of
instruments that are required by statute to be acknowledged, without charging a
fee;
      (11)   Serve as clerk of the town court under I.C. 33-35-3-2, if the
judge of the court does not serve as clerk of the court or appoint a clerk of
the court under I.C. 33-35-3-1; and
      (12)   Perform all other duties prescribed by statute.
(I.C. 36-5-6-6)
§ 32.18 [RESERVED].
§ 32.19 OFFICE SPACE.
   If office space exists in a building owned or leased by the town, the Town
Council shall provide suitable office space for the Clerk-Treasurer and staff
and records of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(I.C. 36-5-6-5.1)
§ 32.20 TRAINING.
   At least annually, the Clerk-Treasurer shall provide evidence to the Town
Council of training received and continuing education obtained.
(Ord. 2010-02, passed 12-27-2010)
TOWN MARSHAL
§ 32.35 APPOINTMENT; COMPENSATION.
   The Town Council shall appoint the Town Marshal and shall fix his or her
compensation.
(I.C. 36-5-7-2)
§ 32.36 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE; DISCIPLINE.
   The Town Marshal serves at the pleasure of the Town Council. However, before
terminating or suspending a Town Marshal who has been employed by the town for
more than six months after completing the minimum basic training requirements
adopted by the Law Enforcement Training Board under I.C. 5-2-1-9, the Town
Council must conduct the disciplinary removal and appeals procedures prescribed
by I.C. 36-8 for municipal Fire and Police Departments.
(I.C. 36-5-7-3)
§ 32.37 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Town Marshal is the chief police officer of the town and has the
powers of other law enforcement officers in executing the orders of the Town
Council and enforcing laws.
   (B)   The Town Marshal or his or her deputy:
      (1)   Shall serve all process directed to him or her by the Town Court or
Town Council;
      (2)   Shall arrest without process all persons who commit an offense
within his or her view, take them before a court having jurisdiction, and
detain them in custody until the cause of the arrest has been investigated;
      (3)   Shall suppress breaches of the peace;
      (4)   May, if necessary, call the power of the town to his or her aid;
      (5)   May execute search warrants and arrest warrants; and
      (6)   May pursue and jail persons who commit an offense.
(I.C. 36-5-7-4)
§ 32.38 SERVICE AS STREET COMMISSIONER AND FIRE CHIEF.
   The Town Council may require the Town Marshal to serve as the Street
Commissioner, Chief of the Fire Department, or both.
(I.C. 36-5-7-5)
§ 32.39 DEPUTY MARSHALS; HUMANE OFFICER.
   (A)   The town, acting through its Town Council, shall be and is hereby
authorized to appoint Deputy Town Marshals from time to time, the number, terms
of employment and duties of which shall be determined by the Town Council from
time to time.
(Prior Code, § 171.23)
   (B)   One Deputy Marshal may be designated as the Town Humane Officer. He or
she has the duties prescribed by I.C. 36-8 for municipal humane officers.
   (C)   The Town Council shall fix the amount of bond, compensation and term
of service of Deputy Marshals. The Town Marshal may dismiss a Deputy Marshal at
any time. However, a Deputy Marshal who has been employed by the town for more
than six months after completing the minimum basic training requirements
adopted by the Law Enforcement Training Board under I.C. 5-2-1-9 may be
dismissed only if the procedure prescribed by §
32.36 is followed.
(I.C. 36-5-7-6)
(Ord. 383, passed 3-5-1980)
§ 32.40 BODY ARMOR.
   (A)   As used in this section, BODY ARMOR has the meaning set forth in I.C.
35-47-5-13(a).
   (B)   After December 31, 2010, a town shall provide the Town Marshal and
active Deputy Marshals of the town with body armor for the torso. The town
shall replace the body armor for the torso according to the replacement period
recommended by the manufacturer of the body armor for the torso.
   (C)   The Town Marshal and active Deputy Marshals of the town may not be
required to pay for maintenance of the body armor for the torso furnished under
this section.
   (D)   Body armor for the torso provided by a town under this section remains
the property of the town. The town may sell the property when it becomes unfit
for use, and all money received shall be paid into the General Fund of the
town.
(I.C. 36-5-7-7)
§ 32.41 RESERVE DEPUTY MARSHALS.
   (A)   Up to ten Reserve Deputy Marshals may be appointed by the Town
Council.
   (B)   Reserve Deputy Marshals shall not be members of the regular Police
Department and are not eligible to participate in any pension program provided
for regular members, but shall have all of the same police powers as regular
members, except as limited by the rules of the Department.
   (C)   To the extent that money is appropriated in the town budget, Reserve
Deputy Marshals may receive any or all of the following:
      (1)   A uniform allowance;
      (2)   Compensation for time lost from other employment because of court
appearances;
      (3)   Insurance for life, accident and sickness coverage; or
      (4)   Be covered by the medical treatment and burial expense provisions
of Indiana’s worker’s compensation and worker’s occupational diseases laws.
   (D)   An individual shall not be appointed as a Reserve Deputy Marshal
unless he or she has successfully completed a pre-basic course under I.C. 5-2-
1-9(f) and has completed the training and probationary period specified by the
rules of the Department.
(Ord. 2013-4, passed 4-8-2013)
CHAPTER 33: TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Plan Commission
Police Department
   
33.15   Vehicle accident report
   
33.16   Rules and Policies Manual
   
33.17   Police motor vehicle designated fire emergency vehicle
   
33.18   Probationary period
Cross-reference:
   Purchasing Agency, see §
34.50
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 PLAN COMMISSION.
   (A)   The County Plan Commission is hereby designated as the town’s Advisory
Plan Commission. When acting for the town, the County Plan Commission shall
have all powers and duties that a municipal Plan Commission has under advisory
planning law. The Town Council shall retain and have absolute control over all
matters that require legislative approval pursuant to state law.
   (B)   As a result of designating the County Plan Commission to act as the
Town Plan Commission, residents of the town are eligible to be appointed
citizen members of the County Plan Commission under I.C. 36-7-4-410(b). Upon
acceptance of this designation and pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-410(a), the County
Plan Commission (and the Countywide Department of Community Development acting
for the Plan Commission) shall obtain the full amount of fees and charges
provided for in the applicable zoning ordinance and subdivision control
ordinance as payment for expenses properly chargeable for planning services
contemplated herein.
(Prior Code, § 171.03) (Ord. 1997-2, passed 3-10-1997)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.15 VEHICLE ACCIDENT REPORT.
   The Police Department is entitled to charge a fee in an amount determined by
the Council for each vehicle accident report to any person or duly authorized
agent or attorney so entitled to the information.
(Prior Code, § 171.40) (Ord. 510, passed 1-18-1988)
§ 33.16 RULES AND POLICIES MANUAL.
   The Personnel Rules and Policies Manual and Amendment for the Police
Department is hereby accepted and adopted herein by reference as they currently
read.
(Prior Code, § 171.41) (Ord. 511, passed 1-18-1988)
§ 33.17 POLICE MOTOR VEHICLE DESIGNATED FIRE EMERGENCY VEHICLE.
   The town-owned police motor vehicle is hereby designated a fire emergency
vehicle and shall be used as directed for fire prevention and emergency use in
conjunction with the Town Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 171.42) (Res. 305, passed 2-4-1970)
§ 33.18 PROBATIONARY PERIOD.
   The Town Council sets out a probationary period of not less than one year
for police officers hired on or after February 20, 1980. These officers may be
subjected to disciplinary action and/or dismissal upon the Town Council’s
discretion.
(Prior Code, § 171.43) (Ord. 382, passed - - )
CHAPTER 34: FINANCE
Section
Funds
   
34.01   Sewage Depreciation Fund
   
34.02   Insurance Fund
   
34.03   Petty Cash Fund
   
34.04   Cumulative Firefighting Fund
   
34.05   Depository
Disbursement of Funds
   
34.15   Appropriation required
   
34.16   Issue of warrants
   
34.17   Allowance of claims
   
34.18   Warrants for payment of claims
   
34.19   Payment of compensation to officer or employee prior to vacation leave
   
34.20   Claim payments in advance of allowance
   
34.21   Transfer of funds
   
34.22   Policy for electronic funds transfers and online banking
Budgets
   
34.35   Preparation of annual budget estimates
   
34.36   Preparation and approval of ordinance fixing tax rate; making annual
appropriations
   
34.37   Increase or decrease of appropriations after approval of ordinance
Purchasing
   
34.50   Expenditure of public funds
   
34.51   Purchasing rules
FUNDS
§ 34.01 SEWAGE DEPRECIATION FUND.
   The Town Council has determined to set up a Sewage Depreciation Fund to
start in January, 1989. The Council authorizes the Clerk-Treasurer to transfer
$5,000 from sewage operating to start the Fund. They also determine that 10% of
the collected sewage utility charges be deposited into this Fund each month.
(Prior Code, § 171.50) (Res. 531, passed 12-27-1988)
§ 34.02 INSURANCE FUND.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby sets up an insurance fund retroactive to
February 1, 1992 to help pay the difference in the $500 deductible from the
$100 that was previously paid for the employees.
   (B)   This Fund will contain not more than $2,400 but will be added to
whenever funds are used.
   (C)   This fund is supported by tax levy through the General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 171.51) (Ord. 1992-03, passed 5-11-1992)
§ 34.03 PETTY CASH FUND.
   The Town Council hereby establishes a Petty Cash Fund in the amount of
$1,000 for the purpose of confidential law enforcement. The Town Marshal shall
be the custodian of this Fund and shall be able to draw upon the designated
amount as becomes necessary. The Town Marshal shall also be responsible for
documenting and keeping records required by the State Board of Accounts.
(Prior Code, § 171.52) (Res. 1990-01, passed 2-12-1990)
§ 34.04 CUMULATIVE FIREFIGHTING FUND.
   (A)   The Cumulative Firefighting Fund is hereby established.
   (B)    To provide for that Fund, a tax will be levied annually not to exceed
the rate of $0.0333 on each $100 of assessed valuation. Said tax rate will be
levied beginning with taxes for 2020 payable 2021 and thereafter continuing
until reduced or rescinded.
   (C)   As that tax is collected it shall be deposited in this town’s Building
or Remodeling, Firefighting and Police Radio Equipment Fund to be appropriated
according to law and used for one or more of the following purposes:
      (1)   The purchase, construction, renovation or addition to buildings;
      (2)   Purchase of land; used by the Fire Department or a volunteer Fire
Department serving the unit; and
      (3)   The purchase of firefighting equipment for use of the Fire
Department or a volunteer Fire Department serving the unit, including making
the required payments under a lease rental with option to purchase agreement
made to acquire the equipment.
(Prior Code, § 171.53) (Ord. 1997-1, passed 3-24-1997; Ord. 2020-1, passed 2-
24-2020)
§ 34.05 DEPOSITORY.
   First Federal Savings Bank is the financial depository of the town until
further consideration by Council.
(Ord. 2012-2, passed 4-9-2012)
DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS
§ 34.15 APPROPRIATION REQUIRED.
   Unless a statute provides otherwise, town monies may be disbursed only after
an appropriation made by ordinance of the Town Council and recorded in a book
kept for that purpose by the Town Council. Each appropriation must be made from
the fund against which the expenses arose.
(I.C. 36-5-4-2)
§ 34.16 ISSUE OF WARRANTS.
   (A)   The Town Council or a board of the town may order the issuance of
warrants for payment of money by the town only at a meeting of the Town Council
or board.
   (B)   A town officer who violates this section forfeits his or her office.
(I.C. 36-5-4-3)
§ 34.17 ALLOWANCE OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
34.20, the Town Council or a board of the town may allow a claim:
      (1)   Only at a meeting of the Town Council or board; and
      (2)   Only if the claim was filed in the manner prescribed by I.C. 5-11-
10-2 at least five days before the meeting.
   (B)   A town officer who violates this section forfeits his or her office.
(I.C. 36-5-4-4)
§ 34.18 WARRANTS FOR PAYMENT OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   As used in this section, CLAIM means a bill or an invoice submitted
for goods or services.
   (B)   Except as provided in §
34.20, a warrant for payment of a claim against a town may be issued only if
the claim is:
      (1)   Supported by a fully itemized invoice or bill under I.C. 5-11-10-
1.6;
      (2)   Filed with the Town Fiscal Officer;
      (3)   Certified by the Fiscal Officer before payment that each invoice is
true and correct; and
      (4)   Allowed by the Town Council or by the board of the town having
jurisdiction over allowance of the payment of the claim.
   (C)   The certification by the Fiscal Officer under division (B)(3) above
must be on a form prescribed by the State Board of Accounts.
(I.C. 36-5-4-6)
§ 34.19 PAYMENT OF COMPENSATION TO OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE PRIOR TO VACATION LEAVE.
   One to three days before the vacation leave period of a town officer or
employee begins, the town may pay him or her the amount of compensation he or
she will earn while he or she is on vacation leave.
(I.C. 36-5-4-7)
§ 34.20 CLAIM PAYMENTS IN ADVANCE OF ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   Notwithstanding I.C. 5-11-10, the Clerk-Treasurer may make claim
payments in advance of the Town Council making allowance for the following
types of expenses:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from:
         (a)   The United States government; or
         (b)   An agency or a political subdivision of the United States
government.
      (2)   License fees or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   Federal grant programs if:
         (a)   Advance funding is not prohibited; and
         (b)   The contracting party provides sufficient security for the
amount advanced.
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance agreements or service agreements;
      (8)   Lease agreements or rental agreements;
      (9)   Principal and interest payments on bonds;
      (10)   Payroll;
      (11)   State, federal or county taxes;
      (12)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances; and
      (13)   Other expenses described in an ordinance.
   (B)   Each payment of expenses under this section must be supported by a
fully itemized invoice or bill and be certified by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   The Town Council shall review and allow the claim at the Council’s
next regular or special meeting following the pre-approved payment of the
expense.
(Ord. 2008-3, passed 12-1-2008)
§ 34.21 TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding I.C. 8-14-1 and 8-14-2, the town may transfer money
distributed to the town from the motor vehicle highway account under I.C. 8-14-
1; the local road and street account under I.C. 8-14-2; or the motor vehicle
highway account under I.C. 8-14-1 and the local road and street account under
I.C. 8-14-2 to any other town fund after the passage of an ordinance or a
resolution by the Town Council that specifies the amount of the transfer, the
funds involved, the date of the transfer and the general purpose of the
transfer.
   (B)   However, the total amount of all money transferred by the town under
this section may not exceed $40,000.
(I.C. 36-5-4-13(b))
§ 34.22 POLICY FOR ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFERS AND ONLINE BANKING.
   (A)   Automatic Clearing House (ACH) Transactions. ACH Transactions are
hereby authorized for the Clerk-Treasurer to make certain payments via ACH.
Authorized payments are payroll, bond payments and payments for monthly bills.
Also authorized are any funds received via ACH.
   (B)   Electronic Funds Transfers (ACH) including online transfers. EFT
Transfers are hereby authorized for the Clerk-Treasurer to make online
transfers for the purpose of transferring funds between accounts as it relates
to the Clerk-Treasurer duties.
   (C)   Documentation. The Clerk-Treasurer is required to maintain adequate
documentation of the above referenced transactions for future audits, as
provided by law.
(Ord. 2021-9, passed 4-26-2021)
BUDGETS
§ 34.35 PREPARATION OF ANNUAL BUDGET ESTIMATES.
   Before the publication of notice of budget estimates required by I.C. 6-1.1-
17-3, the town shall formulate a budget estimate for the ensuing budget year in
the following manner, unless the town provides by ordinance for a different
manner:
   (A)   Each department head shall prepare for his or her department an
estimate of the amount of money required for the ensuing budget year, stating
in detail each category and item of expenditure he or she anticipates;
   (B)   The Town Fiscal Officer shall prepare an itemized estimate of revenues
available for the ensuing budget year, and shall prepare an itemized estimate
of expenditures for other purposes above the money proposed to be used by the
departments;
   (C)   The President of Council shall meet with the department heads and the
Fiscal Officer to review and revise their various estimates; and
   (D)   After the President’s review and revision, the Fiscal Officer shall
prepare for the President a report of the estimated department budgets,
miscellaneous expenses and revenues necessary or available to finance the
estimates.
(I.C. 36-5-3-3)
Cross-reference:
   Compensation of officials and employees, see §
30.01
§ 34.36 PREPARATION AND APPROVAL OF ORDINANCE FIXING TAX RATE; MAKING ANNUAL
APPROPRIATIONS.
   (A)   The Town Fiscal Officer shall present the report of budget estimates
to the Town Council under I.C. 6-1.1-17.
   (B)   After reviewing the report, the Town Council shall prepare an
ordinance fixing the rate of taxation for the ensuing budget year and an
ordinance making appropriations for the estimated department budgets and other
town purposes during the ensuing budget year.
   (C)   The Town Council, in the appropriation ordinance, may change any
estimated item from the figure submitted in the report of the Fiscal Officer.
   (D)   The Town Council shall promptly act on the appropriation ordinance.
(I.C. 36-5-3-4)
§ 34.37 INCREASE OR DECREASE OF APPROPRIATIONS AFTER APPROVAL OF ORDINANCE.
   After the passage of the appropriation ordinance, the Town Council may make
further or additional appropriations by ordinance, unless their result is to
increase the tax levy set under I.C. 6-1.1-17. The Town Council may, by
ordinance, decrease any appropriation set by ordinance.
(I.C. 36-5-3-5)
PURCHASING
§ 34.50 EXPENDITURE OF PUBLIC FUNDS.
   (A)   Council is hereby established as the purchasing agency (“Purchasing
Agency”) for the town with all of the powers and duties of an I.C. 5-22
purchasing agency now and hereafter authorized by applicable authority.
   (B)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer (“Clerk-Treasurer”) is hereby designated as a
purchasing agent (“Purchasing Agent”) of that Purchasing Agency as contemplated
by I.C. 5-22, and as such is authorized to purchase supplies or services in any
transaction where those supplies or services have an estimated cost of less
than $500 the open market, without inviting or receiving proposals or bids.
   (C)   The Town Utility Superintendent is hereby also designated as a
Purchasing Agent of that Purchasing Agency and as such is authorized to
purchase supplies or services on the open market, without inviting or receiving
proposals or bids, in any transaction where those supplies or services have an
estimated cost of less than $500 and up to $2,500 after consulting with at
least one Council Member or the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (D)   The Town Marshal (Police Chief) is hereby also designated as a
Purchasing Agent of that Purchasing Agency and as such is authorized to
purchase supplies or services on the open market, without inviting or receiving
proposals or bids, in any transaction where those supplies or services have an
estimated cost of less than $500 and up to $2,500 after consulting with at
least one Council Member or the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (E)   The Volunteer Fire Chief is hereby also designated as a Purchasing
Agent of that Purchasing Agency and as such is authorized to purchase supplies
or services on the open market, without inviting or receiving proposals or
bids, in any transaction where those supplies or services have an estimated
cost of less than $500 and up to $2,500 after consulting with at least one
Council Member or the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (F)   Purchasing rules and/or purchasing policies appropriate in
supplementing I.C. 5-22 as it now and hereafter provides shall be adopted, and
may thereafter be modified or supplemented, by the Council by resolution and/or
ordinance as Council determines from time to time.
   (G)   This section is effective and, to the extent that it conflicts with
the provisions of any prior ordinance or resolution of Council, supersedes such
provisions as of its adoption and execution, and otherwise in accordance with
applicable law and shall be incorporated in and become a part of the Town Code.
(Ord. 2011-05, passed 11-21-2011; Ord. 2014-2, passed 4-28-2014; Ord. 2018-11,
passed 11-26-2018)
§ 34.51 PURCHASING RULES.
   (A)   Protection of offers; status of documents as public records
      (1)   Protection of offers prior to opening. The Purchasing Agent shall
retain all offers received in a secure location prior to the date and time at
which offers will be opened to prevent disclosure of the contents prior to the
opening of the offers.
      (2)   Unobstructed evaluation of offers. After offers have been opened,
the Purchasing Agent shall be responsible for maintaining the offers in such a
manner as to permit evaluation of the offers by the persons responsible for
evaluating the offers.
      (3)   Public records status of bids. Bids submitted in response to an
invitation for bids must be available for public inspection and copying after
the time of the bid opening.
      (4)   Register of proposals. The Purchasing Agent shall prepare a
register of proposals for each request for proposals issued which shall contain
information concerning the proposals available for public inspection and
copying. Proposals may not be disclosed.
   (B)   Discussions with offerors responding to a request for proposals. The
Purchasing Agent may conduct discussions with, and best and final offers may be
obtained from, responsible offerors who submit proposals determined to be
reasonably susceptible of being selected for a contract award.
   (C)   Delay of opening of offers. When Council makes a reasonable
determination that it is in the town’s best interests, offers may be opened
after the time stated in the solicitation. The date, time and place of the
rescheduled opening must be announced at the time and place of the originally
scheduled opening.
   (D)   Evidence of financial responsibility.
      (1)   Purchases less than $50,000. The Purchasing Agent may not require
evidence of financial responsibility when the estimated cost of a purchase is
less than $50,000.
      (2)   Purchases between $50,000 and $150,000. The solicitation may
include a requirement that an offeror provide evidence of financial
responsibility. If evidence of financial responsibility is required, the
solicitation may indicate the kind of evidence that will be acceptable. If a
bond or certified check is required, it may not exceed 10% of the estimated
cost of the purchase.
      (3)   Purchases over $150,000. The solicitation shall include a
requirement that an offeror provide evidence of financial responsibility, and
must indicate the kind of evidence that will be acceptable. If a bond or
certified check is required, it may not exceed 10% of the estimated cost of the
purchase.
   (E)   Modification and termination of contracts.
      (1)   Price adjustments. The Purchasing Agent may include provisions to
permit price adjustments in a purchasing contract. The following provisions for
price adjustments may be included:
         (a)   Price adjustments must be computed by agreement on a fixed price
adjustment before the beginning of the pertinent performance or as soon after
the beginning of performance as possible;
         (b)   Price adjustments must be computed by unit prices specified in
the contract or subsequently agreed upon;
         (c)   Price adjustments must be computed by costs attributable to the
events or situations under such clauses with adjustment of profit or fee, all
as specified in the contract or subsequently agreed upon;
         (d)   Price adjustments must be computed in such other manner as the
contracting parties may mutually agree upon; or
         (e)   In the absence of agreement by the parties, price adjustments
must be computed by a unilateral determination by the Town Council of the costs
attributable to the events or situations under such clauses with adjustment of
profit or fee, all as computed by that Council in accordance with applicable
rules adopted by that Council.
      (2)   Adjustments in time of performance. The Purchasing Agent may
include provisions in a purchase contract concerning adjustments for time of
performance under the contract.
      (3)   Unilateral rights of the town. The Purchasing Agent may include in
a purchase contract provisions dealing with the unilateral right of the town to
order changes in the work within the scope of the contract or to order
temporary work stoppage or delays in the time of performance.
      (4)   Quantity variations. The Purchasing Agent may include in a purchase
contract provisions dealing with variations between the estimated quantities of
work in a contract and the actual quantity delivered.
   (F)   Notices.
      (1)   Invitation for bids. All notices of invitation for bids for
proposals and request for specifications shall be published in accordance with
I.C. 5-3-1 in the Huntington Herald-Press. The Purchasing Agent shall schedule
the publication of notice to provide a reasonable amount of time for
preparation and submission of bids and proposals and specifications. The notice
will be published two times, at least one week apart. The second publication
must occur at least seven days prior to the date the bids will be opened.
      (2)   Electronic notices. Whenever a notice or other material, including
specifications, an invitation for bids, request for proposals or request for
specifications, is sent by mail, the purchasing agent may also send the notice
or other material by electronic means, provided that the transmission of the
information is at least as effective as mailing the information.
   (G)   Receiving offers.
      (1)   Opening of offers.
         (a)   Bids received in response to an invitation for bids must be
opened publicly in the presence of at least one or more witnesses at the time
and place designated in the invitation for bids.
         (b)   Proposals received in response to a request for proposals must
be opened so as to avoid disclosure of the contents to competing offerors
during the process of negotiation.
         (c)   Proposals received in response to a request for specifications
must be opened as specified in the request for specifications.
      (2)   Electronic receipt of offers. The Purchasing Agent may receive
electronic offers in response to an invitation to bid, request for proposals or
request for specifications. An electronic offer may only be received if:
         (a)   The solicitation includes the procedure for the electronic
transmission of the offer; and
         (b)   The Purchasing Agency receives the offer on a fax machine or
other system with a security feature that protects the contents of an
electronic offer with the same degree of protection as provided to an offer not
transmitted electronically.
      (3)   Correction and withdrawal of bids.
         (a)   An offeror may correct inadvertent errors in a bid up to the
time at which bids will be opened by supplementing the erroneous bid and
substituting a revised bid. A bidder may not supplement an inadvertently
erroneous bid after the time at which the bids were opened.
         (b)   A bidder may withdraw a bid containing inadvertent errors up to
the time at which bids will be opened and for a period of not more than 24
hours after the time at which the bids were opened.
      (4)   Cancellation of solicitation. When the Purchasing Agency or
Purchasing Agent makes a written determination that it is in the town’s best
interests, the Purchasing Agency or Purchasing Agent may cancel a solicitation
or reject all offers provided that the solicitation included information
concerning the procedure for cancellation.
(Res. 2011-5, passed 11-21-2011)
CHAPTER 35: ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
35.01   Establishment
   
35.02   Violations Clerk designated
   
35.03   Duties of Clerk
   
35.04   Schedule of fines
   
35.05   Right to trial
   
35.06   Denial; exercise of the right to trial
   
35.07   Failure to appear or to satisfy assessed civil penalty; report;
prosecution
   
35.08   Court costs fee; admitted violations
   
35.09   Disposition of civil penalties and costs collected
§ 35.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Town Council may establish, by ordinance or code, an Ordinance
Violations Bureau.
(I.C. 33-36-2-1)
§ 35.02 VIOLATIONS CLERK DESIGNATED.
   (A)   Upon the creation of a bureau, the Town Council shall provide for the
appointment of a Violations Clerk, who may be the Clerk-Treasurer of the
municipality, to be the administrator of the Bureau.
(I.C. 33-36-2-1)
   (B)   If the Town Council does not establish an Ordinance Violations Bureau
under §
35.01, the Clerk-Treasurer of the town is designated the Violations Clerk for
purposes of this chapter.
(I.C. 33-36-2-2)
§ 35.03 DUTIES OF CLERK.
   In ordinance violation cases, subject to the schedule prescribed under I.C.
33-36-3 by the Town Council, the Violations Clerk may accept the following:
   (A)   Written appearances;
   (B)   Waivers of trial;
   (C)   Admissions of violations; and
   (D)   Payment of civil penalties up to a specific dollar amount set forth in
an ordinance adopted by the legislative body, but not more than $250.
(I.C. 33-36-2-3)
§ 35.04 SCHEDULE OF FINES.
   (A)   Upon the appointment or designation of the Violations Clerk as
provided by §
35.01, the Town Council shall designate, by ordinance or code, a schedule of
ordinance and code provisions that are subject to admission of violation before
the Violations Clerk and the amount of civil penalty to be assessed to a
violator who elects to admit a violation under this chapter.
   (B)   Civil penalties shall be paid to, receipted by and accounted for by
the Clerk under procedures provided for by the State Board of Accounts. Payment
of civil penalties under this chapter may be made in person, by mail, or to an
agent or agents designated by the Town Council.
(I.C. 33-36-3-1)
§ 35.05 RIGHT TO TRIAL.
   A person charged with an ordinance or a code violation is entitled to a
trial before a court as provided by law, unless the person waives the right to
trial and enters an admission of the violation with the Violations Clerk. Upon
an admission, the Clerk shall assess and receive from the violator the amount
prescribed by the schedule of civil penalties established under §
35.04.
(I.C. 33-36-3-2)
§ 35.06 DENIAL; EXERCISE OF THE RIGHT TO TRIAL.
   If a person charged with a violation wants to exercise the right to trial,
the person shall appear before the Violations Clerk and deny the violation or
enter a written denial with the Clerk.
(I.C. 33-36-3-3)
§ 35.07 FAILURE TO APPEAR OR TO SATISFY ASSESSED CIVIL PENALTY; REPORT;
PROSECUTION.
   (A)   If a person does any of the following, then the Violations Clerk shall
report this fact to the official having the responsibility to prosecute
ordinance violation cases for the town:
      (1)   Denies an ordinance or code violation under this chapter;
      (2)   Fails to satisfy a civil penalty assessed by the Violations Clerk
after having entered an admission of violation; or
      (3)   Fails to deny or admit the violation under this chapter.
   (B)   Proceedings in court against the person shall then be initiated for
the alleged ordinance violation.
(I.C. 33-36-3-5)
§ 35.08 COURT COSTS FEE; ADMITTED VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   An ordinance violation admitted under this chapter does not constitute
a judgment for the purposes of I.C. 33-37. An ordinance violation costs fee may
not be collected from the defendant under I.C. 33-37-4.
   (B)   An ordinance violation processed under this chapter may not be
considered for the purposes of I.C. 33-37-7-5 or I.C. 33-37-7-6 when
determining the percentage of ordinance violations prosecuted in certain
courts.
(I.C. 33-36-3-6)
§ 35.09 DISPOSITION OF CIVIL PENALTIES AND COSTS COLLECTED.
   All sums collected by the Violations Clerk as civil penalties for ordinance
violations shall be accounted for and paid to the town as provided by law.
(I.C. 33-36-3-7)
CHAPTER 36: TOWN POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
36.01   Acceptance of UPS shipments
   
36.02   “Employees Only” designation
   
36.03   Safety rules
Tort Claims Against Town
   
36.15   Clerk-Treasurer to receive notice
   
36.16   Form and service of notice
Cross-reference:
   Purchasing rules/policy, see §
34.51
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.01 ACCEPTANCE OF UPS SHIPMENTS.
   The Town Council will allow UPS shipments from Town Hall. A fee of $3 per
shipment will be added to cover expenses.
(Prior Code, § 171.32) (Res. 2000-19, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 36.02 “EMPLOYEES ONLY” DESIGNATION.
   (A)   Any structure owned or operated by the town other than the Town Hall
and Police Department shall be deemed “Employees Only.” Entry to these
buildings are prohibited except for the sole purpose of conducting business.
   (B)   No one shall come within ten feet of any construction work being
performed by any of the town employees, or construction workers employed by the
town.
(Prior Code, § 171.33) (Res. 2000-4, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 36.03 SAFETY RULES.
   The Town Council finds after deliberation the following safety rules are
necessary for the town:
   (A)   Confined Space Entry Written Program;
   (B)   Bloodborne Pathogens Exposure Control Plan;
   (C)   Lockout/Tagout;
   (D)   Employees Safety Procedures and Handbook;
   (E)   Personal Protective Equipment Program;
   (F)   Written Hazard Communication Program; and
   (G)   Respirator Program.
(Prior Code, § 174.50) (Res. 2000-21, passed 12-4-2000)
TORT CLAIMS AGAINST TOWN
§ 36.15 CLERK-TREASURER TO RECEIVE NOTICE.
   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is hereby designated as the town official to
receive notice of a tort claim under I.C. 34-13-3-1 et seq.
§ 36.16 FORM AND SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   (A)   The notice of a tort claim against the town must be in writing and
must be delivered in person or by registered or certified mail.
(34-13-3-12)
   (B)   The notice must comply with the provisions of I.C. 34-13-3-1 et seq.
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   WATER UTILITY
      
52.   WASTEWATER
      
53.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
      
54.   STORM WATER MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Temporary water and wastewater services
   
50.02   Water/wastewater leak adjustments
   
50.03   Accounts receivable write-off procedure for uncollectible accounts;
minimum refund amount
   
50.04   Temporary water disconnect request (snowbird policy)
§ 50.01 TEMPORARY WATER AND WASTEWATER SERVICES.
   (A)   An owner/agent must submit a request to the Town Clerk-Treasurer in
writing for temporary water and/or wastewater service from the town. For
purposes of this section, TEMPORARY means that the duration of the service
shall not exceed 30 days. No deposit is required for temporary water and/or
wastewater service.
   (B)   Upon approval by the Town Clerk-Treasurer for temporary water and
wastewater service, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall notify the water utility to
install a water meter at the location if necessary to provide service. A
special turnon/off services fee of $20 shall then be applied to the temporary
account.
   (C)   The owner/agent is responsible for paying the account in full for
usage of water and wastewater during the temporary period.
   (D)   If the water and/or wastewater service is to continue longer than 30
days, the owner/agent must open an account with the town as otherwise provided
and a $100 deposit is required.
   (E)   If the owner/agent does not notify the Town Clerk-Treasurer to
terminate the temporary water and/or wastewater service prior to the expiration
of the 30 days and does not pay the required $100 deposit, the town will remove
the water meter and terminate service.
(Prior Code, § 172.14) (Ord. 2011-4, passed 3-14-2011; Ord. 2017-6, passed 5-8-
2017)
§ 50.02 WATER/WASTEWATER LEAK ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   Each customer of the Town Wastewater Department and/or water utility
shall be granted a leak adjustment reducing that actual combined billing to an
amount equal to that customer’s average anticipated combined billing for that
billing period, plus $20, upon written request for that adjustment on forms
supplied by, and to be filled out completely and filed with the Clerk-Treasurer
within 90 days of the date the customer knew or should have known of that
actual combined bill for which the leak adjustment is requested if he or she
establishes to the reasonable satisfaction of the Clerk-Treasurer that:
      (1)   As the result of deterioration, malfunction, other physical damage
or vandalism of that customer’s water distribution system on the customer’s
side of the water meter (the “cause”) that customer’s average anticipated
monthly billing period’s water usage is exceeded for a billing period by enough
to result in an actual combined billing for water and wastewater for that
billing period which is more than $20 above the customer’s anticipated combined
billing for that billing period based on actual circumstances and prior usage
as established to the reasonable satisfaction of the Clerk-Treasurer;
      (2)   The circumstance is not the result of or materially contributed to
by an intentional act or the gross negligence of the customer, a contractor
hired by the customer, or an occupant, tenant or permittee of the property
served through that meter; and/or
      (3)   The “cause” is not visible or detectable on the customer’s premises
except by disturbance of the property and/or is reasonably believed to have
been eliminated using adequate materials, workmanship and/or preventative
measures as appropriate.
   (B)   Determination of the Clerk-Treasurer with regard to granting leak
adjustments may be appealed to the Council. Determinations of Council shall be
final.
   (C)   Not more than one leak adjustment (which may be included within either
one or two consecutive billing period(s)) shall be allowed in any consecutive
12 monthly billing periods.
(Prior Code, § 172.11)
   (D)   No leak adjustment shall be granted in violation of applicable state
authority, including but not limited to, I.C. 8-1.5-3.5 and its successor
provisions, as same are then in force and applicable.
(Ord. 1999-3, passed 6-8-1999; Ord. 2011-4, passed 3-14-2011)
§ 50.03 ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE WRITE-OFF PROCEDURE FOR UNCOLLECTIBLE ACCOUNTS;
MINIMUM REFUND AMOUNT.
   (A)   An account is determined to be uncollectible if it meets one or more
of the following criteria:
      (1)   Collection procedures have been followed and the account remains
unpaid;
      (2)   The debtor, or any of debtor’s assets, cannot be located;
      (3)   The town has insufficient documentation to pursue collection
efforts;
      (4)   The debt has been discharged in bankruptcy;
      (5)   The debtor has died and there is no known estate or guarantor;
      (6)   It is determined that it is not cost effective to continue
collection efforts.
   (B)   The Utility Office Manager shall identify all outstanding receivables
that are 12 months old as of each December 31 and compile a write-off report to
be presented to Council for review and approval.
   (C)   The information provided in the write-off report shall include:
      (1)   Customer name and address;
      (2)   Account number;
      (3)   Date of the final bill;
      (4)   Remaining unpaid balance; and
      (5)   Reason for write-off.
   (D)   Once Council approves the write-off report, the Utility Office Manager
shall make the appropriate entries to write-off the uncollectible receivable by
using the direct write-off method. The direct write-off method results in the
write-off of a utility bill directly to accounts receivable when deemed to be
uncollectible.
   (E)   Accounts that have had a write-off will be flagged as having had an
uncollectible write-off balance. Further transactions with those individuals
will be denied until the write-off balance is paid in full. However, this
provision will not apply if the debt has been discharged in bankruptcy.
   (F)   No refund will be issued for less than $2. The Utility Office Manager
shall post this balance as miscellaneous revenue.
(Res. 2012-12, passed 9-10-2012)
§ 50.04 TEMPORARY WATER DISCONNECT REQUEST (SNOWBIRD POLICY).
   (A)   A residential customer may choose to temporarily suspend utility
services while away for a minimum of two consecutive months, and not longer
than five consecutive months. Utility bills shall not be pro-rated for a
partial month’s usage.
   (B)   A written request must be completed in full and submitted to the Town
Clerk-Treasurer prior to leaving town. It is the customer’s responsibility to
inform the town of their departure and return dates.
   (C)   A $50 fee, to be split between water and wastewater accounts, shall be
charged for each request and paid in full before the water service will be
reconnected. All other billing will be suspended during the turn off period.
   (D)   Winterization of the indoor plumbing will be the decision and
responsibility of homeowner. The homeowner, or an authorized representative,
must be present at the home when the water is turned off and turned back on.
Water shall be shut off at the meter.
(Ord. 2017-14, passed 10-10-2-17)
CHAPTER 51: WATER UTILITY
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Schedule of rates and charges for the use of and services rendered by
the town potable water utility
   
51.02   Cross-connection control and backflow prevention
Disconnection and Reconnection Procedures
   
51.10   Voluntary disconnection
   
51.11   Involuntary disconnection
   
51.12   Discontinuance of service for nonpayment
   
51.13   Reconnection
   
51.14   Emergency measures
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 SCHEDULE OF RATES AND CHARGES FOR THE USE OF AND SERVICES RENDERED BY
THE TOWN POTABLE WATER UTILITY.
   Rates and charges for the use of and service rendered by the potable water
system of the town, based upon water availability and/or the receipt of water
supplied by that utility, shall be as follows.
   (A)   Tap charges. Each customer location at the time of initial connection
with the waterworks system shall pay a tap charge to cover the costs of:
excavating and tapping the main; furnishing and installing service pipe from
the main to the lot line; furnishing and installing corporation and stop cocks;
and furnishing and installing meter crock (if outside), yoke and meter. Type K
copper tubing must be run from the tap to the inside of the structure. The tap
charge for a meter tap up to and including a three-quarter inch meter shall be
$750. The charge for a tap larger than the three-quarter inch meter tap shall
be the cost of labor, materials, power machinery, transportation and overhead
incurred for installing the tap, but shall not be less than $750.
   (B)   Deposit for service.
      (1)   Water service may not be commenced or reinstated until the
applicable meter deposit in division (B)(2) or (3) below, and any then
remaining delinquent bills and the reconnection fee owed for that tap premises,
have been paid in full.
      (2)   A $100 meter deposit shall be paid against the account of a
customer, who is an owner of record of the property located at the service
address, as a part of each water service connection turn-on application
submitted to the town.
      (3)   A $150 meter deposit shall be paid against the account of a
customer, who is not an owner of record of the property located at the service
address, as a part of each water service connection turn-on application
submitted to the town.
      (4)   Deposits shall be held, without interest, and upon a termination of
service to that applicant, applied against the connection's account obligations
to the water utility, with any then remaining balance refunded to that
customer, in accordance with the requirements of applicable authority.
   (C)   Water charges per monthly billing period.
      (1)   The water meter shall be read at the conclusion of each
approximately monthly billing period, conditions permitting, and when otherwise
billings shall be based on estimated water usage for the billing period, all at
the following rates:
 
Metered Gallons Per Monthly Billing Period Rate Per 1,000 Gallons
First 2,500                                $10.18
Next 7,500                                 $8.33
Next 20,000                                $5.70
Next 30,000                                $3.16
 
      (2)   Each user shall pay a minimum charge in accordance with the
following applicable size of meter installed for which the customer will be
entitled to the appropriate quantity of water computed in accordance with the
above schedule of rates.
 
Size of Meter in Inches Minimum Monthly Rate
5/8 to 3/4              $25.52
1                       $63.76
1-1/2                   $127.50
2                       $216.69
3 and larger            $446.18
 
   (D)   Fire protection surcharge.
      (1)   Each water utility customer served through a water meter equal to
or less than one and one-half inches in diameter shall pay a monthly billing
period fire protection surcharge of $9.22.
      (2)   Each water utility customer served through a water meter larger
than one and one-half inches in diameter shall pay a monthly billing period
fire protection surcharge of $27.64.
   (E)   Fire protection service; private hydrants.
      (1)   Service shall consist of stand-by service for fire emergencies and
all water taken through those hydrants shall be restricted to fire emergencies
unless other use is specifically authorized in advance by the town.
      (2)   The annual rate per private hydrant is $1,204.88.
   (F)   Fire protection service; private sprinklers.
      (1)   Service shall consist of stand-by service for fire emergencies and
all water taken through the connections shall be restricted to fire emergencies
only. The town reserves the right to install/remove monitoring devices such as
flow detectors from time to time.
      (2)   The annual rate per private sprinkler connection is as follows:
 
Size of Line at Connection In Inches Annual Rate Per Connection
2                                    $133.87
3                                    $301.22
4                                    $535.46
6                                    $1,204.88
8                                    $2,142.00
10                                   $3,346.87
 
   (G)   Drinking fountains. The annual rate (available only for self-closing
drinking fountains) is $351.62.
   (H)   Service call (customer side of meter; as available basis only).
 
Thawing pipes                                     
   First time in any 12-month period          Free
   Second time and thereafter in any 12-month $40
period
Other                                            Cost, but not less than $30
   Regular hours                              $20 per hour
   Overtime hours                             $40 per hour
 
   (I)   Meter tampering.
 
First and  Town’s cost of parts, labor, equipment and overhead, plus town’s reasonable
second     good faith estimated bill for water used and not metered at town’s then current
time (each rates
customer)
Third time
and
thereafter Same as above and discontinuation of service
(for that
customer)
 
   (J)   Collection and deferred payments charge.
      (1)   All bills for water service not paid by the due date as stated in
the bills shall be subject to the collection (deferred payment) charge of 10%
on any unpaid delinquent balance.
      (2)   The town may pursue the collection of delinquent water utility
account balances to the full extent permitted by applicable authority.
      (3)   Fees assessed against the property for services rendered to a
customer who is not an owner of record of the property do not constitute a lien
against the property.
   (K)   Returned check charge. There will be a charge of $30 assessed to the
consumer for each check which is returned to the town for non-sufficient funds.
Personal checks will not be accepted as payment on the account of a consumer
which has had one or more such bad checks in the most recent 12 monthly billing
periods.
   (L)   One customer per meter. The rates and charges fixed above in this
section shall apply to individual customers, they shall not be construed to
permit multiple customers being served through one meter, except as expressly
authorized in advance in writing by the Town Council.
   (M)   Bulk water sales. Upon written approval from the Water Department,
bulk purchases of water may be completed. Temporary connections to the
distribution system (such as a metered connection to a fire hydrant) shall be
made only by an authorized town employee. Individuals making bulk purchases of
water shall pay a meter installation fee of $25. A flat rate of $1 per 100
gallons of water shall be charged. The completed form shall then be given to
the Clerk-Treasurer’s Office for proper invoicing.
(Ord. 1993-07, passed 7-12-1993; Ord. 1996-03, passed 2-26-1996; Ord. 1999-4,
passed 7-8-1999; Res. 2005-08, passed 12-5-2005; Res. 2006-09, passed 4-3-2006;
Res. 2006-10, passed 4-3-2006; Res. 2006-18, passed 12-28-2006; Ord. 2011-4,
passed 3-14-2011; Ord. 2011-7, passed 3-14-2011; Ord. 2012-11, passed 11-12-
2012; Ord. 2012-12, passed 12-10-2012; Ord. 2014-3, passed 5-27-2014; Ord.
2016-5, passed 7-11- 2016; Ord. 2017-3, passed 4-24-2017; Ord. 2017-14, passed
10-10-2017; Ord. 2022-5, passed 6-27-2022)
§ 51.02 CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL AND BACKFLOW PREVENTION.
   (A)   The installation or provision of any cross-connection with the
distribution system is prohibited, except as authorized herein.
   (B)   The control or elimination of cross-connections shall be in accordance
with the then effective provisions of the Indiana Administrative Code (327 IAC
8-10) and this code. The policies, procedures and criteria for determining
appropriate levels of protection shall be in accordance with the IDEM Cross
Connection Control & Backflow Prevention Manual: 2013 Edition, as published by
the Foundation for Cross-Connection Control and Hydraulic Research, of the
University of Southern California, or the then most current superseding edition
or amendment of that manual. The materials are incorporated herein by reference
and two copies of the materials referenced shall be available for inspection
and copying at the Clerk-Treasurer’s Office during normal business hours.
   (C)   The Water Department shall deny or discontinue water service to any
user failing to cooperate in the installation, maintenance, testing, or
inspection of backflow prevention assemblies.
   (D)   As a condition of new or continued water service, approved backflow
prevention assemblies shall be installed, tested, and properly maintained in
all customer facilities:
      (1)   Where they exist as of the date of adoption of this provision of
the code. (April 10, 2017).
      (2)   Constructed after April 10, 2017, which are designated as a cross-
connection hazard by the then effective provisions of 327 IAC 8-10.
      (3)   Where a backflow incident occurs on or after April 10, 2017, which
results in a contaminant or a pollutant being introduced into the distribution
system.
   (E)   “An approved backflow assembly” means a backflow prevention assembly
model approved by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management and the
Department. The Department shall maintain a list of approved backflow
prevention assemblies. The assembly shall be matched to the degrees of hazard
and to the approved installation application.
   (F)   The Department, Water Department, and such staff members as either may
designate, are delegated the authority to inspect, approve, and disapprove
backflow prevention assemblies for installation, corrections, modifications,
repairs, or maintenance on backflow prevention assemblies and to inspect all
locations where backflow prevention assemblies may be required. A minimum
standard for the maintenance and installation of backflow prevention assemblies
shall be those set forth in the IDEM Cross Connection Control & Backflow
Prevention Manual: 2013 Edition, as published by the Foundation for Cross-
Connection Control and Hydraulic Research, of the University of Southern
California, or the then most current superseding edition or amendment of that
manual. The Department is authorized to establish higher standards for
installation and maintenance of backflow prevention assemblies where it finds
that good engineering practice, industry standards or the protection of public
health requires such higher standards. Any such higher standards are subject to
review and modification by the Board upon written request filed with the town’s
Clerk-Treasurer by any interested party. However, pending that review those
higher standards shall be enforced if, in the judgment of the Department, the
public interest so requires.
   (G)   As a condition of continued water service, a user shall make that
user’s premises, including buildings and structures, to which water is
supplied, accessible to the Department or Water Department personnel at all
reasonable times to determine whether backflow prevention assemblies are
required or are properly installed and maintained.
   (H)   The town prohibits interconnection of private water supplies with the
distribution system. Auxiliary water supplies (private wells, piped irrigation
sources, etc.) are a major cross-connection control hazard and therefore must
be effectively isolated from the distribution system.
   (I)   All backflow assemblies shall be tested in accordance with the then
effective provisions of 327 IAC 8-10 or more frequently if the Department
determines such is required to protect the public health or water quality. The
assembly shall be tested in accordance with the IDEM Cross Connection Control &
Backflow Prevention Manual: 2013 Edition, as published by the Foundation for
Cross-Connection Control and Hydraulic Research, of the University of Southern
California, or the then most current superseding edition or amendment of said
manual. All backflow prevention assemblies shall have additional tests
performed to determine the overall soundness of the backflow preventer. The
additional tests shall be conducted in accordance with then current written
procedures in the Department.
   (J)   The gauge used to test backflow prevention assemblies shall be
certified as to accuracy by the gauge manufacturer on an annual basis. It is
the responsibility of the certified backflow prevention device tester to obtain
and show proof of the accuracy of each gauge annually.
   (K)   A Cross Connection Control Device Inspector, as defined in 327 IAC 8-
10-1, as amended, includes a private inspector hired by the town or user for
this purpose.
   (L)   All test reports shall be submitted on a test report form to the
Department.
   (M)   The user shall bear all costs of installation, testing, and
maintenance, together with all other charges associated with backflow
prevention assemblies.
(Ord. 2017-3, passed 4-24-2017)
DISCONNECTION AND RECONNECTION PROCEDURES
§ 51.10 VOLUNTARY DISCONNECTION.
   Whenever a request is made to and performed by the town for a customer’ s
water service be shut off at the town’s water valve for routine or emergency
repairs to the inside plumbing, as a precondition to water service being
restored, the property owner shall install a shut off valve immediately before
the meter when the meter setting is inside the building structure or
immediately after the point where the service pipe enters the building
structure if the meter setting is outside the building.
(Ord. 2017-14, passed 10-10-2017)
§ 51.11 INVOLUNTARY DISCONNECTION.
   (A)   Upon written notice provided to the customer at least seven days
before termination of service, advising the customer of the date of proposed
disconnect, specific basis for disconnection, the telephone number for the
utilities office, a reference to where the user can find information concerning
their rights, the Town may disconnect utility service without request of the
customer:
      (1)   For failure to repair any leak in the service pipe or appurtenances
between the service connection and the meter, in any private protection system
or other unmetered facilities;
      (2)   For failure to timely pay the bill or other charges in connection
with the town’s services;
      (3)   For failure to provide reasonable, unobstructed and nonhazardous
access to the premises and meter, appliance and/or other utility-owned
equipment so that representatives of the utility may take meter readings, make
all necessary inspections, and maintain, replace or remove the meter,
appliances and/or equipment of the utility;
      (4)   Upon discovery of improper installation of a new service pipe and
appurtenances, or alteration or removal of existing service pipe and
appurtenances, including the meter, without written authority of the utility;
      (5)   If a customer issues or causes to be issued a check for services
which is not honored because of insufficient funds or no account found; or
      (6)   For failure to comply with the terms of an extension payment
agreement.
   (B)   The Town of Andrews may disconnect utility service without request of
the customer and without advance notice to the customer only if:
      (1)   A condition dangerous or hazardous to life, physical safety, or
property exists;
      (2)   Under order of any court, the IURC, or other duly authorized public
authority;
      (3)   Fraudulent or unauthorized use of water is detected and the town
has reasonable grounds to believe the affected customer is responsible for the
use; or
      (4)   The town’s regulating or measuring equipment has been tampered with
and the Town has reasonable grounds to believe that the affected customer is
responsible for the tampering.
(Ord. 2017-14, passed 10-10-2017)
§ 51.12 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE FOR NONPAYMENT.
   If the utility bill is not paid within ten days from the date due thereof,
as stated on the bill, the past due amount will be indicated on the following
bill. If the past due amount still remains unpaid as of the next following
billing date, a disconnect notice shall be mailed to the user pursuant to
Section
51.11(A). If the utility bill is not paid within seven from the date the
disconnect notice is mailed, the water service shall be turned off at the curb
shut-off valve.
(Ord. 2017-14, passed 10-10-2017)
§ 51.13 RECONNECTION.
   (A)   When utility service is discontinued for nonpayment, such service
shall not be reinstated until a $50 reconnection fee, to be split between water
and wastewater accounts, is paid to the Town. The deposit, as required by §
51.01(B), must be replenished if it has been applied. In addition, the customer
will pay all delinquent charges before the water will be reconnected.
   (B)   Reconnection shall be completed within one business day after user
remedies the condition triggering termination of service, pays all delinquent
charges to the town, and pays any applicable deposit or reconnection fees.
(Ord. 2017-14, passed 10-10-2017)
§ 51.14 EMERGENCY MEASURES.
   In the event that the Utility Superintendent, or his or her authorized
designee, determines that the Town’s water system is in imminent danger of a
shortage of water or is experiencing a shortage of water, the Utility
Superintendent shall declare a water emergency and the Council shall prescribe
rules for conservation of water until a time as the emergency is determined by
the Utility Superintendent to have passed.
(Ord. 2017-14, passed 10-10-2017)
CHAPTER 52: WASTEWATER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Requirements
   
52.002   Private sewage facilities
   
52.003   Permits; specifications
   
52.004   Inspections
   
52.005   Wastewater Depreciation Fund
Intake/Discharge Standards
   
52.020   Purpose and policy
   
52.021   Administration
   
52.022   Definitions
   
52.023   Abbreviations
Sewer Use Requirements
   
52.035   Prohibited discharge standards
   
52.036   Special agreements
   
52.037   Dilution
   
52.038   Reduction of stormwater inflow/infiltration
Pretreatment of Wastewater
   
52.050   Pretreatment facilities
   
52.051   Additional pretreatment facilities
Provisions Regarding Intake/Discharge Standards
   
52.065   Tenant responsibility
   
52.066   Hauled wastewater
   
52.067   Vandalism
   
52.068   Public nuisances
   
52.069   Pretreatment charges and fees
Wastewater Rates and Charges
   
52.080   Rates and charges
   
52.081   Wastewater contracts
   
52.082   Summer water usage wastewater billing credits
 
   
52.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any sanitary sewage,
industrial waste or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has
been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facilities
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (C)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes situated within the town,
and abutting any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or
may in the future be located a public sewer or combined sewer of the town, is
required at owner’s expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and
to connect those facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter, within 90 days after the date of official
notice to do so; provided that the public sewer is within 100 feet of the
property line. Any sewer lines more than 100 feet will be at the property
owner’s expense.
(Ord. 255, passed 6-2-1961; Ord. 428, passed 12-1-1982; Ord. 2011-5, passed 3-
14-2011) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.002 PRIVATE SEWAGE FACILITIES.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of the proceeding provision, the building sewer shall be connected
to a private sewage disposal system complying with all recommendations of the
State Board of Health.
   (B)   At the time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system as provided in division (A) above, a direct
connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this chapter,
and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage disposal facilities
shall be abandoned.
   (C)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage facilities in
a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the town.
   (D)   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by applicable authority.
(Ord. 255, passed 6-2-1961; Ord. 2011-5, passed 3-14-2011) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.003 PERMITS; SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits: for residential
and commercial service; and for service to establishments producing industrial
waste. In either case, the owner or owner’s agent shall make application on a
form furnished by the town. The permit applications shall be supplemented by
any plans, specifications or other information considered pertinent in the
judgment of the Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee of $55 for a
residential or commercial building sewer permit and $70 for an industrial
building sewer permit shall be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer at the time the
application is filed.
   (C)   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner or the person
installing the building sewer for the owner shall indemnify the town from any
loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation.
   (D)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no adequate private sewer is available or can be constructed
to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the
building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and
the whole considered as one building sewer.
   (E)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found on examination and test by the Superintendent to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
   (F)   The building sewer shall be PVC pipe, ASTM specification or equal; PVC
sewer pipe, ASTM specification or equal; or other suitable material approved by
the Superintendent. Joints shall be tight and waterproof. Any part of the
building sewer that is located within ten feet of a water service pipe shall be
constructed of PVC 35 pipe with slip seal joints. Ductile iron pipes with slip
seal joints may be required by the Superintendent where the building sewer is
exposed to damage by tree roots. If installed in filled or unstable ground, the
building sewer shall be of ductile iron pipe, except that non-metallic material
may be accepted if laid on a suitable concrete bed or cradle as approved by the
Superintendent.
   (G)   (1)   The size and slope of the building sewers shall be subject to
the approval of the Superintendent, but in no event shall the diameter be less
than six inches.
      (2)   The slope of the sewer shall not be less than one-eighth inch per
foot.
   (H)   Wherever reasonably possible the building sewer shall be brought to
the building at an elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall
be laid parallel to or within three feet of any bearing wall, which might
thereby be weakened. The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from
frost. The building sewer shall be laid at a uniform grade and in straight
alignment in so far as possible. Changes in direction shall be made only with
properly curved pipes and fittings.
   (I)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by those drains shall
be lifted by Superintendent approved artificial means and discharged to the
building sewer. No water-operated sewage ejector shall be used.
   (J)   All excavations required for the installation of a building sewer
shall be open trench work unless otherwise approved by the Superintendent. Pipe
laying and backfill shall be performed in accordance with ASTM specifications
except that no backfill shall be placed until the work has been inspected by
the Superintendent or the Superintendent’s representative.
   (K)   All joints and connections shall be made gasket-tight and watertight.
All piping shall be of schedule 35 PVC or higher grade. Any piping within 300
feet of any wells shall be ductile iron or PVC schedule 80 or higher grade. Any
new installation to any type of building shall have at least one clean-out
between the building and street property line. The sewer of any building or
mobile home being torn down or remodeled for any amount of time shall be
plugged and/or made watertight as directed by the Superintendent.
   (L)   (1)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
be teeing or with rubber scolded sewer tap. Any fitting to make a turn in the
sewer line shall be 45 degree or 22 degree.
      (2)   At no time will a 90-degree elbow be allowed.
   (M)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
Superintendent or the Superintendent’s representative.
   (N)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the Superintendent.
(Ord. 255, passed 6-2-1961; Ord. 2011-5, passed 3-14-2011) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.004 INSPECTIONS.
   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the town bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter upon all
properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 255, passed 6-2-1961; Ord. 2011-5, passed 3-14-2011)
§ 52.005 WASTEWATER DEPRECIATION FUND.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall transfer $5,000 from wastewater operating to
establish the Wastewater Depreciation Fund. Thereafter, 10% of the collected
monthly wastewater charges shall be deposited into this Fund each month, all
pending further action by the Town Council.
(Res. 531, passed 12-27-1988; Ord. 2011-5, passed 3-14-2011)
INTAKE/DISCHARGE STANDARDS
§ 52.020 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   This subchapter sets forth uniform requirements for users of the wastewater
collection and publicly owned treatment works hereafter referred to as POTW for
the town and enables the town to comply with provisions of applicable state and
federal laws. The objectives of this subchapter include:
   (A)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW that will
interfere with the operation of the POTW;
   (B)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW which will
pass through the POTW, inadequately treated, into receiving waters or otherwise
be incompatible with the POTW;
   (C)   To enhance the likelihood that the quality of the wastewater treatment
plan is maintained at a level which allows its use and disposal in compliance
with applicable statutes and regulations;
   (D)   To protect POTW personnel who may be affected by wastewater and sludge
in the course of their employment and to protect the general public;
   (E)   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewater and
sludge from the POTW;
   (F)   To provide for fees for the equitable distribution of the cost of
operation, maintenance and improvement of the POTW; and
   (G)   To enable the town to comply with its NPDES permit conditions, sludge
use and disposal requirements and any other federal or state requirements to
which the POTW is subject.
(Ord. 2011-5, passed 3-14-2011)
§ 52.021 ADMINISTRATION.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, the town’s Wastewater Plant
Superintendent shall administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this
subchapter. Any powers granted to or duties imposed upon the Superintendent may
be delegated by the Superintendent to other town personnel.
(Ord. 2011-5, passed 3-14-2011)
§ 52.022 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. In this
subchapter, SHALL is mandatory; MAY is permissive or discretionary. The use of
the singular shall be construed to include the plural and the plural shall
include the singular as indicated by the context of its use.
   ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. A NPDES state with an approved state pretreatment
program; otherwise, the appropriate regional administrator of the United States
EPA, or his or her designee.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or CATEGORICAL STANDARD. Any regulation
containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the United States EPA in
accordance with §§ 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317) which applies
to a specific category of industrial users and which appear in 40 C.F.R.
Chapter 1, Subchapter N, pts. 405-171.
   COLOR. The optical density at the visual wave length of maximum absorption,
relative to distilled water. One hundred percent transmittance is equivalent to
zero optical density.
   COMPOSITE SAMPLE. The sample resulting from the combination of individual
wastewater samples taken at selected intervals based on an increment of either
flow or time.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The United States Environmental
Protection Agency or, where appropriate, the term may also be used as a
designation for the Regional Water Management Division Director or other duly
authorized official of that agency.
   EXISTING SOURCE. Any source of discharge, the construction or operation of
which commenced prior to the publication of proposed categorical pretreatment
standards which will be applicable to that source if the standard is thereafter
promulgated in accordance with § 307 of the Act.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is then taken from a waste stream on a onetime
basis without regard to the flow in the waste stream and without consideration
of time.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE or DISCHARGE. The introduction of (nondomestic)
pollutants into the POTW from any nondomestic source regulated under § 307(b),
(c) or (d) of the Act.
   INDUSTRIAL USER or USER. A source of indirect discharge.
   INSTANTANEOUS MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE DISCHARGE LIMIT. The maximum concentration
(or loading) of a pollutant allowed to be discharged at any time, determined
from the analysis of any discrete or composited sample collected, independent
of the industrial flow rate and the duration of the sampling event.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge which alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources:
      (1)   Inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or
operations or its sludge processes, use or disposal; and
      (2)   Therefore is a cause of a violation of the town’s NPDES permit or
of the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with any of
the following statutory/regulatory provisions or permits issued thereunder (or
more stringent state or local regulations):
         (a)   Section 405 of the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1345;
         (b)   The Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA), being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et
seq., including Title II commonly referred to as the Resource Conservation and
Recovery Act (RCRA), being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.;
         (c)   Any state regulations contained in any state sludge management
plan prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the SWDA, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et
seq.;
         (d)   The Clean Air Act., being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq.;
         (e)   The Toxic Substances Control Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et
seq.; and
         (f)   The Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act, being 16
U.S.C. §§ 1431 et seq. and 33 U.S.C. §§ 1401 et seq.
   MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood byproducts,
pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, fomites, etiologic agents,
contaminated bedding, surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory
wastes and dialysis wastes.
   NEW SOURCE.
      (1)   Any building, structure, facility or installation from which there
is or may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under § 307(c) of the
Act which will be applicable to the source if the standards are thereafter
promulgated in accordance with that section, provided that:
         (a)   The building, structure, facility or installation is constructed
at a site at which no other source is located;
         (b)   The building, structure, facility or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
         (c)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should
be considered.
      (2)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility or installation meeting the criteria
of divisions (1)(a), (1)(b) or (1)(c) above but otherwise alters, replaces or
adds to existing process or production equipment.
      (3)   Construction of a NEW SOURCE as defined under this definition has
commenced if the owner or operator has:
         (a)   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous onsite
construction program:
            1.   Any placement, assembly or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
            2.   Significant site preparation work including clearing,
excavation or removal of existing buildings, structures or facilities which is
necessary for the placement, assembly or installation of new source facilities
or equipment.
         (b)   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation
within a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be
terminated or modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility,
engineering and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under
this definition.
   NONCONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling which does not come into
direct contact with any raw material intermediate product, waste product or
finished product.
   PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United
States in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharge from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any
requirement of the town’s NPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude
or duration of a violation).
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents or
assigns. This definition includes all federal, state or local governmental
entities.
   pH. A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a substance, expressed in
standard units.
   POLLUTANT. Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes, industrial
wastes, biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or
discharged equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, agricultural and industrial
wastes and the characteristics of the wastewater (i.e., pH, temperature, TSS,
turbidity, color, BOD, chemical oxygen demand (COD), toxicity or odor).
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment imposed on an industrial user other than a pretreatment
standard.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS or STANDARDS. Prohibitive discharge standards,
categorical pretreatment standards and local limits.
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
the pollutants or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater prior to or in lieu of introducing those pollutants into the POTW.
This reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or
biological processes, by process changes, or by other means, except by diluting
the concentration of the pollutants unless allowed by an applicable
pretreatment standard.
   PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS or PROHIBITED DISCHARGES. Absolute
prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances; these prohibitions
appear in §
52.035.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS or POTW. A TREATMENT WORKS. As defined by §
212 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1292), which is owned by the state or municipality.
This definition includes any devices or systems used in the collection,
storage, treatment, recycling and reclamation of sewage or industrial wastes
and any conveyances which convey wastewater to a treatment plant The term also
means the municipal entity having jurisdiction over the industrial users and
responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the treatment works.
   SEPTIC TANK WASTE. Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers and septic tanks.
   SEWAGE. Human excrement and gray water (household showers, dishwashing
operations and the like).
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. Shall apply to:
      (1)   Industrial users subject to categorical pretreatment standards; and
      (2)   Any other industrial user that:
         (a)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gpd or more of process
wastewater;
         (b)   Contributes a process wastestream which makes up 5% or more of
the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the treatment plant;
or
         (c)   Is designed as significant by the town on the basis that the
industrial user has a reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s
operation or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement.
   SLUDGE LOAD. Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration which could cause
a violation of the prohibited discharge standards in §
52.035 or any discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, including, but not
limited to, an accidental spill or a non-customary batch discharge.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC) CODE. A classification pursuant to
the Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the United States
Office of Management and Budget.
   STORMWATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form or natural
precipitation, and resulting therefrom, including snowmelt.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The person designated by the town to supervise the operation
of the POTW, and who is charged with certain duties and responsibilities by
this subchapter, or that Superintendent’s duly authorized representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that floats on the surface of,
or is suspended in, water, wastewater or other liquid, and which is removable
by laboratory filtering.
   TOWN. The Town of Andrews or the Town Council of Andrews.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. One of 126 pollutants, or combination of those pollutants,
listed as toxic in regulations promulgated by the EPA under the provision of §
307 (33 U.S.C. § 1317) of the Act.
   TREATMENT PLANT EFFLUENT. Any discharge of pollutants from the POTW into
waters of the state.
   WASTEWATER. Liquid- and water-carried industrial wastes and sewage from
residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing
facilities and institutions, whether treated or untreated, which are
contributed to the POTW.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or TREATMENT PLANT. The portion of the POTW
designed to provide treatment of sewage and industrial waste.
(Ord. 2011-5, passed 3-14-2011)
§ 52.023 ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations shall have the designated meanings:
BOD    Biochemical oxygen demand
C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations
COD    Chemical oxygen demand
EPA    United States Environmental Protection Agency
gpd    gallons per day
l      liter
mg     milligrams
mg/l   milligrams per liter
NPDES  National pollutant discharge elimination system
O&M    Operation and maintenance
POTW   Publicly Owned Treatment Works
RCRA   Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
SIC    Standard Industrial Classifications
SWDA   Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.)
TSS    Total suspended solids
U.S.C. United States Code
 
(Ord. 2011-5, passed 3-14-2011)
SEWER USE REQUIREMENTS
§ 52.035 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   (A)   No user shall introduce or cause to be introduced into the POTW any
pollutant or wastewater which causes pass through or interference. These
general prohibitions apply to all users of the POTW whether or not they are
subject to categorical pretreatment standards or any other national, state or
local pretreatment standards or requirement. Furthermore, no user may
contribute the following substances to the POTW:
      (1)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the municipal
wastewater collection and POTW, including but not limited to, wastestreams with
a closed-cup flashpoint of less than 140°F (60°C) using the test methods
specified in 40 C.F.R. part 261.21;
      (2)   Any wastewater containing pollutants (BOD and the like) released in
a discharge at a flow rate or/or pollutant concentration which, either singly
or by interaction with other pollutants, will cause interference with either
the POTW; or any wastewater treatment or sludge process, or which will
constitute a hazard to humans or animals;
      (3)   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than 140°F (60°C), or
which will inhibit biological activity in the treatment plant resulting in
interference, but in no case wastewater which causes the temperature at the
introduction into the treatment plant to exceed 104°F (40°C);
      (4)   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil or products of mineral
oil or origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
      (5)   Any pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors
or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
      (6)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
expressly designated in writing by the town;
      (7)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids or other
wastewater which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are
sufficient to create a public nuisance, a hazard to life or to prevent entry
into the sewers for maintenance and repair;
      (8)   Any wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts color to the treatment plant’s
effluent thereby violating the town’s NPDES permit. Color (in combination with
turbidity) shall not cause the treatment plant effluent to reduce the depth of
the compensation point for photosynthetic activity by more than 10% from the
seasonably established norm for aquatic life;
      (9)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes except
as specifically approved by the Superintendent in compliance with applicable
state or federal regulations;
      (10)   Stormwater, surface water, groundwater, artesian well water, roof
runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, noncontact cooling water and unpolluted industrial wastewater, unless
specifically authorized by the Superintendent;
      (11)   Any sludges, screenings or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes;
      (12)   Any medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the
Superintendent in a wastewater discharge permit;
      (13)   Any wastewater causing the treatment plant’s effluent to fail a
toxicity test; and
      (14)   Any wastes containing detergents, surface active agents or other
substances which may cause excessive foaming in the POTW.
   (B)   Wastes prohibited by this section shall not be processed or stored in
a manner that they could be discharged to the POTW. All floor drains located in
process or materials storage areas must discharge to the user’s pretreatment
facility before connecting with the POTW.
   (C)   New connections from stormwater inflow sources into the sanitary sewer
portions of the town’s sewerage system are hereby prohibited. The
Superintendent shall institute procedures to ensure that new sewers and
connections to the sanitary sewers are properly designed and connected in that
regard.
   (D)   The town reserves the right to establish, by ordinance or in
wastewater discharge permits, more stringent standards or requirements on
discharges to the POTW if deemed necessary to comply with the objectives of
this subchapter or the general and specific prohibitions in this subchapter.
(Ord. 2011-5, passed 3-14-2011)
§ 52.036 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   The town reserves the right to enter into special agreements with users
setting out special terms under which they may discharge to the POTW. In no
case will a special agreement waive compliance with a pretreatment standard or
requirement. However, the user may request a net gross adjustment to a
categorical standard in accordance with 40 C.F.R. part 403.15. A user may also
request a variance from the categorical pretreatment standard from EPA. This
request will be approved only if the user can prove that factors relating to
its discharge are fundamentally different from the factors considered by EPA
when establishing that pretreatment standard. A user requesting a fundamentally
different factor variance must comply with the procedural and substantive
provisions in 40 C.F.R. part 403.13.
(Ord. 2011-5, passed 3-14-2011)
§ 52.037 DILUTION.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water, or in any way attempt
to dilute a discharge, as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with a discharge limitation unless expressly
authorized by an applicable pretreatment standard or requirement. The
Superintendent may impose mass limitations on users which are using dilution to
meet applicable pretreatment standards or requirements, or in other cases when
the imposition of mass limitations is appropriate.
(Ord. 2011-5, passed 3-14-2011)
§ 52.038 REDUCTION OF STORMWATER INFLOW/INFILTRATION.
   (A)   The Town Council shall have authority to require an owner of real
property to disconnect and/or block off from the town’s sanitary system and/or
combined sewerage, any and all downspouts, drains (including yard drains) and/
or sewers, the flowage from which consists in whole or material part of
stormwater.
   (B)   The Superintendent or other duly authorized representatives of the
town, bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter
all properties at reasonable times for the purposes of inspection, observation,
sampling and/or testing with regard to the implementation of, and compliance
with, the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2011-5, passed 3-14-2011)
PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER
§ 52.050 PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   Users shall provide necessary wastewater treatment as required to comply
with applicable authority and shall achieve compliance with all categorical
pretreatment standards, local limits and the prohibitions set out in §
52.035 within the time limitations specified by the EPA, the state or the
Superintendent, whichever is more stringent. Any facilities required to
pretreat wastewater to a level acceptable to the town shall be provided,
operated and maintained at the user’s expense. Detailed plans showing the
pretreatment facilities and operating procedures shall be submitted to the town
for review, and shall be acceptable to the town before operating procedures
will in no way relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying the
facility as necessary to produce an acceptable discharge to the town under the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2011-5, passed 3-14-2011)
§ 52.051 ADDITIONAL PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   (A)   Whenever deemed necessary, the Superintendent may require users to
restrict their discharge peak flow periods, designate that certain wastewater
be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate points of
discharge, separate sewage wastestreams from industrial wastestreams, and any
other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW and determine the
user’s compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil or sand; except that
interceptors shall not be required for residential users. All interception
units shall be of type and capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be
so located to be easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. These
interceptors shall be inspected, cleaned and repaired regularly, as needed, by
the owner at owner’s expense.
   (C)   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
(Ord. 2011-5, passed 3-14-2011)
PROVISIONS REGARDING INTAKE/DISCHARGE STANDARDS
§ 52.065 TENANT RESPONSIBILITY.
   Where an owner of property leases premises to any other person as a tenant
under any rental or lease agreement, if either the owner or the tenant is a
wastewater plant user, either or both may be held responsible for compliance
with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2011-5, passed 3-14-2011)
§ 52.066 HAULED WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Septic tank waste may be accepted into the POTW at a designated
receiving structure within the treatment plant area, under those terms as are
established by the Superintendent, provided the wastes do not violate this
chapter or any other requirements established or adopted by the town.
Wastewater discharge permits for individual vehicles to use the facilities
shall be issued by the Superintendent.
   (B)   The discharge of hauled industrial wastes as industrial septage
requires prior approval and a wastewater discharge permit from the town. The
Superintendent shall have authority to prohibit the disposal of the wastes, if
the disposal would interfere with the treatment plant operation. Waste haulers
are subject to all other sections of this chapter.
   (C)   Fees for dumping septage will be established as part of the Wastewater
Department user fee system.
(Ord. 2011-5, passed 3-14-2011)
§ 52.067 VANDALISM.
   No person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface, tamper with or prevent access to any structure,
appurtenance or equipment, or other part of the POTW. Any person found in
violation of this requirement shall be subject to the sanctions set out in §
52.999.
(Ord. 2011-5, passed 3-14-2011) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.068 PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   Any violation of this chapter, wastewater discharge permits or orders issued
hereunder, is hereby declared a public nuisance and shall be corrected or
abated as directed by the Superintendent or the Superintendent’s designee.
(Ord. 2011-5, passed 3-14-2011)
§ 52.069 PRETREATMENT CHARGES AND FEES.
   (A)   The town may adopt reasonable charges and fees for reimbursement of
costs of setting up and operating the town’s pretreatment program which may
include:
      (1)   Fees for wastewater discharge permit applications including the
cost of processing the applications;
      (2)   Fees for monitoring, inspection and surveillances procedures
including the cost of collection and analyzing an industrial user’s discharge,
and reviewing monitoring reports submitted by industrial users;
      (3)   Fees for reviewing and responding to accidental discharge
procedures and construction;
      (4)   Fees for filing appeals; and
      (5)   Other fees as the town may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained herein.
   (B)   These fees relate solely to the matters covered by this chapter and
are separate from all other fees, fines and penalties chargeable by the town.
(Ord. 2011-5, passed 3-14-2011)
WASTEWATER RATES AND CHARGES
§ 52.080 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Tap charges. Each customer location at the time of initial connection
with the wastewater works system shall pay a tap charge to cover the costs of
excavating and tapping the main and furnishing and installing service pipe from
the main to the lot line. The tap charge for up to and including a three
quarter inch tap shall be $1,500. The charge for a larger than a three-quarter
inch tap shall be the town’s cost of labor, materials, power machinery,
transportation and overheard incurred for installing the tap, but not less than
$1,500.
   (B)   Monthly billing period charges.
      (1)   Each wastewater customer shall be charged $11.29 per 1,000 gallons
of metered water usage each monthly billing period, plus a monthly base charge
in accordance with the following:
Size of meter in inches Minimum monthly rate
Size of meter in inches Minimum monthly rate
5/8 to 3/4              $27.71
1                       $59.42
1-1/4                   $91.17
1-1/2                   $129.07
2                       $217.94
3                       $492.47
4                       $872.59
6                       $1,949.91
 
      (2)   Those wastewater customers which are parties to a particular
negotiated wastewater collection and/or processing contract shall pay as
follows:
         (a)   Norwood Regional Water and Sewer District. The initial sentence
of paragraph 1.03 of its Wastewater Service Agreement shall now, and hereafter
provide that the town will charge and collect from that District a treatment
fee for wastewater treatment service of $11.29 per 1,000 gallons of wastewater
processed by the town’s wastewater treatment plant. (This contracted monthly
volume charge is 16.4% greater than the wastewater utility’s non-contracted
monthly volume charge.)
         (b)   Other. None.
   (C)   Collection and deferred payments charge.
      (1)   All delinquent fees and charges will be assessed a late charge of
10% in accordance with applicable law and may be collected as provided by
applicable law.
      (2)   Delinquent fees and charges shall be assessed against real property
and constitutes a lien against that property. The lien is superior to all other
liens except tax liens. Except as provided in division (C)(2) and (3), the lien
attaches when notice of the lien is filed in the county recorder’s office under
I.C. 36-9-23-33.
      (3)   In the event a service address is occupied by someone other than
the owner, the delinquent fees and charges shall be assessed against real
property and constitute a lien against the property only if the utility
notifies the owner not later than 20 days after the time the utility fees
become 60 days delinquent. A notice sent to the owner under this subsection
must be sent by first class mail or by certified mail, return receipt requested
(or an equivalent service permitted under I.C. 1-1-7-1) to: (i) the owner of
record of real property with a single owner; or (ii) at least one of the owners
of real property with multiple owners; at the last address of the owner for the
property as indicated in the records of the county auditor on the date of the
notice of the delinquency, or to another address specified by the owner, in a
written notice to the utility, at which the owner requests to receive a notice
of delinquency under this subsection. The cost of sending notice under this
subsection is an administrative cost that may be billed to the owner.
   (D)   Hauled wastewater fee. Wastewater received in accordance with § 52.066
shall be billed at $75 per 1,000 gallons.
   (E)   Returned check charge. $30.
   (F)   Service call (as available basis only.)
 
Minimum charge $40
Regular hours  $20 per hour
Overtime hours $40 per hour
 
(Ord. 1999-5, passed - -; Ord. 1997-13, passed 9-29-1997; Ord. 2011-5, passed
3-14-2011; Ord. 2012-13, passed 12-10-2012; Ord. 2016-3, passed 5-27-2016; Ord.
2017-8, passed 5-30-2017)
§ 52.081 WASTEWATER CONTRACTS.
   (A)   The town may enter into wastewater collection and/or processing
contracts, including but not limited to, agreements with nonindustrial
dischargers for multiple equivalent dwelling units.
   (B)   The town is party with Norwood Regional Water and Sewer District to a
Wastewater Service Agreement dated December 6, 2004.
   (C)   The town is a party with MBM Downs Realty, LLC to a Wastewater Service
Agreement dated April 26, 2021.
(Ord. 1999-5, passed - -; Ord. 2004-10, passed 12-6-2004; Res. 2007-04, passed
11-5-2007; Ord. 2011-5, passed 3-14-2011; Ord. 2012-13, passed 12-10-2012; Ord.
2021-10, passed 4-26-2021)
§ 52.082 SUMMER WATER USAGE WASTEWATER BILLING CREDITS.
   (A)   In order that the single-family domestic and residential users of
sewage service shall not be penalized for sprinkling lawns during the summer
months of May, June, July, and August, such customers may apply for a Summer
Sprinkling Credit. In the month of April of each calendar year, a single-family
domestic or residential customer, who has been a customer of the town water
utility continuously from January 1 of that year and is not delinquent in the
payment of any of the rates and charges of that water utility at the time of
application may apply, on an application available from the Town Clerk-
Treasurer for that purpose, for a prospective summer sprinkling credit for any
or all of the next four (May, June, July, and August) utility billing periods.
   (B)   Upon approval of the application, the applicant shall have the summer
sprinkling credit code activated in the utility software by the Clerk-
Treasurer’s office. The program will take the total consumption of the
accumulation months (February, March, and April) and divide that total
accumulation by the number of months (three) for the comparison months. In the
comparison months (May, June, July, and August), if a customer has used over
the accumulated consumption average, they will be charged that amount for the
water used, but for the sewer portion of the bill they will be charged for the
amount of the accumulated consumption average.
      (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer must be reasonably satisfied that the
additional metered water almost certainly will not be discharged into the
town’s wastewater collection and treatment system.
      (2)   The determination by the Clerk-Treasurer as to the potential for
discharge into the wastewater system may be appealed in writing by the
applicant to the Town Council, within 20 days of the issuance by the town of
the billing being appealed. Determinations of Council shall be final.
      (3)   Special circumstances and exceptions to this section may be
appealed to the Town Council. Determinations of Council shall be final.
   (C)    The determination by the Clerk-Treasurer as to the potential for
discharge into the wastewater system may be appealed in writing by the
applicant to the Town Council, within 20 days of the issuance by the town of
the billing being appealed.
   (D)   A wastewater customer will be allowed a wastewater-only billing
adjustment one time per calendar year for a swimming pool fill which occurs
during the months of May, June, July or August of that year only when, and on
condition that, an express written request for the adjustment is submitted to
the Town Clerk-Treasurer within ten business days after that swimming pool
fill. That adjustment shall reduce the wastewater portion of the customer’s
bill for the monthly billing period in which the fill took place to a billing
for that customer’s average monthly wastewater volume billed for in the
immediately preceding three wastewater billing periods. This adjustment is
separate from and shall not be duplicated, in whole or in part, by a wastewater
billing credit under division (A) above.
(Ord. 2011-7, passed 3-14-2011; Ord. 2011-9, passed 8-8-2011; Ord. 2012-13,
passed 12-10-2012; Ord. 2017-4, passed 4-24-2017) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter, for
which no other penalty is provided, shall become liable to the town for any
expense, loss or damage incurred by the town by reason of that violation.
      (2)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter,
for which no other penalty is provided, or continue any violation beyond any
time limit provided for remediation, shall be fined in an amount not exceeding
$50 for each violation. Each day in which any violation occurs or continues
shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 172.08)
   (B)   (1)   Any person found to be violating or failing to comply with any
of the provisions of §§
52.065 through
52.069 shall be served by the Town Marshal with a written notice stating the
nature of the violation and providing a ten-day time limit for its satisfactory
correction. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in the notice,
permanently cease all violations.
      (2)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the stated time
limit shall be guilty of an infraction and upon a court determination thereof,
shall be subject to a fine in an amount of $25. Each day in which any violation
shall continue shall be deemed to constitute a separate offense. Further, any
person violating any of the provisions of §§
52.065 through
52.069 shall be liable to the town for any and all expense, loss or damage to
the town by reason of the violation.
      (3)   In cases of a repeated violation or violations, the Town Council
may revoke permission to discharge into the sewer system, and affect the
discontinuance of water or sewer service, or both, as reasonably determined by
the town to be appropriate in the circumstances, all in accordance with the
requirements of applicable authority. In the event of such action a written
explanation shall be mailed to the customer’s account address and also left at
the tap premises not later than one business day following that action. Each
such action shall be reported at the next regular meeting of the Town Council.
(Ord. 255, passed 6-2-1961; Ord. 2011-5, passed 3-14-2011; Ord. 2012-13, passed
12-10-2012)
CHAPTER 53: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Rules, regulations and operation
   
53.03   Rates and charges
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTIVE COLLECTION UNIT. Unless otherwise established in a written contract
to which the town is party, then:
      (1)   Each under construction and newly constructed unit shall not be an
ACTIVE COLLECTION UNIT or charged for collection hereunder until occupied; or
      (2)   If to the reasonable satisfaction of the town a unit is an ACTIVE
COLLECTION UNIT, the charges under this chapter shall be made and due unless
and to the extent that within ten days of a change of occupancy of the
collection unit documented to the reasonable satisfaction of the town, in a
change of designation of the town’s customer for water or sewer service to that
collection unit, that collection unit expressly notifies the Clerk-Treasurer in
writing that the collection unit has made other arrangements for collection and
disposition of garbage and rubbish. Each notice shall be continuing and
nonrevocable without prior written consent of the town, except in accordance
with the change of occupancy and customer provision as set out above.
   APPROVED BUNDLE. Shall not exceed three feet in length or be more than two
feet in width or depth, or less than one cubic foot in volume. An APPROVED
BUNDLE may not weigh more than 60 pounds and must not come apart when handled
for collection.
   APPROVED CONTAINER. A watertight covered receptacle not exceeding 35 gallons
in capacity and when filled for collection may not be either larger or heavier
than an approved bundle, and must not come apart when handled for collection.
   COLLECTION UNIT. A single-family dwelling unit occupied by one person or a
single-family unit, a multiple-family dwelling unit or one governmental,
business or professional enterprise within the town, and any comparable
situation outside of the town which applies to be included and is expressly
approved to be including by the Council, all pending further Council action.
   DUMPSTERS. Those containers that may be located at the Lions Ball Park,
Andrews Town Barn, and the Andrews Wastewater Treatment Plant.
   LARGE ITEMS. Shall refer to furniture and freon-free appliances.
   TRASH. Shall refer to ashes, garbage, rubbish, refuse and waste materials,
rags, waste paper, and ordinary household refuse that is generated by the
household through normal use, and any and all other unwanted material except
furniture, appliances, hedge, brush and tree trimmings, tires, and construction
or demolition debris.
   WASTE CARTS. Ninety-five gallon containers that will be provided to each
dwelling.
(Ord. 1998-1, passed 1-26-1998; Ord. 2000-12, passed 7-17-2000; Ord. 2011-6,
passed 3-14-2011; Ord. 2022-2, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 53.02 RULES, REGULATIONS AND OPERATION.
   (A)   Trash collection in the town shall be done by a private company and
contracted for by the Town Council.
   (B)   All trash shall be collected from all active collection units within
the town once per week. However, no collection shall be made on Sundays, or on
the following holidays: July 4th, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, and New
Year’s Day. If a regularly scheduled trash pick-up should fall on the above
holiday, trash collection shall be provided on a one day delayed schedule.
   (C)   Trash pickup will be for no more than will fit inside the 95 gallon
waste cart with the lid closed per dwelling per week. Residents will be
required to bag all trash placed in the waste cart provided by the contractor.
   (D)   Lawn cuttings, shrubbery, trees and tree trimmings will not be
accepted.
   (E)   All governmental, business, professional and residential garbage and
rubbish to be collected pursuant to this chapter shall be placed for collection
by the owners or producers thereof in approved bundles or approved containers
which shall then be placed conveniently for the collection at ground level,
within five feet adjoining an improved and passable alley, or if there is not
an alley at an easily accessible spot within five feet of the front curb line
at times and on collection days to be established by the town.
   (F)   Approved bundles and approved containers shall not be placed for
collection earlier than 5:00 p.m. on the day prior to the collection day
established by the town.
   (G)   Approved containers shall not remain at the collection point after 9:
00 p.m. on the day of collection.
   (H)   No person shall convey or haul over the streets, alleys or public
places of the town any garbage or rubbish unless the vehicle containing it has
a box bottom with tight-fitting ends, sides and bottom, property closed and
tight-fitting, and covered with a lid, screen, wire mesh, tarpaulin or other
cover which is sufficient to prevent its contents from falling or blowing upon
the streets, alleys or other public or private property.
   (I)   No persons shall burn or cause any material to be burned in the open
air outside of the dwelling house or other building within the town limits
unless the material so burned is burned in an Environmental Protection Agency
or State Department of Environmental Management approved incinerator of a type
and construction as shall prevent any ashes or embers from flying or scattering
and becoming a hazard and endangering surrounding property.
(Ord. 1998-1, passed 1-26-1998; Ord. 2011-6, passed 3-14-2011; Ord. 2022-2,
passed 8-8-2022) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.03 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   On a per-active collection unit, per-month basis, the rates and
charges below shall be charged:
 
May 1 - April 30                 Monthly Collection Charge
2022 - 2023                      $11.25
2023 - 2024                      $11.25
2024 - 2025                      $11.25
2025 - 2026 (optional extension) $11.75
2026 - 2027 (optional extension) $11.75
 
      (2)   All subject to collection as provided by law, the appropriate total
amount above shall be billed on the utility bills of town utility customers.
   (B)   Any collection unit, other than single-family residential, desiring
regular garbage and/or rubbish disposal service in excess amounts or of
differing material than hereinabove provided for a collection unit, may
negotiate for an express written agreement with the town, or the town’s
designated representative, to pay an additional charge for that service. The
additional charge shall be established by the Town Council and bear a
reasonable relationship to and defray the costs, including indirect costs, of
the additional service.
   (C)   Any active collection unit having an unusual nonrecurring need for
garbage and/or rubbish collection and disposal may negotiate and make a
separate arrangement with the collection service, if any, under contract to the
town to provide the services contemplated by this chapter.
   (D)   The charge for any collection unit as set forth in this chapter for
garbage and rubbish disposal shall be the obligation of the owner and any
occupant of that collection unit.
   (E)   Any situation not fairly and adequately addressed by the above may be
equitably adjusted, as determined by the Town Council.
   (F)   All charges shall be due and payable by the fifteenth day of the month
in which the collection service for which the charge being made is rendered
(e.g., payment for January collections are due and payable on January 15). If
not paid by the fifteenth day following the due date, a 10% penalty shall be
added to the delinquent amount.
   (G)   Collection and deferred payments charge.
      (1)   All delinquent fees and charges will be assessed a late charge of
10% in accordance with applicable law and may be collected as provided by
applicable law.
      (2)   Delinquent fees and charges shall be assessed against real property
and constitutes a lien against that property. The lien is superior to all other
liens except tax liens. Except as provided in subsections (2) and (3), the lien
attaches when notice of the lien is filed in the county recorder’s office under
I.C. 36-9-23-33.
      (3)   In the event a service address is occupied by someone other than
the owner, the delinquent fees and charges shall be assessed against real
property and constitute a lien against the property only if the utility
notifies the owner not later than 20 days after the time the utility fees
become 60days delinquent. A notice sent to the owner under this subsection must
be sent by first class mail or by certified mail, return receipt requested (or
an equivalent service permitted under I.C. 1-1-7-1) to: (i) the owner of record
of real property with a single owner; or (ii) at least one of the owners of
real property with multiple owners; at the last address of the owner for the
property as indicated in the records of the county auditor on the date of the
notice of the delinquency, or to another address specified by the owner, in a
written notice to the utility, at which the owner requests to receive a notice
of delinquency under this subsection. The cost of sending notice under this
subsection is an administrative cost that may be billed to the owner.
(Ord. 1998-1, passed 1-26-1998; Ord. 2010-1, passed 1-11-2010; Ord. 2011-6,
passed 3-14-2011; Ord. 2012-10, passed 11-12-2012; Ord. 2017-2, passed 4-24-
2017; Ord. 2022-3, passed 4-25-2022) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to a
fine of $50 for each violation. Each day a violation occurs shall be a separate
violation.
(Ord. 1998-1, passed 1-26-1998; Ord. 2011-6, passed 3-14-2011)
CHAPTER 54: STORM WATER MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
54.01   Adoption of state law
   
54.02   Definitions
   
54.03   Severability
Administration
   
54.15   Special Taxing District created; boundaries
   
54.16   Establishment of Department of Storm Water Management
   
54.17   Board of Directors
   
54.18   Purpose and objective of Board
Financing
   
54.30   Storm Water Fund
   
54.31   Financing of the facilities
   
54.32   User fees
   
54.33   Fixing and setting aside revenues
Service Charges
   
54.45   Storm water service charge structure and calculation
   
54.46   Storm water service charge established based upon ERU
   
54.47   Billing; terms of payment
   
54.48   Appeal of ERU determination
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 54.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   It is the intent of this chapter, adopted in accordance with the intent of
I.C. 8-1.5-5-1, to incorporate herein the requirements of I.C. 8-1.5-5 as they
now exist and are hereafter amended.
(Ord. 2018-2, passed 3-12-2018)
§ 54.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions are hereby adopted for this chapter and any
resolutions adopted by the Board:
   BOARD. The Board of Directors of the Department of Storm Water Management.
   COMBINED SEWER. Pipe or conduit primarily used to convey sanitary sewage and
secondarily intended to convey storm water.
   CUSTOMER (or USER). A property owner benefiting from the storm water system.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Storm Water Management.
   DETENTION. The temporary storage of storm runoff in a basin, pond or other
structural or non-structural device to control the peak discharge rates by
holding the storm water for a lengthened period of time and which provides
gravity-settling of pollutants.
   DEVELOPED. The condition of real property altered from its natural state by
the addition to or construction on such property of impervious surfaces or
physical improvements such that the hydrology of the property or a portion
thereof is affected.
   DISTRICT. All areas and properties within the corporate boundaries of Town
of Andrews.
   DITCH-OPEN. A relatively deep drainage channel which may have a continuous
water flow. OPEN DITCHES are outlets for both surface, subsurface, or storm
sewer drainage systems.
   DITCH-LEGAL. Any drainage system under the jurisdiction of the Huntington
County Drainage Board.
   DRAIN. Relative to storm water drainage, any sewer, tile, ditch, stream or
other storm water runoff conveyance channel or conduit.
   DRAINAGE EASEMENT. The land required for the installation of storm water
sewers or drainage ditches or required along a natural stream or water course
for preserving the channel and providing for the flow of water therein to
safeguard the public against flood damage.
   DRAINAGE FACILITIES. All ditches, channels, conduits, retention-detention
systems, tiles, drainage swales, sewers, and other natural or artificial means
of draining storm water from land.
   DRAINAGE REQUIREMENTS. Includes the following:
      (1)   Minimum drainage standards as established by a town ordinance or
separate resolution of the Department;
      (2)   Obligations and requirements relating to drainage established under
a subdivision control ordinances of the town;
      (3)   Requirements contained in the zoning ordinances of town, including
floodway zoning requirements;
      (4)   Obligations and requirements relating to drainage established by
the Drainage Board of Huntington County; and
      (5)   Conditions relating to drainage attached to a grant of variance by
the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   DRAINAGE-SUBSURFACE. A system of pipes, tile, conduit, or tubing installed
beneath the ground used to collect underground water from individual parcels,
lots, building footings, or pavements.
   DRAINAGE-SURFACE. A system by which the storm water runoff is conducted to
an outlet. This would include the proper grading of parking lots, streets,
driveways and yards so that storm runoff is removed without ponding and flows
to a drainage swale, open ditch, or a storm sewer.
   DRAINAGE-SWALE. A natural or constructed waterway, usually broad and
shallow, covered with erosion-resistant grasses, used to conduct surface water
from a field, diversion, or other site feature.
   DRAINAGE-SYSTEM. Any combination of surface and/or subsurface drainage
components fulfilling all applicable drainage requirements.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner of the use of a strip of land by the
public, a corporation or other legal entity for specified purposes.
   ENGINEER. The Town of Andrews’s Engineer.
   EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT (ERU). A unit value, equal to the average
residential amount of impervious area of a single (ERU) family residential
property within the town, and established at 2,500 square feet of (measured)
impervious area. It is also the basis for calculating the proper assessment of
storm water service charges to all users of the town’s storm water system.
   IMPERVIOUS AREA. Area within developed land that prevents or significantly
impedes the infiltration of storm water into the soil. Included in this
definition are areas that have been paved and/or covered with buildings and
materials which include, but are not limited to, concrete, asphalt, rooftop and
blacktop, such that the infiltration of water into the soil is prevented.
Excluded from this definition are undisturbed land, lawns and fields.
   INFILTRATION. A complex process of allowing runoff to penetrate the ground
surface and flow through the upper soil surface.
   LAND ALTERATION. Any action taken relative to land which either: (1) changes
the contour; or (2) increases the runoff rate; or (3) changes the elevation; or
(4) decreases the rate of which water is absorbed; or (5) changes the drainage
pattern; or (6) creates or changes a drainage facility; or (7) involves
construction, enlargement or location of any building on a permanent
foundation; or (8) creates an impoundment. LAND ALTERATION includes (by way of
example and not of limitation) terracing, grading, excavating, constructing
earthwork, draining, installing drainage tile, filling and paving.
   MAINTENANCE. Cleaning out of, spraying, removing obstructions from and
making minor repairs in a drainage facility so that it will perform the
function for which it was designed and constructed.
   NPDES. The National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System, the EPA program
initiated to reduce and eliminate pollutants reaching water bodies of all
types.
   NPDES PERMIT. Storm water management permit required of municipalities and
certain industries by the EPA pursuant to Section 402 of the Clean Water Act.
   OTHER PROPERTY. All properties not encompassed within the definition of
RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY, including but not limited to: commercial, industrial,
retail, multi-family, governmental, institutional, schools and churches.
   PEAK DISCHARGE. The maximum rate of flow of water passing a given point
during or after a rainfall event, sometimes called peak flow.
   PRIVATE STORMWATER FACILITIES. Various storm water and drainage works not
under the control or ownership of Town of Andrews, the State of Indiana, or the
federal government which may include inlets, conduits, pipes, pumping stations,
manholes, structures, channels, outlets, retention or detention basins, other
structural components and equipment designed to transport, move or regulate
storm water.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The individual, partnership, corporation or other legal
entity holding the deed or record title to real property as shown in the
records of the Auditor of Huntington County.
   PUBLIC DRAINAGE SYSTEM. Various storm water and drainage works under the
control and/or ownership of Town of Andrews, the State of Indiana, or the
federal government which may include inlets, conduits, pipes, pumping stations,
manholes, structures, channels, outlets, retention or detention basins, other
structural components and equipment designed to transport, move or regulate
storm water.
   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. A lot or parcel of real estate encompassing State Land
Use Codes 101 and 500 through 599 on which a single building or house trailer
is situated which building or house trailer contains a group of rooms forming
an inhabitable dwelling unit with facilities which are used or are intended to
be used primarily for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
   RETENTION. The holding of storm water runoff in a constructed basin or pond
or in a natural body of water with a controlled release rate.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any highway, street, avenue, boulevard, road, lane or alley
and includes the entire RIGHT-OF-WAY for public use thereof and all surface and
subsurface improvements thereon including, without limitation, sidewalks,
curbs, shoulders, utility lines and mains.
   STATE LAND USE CODES. The classification system used by Indiana Counties for
purposes of classification of the assessment of real property.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer designed or intended to convey only storm water,
surface runoff, street wash waters and drainage, and not intended for sanitary
sewage and industrial wastes. A storm sewer begins at the grating or opening
where water enters said sewer, through the sewer and any other conduits to the
outlet structure where water enters a channel, natural watercourse, or combined
sewer.
   STORM WATER CONVEYANCES. The publicly-owned facilities by which storm water
is collected and/or conveyed, including but not limited to any roads with
drainage systems, municipal streets, gutters, curbs, inlets, piped storm
drains, pumping facilities, retention and detention basins, natural and human-
made or altered drainage channels, reservoirs, and other drainage structures.
   STORM WATER SERVICE CHARGE. The service charge imposed on each and every lot
and parcel of land within the District which directly or indirectly contributes
to the storm water system of the Town, which shall be assessed against the
property owner thereof, who shall be considered the user for the purposes of
this Chapter. The storm water service charge is deemed reasonable and is
necessary to pay for the repair, replacement, extension, planning, improvement,
operation, regulation and maintenance of the existing and future storm water
system.
   STORM WATER SYSTEM. All constructed facilities, including separate storm
sewers and conveyances, combined sewers, structures and natural watercourses
owned by or under the jurisdiction  of Town of Andrews, the State of Indiana,
or the Federal Government used for collecting and conducting storm water to,
through and from drainage areas to the point of final outlet, including, but
not limited to, any and all of the following: inlets, conduits and appurtenant
features, creeks, channels, catch basins, ditches, streams, culverts, retention
or detention basins and pumping stations.
(Ord. 2018-2, passed 3-12-2018)
§ 54.03 SEVERABILITY.
   The invalidity of any section, sentence, clause, division, part or provision
of this chapter shall not affect the validity of any other section, sentence,
clause, division, part or provision of this chapter which can be given meaning
without such invalid part or parts.
(Ord. 2018-2, passed 3-12-2018)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 54.15 SPECIAL TAXING DISTRICT CREATED; BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   A special taxing district is hereby created, pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-5-
5, which shall include all of the territory within the corporate boundaries of
the town. As the corporate boundaries of the Town change, whether through
annexation or otherwise, so shall the boundaries of the district change. All
the territory within the district constitutes a special taxing district for the
purpose of providing for the collection and disposal of storm water of the
district in a manner that protects the public health and welfare and for the
purpose of levying special benefit taxes for purposes of storm water collection
and disposal.
   (B)   All territory in the district and all territory added to the district
is considered to have received a special benefit from the storm water
collection and disposal facilities of the district equal to or greater than the
special taxes imposed on the territory under this Chapter or by a separate
resolution of the Board in order to pay all or part of the costs of such
facilities.
(Ord. 2018-2, passed 3-12-2018)
§ 54.16 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEPARTMENT OF STORM WATER MANAGEMENT.
   A Department of Storm Water Management is hereby established for the Town of
Andrews, Indiana for the purposes of providing for the collection and disposal
of storm water of the special taxing district in a manner that protects the
public health and welfare and for the purpose of levying special benefit taxes
for storm water collection and disposal.
(Ord. 2018-2, passed 3-12-2018)
§ 54.17 BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
   (A)   The Department shall be controlled by a Board of Directors consisting
of three Directors.
   (B)   The terms of the Directors shall be staggered so that one of the
Directors first appointed shall serve and initial term of one year; one of the
Directors shall serve an initial term of two years: and one of the Directors
shall serve an initial term of three years. Thereafter all Directors shall
serve a term of three years. All directors shall be appointed by the President
of the Town Council.
   (C)   The President of the Town Council may remove a Director at any time
when in the judgement of the President of the Town Council it is in the best
interest of the Department.
   (D)   The Board shall have exclusive jurisdiction over the collection and
disposal of storm water within the district.
   (E)   The Board shall have all the powers provided under I.C. 8-1.5-5-6,
which include, but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   Hold hearing following public notice;
      (2)   Make findings and determinations;
      (3)   Install, maintain, and operate a storm water collection and
disposal system;
      (4)   Make all necessary or desirable improvements of the grounds and
premises under its control; and
      (5)   Issue and sell bonds of the district in the name of the Town for
the acquisition, construction, alteration, addition, or extension of the storm
water collection and disposal system of forth refunding of any bonds issued by
the Board.
(Ord. 2018-2, passed 3-12-2018)
§ 54.18 PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVE OF BOARD.
   (A)   The mission of the Department shall be to develop, implement, operate
and adequately and equitably fund the acquisition, construction, operation,
maintenance and regulation of storm water collection and drainage systems and
activities within the district including, without limitation, storm water
quality, separate storm sewers, neighborhood drainage, flood control, flood
pumping, storm water conveyance, sewer separation, and other improvements to
the existing and future storm sewers.
   (B)   The Department shall safely and efficiently control storm water
runoff, insure compliance with the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination
System storm water discharge permit, enhance public health and safety, protect
lives and property, facilitate mobility and enable access to homes and
businesses throughout the District during storms, control the discharge of
pollutants in storm water to receiving waters and enhance the natural resources
of the town.
(Ord. 2018-2, passed 3-12-2018)
FINANCING
§ 54.30 STORM WATER FUND.
   (A)   All revenues earned and fees collected for storm water service,
including but not limited to, drainage service charges, permit and inspection
fees, direct charges and interest earnings on any unused funds shall be
deposited in an account entitled “Town of Andrews Storm Water Account”.
   (B)   Disbursements from this account will be authorized by the Board and,
as required by law, the Town Council. Such disbursements will be used
exclusively for the operation, maintenance and improvement of the Town’s storm
water system. Funds from this account shall not revert to any other utility or
fund and may not be transferred for any other purpose.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-5-6, the Clerk-Treasurer shall account for all
funds collected and expended for the Department.
(Ord. 2018-2, passed 3-12-2018)
§ 54.31 FINANCING OF THE FACILITIES.
   The acquisition, construction, installation, operation, and maintenance of
facilities and land for storm water system may be financed through:
   (A)   Proceeds of special taxing district bonds of the storm water district;
   (B)   The assumption of liability incurred to construct the storm water
system being acquired;
   (C)   Service rates;
   (D)   Revenue bonds; or
   (E)   Other available funds.
(Ord. 2018-2, passed 3-12-2018)
§ 54.32 USER FEES.
   The Board may assess and, after approval by the Town Council collect user
fees from all property of the storm water district for the operation and
maintenance of the storm water system. The collection of the fees authorized by
this chapter or by a separate resolution of the Board may be effectuated
through a periodic billing system or through a charge appearing on the
semiannual property tax assessment of the affected property owner.
(Ord. 2018-2, passed 3-12-2018)
§ 54.33 FIXING AND SETTING ASIDE REVENUES.
   (A)   The Board may fix and set aside revenue as follows:
      (1)   As necessary for the reasonable and proper operation and
maintenance of the Department;
      (2)   For a proper and adequate depreciation account; and
      (3)   To be supplied to the payment and interest of authorized bonds.
   (B)   If a surplus is accumulated in the operating and maintenance account,
the Board may transfer any excess funds to (1) the deprecation account to be
used for improvement, extensions, or additions to the storm water system, or
(2) to a bond and interest redemption account.
   (C)   In all other matters, the Board shall comply with the provisions of
I.C. 8-1.5-5 when managing the revenues of the Department.
(Ord. 2018-2, passed 3-12-2018)
SERVICE CHARGES
§ 54.45 STORM WATER SERVICE CHARGE STRUCTURE AND CALCULATION.
   (A)   The storm water service charge shall be assessed to each property
owner owning land situated within the district that contributes directly or
indirectly to the storm water system of the town, in the amount specified in §
54.46, below.
   (B)   The storm water service charge is designed to recover the cost of
rendering storm water service to the users of the storm water system. This
storm water service charge is established so as to maintain adequate fund
reserves to provide for reasonably expected variations in the cost of providing
services, as well as variations in the demand for services.
   (C)   Impervious area. For any such property, lot, parcel of land, building
or premises which contribute directly or indirectly to the storm water system,
such charge shall be based upon the quantity of impervious area situated
thereon as shown on the records of the Huntington County Assessor. Impervious
area of public rights-of-way and railroad lines (which shall not be deemed to
include adjacent property, such as a railyard, operated by a railroad), will
not be included in the determination of a storm water service charge. In
addition, the Department may establish policies and procedures to make
determinations whether commonly-owned, adjoining properties with separate plat
or legal descriptions should be treated as a single parcel of land for purposes
of calculating and assessing the storm water service charges.
   (D)   Land alterations. The issuance of any building permit or other action
which results in a land alteration of a property other than residential
properties, or a property that currently only contains residential properties
but will be no longer used for such purpose, shall be cause for an adjustment
of the storm water service charge determined under this chapter. The property
owner shall have the obligation of informing the Department of any such
changes.
   (E)   Exceptions/exemptions. Agricultural properties with an impervious area
under State Land Use Code 100-199, with the exception of those properties that
qualify as residential properties, shall be exempt from the assessment of storm
water service charges. Except for public rights-of-ways and railroad lines, and
agricultural properties, there shall be no exceptions or exemptions from the
assignment of gross storm water ERUs for any property with impervious area.
(Ord. 2018-5, passed 5-29-2018)
§ 54.46 STORM WATER SERVICE CHARGE ESTABLISHED BASED UPON ERU.
   (A)   All properties within the district shall be assessed a storm water
service charge as a monthly flat-rate charge for storm water service rendered
based on Equivalent Residential Unit, or a multiple thereof, with all
properties having impervious area assigned at least one ERU, as follows:
      (1)   Residential properties are hereby assigned one ERU for billing
purposes. The Residential classification is for a single-family structure for
which the primary purpose is to provide not more than four dwelling units.
Included within this classification are mobile homes, duplex, modular homes,
and free-standing apartment units.
      (2)   Commercial properties are hereby assigned two ERUs for billing
purposes. The commercial classification is for parcels of land which are less
than .50 acres in size which are used for retail, commercial, or industrial
purposes.
      (3)   Industrial properties are hereby assigned five ERUs for billing
purposes. The Commercial classification is for parcels of land which are .50
acres or greater in size which are used for retail, commercial, or industrial
purposes and includes mobile home parks with five or more lots.
      (4)   Municipal properties are hereby assigned two ERUs for billing
purposes. The Municipal classification is for parcels of land which are used
for not-for-profit and governmental purposes. Included within this
classification are the Town Hall, library, fire department, houses of worship,
and other not-for-profit or governmentallyowned properties which are improved.
      (5)   School properties are hereby assigned five ERUs for billing
purposes. The school classification is for parcels of land which are used for
educational purposes, whether public or private.
   (B)   The storm water service charge shall be $3 per ERU per month.
   (C)   For the purpose of this chapter, a month shall be considered an
interval of time which is at least 25 but not more than 35 days. Any billings
for storm water service outside this time shall be on a per diem basis.
   (D)   All monies collected pursuant to this chapter shall be deposited into
the Town of Andrews Storm Water Account.
(Ord. 2018-5, passed 5-29-2018)
§ 54.47 BILLING; TERMS OF PAYMENT.
   (A)   Monthly billing. All storm water service bills shall be rendered
monthly by the town in accordance with those provisions regulating the
preparation of utility service charges.
   (B)   Terms of payment; late charge. The storm water service charges shall
be due on the payment date set out on the bill. All bills for storm water
services not paid on or before the due date shall be subject to a collection or
deferred payment charge of 10% on the outstanding balance. Moving from one
location to another in no way absolves the customer from responsibility for any
unpaid charges incurred at a previous location.
   (C)   Rights and responsibilities of owner. Storm water service charges
shall remain the ultimate responsibility of the property owner, including all
penalties, recording fees, attorney’s fees, interest, and court costs,
regardless of whether the property is occupied by and the storm water service
charges are billed to a tenant.
   (D)   Collection. Delinquent storm water service charges together with any
late payment penalties may be collected in a civil action along with reasonable
attorney fees and court costs.
   (E)   Liens for unpaid storm water service charges. Delinquent charges for
storm water service charges together with any late payment penalties, recording
fees, and service charges constitute a lien upon the property and may be
collected in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 8-1.5-5-29, I.C. 8-1.5-5-
30, and I.C. 8-1.5-5-31.
(Ord. 2018-5, passed 5-29-2018)
§ 54.48 APPEAL OF ERU DETERMINATION.
   If, in the opinion of any property owner, the ERU multiple assigned to the
property of such owner is inaccurate in light of the amount of impervious area
contained on said property, such property owner shall have the right to contest
such ERU determination. The Department may develop and promulgate policies and
procedures to resolve any such contests, including, as determined necessary,
the conducting of hearings and the making of determinations with respect to the
measurement of impervious area contained on any property.
(Ord. 2018-5, passed 5-29-2018)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
Traffic Control Devices
   
70.15   Establishment and maintenance of traffic control devices
   
70.16   Obedience to signals
   
70.17   Interference with signals
   
70.18   Unauthorized signals or markings
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. The following vehicles:
      (1)   Fire Department vehicles;
      (2)   Police Department vehicles;
      (3)   Ambulances;
      (4)   Emergency vehicles operated by or for hospitals or health and
hospital corporations under I.C. 16-22-8;
      (5)   Vehicles designated as emergency vehicles by the State Department
of Transportation under I.C. 9-21-20-1;
      (6)   Motor vehicles that, subject to I.C. 9-21-20-2, are approved by the
State Emergency Medical Services Commission, that are:
         (a)   Ambulances that are owned by persons, firms, limited liability
companies or corporations other than hospitals; or
         (b)   Not ambulances and that provide emergency medical services,
including extrication and rescue services (as defined in I.C. 16-18-2-110).
      (7)   Vehicles of the Department of Correction that, subject to I.C. 9-
21-20-3, are:
         (a)   Designated by the Department of Correction as emergency
vehicles; and
         (b)   Responding to an emergency.
(I.C. 9-13-2-6)
   DRIVER. A person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-47)
   ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE. A self-balancing, two
nontandem-wheeled device that is designed to transport only one person and that
has the following:
      (1)   An electric propulsion system with average power of 750 watts or
one horsepower; and
      (2)   A maximum speed of less than 20 mph when operated on a paved level
surface, when powered solely by the propulsion system referred to in division
(1) above, and when operated by an operator weighing 170 pounds.
(I.C. 9-13-2-49.3)
   HIGHWAY or STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every
publicly maintained way when any part of the way is open to the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular travel. The term includes an alley.
(I.C. 9-13-2-73)
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within:
         (a)   The prolongation or connection of the lateral curb lines, or if
none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of two highways that join
at or approximately at right angles; or
         (b)   The area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
      (2)   Where a highway includes two roadways at least 30 feet apart, every
crossing of each roadway of the divided highway by an intersecting highway is
regarded as a SEPARATE INTERSECTION. If the intersecting highway also includes
two roadways at least 30 feet apart, every crossing of two roadways of the
intersecting highway is regarded as a SEPARATE INTERSECTION.
(I.C. 9-13-2-84)
   MOTOR VEHICLE.
      (1)    Except as otherwise provided in this definition, a vehicle that is
self-propelled. The term does not include a farm tractor, an implement of
agriculture designed to be operated primarily in a farm field or on farm
premises, an electric bicycle, an electric foot scooter, or an electric
personal assistive mobility device as those terms are defined in I.C. 9-13-2-
56, 9-13-2-77 and this section.
      (2)   MOTOR VEHICLE also means:
         (a)   A vehicle except a motorized bicycle that is self-propelled; or
         (b)   A vehicle that is propelled by electric power obtained from
overhead trolley wires, but not operated upon rails.
         The term does not include an electric foot scooter.
      (3)   MOTOR VEHICLE, for purposes of I.C. 9-32, includes a semitrailer,
trailer, an off- road vehicle, a snowmobile, an mini-truck, a manufactured
home, or a recreational vehicle. The term does not include an electric foot
scooter.
(I.C. 9-13-2-105(a), (b), (c))
   MOTORCYCLE.    
      (1)   A motor vehicle with motive power that:
         (a)   Has a seat or saddle for the use of the rider;
         (b)   Is designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact
with the ground; and
         (c)   Satisfies the operational and equipment specifications described
in 49 CFR 571 and I.C. 9-19.
      (2)   The term does not include a farm tractor, an electric bicycle, or a
motor driven cycle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-108(a))
   OPERATOR. A person, other than a chauffeur or a public passenger chauffeur,
who:
      (1)   Drives or operates a vehicle upon a highway; or
      (2)   Is exercising control over or steering a motor vehicle being towed
by another vehicle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-118)
   OWNER. A person, other than a lienholder, that:
      (1)   Holds the property in or title to, as applicable, a vehicle,
manufactured home, mobile home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile, or watercraft; or
      (2)   Is entitled to the use or possession of, as applicable, a vehicle,
manufactured home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile, or watercraft, through a lease
or other agreement intended to operate as a security.
      (3)   OWNER for purposes of I.C. 9-18.1-14.5, has the meaning set forth
in 33 CFR 174.3.
(I.C. 9-13-2-121(a), (b))
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of a highway.
(I.C. 9-13-2-155)
   ROADWAY. 
      (1)   Except as provided in division (2) below, that part of a highway
improved, designed, or ordinarily used for vehicular travel.
      (2)   As used in I.C. 9-21-12-13, the part of a highway that is improved,
designed, or ordinarily used for vehicular travel. The term does not include
the sidewalk, berm, or shoulder, even if the sidewalk, berm, or shoulder is
used by persons riding bicycles or other human powered vehicles.
   STREET. See HIGHWAY.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. A highway or portion of a highway at the entrance to which
vehicular traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to yield right-
of-way to vehicles on the through highway, in obedience to either a stop sign
or a yield sign.
(I.C. 9-13-2-178)
   VEHICLE. A device in, upon or by which a person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway.
(I.C. 9-13-2-196(a))
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.15 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   The town may establish and maintain official traffic control devices
necessary within the town. All traffic control devices, including signs, shall
be employed to indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform,
and as far as possible shall be placed uniformly. All traffic control devices
and signs shall conform to required state specifications.
§ 70.16 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the town, or any electric
signal, gate or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for the barrier
or sign must be approved by the town.
   (B)   The sign, signal, marking or barrier shall have the same authority as
the personal direction of a police officer.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.17 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person without authority to attempt to or in
fact alter, deface, injure, knock down or remove any official control device or
any railroad sign or signal, or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or
any part thereof.
Penalty see §
70.99
§ 70.18 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain or display on
or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which
purports to be, is an imitation of, or resembles an official traffic device,
railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct the movement of
traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes with the
effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or signal. No
person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority permit on any
street, any traffic sign or signal containing any commercial advertising.
Nothing in this section shall be construed as restricting any public department
or public utility of the town in any emergency or temporarily from marking or
erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been approved by the
town.
   (B)   Every prohibited sign, signal or marking is declared to be a public
nuisance and the town is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to be
removed.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this title for
which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Trucks prohibited on certain streets
   
71.02   Stop intersections
   
71.03   One-way streets
   
71.04   Trains at street crossings
   
71.05   Truck routes
   
71.06   Storage of inoperable motor vehicles prohibited
Cruising
   
71.20   Definitions
   
71.21   Cruising prohibited
   
71.22   Posting of signs
 
   
71.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority to enact local traffic regulations, see I.C. 9-21-1-3
   Authority to lower local speed limits, see I.C. 9-21-5-6
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 TRUCKS PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   No trucks, other than pickup trucks and passenger trucks and vans, shall be
allowed to operate on any posted town streets unless they must use the
particular street in question for the purpose of local pickup or delivery.
Posted streets are those which have signs on them indicating that their use by
through trucks is prohibited.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The town may designate intersections as stop intersections and require
all vehicles to stop at one or more entrances to the intersections.
   (B)   The town shall post signs at designated intersections, giving notice
of the designation as a stop intersection.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to obey the markings or
signs posted under this section.
Penalty, see §
71.99
Cross-reference:
   Local designation of stop intersections, see
Chap. 74, Sch. I
§ 71.03 ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   The town may designate streets or highways as one-way streets or
highways, and may require that all vehicles operated on the street or highway
be moved in one specific direction.
   (B)   The town shall post signs at the entrance to the street or part of the
street that is affected, giving notice of the designation as a one-way street.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to obey the markings or
signs posted under this section.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 TRAINS AT STREET CROSSINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any railroad company or employee to run any
locomotive, locomotive engine, car or railroad train over any of the railroad
tracks where the railroad tracks intersect with a street crossing within the
corporate limits of the town, at a speed and rate faster than 50 mph, except
the Triple Crown trains which can run at a speed and rate of 60 mph.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any conductor, engineer or other person
having control of any locomotive engine, car or railroad train, to run any
locomotive, locomotive engine, car or railroad train over any railroad tracks
where the railroad tracks intersect with a public street within the corporate
limits of the town, at a rate or speed greater than 50 mph, except the Triple
Crown trains which can run at a speed and rate of 60 mph.
(Prior Code, § 173.03) (Ord. 1992-01, passed 4-13-1992) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   Drivers of freight-carrying vehicles of one-ton capacity or more,
except vehicles having origin or destination in this town, are hereby
prohibited from operating or driving these vehicles over that portion of the
town streets not marked and maintained as state routes, except in that in
making deliveries; these freight-carrying vehicles, upon leaving state routes,
shall proceed to the delivery destination by nearest routes.
   (B)   Freight-carrying vehicles of one-ton capacity or more shall not park
on streets in that portion of the town where streets are not marked and
maintained as state routes; provided, however, these vehicles may park in an
area for the purpose of loading and unloading for a period of 60 minutes.
   (C)   The Marshal’s office shall have authority to grant permits to the
owners of freight-carrying vehicles, service trucks and service vehicles
authorizing them to park for a longer period than 60 minutes in the central
business area when evidence is presented to the Marshal’s office showing the
necessity thereof. Application for this permit shall be made to the Marshal
stating the time and location requested. It shall be unlawful for any owner or
driver to violate the terms of the permit.
(Ord. 2005-01, passed 1-11-2004) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06 STORAGE OF INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      MOTOR VEHICLE IN AN INOPERATIVE CONDITION. Any vehicle used or useful for
the conveyance of persons or property which is unable to move under its own
power due to defective or missing parts, and which has remained in a condition
for a period of not less than ten consecutive days.
      MOTOR VEHICLE UNFIT FOR FURTHER USE. Any vehicle used for the conveyance
of persons or property, which is in a dangerous condition, has defective or
missing parts, or is in a condition generally as to be unfit for further use as
a conveyance.
      VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, automobile, motorcycle, truck trailer, semi-
trailer, tractor, bus or school bus.
   (B)   Prohibition. No person shall have, suffer or permit the storage of
motor vehicles in an inoperative condition or permit the storage of motor
vehicles unfit for further use within the town limits.
(Prior Code, § 173.05) (Ord. 495, passed 4-6-1987) Penalty, see §
71.99
CRUISING
§ 71.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONGESTED TRAFFIC.
      (1)   Traffic on any public street, alley or highway which is delaying to
the point that:
         (a)   Motor vehicles cannot move through a 100-yard approach corridor
to an intersection controlled by a traffic light within two complete green-
light cycles, where the delay in forward movement is due to the position of
other motor vehicles;
         (b)   Motor vehicles cannot move through a 100-yard approach corridor
to an intersection controlled by a traffic light, stop sign or yield sign
within a five-minute period of time, where the delay in forward movement is due
to the position of other motor vehicles; or
         (c)   Motor vehicles cannot readily move forward on portions of public
streets, alleys or highways between intersections because traffic speed is
slowed to less than five mph, and the delay in movement is due to the position
of other motor vehicles.
      (2)   The determination that a street, alley or highway is congested
shall be made by the Town Marshal or ranking peace officer on duty within the
affected area.
   CRUISING. The repetitive driving of any motor vehicle past a traffic control
point in traffic which is congested at or near the traffic control point.
   GREEN LIGHT CYCLE. The period commencing upon the switching of a traffic
light from a red light to a green light through to the return of a red light.
   PEACE OFFICER. The Town Marshal, his or her designee, any member of the Town
Police Department or other town, county or state official designated to enforce
this subchapter.
   PROPERTY IN THE PROXIMITY OF ANY POSTED NO-CRUISING ZONE. Any property which
is both visible from and located within 300 feet of any portion of a street,
alley or highway which is posted as a no-cruising zone pursuant to this
subchapter.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL POINT. A location along a public street, alley or highway
utilized by the Town Marshal or a peace officer on duty within the affected
area as an observation point in order to monitor traffic conditions for
potential violations of this title.
§ 71.21 CRUISING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Conduct prohibited. It shall be unlawful to engage in the activity
known as cruising as defined in this subchapter on the public streets, alleys
or highways of the town in any area which has been posted as a no-cruising
zone.
   (B)   First violation. Any person who violates division (A) above may be
given a written warning stating that any subsequent passage past that traffic
control point within the next succeeding four hours will be a violation of this
subchapter.
   (C)   Subsequent violations. Any person who, after having received a written
warning under division (B) above subsequently drives past or is a passenger in
a vehicle passing the same traffic control point within the next succeeding
four hours shall be in violation of this subchapter.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.22 POSTING OF SIGNS.
   This subchapter may be enforced in any area which has been posted as a no-
cruising zone. “No Cruising” signs shall be posted at the beginning and the end
of any public street, alley or highway, or portion thereof, which is a no-
cruising zone.
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for
which no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of §
70.99.
   (B)   Trains at street crossings. Any person who shall violate §
71.04 shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in any sum not more than $50.
(Prior Code, § 173.99)
   (C)   Truck traffic. The Town Council assesses a penalty for violation of
the terms and regulations of §
71.05 in the sum of $75 for each violation.
   (D)   Storage of inoperable motor vehicles prohibited. Any person violating
any of the provisions of §
71.06 shall be fined in an amount not to exceed $500. Each day the violation is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate, punishable
offense.
(Prior Code, § 173.05)
(Ord. 495, passed 4-6-1987; Ord. 1992-01, passed 4-13-1992; Ord. 2005-01,
passed 1-11-2004; Ord. 2016-9, passed 8-22-2016)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   No parking where posted
   
72.02   Limited parking
   
72.03   Other parking restrictions
   
72.04   Parking for persons with physical disability
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned vehicles, see
Ch. 90
Statutory reference:
   Authority to enact local parking regulations, see I.C. 9-21-1-3
§ 72.01 NO PARKING WHERE POSTED.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon the public streets of the
town at any place where official signs or where appropriate devices, marks or
painting, either upon the surface of the street or the curb immediately
adjacent thereto, prohibit those acts.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 LIMITED PARKING.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon the public streets of the
town where official signs are erected limiting the parking time thereon, for a
period of time in excess of the time as designated by the official signs.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 OTHER PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   The Town Council may order the placing of signs, devices or marks, or the
painting of streets or curbs prohibiting or restricting the stopping, standing
or parking of vehicles on any street where, in its opinion, the stopping,
standing or parking is dangerous to those using the highway, or where the
stopping, standing or parking of vehicles would unduly interfere with the free
movement of traffic thereon. The signs, devices, marks or painting shall be
official signs, devices, marks or painting; and no person shall stop, stand or
park any vehicle in violation of the restrictions thereon or as indicated
thereby.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 PARKING FOR PERSONS WITH PHYSICAL DISABILITY.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning:
      PERSON WITH A PHYSICAL DISABILITY. Any person who has been issued a
placard or special registration plate or decal for a motor vehicle by the State
Bureau of Motor Vehicles under I.C. 9-14-5, 9-18-18, 9-18-22 or the laws of
another state.
   (B)   Parking prohibited.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle,
motorcycle, moped, bicycle or other vehicle of any nature, which does not have
displayed a placard for a person with a physical disability issued under the
laws of this state or the laws of another state, in a parking space reserved
for a vehicle of a person with a physical disability.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly park in a parking
space reserved for a person with a physical disability while displaying a
placard to which neither the person nor the person’s passenger is entitled.
   (C)   Violation. If any vehicle is parked unlawfully in violation of any of
the provisions of this section, and the identity of the driver cannot be
determined, the owner or person in whose name the vehicle is registered shall
be held prima facie responsible for the violation.
   (D)   Towing. In addition to any fines which may be given as a result of
violations of this section, any vehicle which is parked in a manner in
violation of this section may be towed to an area designated by the town at the
owner’s expense. The owner shall also be required to pay any and all storage
fees resulting from this action.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see I.C. 5-16-9
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction,
be subject to a fine not exceeding $100. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Snowmobiles
   
73.01   Snowmobiles
Golf Carts
   
73.15   Definitions
   
73.16   Unlawful operation of a golf cart
   
73.17   Requirement of local registration
   
73.18   Requirement of driver’s license
   
73.19   Requirement of financial responsibility
   
73.20   Time of operation and nighttime restrictions
   
73.21   Slow moving vehicle reflective sign
   
73.22   Place of operation
   
73.23   Traffic laws and ordinances
   
73.24   Occupants
   
73.25   No towing
   
73.26   Exceptions
   
73.27   Revocation of registration and eligibility to operate golf cart
 
   
73.99   Penalty
SNOWMOBILES
§ 73.01 SNOWMOBILES.
   Snowmobiles shall be permitted to lawfully operate within the boundaries of
the town on designated streets, to be used for going in and out of town only.
All operators must have a valid state driver’s license. All operators of
snowmobiles operating pursuant to the authority of this section shall be
required to obey all laws and regulations pertaining to operators of motor
vehicles. This section is intended to be supplemental to all existing state and
county laws and regulations relating to the operation of motor vehicles in
general, and snowmobiles in particular; all state and county regulations shall
take precedence over and supersede provisions of this section when in conflict.
(Prior Code, § 173.01) (Ord. 410, passed 3-17-1982) Penalty, see §
73.99
GOLF CARTS
§ 73.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. The meaning given in I.C. 9-25-4-1 et seq. as it
now reads or is subsequently amended.
   GOLF CART. A four-wheeled motor vehicle originally and specifically designed
and intended to transport one or more individuals and golf clubs for the
purpose of playing the game of golf on a golf course.
   OPERATE. To exercise any control over the function or movement of a golf
cart.
   SLOW MOVING VEHICLE REFLECTIVE SIGN. A triangle shaped reflective sign of
the same type required under state law.
   STATE HIGHWAY. Any street under the control of and maintained by the state.
   TOWN STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every publicly
maintained way when any part of the way is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel within the corporate limits of the town. TOWN
STREET includes, but is not necessarily limited to, streets, alleys, roads,
highways and thoroughfares.
(Ord. 2009-11, passed 9-7-2009)
§ 73.16 UNLAWFUL OPERATION OF A GOLF CART.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a golf cart on any town street except as
specifically authorized by this subchapter. Any person who operates a golf cart
in violation of this subchapter shall be subject to penalty as set forth in §
73.99.
(Ord. 2009-11, passed 9-7-2009) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.17 REQUIREMENT OF LOCAL REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Local registration required.
      (1)   Any golf cart operated on a town street shall be registered at the
office of the Clerk-Treasurer in the Town Hall Building.
      (2)   The annual registration certificate will be valid from January 1
until December 31 of the year in which it is issued.
      (3)   The then current registration certificate shall be maintained on or
about the golf cart at all times that it is in operation.
   (B)   Registration fee.
      (1)   Each registrant shall provide the vehicle identification number,
and proof of financial responsibility, and shall pay a registration fee of $25
for each golf cart to be registered for that year or a per-month prorated
portion of that year.
      (2)   A temporary registration may be purchased for a period of time not
to exceed five consecutive days for a fee of $5.
      (3)   At no cost, a temporary registration, not to exceed five days, may
be granted by the Town Marshal in connection with the town’s annual street fair
and other special events.
(Ord. 2009-11, passed 9-7-2009; Ord. 2012-4, passed 5-21-2012)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.18 REQUIREMENT OF DRIVER’S LICENSE.
   The operator of a golf cart on a town street must have been issued a valid
driver’s license issued by this state or any other state of the United States
of America and must possess that license while operating a golf cart.
(Ord. 2009-11, passed 9-7-2009) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.19 REQUIREMENT OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   No person may operate a golf cart on any town street unless financial
responsibility is in effect with respect to the golf cart as provided under
I.C. 9-25-4-4, as it now reads or is subsequently amended.
(Ord. 2009-11, passed 9-7-2009) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.20 TIME OF OPERATION AND NIGHTTIME RESTRICTIONS.
   No golf cart shall be operated on a town street between the time of one-half
hour after sunset and one-half hour before sunrise unless the golf cart
registered under this subchapter is equipped with two headlamps, two tail
lamps, front and rear turn lamps and rear brake lamps, all of which must be
visible from a distance of at least 500 feet.
(Ord. 2009-11, passed 9-7-2009) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.21 SLOW MOVING VEHICLE REFLECTIVE SIGN.
   No golf cart shall be operated on a town street unless the golf cart is
equipped with a properly displayed slow moving vehicle reflective sign clearly
visible from behind.
(Ord. 2009-11, passed 9-7-2009) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.22 PLACE OF OPERATION.
   No golf cart shall be operated on or at any of the following:
   (A)   Any town street or any portion of any town street where the speed
limit in effect at the place of operation is greater than 30 mph;
   (B)   Any town street designated as a state highway, except to cross any
state highway at intersections perpendicular to the state highway; and/or
   (C)   Any sidewalk, public trail or public greenway not specifically
designated for use by a motor vehicle.
(Ord. 2009-11, passed 9-7-2009) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.23 TRAFFIC LAWS AND ORDINANCES.
   The operator of a golf cart on a town street shall comply with all then
effective traffic laws, ordinances, rules and regulations adopted by the state
and the town.
(Ord. 2009-11, passed 9-7-2009)
§ 73.24 OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   Number. The number of occupants of a golf cart shall be limited to the
lesser of the number of persons for whom factory seating is installed on the
golf cart or six persons. The operator and occupants shall be properly seated
at all times and no part of the body of the operator or occupants shall extend
outside the perimeter of the golf cart while the golf cart is in operation;
excepting that the operator shall use proper traffic hand signals when
required.
   (B)   Minor as operator. If the operator of a golf cart is under 18 years of
age, no more than two additional persons under the age of 18 are permitted to
occupy that golf cart.
   (C)   Infants prohibited. No one under the age of two years shall be
permitted as an occupant of a golf cart on a town street.
(Ord. 2009-11, passed 9-7-2009) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.25 NO TOWING.
   No golf cart shall be used to tow any type of trailer or other vehicle.
(Ord. 2009-11, passed 9-7-2009) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.26 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Golf carts operated in connection with the town’s annual street fair
shall be exempted from specifically specified requirements of this subchapter
for operation within that portion of the town in which fair activity is taking
place; except that the operator of a golf cart must still be a licensed driver
and financial responsibility must be in effect with respect to the golf cart.
   (B)   The Town Marshal shall have the authority to specifically permit the
use of golf carts by identified persons at other special events without
compliance with specifically specified provisions of this subchapter; provided
however, that the permission must be written, the operator of a golf cart must
still be a licensed driver, and financial responsibility must be in effect with
respect to the golf cart.
(Ord. 2009-11, passed 9-7-2009)
§ 73.27 REVOCATION OF REGISTRATION AND ELIGIBILITY TO OPERATE GOLF CART.
   Any unsafe operation, multiple violations, failure to maintain financial
responsibility or failure to pay fines in accordance to this subchapter may, as
reasonably determined by the Town Marshal or the Marshal’s authorized designee,
result in the revocation of a golf cart registration and the violator’s
eligibility to operate a golf cart within the town for up to one calendar year.
(Ord. 2009-11, passed 9-7-2009) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for
which no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of §
70.99.
   (B)   Golf carts.
      (1)   Failure to comply with §§
73.15 through
73.27 will result in fines and penalties as follows:
         (a)   First offense $25 fine;
         (b)   Second offense $50 fine; and
         (c)   Each additional offense $100 fine.
      (2)   An OFFENSE is defined as each separate violation of §§
73.15 through
73.27 which occurs while operating a golf cart.
(Ord. 2009-11, passed 9-7-2009)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Street lights and locations
      
II.   Stop streets
      
III.   School zones; speed limits
SCHEDULE I. STREET LIGHTS AND LOCATIONS.
   The following streets have street lights.
Location of Street Lights Number of Lights
Location of Street Lights                                      Number of Lights
Clifton Street at Briant Street                                1
Columbia Street at Colorado Street                             1
Jackson Street at Illinois Street                              1
Railroad Avenue at Cubberly Street                             1
East End
   Chestnut Street between Star Street and Jefferson Street 3
   Hendrick Street between McKeever Street and South Street 2
   Jackson Street between the Wabash Railroad and Monroe    6
Street
   Leedy Lane between McKeever Street and South Street      2
   Maple Street between Washington Street and Madison Street3
   Market Street between the Wabash Railroad and Monroe Stre5t
   McKeever Street between Jackson Street and Leedy Lane    5
   Monroe Street, east end, off of Jackson Street           1
   State Street between Star Street and Jefferson Street    3
   State Street south of McKeever Street by Tullis’s      1
   Washington Street and Leedy Lane                         1
   Washington Street between Chestnut Street and Leedy Lane 1
 
Location of Street Lights Number of Lights
Location of Street Lights                                        Number of
                                                                 Lights
North End
   Between California Street and the Wabash Railroad, on Main 4
Street
   Between California Street and Wabash Avenue, on Market Stre3t
   Colorado Street and Alabama Street                         1
   Colorado Street and California Street                      1
   Colorado Street and Columbia Street                        1
   Colorado Street and Illinois Street                        1
   Colorado Street and Pennsylvania Street                    1
   Colorado Street and Ruby Street                            1
   Colorado Street and Virginia Street                        1
   Cubberly Street between Terrel Street and Wabash Street    1
   Jackson Street and Alabama Street                          1
   Jackson Street and California Street                       1
   Jackson Street and Columbia Street                         1
   Jackson Street and Illinois Street                         1
   Jackson Street and Pennsylvania Street                     1
   Jackson Street and River Road                              1
   Jackson Street and Ruby Street                             1
   Jackson Street and Virginia Street                         1
   Main Street and California Street                          1
   Main Street and Columbia Street                            1
   Main Street and Illinois Street                            1
   Main Street and Pennsylvania Street                        1
   Main Street and Ruby Street                                1
   Main Street and Virginia Street                            1
   Market Street and Alabama Street                           1
   Market Street and California Street                        1
   Market Street and Columbia Street                          1
   Market Street and Illinois Street                          1
   Market Street and Pennsylvania Street                      1
   Market Street and River Road                               1
   Market Street and Ruby Street                              1
   Market Street and Virginia Street                          1
   Snowden Street between Terrel Street and the Wabash Railroa4
   Terrel Street between Cubberly Street and River Street     3
   Between Virginia Street and California Street, on Main Stre1t
   Wabash Street and Bell Street                              1
   Wabash Street and River Street                             1
 
Location of Street Lights Number of Lights
Location of Street Lights                                      Number of Lights
West End
   Belleville and Clifton Street                            1
   Belleville and Pearl Street                              1
   Berry Street, south end                                  1
   Braint Street and Clifton Street                         1
   Braint Street, end of                                    1
   Jefferson Street between Main Street and Berry Street    4
   Madison Street between Main Street and Snowden Street    2
   Main Street at the Loon Creek Bridge                     1
   McKeever Street between Main Street and Clifton Street   5
   Monroe Street between Berry Street and Clifton Street    3
   Morris Street from Pearl Street to the end of Morris Stre3t
   Snowden Street, south end                                1
 
(Prior Code, § 173.20) (Ord. 153, passed 4-2-1948) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. STOP STREETS.
   (A)   The following intersections are designated one-way, two-way, three-way
and four-way stop intersections and all vehicles shall stop before entering the
intersections.
One-Way Stop Streets
One-Way Stop Streets
Alabama to stop at Colorado
Alabama to stop at Jackson
Bellville to stop at Clifton
Bellville to stop at Pearl
Briant to stop at Clifton
Chestnut to stop at Jefferson
Chestnut to stop at Star
Clifton to stop at CR 168N
Colorado to stop at California
Cubberly to stop at Terrel
Cubberly to stop at Wabash
Hendricks to stop at McKeever
Illinois to stop at Colorado
Madison to stop at Snowden
Maple to stop at Washington
Monroe to stop at Berry
Morris to stop at Clifton
Pearl to stop at McKeever
Pennsylvania to stop at Colorado
River to stop at Terrel
River to stop at Wabash
Ruby to stop at Colorado
South to stop at Leedy Lane
State to stop at Jefferson
State to stop at McKeever
Virginia to stop at Colorado
Wabash to stop at Market
Wabash to stop at Snowden
Washington to stop at Leedy Lane
Washington to stop at Market
 
Two-Way Stop Streets
Two-Way Stop Streets
Berry to stop at McKeever
Columbia to stop a Jackson
Illinois to stop at Jackson
Illinois to stop at Market
Jackson to stop at California
Jackson to stop at Jefferson
Jackson to stop at McKeever
Jackson to stop at Pennsylvania
Jackson to stop at Virginia
Jefferson to stop at Snowden
Madison to stop at Jackson
Madison to stop at Market
Maple to stop at Jefferson
Market to stop at California
Market to stop at Columbia
Market to stop at McKeever
Market to stop at Pennsylvania
Monroe to stop at Clifton
Ruby to stop at Jackson
Ruby to stop at Market
Snowden to stop at McKeever
Snowden to stop at Terrel
Virginia to stop at Market
 
 
Three-Way Stop Streets
Columbia at Colorado
McKeever at Clifton
 
 
Four-Way Stop Streets
Jackson at Washington
Jefferson at Market
McKeever at Leedy Lane
Pearl at Monroe
Washington at Chestnut
Washington at State
 
   (B)   Every driver of any vehicle shall stop in obedience to any stop sign
as required herein at an intersection where a stop sign is erected at one or
more entrances thereto and shall proceed cautiously, yielding to vehicles not
so obliged to stop if necessary at the entrance to a through street so close as
to constitute an immediate hazard, but may then proceed. The stop shall be made
before entering the intersection except when directed to proceed by a police
officer.
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of this schedule shall be deemed
guilty of an infraction, and on conviction thereof shall be fined in an amount
to be determined by the County Court.
(Prior Code, § 173.21) (Ord. 482, passed 10-18-1985)
SCHEDULE III. SCHOOL ZONES; SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   On or after the effective date of this schedule, the following areas
shall be designated as school zones:
      (1)   McKeever Street between State Street and Leedy Lane. The speed
limit on McKeever Street other than the school zone shall be 30 mph;
      (2)   Leedy Lane between McKeever Street and Jefferson; and
      (3)   Jefferson Street between Leedy Lane and State Street.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle at a speed of more than 20
mph within a school zone during school hours and/or when children are present.
(Prior Code, § 173.02)
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of this schedule shall be deemed
guilty of an infraction, and on conviction thereof shall be fined in an amount
to be determined by the County Court.
(Prior Code, § 173.99)
(Ord. 486, passed 1-17-1986)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
94.   PARKS
      
95.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Purpose
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Exceptions
   
90.04   Responsibility of owner
   
90.05   Vehicles in possession of person other than owner
   
90.06   Private or rental property
   
90.07   Removal of abandoned vehicles
   
90.08   Disposal of abandoned vehicles
   
90.09   Towing contracts
   
90.10   Liability for loss or damage
§ 90.01 PURPOSE.
   The Town Council finds that abandoned vehicles are a public nuisance and a
safety and health hazard.
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.
      (1)   A vehicle located on public property illegally;
      (2)   A vehicle left on public property without being moved for 24 hours;
      (3)   A vehicle located on public property in a manner as to constitute a
hazard or obstruction to the movement of pedestrian or vehicle traffic on a
public right-of-way;
      (4)   A vehicle from which the engine, transmission or differential has
been removed or that is otherwise partially dismantled or inoperable and left
on public property;
      (5)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without the consent
of the owner or person in control of that property for more than 48 hours;
      (6)   A vehicle that has been removed by a towing service or the town
upon request of an officer enforcing a statute or ordinance other than this
chapter, if the impounded vehicle is not claimed or redeemed by the owner or
the owner’s agent within 20 days of the vehicle’s removal;
      (7)   A vehicle that is at least three model years old, mechanically
inoperable, and is left on private property continuously in a location visible
from public property for more than 20 days. For purposes of this division, a
vehicle covered by a tarpaulin or other plastic, vinyl, rubber cloth or textile
covering is considered to be visible; and
      (8)   A vehicle:
         (a)   That was repaired or stored at the request of the owner;
         (b)   That has not been claimed by the owner; and
         (c)   For which the reasonable value of the charges associated with
the repair or storage remain unpaid more than 30 days after the date on which
the repair work is completed or the vehicle is first stored.
(I.C. 9-13-2-1)
   AUTOMOBILE SCRAPYARD. A business organized for the purpose of scrap metal
processing, automobile wrecking or operating a junkyard.
(I.C. 9-13-2-8)
   BUREAU. Unless otherwise indicated, refers to the State Bureau of Motor
Vehicles.
(I.C. 9-13-2-16)
   FISCAL BODY. The Town Council.
(I.C. 9-13-2-63)
   OFFICER. The Town Marshal, his or her designee, or a member of the Town
Police Department.
(I.C. 9-22-1-2)
   OWNER. The last known record titleholder of a vehicle, according to the
records of the State Bureau under I.C. 9-17.
(I.C. 9-13-2-121(c))
   PARTS. All components of a vehicle that, as assembled, do not constitute a
complete vehicle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-122)
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. All property other than public property.
(I.C. 9-13-2-136)
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. A public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park or
other state, county or municipal property.
(I.C. 9-13-2-144)
   TOWING SERVICE. A person who engages in moving or removing abandoned or
disabled vehicles and, once the vehicles are moved or removed, stores or
impounds the vehicles.
(I.C. 9-13-2-179)
   VEHICLE. An automobile, motorcycle, truck, trailer, semi-trailer, tractor,
bus, school bus, recreational vehicle, trailer or semi-trailer used in the
transportation of watercraft or motorized bicycle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-196(d))
§ 90.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter does not apply to:
   (A)   A vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or constructed
for operation on privately owned raceways;
   (B)   A vehicle stored as the property of a member of the armed forces of
the United States who is on active-duty assignment;
   (C)   A vehicle located on a vehicle sale lot;
   (D)   A vehicle located upon property licensed or zoned as an automobile
scrapyard;
   (E)    An antique vehicle registered and licensed under I.C. 9-18-12 (before
its expiration), a historic vehicle licensed under I.C. 9-18.5-34, or a
military vehicle registered under I.C. 9-18.1-8;
   (F)   A golf cart; or
   (G)   An off-road vehicle.
(I.C. 9-22-1-1)
§ 90.04 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) below, the owner of an abandoned
vehicle or parts is responsible for the abandonment and is liable for all of
the costs incidental to the removal, storage and disposal of the vehicle or the
parts under this chapter.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C), the costs for storage of an
abandoned vehicle may not exceed $2,000.
   (C)   The costs for storage of an abandoned vehicle with a length of at
least 30 feet may not exceed $2,5000.
   (D)   If an abandoned vehicle is sold by a person who removed, towed or
stored the vehicle, the person who previously owned the vehicle is not
responsible for storage fees.
   (E)   If an abandoned vehicle is sold by a person who removed, towed or
stored the vehicle, and proceeds from the sale of the vehicle covered the
removal, towing and storage expenses, any remaining proceeds from the sale of
the vehicle shall be returned to the previous owner of the vehicle if the
previous owner is known.
(I.C. 9-22-1-4)
§ 90.05 VEHICLES IN POSSESSION OF PERSON OTHER THAN OWNER.
   (A)   When an officer discovers a vehicle in the possession of a person
other than the owner of the vehicle, and the person cannot establish the right
to the possession of the vehicle, the vehicle shall be taken to and stored in a
suitable place determined by the officer.
(I.C. 9-22-1-5)
   (B)   If the owner or lienholder under I.C. 9-22-1-8 does not appear and pay
all costs, or the owner of the vehicle cannot be determined by a search
conducted under §
90.08, the vehicle is considered abandoned and must be disposed of in
accordance with this chapter.
(I.C. 9-22-1-7)
   (C)   (1)   Subject to division (2), if the properly identified person who
owns or holds a lien on a vehicle appears at the site of storage before
disposal of the vehicle or parts and pays all costs relating to a tow, the
storage of the vehicle, and all allowable fees, as applicable, the vehicle or
parts shall be released.
      (2)   A towing service or storage yard may charge an inspection fee to an
owner, a lienholder, or an insurance company representative to inspect a
vehicle or retrieve items from the vehicle. A fee under this subsection must be
refunded if the costs relating to a tow, the storage of the vehicle, and all
allowable fees, as applicable, are paid under division (C)(1).
      (3)   (a)   A towing service or storage yard must accept payment made by
any of the following means from a person seeking to release a vehicle under
this section:
            1.   Cash.
            2.   Certified check.
            3.   Insurance check.
            4.   Money order.
         (b)   A towing service or storage facility may elect to accept payment
by means of a credit card or debit card.
      (4)   Upon receiving payment of all costs relating to a tow, the storage
of a vehicle, and all allowable fees, as applicable, a towing service or
storage yard shall provide to the person making payment an itemized receipt
that includes the information set forth in I.C. 24-14-5, to the extent the
information is known or available.
      (5)   A towing service or storage yard must be open for business and
accessible by telephone during regular office hours. A towing service or
storage yard must provide a telephone number that is available on a 24 hour
basis to receive calls and messages from callers, including calls made outside
of regular office hours. All calls made to a towing service or storage yard
must be returned within 24 hours from the time received. However, if adverse
weather, an act of God, or an emergency situation over which the towing service
or storage yard has no control prevents the towing service or storage yard from
returning calls within 24 hours, the towing service or storage yard shall
return all calls received as quickly as possible.
      (6)   A towing service or storage yard shall, if required, notify the
appropriate public agency of all releases under this section. The notification
must include:
         (a)   The name and address of:
            1.   The person that owns or holds a lien on the vehicle; and
            2.   The insurance company that insures the vehicle, if the vehicle
was released to a representative of the insurance company;
         (b)   The signature of the individual to whom the vehicle was
released;
         (c)   A description of the vehicle or parts;
         (d)   Costs paid; and
         (e)   The date of release.
(I.C. 9-22-1-8)
§ 90.06 PRIVATE OR RENTAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   A person who finds a vehicle believed to be abandoned on private
property that the person owns or controls, including rental property, may:
      (1)   Obtain the assistance of an officer under §
90.07(E) to have the vehicle removed; or
      (2)   Personally arrange for the removal of the vehicle by complying with
divisions (B), (C) and (D) below.
   (B)   If the person wishes to personally arrange for the removal of the
vehicle, the person shall attach in a prominent place a notice tag containing
the following information:
      (1)   The date, time, name and address of the person who owns or controls
the private property and a telephone number to contact for information;
      (2)   The vehicle is considered abandoned;
      (3)   The vehicle will be removed after 24 hours;
      (4)   The person who owns the vehicle will be held responsible for all
costs incidental to the removal, storage and disposal of the vehicle; and
      (5)   The person who owns the vehicle may avoid costs by removal of the
vehicle or parts within 24 hours.
(I.C. 9-22-1-15)
   (C)   If, after 24 hours, the person who owns a vehicle believed to be
abandoned on private property has not removed the vehicle from the private
property, the person who owns or controls the private property on which the
vehicle is believed to be abandoned may have the vehicle towed from the private
property.
(I.C. 9-22-1-16(a))
   (D)   Notwithstanding division (C) above, in an emergency situation a
vehicle believed to be abandoned on private property may be removed
immediately. As used in this section, EMERGENCY SITUATION means that the
presence of the vehicle believed to be abandoned interferes physically with the
conduct of normal business operations of the person who owns or controls the
private property or poses a threat to the safety or security of persons or
property, or both.
(I.C. 9-22-1-16(b))
   (E)   A towing service that tows a vehicle under divisions (C) and (D) above
or I.C. 9-22-1-5 shall give notice to the town that the abandoned vehicle is in
the possession of the towing service.
(I.C. 9-22-1-17)
§ 90.07 REMOVAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   An officer who finds or is notified of a vehicle or parts believed to
be abandoned shall attach in a prominent place a notice tag containing the
following information:
      (1)   The date, time, officer’s name, Town Police Department and address
and telephone number to contact for information;
      (2)   The vehicle or parts are considered abandoned;
      (3)   The vehicle or parts will be removed after:
         (a)   Twenty-four hours, if the vehicle is located on or within the
right-of-way of an interstate highway or any highway that is designated as part
of the state highway system under I.C. 8-23-4; or
         (b)   Seventy-two hours for any other vehicle.
      (4)   The person who owns the vehicle will be held responsible for all
costs incidental to the removal, storage and disposal of the vehicle; and
      (5)   The person who owns the vehicle may avoid costs by removal of the
vehicle or parts within:
         (a)   Twenty-four hours, if the vehicle is located on or within the
right-of-way of an interstate highway or any highway that is designated as part
of the state highway system under I.C. 8-23-4; or
         (b)   Seventy-two hours, for any other vehicle.
(I.C. 9-22-1-11)
   (B)   If a vehicle or a part tagged under division (A) above is not removed
within the applicable period, the officer shall prepare a written abandoned
vehicle report of the vehicle or parts, including information on the condition
and missing parts. Photographs may be taken to describe the condition of the
vehicle or parts.
(I.C. 9-22-1-12)
   (C)   If the vehicle is a junk vehicle and the market value of an abandoned
vehicle or parts is less than $1,000, the towing service shall immediately
transfer the vehicle to a storage yard. A copy of the abandoned vehicle report
and photographs, if applicable, relating to the abandoned vehicle shall be
provided to the storage yard. A towing service or storage yard may dispose of
an abandoned vehicle not less than 30 days after the date on which the towing
service removed the abandoned vehicle. A town that operates a storage yard
under I.C. 36-9-30-3 may dispose of an abandoned vehicle to an automobile
scrapyard or an automotive salvage recycler upon removal of the abandoned
vehicle. The public agency or storage yard disposing of the vehicle shall
retain the original records and photographs for at least two years. If the
vehicle is demolished, a copy of the abandoned vehicle report shall be
forwarded to the bureau by the automobile scrap yard after the vehicle has been
demolished.
(I.C. 9-22-1-13)
   (D)   If, in the opinion of the officer, the market value of the abandoned
vehicle or parts is at least $1,000, the officer, before placing a notice tag
on the vehicle or parts, shall make a reasonable effort to ascertain the person
who owns the vehicle or parts or who may be in control of the vehicle or parts.
After 72 hours, the officer shall require the vehicle or parts to be towed to a
storage yard or towing service.
(I.C. 9-22-1-14)
   (E)   Upon complaint of a person who owns or controls private property that
a vehicle has been left on the property for at least 48 hours without the
consent of the person who owns or controls the property, an officer shall
follow the procedures set forth in divisions (A) through (D) above.
(I.C. 9-22-1-18)
§ 90.08 DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Within three business days after removal of a vehicle to a storage
yard or towing service under §§ 90.06(C) or (D), 90.07(C) or (D) or I.C. 9-22-
1-5, the public agency or towing service shall:
      (1)   Conduct a search of the national Motor Vehicle Title Information
System or an equivalent and commonly available data base, to attempt to obtain
the last state of record of the vehicle in order to attempt to ascertain the
name and address of the person who owns or holds a lien on the vehicle.
      (2)   A public agency or towing service that obtains the name and address
of the owner of or lienholder on a vehicle shall, not later than three business
days after obtaining the name and address, notify the person who owns or holds
a lien on the vehicle of the name, address and telephone number of the public
agency or towing service. The notice must be made by certified mail or by means
of an electronic service approved by the bureau. Notwithstanding I.C. 9-22-1-4,
a public agency or towing service that fails to notify the owner of or
lienholder on the vehicle as set forth in this section may not collect
additional storage costs incurred after the date of receipt of the name and
address obtained.
(I.C. 9-22-1-19)
   (B)   The Bureau shall dispose of the vehicle in accordance with I.C. 9-22-
1-19.
§ 90.09 TOWING CONTRACTS.
   To facilitate the removal of abandoned vehicles or parts, the town may
employ personnel; acquire equipment, property and facilities; and enter into
towing contracts for the removal, storage and disposition of abandoned vehicles
and parts.
(I.C. 9-22-1-31)
§ 90.10 LIABILITY FOR LOSS OR DAMAGE.
   The following are not liable for loss or damage to a vehicle or parts
occurring during the removal or storage of a vehicle or parts under this
chapter:
   (A)   A person who owns, leases or occupies property from which an abandoned
vehicle or its contents or parts are removed;
   (B)   The town;
   (C)   A towing service;
   (D)   An automobile scrapyard;
   (E)   A storage yard; and
   (F)   An agent or a person or entity listed in divisions (A) through (E)
above.
(I.C. 9-22-1-32)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Animal Warden
   
91.03   Keeping of domestic farm animals, exotic animals and vicious animals,
and the like
   
91.04   Exception to keeping of domestic farm animals
   
91.05   Maximum number of domestic pets per household
   
91.06   Maltreatment of domestic pets
   
91.07   Lost, strayed or unattended animals; disposition
   
91.08   Vaccination of dogs
   
91.09   Animal welfare and treatment
   
91.10   Owner held responsible
   
91.11   Owners or agents responsible for removing animal wastes
   
91.12   Warning notices
   
91.13   Citations; hearings before the Town Council
   
91.14   Impounding animals
   
91.15   Notification
   
91.16   Redemption and release
   
91.17   Redemption fees
   
91.18   Owner unable to pay redemption fees; notification
   
91.19   Variances to regulations (Andrews Summer Festival, 4H Fair and State
Fair)
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONMENT. To deposit, leave, drop off, or otherwise dispose of any live
animal without providing immediate human care on any public or private
property.
   AGENT. Persons 18 years or older authorized by an owner to act on the
owner’s behalf.
   ALTERED ANIMAL. Any animal that has been operated on, preventing
procreating.
   ANIMAL. Any non-human vertebrate creature, domestic, wild or exotic.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. A facility designated or recognized by the Town Council for
the purpose of impounding and/or caring for animals.
   AT-LARGE. An animal located off the owner property and not under restraint
of its owner or agent.
   DOMESTIC FARM ANIMAL. Any animal that is a member of one of the following
species:
      (1)   Cattle;
      (2)   Horse;
      (3)   Donkey or mule;
      (4)   Swine;
      (5)   Sheep;
      (6)   Goats;
      (7)   Ox;
      (8)   Llama;
      (9)   Poultry;
      (10)   Bison;
      (11)   Ostrich;
      (12)   Elk;
      (13)   Deer;
      (14)   Alpaca; or
      (15)   Any animal not defined as a domestic pet, exotic animal or wild
animal.
   DOMESTIC PET. Any animal that is a member of one of the following species:
      (1)   Dog (Canis Familiaris);
      (2)   Cat (Felis Cattus or Felis Domesticus);
      (3)   Rabbit (Oryctolagus Cuniculus);
      (4)   Mouse (Mus Musculus);
      (5)   Rat (Rattus Rattus);
      (6)   Reptile (Repilis), as defined herein;
      (7)   Guinea pig (Cavis Porcellus);
      (8)   Chinchilla (Chinchilla Laniger);
      (9)   Hamster (Mesocricetus Auratus);
      (10)   Gerbil (Gerbillus Gerbillus); or
      (11)   Ferret (Mustela Putorius Furo).
   EXOTIC ANIMAL. Any animal whose normal native habitat is not indigenous to
the continental United States, excluding Alaska and Hawaii, except fish and
fur-bearing animals commercially bred for the furrier trade and birds defined
under federal regulations, and non- poisonous snakes and reptiles.
   GUIDE DOG. Service animal.
   HARBORING. The actions of any person that permits an animal to habitually
remain, lodge or to be fed within his or her home, store, enclosure, yard,
place of business or any premises on which that person resides or controls. An
animal shall be presumed harbored if it is fed or sheltered.
   OWNER. A person having the right of property or custody of an animal or a
person keeping or harboring an animal, or knowingly permitting and encouraging
an animal to remain on or about any premises occupied by that person.
   PET. Any animal kept for pleasure rather than utility.
   PROPERTY. Lots or parcels of real estate including, in addition to those
within their respective boundaries, all of the grounds lying between the
property line and the improved portion of adjacent streets or alleys.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any animal which:
      (1)   Interferes with passersby or passing vehicles.
      (2)   Attacks other animals or persons.
      (3)   Is at large.
      (4)   Damages private or public property.
      (5)   Causes frequent or loud continued noises or other sounds common to
its species, which disturbs the comfort or repose of any person in the
immediate neighborhood.
      (6)   Causes foul or noxious odors, which offend residents in the
neighborhood.
   RESTRAINT. The securing of an animal by leash or lead or confining it within
the real property limit of its owner or agent.
   STRAY. Any animal brought to the animal shelter by an Animal Warden, someone
other than the owner, or any animal for which no owner is known.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal that has without provocation, attacked a human
being or other animal. Any animal that by its behavior or physical condition
constitutes an immediate and serious physical or health threat to human beings
or animals, or an animal that has previously attacked or bitten humans or
another animal.
   WILD ANIMAL. An animal of any species or variety which predominately exists
and propagates in a state of nature, without usual or substantial human care or
culture, and is not ordinarily kept as a pet or livestock, irrespective of the
fact that a particular such animal may have been born in captivity or tamed.
(Ord. 2013-13, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 91.02 ANIMAL WARDEN.
   (A)   The Town Council shall have the authority to appoint an Animal Warden
with the power to enforce the animal control ordinance within the corporate
limits of the town.
   (B)   The Town Council and the Animal Warden shall establish a clearinghouse
site for the receipt of complaints and procedures regarding animals and the
handling, storage, cataloguing and claiming of animals.
   (C)   The town shall authorize for a suitable animal shelter for the
safekeeping of impounded animals. The Town Council may contract with any entity
for the impounding, keeping, feeding, caring for and disposition of impounded
dogs and cats on those terms as the Town Council shall deem proper.
   (D)   The Animal Warden and the Town Marshal shall act in cooperation to
handle animal problems with the consensus of the Town Council.
(Ord. 2013-13, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 91.03 KEEPING OF DOMESTIC FARM ANIMALS, EXOTIC ANIMALS AND VICIOUS ANIMALS,
AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or permit to be kept any
domestic farm animals or exotic animals within the corporate limits of the
town.
   (B)   Every vicious animal shall be confined by its owner within a building
or secure enclosure and shall be securely muzzled or caged whenever off the
premises of its owner.
   (C)   An animal reasonably determined to be a vicious animal may be
impounded and humanely euthanized by or under the direction of the animal
shelter upon not less than three days written notice by personal delivery or
mailed by certified mail to the animal’s owner or recent custodian, if such
person’s whereabouts is known or reasonably available. That notice shall
include the particulars of the notice under §
91.99, except division (E).
(Ord. 2013-13, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 91.04 EXCEPTION TO KEEPING OF DOMESTIC FARM ANIMALS.
   Property owners with property of four or more contiguous acres within the
corporate limits of the town are permitted to keep domestic farm animals.
(Ord. 2013-13, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 91.05 MAXIMUM NUMBER OF DOMESTIC PETS PER HOUSEHOLD.
   No person shall keep more than four cats and dogs over the age of six months
per household in any residential area. This restriction means four cats and
dogs, whatever the combination. A person will have 30 days to reduce the pets
in the household to the stated limit if found to be over the limit.
(Ord. 2013-13, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 91.06 MALTREATMENT OF DOMESTIC PETS.
   It is unlawful for any person to wantonly or maliciously kill, maltreat,
injure, trap, poison, pursue, or maintain in a way dangerous to its health, any
animal defined as a domestic pet within the town limits.
(Ord. 2013-13, passed 12-9-2013) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07 LOST, STRAYED, OR UNATTENDED ANIMALS; DISPOSITION.
   (A)   Owners of lost animals, or persons locating an animal which they
believe to be lost or stray, shall immediately inform the Animal Warden or the
Town Marshal and shall provide him or her with a description of the animal and
time and place of its loss or location, if known, as well as the name, address,
and telephone number of the animal’s owner, if available.
   (B)   The Animal Warden, or other duly authorized representative, upon
impounding an at-large animal, shall first consult the catalogue of lost or
stray animals and make reasonable efforts to locate any person reasonably
believed to be the owner, if available.
   (C)   If no owner can be located in the catalogue of lost or stray animals,
then the impoundment provisions contained hereinafter in this chapter shall be
followed.
(Ord. 2013-13, passed 12-9-2013) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 VACCINATION OF DOGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog to keep or maintain a
dog over six months of age unless it shall have been vaccinated by a licensed
veterinarian with the anti-rabies vaccine. Penalty shall be not less than $25
per day.
   (B)   Each dog shall be vaccinated once per year, and the owner shall
maintain proof of the vaccination.
   (C)   Failure to have a dog properly vaccinated may result in the
impoundment or euthanization of the animal in addition to the penalties
contained in §
91.99.
(Ord. 2013-13, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 91.09 ANIMAL WELFARE AND TREATMENT.
   Every owner or his or her agent within the town limits shall see that their
animal is:
   (A)   Kept in a clean, sanitary, and healthy manner.
   (B)   Has sufficient and wholesome food and water which is proper and
nutritional for that species of animal.
   (C)   Has a proper and adequate structure provided that will protect the
animal from all elements of the weather and will allow that animal to stand,
sit, and lie down without restriction, and is kept in a sanitary manner.
   (D)   If ill, diseased, or injured, the animal must receive proper medical
care as necessary to prevent the transmittal of a disease to other animals or
human beings and is segregated from other animals.
   (E)   Not beaten, cruelly ill-treated, overloaded, overworked, or otherwise
abused by any animal, or cause, instigate, or permit any dog fight, cockfight,
bullfight, or other combat between animals; or between animals and humans.
   (F)   Not physically altered in any manner by anyone other than a
veterinarian with the exception of tattooing and grooming.
   (G)   Not abandoned, neglected, or tortured.
   (H)   Properly vaccinated and licensed if required by local, state, or
federal law.
   (I)   Not a public nuisance as defined in §
91.01.
   (J)   Not left in a vehicle when the condition of the vehicle or weather
would constitute a health hazard to the animal inside the vehicle.
   (K)   Properly restrained.
(Ord. 2013-13, passed 12-9-2013) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.10 OWNER HELD RESPONSIBLE.
   The owner of the animal shall be held responsible for every behavior of the
animal under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-13, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 91.11 OWNERS OR AGENTS RESPONSIBLE FOR REMOVING ANIMAL WASTES.
   The owner or agent of an animal shall immediately remove the animal’s
excrement from public or private property, excepting a handicapped person
working with a guide dog.
(Ord. 2013-13, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 91.12 WARNING NOTICES.
   Persons who violate any other provision of this chapter shall be served with
a warning notice requiring the owner to comply with this chapter within ten
days, unless the animal and/or public are endangered. In that event, the ten-
day period may be waived by the Animal Warden.
(Ord. 2013-13, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 91.13 CITATIONS; HEARINGS BEFORE THE TOWN COUNCIL.
   Any person served with a warning notice and who fails to comply shall be
subject to the citation procedures or a hearing before the Town Council.
Citations shall contain the date, time, name, and address of the violator, the
code section violated, the nature of the violation, location of the violation,
and the name of the person issuing the citation.
(Ord. 2013-13, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 91.14 IMPOUNDING ANIMALS.
   The Animal Warden may impound any animal:
   (A)   At-large;
   (B)   In violation of this chapter as herein set out; or
   (C)   Which in the discretion of the Animal Warden, impoundment would be in
the animal’s best interest, or which animal is believed to constitute a threat
to the public or safety.
(Ord. 2013-13, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 91.15 NOTIFICATION.
   The Animal Warden shall promptly give notice of the impounding of any animal
to the owner if known, and if he or she can be found with reasonable effort. A
registry of impounded animals shall be kept with a general description of each
animal. A copy of that registry shall be available at the designated clearing-
house site, which shall be open to inspection at reasonable times.
(Ord. 2013-13, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 91.16 REDEMPTION AND RELEASE.
   Any impounded animal may be redeemed by the owner thereof upon reasonable
proof of ownership and by payment to the animal shelter of the fees hereinafter
established. However, no dog shall be released unless the owner thereof shall
present proof that dog had been immunized for rabies within one year. When
proof is not available, the dog may be released only if the owner enters into
an immunization contract with the animal shelter whereby the owner agrees to
have the dog immunized for rabies and pay a deposit of $25, or such fees as
hereafter established, to be applied to the fee of a licensed veterinarian of
owner’s choice for the immunization. After an animal has been impounded and
unredeemed for a period of three working days, the animal becomes property of
the animal shelter and it may hereafter be disposed of by the town or shelter
facility by adopting it out to some person who there is a reasonable basis to
believe will provide it a humane home and who will agree to, by contract,
neuter the animal if the animal has not been neutered or by humanely
euthanizing it.
(Ord. 2013-13, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 91.17 REDEMPTION FEES.
   A redemption fee of $25 shall be collected for the first time a particular
animal is impounded and $35 for the second and subsequent impounding of the
same animal. To those fees shall be added a reasonable cost of feeding and
caring for the animal during the period of being impounded.
(Ord. 2013-13, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 91.18 OWNER UNABLE TO PAY REDEMPTION FEES; NOTIFICATION.
   An owner shall notify the Animal Warden, or other authorized agent, within
three working business days of the impounding of the owner’s animal that the
owner is unable to pay any or all of the required fees to redeem the animal.
Thereafter, the owner shall be given the opportunity to appear before Council
to seek assistance by entering into a payment arrangement with the town. At
that hearing, the Town Council can provide for any other terms of repayment,
including community service. If during the period of the agreement, it is
determined that the owner has obtained the ability to pay the fees, the owner
and Council will determine the residual balance due to the town, which will be
paid immediately.
(Ord. 2013-13, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 91.19 VARIANCES TO REGULATIONS (ANDREWS SUMMER FESTIVAL, 4H FAIR AND STATE
FAIR).
   (A)   The Town Council may grant a variance in a particular case to any
provision of this chapter for persons requesting permission to have animal(s)
for a 4-H project, state fair project or an event conducted during the annual
summer festival.
   (B)   Residents requesting a variance shall make a written request for a
variance to the Town Council. Requests for an animal control variance must file
the appropriate forms. Variance requests are available at the Town Hall.
Residents can request variances in March of the said year and will no longer be
granted after June of the same year.
   (C)   Animals allowed under the variance must be removed after participation
in the Huntington County 4-H Fair. Consideration and extensions shall be given
to projects that qualify to attend the Indiana State Fair. Participants of the
Indiana State Fair must remove animals after participation in the state fair.
   (D)   Residents denied a variance can appeal the decision to the Town
Council within 30 days of the denial. All appeals shall be in writing
explaining the reason for the appeal and why they should receive a variance to
the animal control ordinance for 4-H projects.
(Ord. 2013-13, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of §
91.03, for which another penalty is not provided, shall be fined not less than
$15 for the first offense, $30 for the second offense and $50 for each
additional offense thereafter.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
91.05 shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $50. A separate offense shall
be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violations occurs or
continues.
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of §
91.06 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $10 per offense. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
   (D)    Any person violating the provisions of §
91.07 shall result in a fine of not less than $10 and not more than $500 per
offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on
which a violation occurs or continues.
   (E)   Any person violating the provisions §
91.08 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $25 per offense. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
   (F)   Any person violating the provisions of §
91.09 shall be fined an amount not to exceed $25 per offense. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
   (G)   Violators, upon conviction, may be given the opportunity to work in a
community service program such as a humane society or participate in human
education program, if so recommended by the court.
(Ord. 2013-13, passed 12-9-2013; Ord. 2022-6, passed 8-8-2022)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Purpose; administration
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Incorporation of state law
   
92.04   Duty to maintain property
   
92.05   Conditions constituting a public nuisance
   
92.06   Authority of town to make inspections
   
92.07   Violations; notice to abate
   
92.08   Citation for failure to abate nuisance
   
92.09   Abatement by town; continuous abatement
   
92.10   Abatement costs
   
92.11   Appeal of notice of violation, citation or abatement costs
Fireworks
   
92.30   Use of consumer fireworks
   
92.31   Enforcement
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 PURPOSE; ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to protect the public health, safety
and welfare and enhance the environment of the people of the town by: (i)
prohibiting Public Nuisances as defined in §
92.05, and (ii) restricting the use of Consumer Fireworks as defined in §
92.02.
   (B)   This chapter is to be administered by the Council and its duly
authorized representative.
(Ord. 2016-9, passed 8-22-2016)
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSUMER FIREWORK. A small firework that is designed primarily to produce
visible effects by combustion, and that is required to comply with the
construction, chemical composition, and labeling regulations promulgated by the
United States Consumer Product Safety Commission under 16 CFR § 1507, as it now
exists and in hereafter amended, modified or superseded. The term also includes
some small devices designed to produce an audible effect, such as whistling
devices, ground devices containing 50 milligrams or less of explosive
composition, and aerial devices containing 130 milligrams or less of explosive
composition. Propelling or expelling charges consisting of a mixture of
charcoal, sulfur, and potassium nitrate are not considered as designed to
produce an audible effect.
      (1)   CONSUMER FIREWORK includes:
         (a)   Aerial devices, which include sky rockets, missile type rockets,
helicopter or aerial spinners, roman candles, mines, and shells;
         (b)   Ground audible devices, which include firecrackers, salutes, and
chasers; and
         (c)   Firework devices containing combinations of the effects
described in divisions (a) and (b) above.
      (2)   CONSUMER FIREWORK does not include the following:
         (a)   Dipped sticks or wire sparklers for which the total pyrotechnic
composition may not exceed 100 grams per item; and, devices containing chlorate
or perchlorate salts may not exceed five grams per item;
         (b)   Cylindrical fountains;
         (c)   Cone fountains;
         (d)   Illuminating torches;
         (e)   Wheels;
         (f)   Ground spinners;
         (g)   Flitter sparklers;
         (h)   Snakes or glow worms;
         (i)   Smoke devices; and
         (j)   Trick noisemakers that include party poppers, booby traps,
snappers trick matches, cigarette loads and auto burglar alarms.
   DEBRIS. The remains of something broken down, demolished, or destroyed such
as rough broken bits and pieces of stone, glass, wood, building materials, or
concrete, bits and pieces of rubbish or litter, or a heap of such materials or
rock fragments.
   GARBAGE. Rejected food waste including, but not limited to, any animal,
fruit, or vegetable matter used or intended for food or used in the
preparation, use, cooking, sale, or storage of meat, fish, fowl, vegetables, or
fruits.
   GRAFFITI. Any unauthorized inscription, word, figure, painting or other
defacement that is written, marked, etched, scratched, sprayed, drawn, painted,
or engraved on or otherwise affixed to any surface of public or private
property that was not expressly authorized by the owner.
   JUNK. Any article in any form consisting of discarded, abandoned, or cast-
off materials. The term junk includes, but is not limited to, rags, tin,
metals, residue from burning, broken glass, clothing, rubber, plastics,
synthetic substances and fabrics, bottles, and household items such as
furniture, mattress, and appliances not intended for exposure to rain and other
inclement weather.
   OWNER. The owner of record of the subject property, as indicated in the
records of the Huntington County Auditor, and the purchaser or purchasers of
the subject property under any contract for the conditional sale thereof.
   RANK VEGETATION. Plant life which grows excessively and unmanaged upon the
land and has no, or limited, public value.
   TRASH. Rubbish and matter such as ashes, cans, metalware, broken glass,
crockery, paper, cardboard, foul and filthy substances, dirt, sweepings, boxes,
wood, grass, weeds, and waste matter of any kind.
   WEED. A plant that has no, or limited, public value, which tends to overgrow
or choke out more desirable plants, and is often growing plentifully and
detrimentally upon the land, including, but not limited to, ragweed, goldenrod,
milkweed, Canadian thistle, dandelions, plantain and other broadleaf plants,
buckthorn, poison ivy, poison sumac, and burdock.
(Ord. 2016-9, passed 8-22-2016)
§ 92.03 INCORPORATION OF STATE LAW.
   It is the intent of this chapter that:
   (A)   Its prohibition of public nuisances, exclusive of the growth of weeds,
grass or other rank vegetation, be adopted in accordance with and incorporate
herein the provisions of I.C. 36-1-6 as it now exists and is hereafter amended,
modified or superseded;
   (B)   Its regulation of the growth of weeds, grass or other rank vegetation
be adopted in accordance with and incorporate herein the provisions of I.C. 36-
7-10.1 as it now exists and is hereafter amended, modified or superseded;
   (C)   Its restrictions on the use of consumer fireworks be adopted in
accordance with and incorporate herein the provisions of I.C. 22-11-14 as it
now exists and is hereafter amended, modified or superseded; and
   (D)   Any conflict between this chapter and I.C. 36-1-6, I.C. 36-7-10.1, or
I.C. 22-11-14 shall not invalidate the remaining non-conflicting sections of
this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-9, passed 8-22-2016)
§ 92.04 MAINTENANCE OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of any person owning or controlling any private
premises to maintain such private premises in a clean and orderly manner.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of any person owning or controlling any public
place to keep the premises clean of all junk, trash, garbage, and debris and to
take measures, including daily cleanup of the premises, to prevent the
accumulation of the above listed materials or movement by the elements to
adjoining properties.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the owner and contractor in charge of any
construction site shall maintain the construction site in such manner as to
avoid the accumulation of junk trash, garbage, and debris and no junk trash,
garbage, and debris shall be allowed to be carried by the elements to adjoining
properties. All junk, trash, garbage, and debris from construction or related
activities shall be picked up at the end of each work day and placed in a
container for regular removal.
(Ord. 2016-9, passed 8-22-2016)
§ 92.05 CONDITIONS CONSTITUTING A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)    The following conditions shall constitute a public nuisance for the
purpose of this chapter because of the danger to health by providing places for
vermin and insects to harbor, the fire hazard danger caused by the accumulation
of discarded materials, and the risk caused by the attraction of children to
it:
      (1)   Garbage;
      (2)   Junk;
      (3)   Trash;
      (4)   Debris;
      (5)   Open excavations, uncovered or improperly covered holes, whether
lined or unlined, and dirt piles on any open or unfenced real property within
the town, including open foundations freely accessible from any public street,
alley or sidewalks;
      (6)   Storage of construction materials that are: (i) not in good useable
condition, (ii) not kept in an orderly fashion, (iii) not actively being used
in a construction process on the parcel where the materials are located, or
(iv) in all circumstances, kept for a period exceeding 18 months;
      (7)   Structure affixed with graffiti;
      (8)   Any waste water, filth, offal, rubbish, animal waste, or human
excrement which emits an unwholesome odor and is deposited, allowed, or caused
to be upon real property;
      (9)   Fallen trees, stumps, or dead trees;
      (10)   Any water or other substance which is caused or permitted to flow
onto or be deposited upon any public property or public way, except natural
surface water drainage;
      (11)   Any dead domestic or wild animal;
      (12)   The erection of a dam or any other obstruction by a private party
which prevents the natural flow of water and causes it to collect or pool upon
any public property;
      (13)   Any real or personal property which is infected with contagious
disease and is likely to cause a health hazard;
      (14)   The placement or accumulation, or permitting the placement or
accumulation, on or within any real or personal property of any matter which
attracts or may attract rodents, insects, or other animals in such a manner as
to create a health hazard or unsanitary or dangerous condition;
      (15)   Any real or personal property used as a place of human residence
or habitation that is dangerous or detrimental to life or health due to the
lack of or defects in water, drainage, heating, plumbing, or ventilation;
      (16)   Any dilapidated or condemned building, structure, or dwelling that
constitutes a fire hazard liable to catch on fire or communicate fire to
surrounding properties;
      (17)   Any condition including but not limited to smoke, dust, noxious
odors, or noise that emits from a premises which creates inconvenience,
annoyance, or discomfort that interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of the
life and property of the surrounding inhabitants;
      (18)   The storage of explosive, combustible, or other flammable material
which creates a safety, health or fire risk;
      (19)   Any obstruction to public ways or visual barriers for vehicular
traffic including but not limited to trees, shrubbery, weeds, snow, or fences;
      (20)   Any slaughter or dressing of animals;
      (21)   Any junk automobiles, automobile parts detached from the vehicle
as a whole, tires, broken concrete, or scrap metal;
      (22)   Except upon application to the Huntington Countywide Department of
Community Development for a land management plan approved in advance by the
Plan Commission, any growth of weeds, grass or other rank vegetation which is
either:
         (a)   Neglected, disregarded or not adequately managed or controlled,
cut, mown, or removed;
         (b)   Has attained a height of eight inches or more; or
         (c)   Is actually or imminently detrimental to the public health,
safety, or welfare.
   (B)   In addition to what is declared in this chapter to be a public
nuisance, those offenses which are known to the common law and the statutes of
Indiana as a public nuisance may, when found to exist within the town, be
treated as such and be proceeded against as provided in this chapter, or in
accordance with any other provisions of law. Whenever the word "Nuisance" is
used in this chapter it refers to a public nuisance.
   (C)   Violation. No owner, occupant, tenant, or any other person having a
substantial interest in any real or personal property within the town, or agent
thereof, shall permit or allow to remain on or within the property or upon
public ways abutting the real property a public nuisance or any other condition
which is detrimental to the public health, comfort, safety, or the aesthetic
well-being of the community. It shall be a violation of this ordinance to
abandon, neglect, or disregard the condition or appearance of any premises so
as to permit the existence of a public nuisance.
(Ord. 2016-9, passed 8-22-2016)
§ 92.06 AUTHORITY OF TOWN TO MAKE INSPECTIONS.
   It is made the duty of all officers and employees of the town to report the
existence of a nuisance to the Town Marshal. For this purpose, the Town
Marshal, Deputy Marshals and other employees so designated by the Council,
shall be permitted to visit any lot, grounds, or premises within the limits of
the town to ascertain and discover any nuisance and to make examination
thereof.
(Ord. 2016-9, passed 8-22-2016)
§ 92.07 VIOLATIONS; NOTICE TO ABATE.
   Violations of §
92.01(C) shall be addressed as follows:
   (A)   Graffiti. Upon receiving a report or other notice of the existence of
graffiti on private property in violation of the requirements of §
92.05(A)(7), the Town Marshal or Council's designee shall notify the owner and
persons known to have a substantial interest in the property, in writing sent
by certified mail, return receipt requested, together with a copy sent via
first class mail, and demand that (i) the owner abate the graffiti within ten
days of the date of such notice at the owner's sole expense; or (ii) the owner
sign and return a waiver of liability to the Council within ten days of such
notice permitting the town to abate the graffiti at the owner's expense.
   (B)   Weeds and rank vegetation. When a violation of the requirements of §
92.05(A)(22) is found to exist, the Town Marshal or Council's designee shall
(i) serve written notice to abate upon owner by certified mail, return receipt
requested, together with a copy sent via first class mail, or (ii) utilize an
equivalent service permitted under I.C. § 1-1-7-1 to: (a) the owner of record
of real property with a single owner; or (b) at least one of the owners of real
property with multiple owners; at the last address of the owner for the
property as indicated in the records of the County Auditor on the date of the
notice, granting a minimum of five calendar days to abate the nuisance. That
notice shall contain:
      (1)   The address and telephone number of the Clerk-Treasurer;
      (2)   The penalty for failure to abate the nuisance; and
      (3)   A conspicuous notification that if the weeds, grass or rank
vegetation are not abated within five calendar days of that notice, the town
may abate the nuisance and seek recovery of its abatement costs incurred by the
town in bringing the property into compliance with this chapter, including
administrative fees, removal costs, and any penalties.
   (C)   All other public nuisances. When any other public nuisance, as defined
in §
92.05, excluding those public nuisances addressed in divisions (A) or (B)
above, is found to exist, the Town Marshal or Council's designee shall notify
the owner and persons known to have a substantial interest in the property by
certified mail, return receipt requested, together with a copy sent via first
class mail, to abate the public nuisance. The notice shall state the following:
      (1)   The nature of the nuisance;
      (2)   A description of the corrective action to be taken to abate the
public nuisance;
      (3)   The penalty for failure to abate; and
      (4)   The period of time allowed to abate, which, pursuant to I.C. § 36-
1-6-2, shall not be less than ten days nor more than 60 days.
   (D)   Emergency exception. When a public nuisance is found to exist which
consists of (i) solid waste which could spread if not removed, or (ii)
dangerous items which pose a harm to the public, then the notice requirements
of §
92.07(C) need not be followed and the town may abate the nuisance immediately
(§
92.09) and issue a citation (§
92.08) without first issuing a notice to abate.
(Ord. 2016-9, passed 8-22-2016)
§ 92.08 CITATION FOR FAILURE TO ABATE NUISANCE.
   (A)   Graffiti. The Town Marshal or Council's designee may cause to be
issued a citation consistent with the penalty provisions of §
92.99 if an owner fails to either (i) abate the graffiti within ten days of
being notified or (ii) sign and return a waiver of liability within ten days of
such notice.
   (B)   Weeds and rank vegetation. The Town Marshal or Council's designee may
cause to be issued a citation consistent with the penalty provisions of §
92.99 if, after the expiration of the time period provided in the notice
specified in §
92.07(B), it determines that the owner has failed to abate the nuisance.
   (C)   All other nuisances. The Town Marshal or Council's designee may cause
to be issued a citation consistent with the penalty provisions of §
92.99 if, after the expiration of the time period provided in the notice
specified in §
92.07(C), it determines that the owner has failed to abate the nuisance.
(Ord. 2016-9, passed 8-22-2016)
§ 92.09 ABATEMENT BY TOWN; CONTINUOUS ABATEMENT.
   (A)   The town may abate the nuisance in addition to the issuance of a
citation pursuant to §
92.08 if, after providing the notice pursuant to §
92.07, the owner fails to abate the nuisance and either: (i) no appeal has been
made pursuant to §
92.11; or (ii) an appeal has been made pursuant to §
92.11, was considered by the Council, and the Council has so directed.
   (B)   Emergency exception. The town, in its sole discretion, may act to
abate that nuisance which creates a safety or health hazard requiring immediate
abatement in order to protect public safety or health pursuant to §
92.07(D).
   (C)   Continuous abatement order for weeds and rank vegetation violations.
If the initial notice required under §
92.07(B) was provided by certified mail, return receipt requested, or an
equivalent service permitted under I.C. § 1-1-7-1 to: (i) the owner of record
of real property with a single owner; or (ii) at least one of the owners of
real property with multiple owners; at the last address of the owner for the
property as indicated in the records of the County Auditor on the date of the
notice, then a continuous abatement notice may be posted at the property at the
time of abatement, which will serve as notice to the owner that each subsequent
violation during the same calendar year for which the initial notice of
violation was provided may be abated by the town without any additional notice
to the owner, at the owner's expense, as provided in §
92.10.
(Ord. 2016-9, passed 8-22-2016)
§ 92.10 ABATEMENT COSTS.
   (A)   Notice of costs. Upon completion of abatement by the town, its agents
or contractors, a statement of costs shall be furnished to the Council.
Thereafter, the Clerk-Treasurer, or her designee, shall issue a bill to each
person required to be provided a notice under §
92.07 for such abatement costs, including any administrative costs. That bill
shall be delivered by certified mail, return receipt requested, together with a
copy sent via first class mail, both sent to the owner's address as it appears
in the records of the County Auditor. The owner shall pay the amount of the
bill to the Clerk-Treasurer within 30 days of the date of that notice, unless
within that 30-day period the owner notifies the Clerk-Treasurer in writing of
any objection to that bill (§
92.11C).
   (B)   Lien for unpaid abatement costs. If that 30-day period has expired and
either (i) no timely objection to the bill has been made or (ii) the Council
has disallowed any timely objection, and the bill is not paid in full, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall prepare an instrument for each lot or parcel of real
property on which the costs are delinquent. Said instrument shall specify the
following:
      (1)   The name or names of the owner or owners of each lot or parcel of
real property on which fees are delinquent;
      (2)   A description of the premises, as shown in the records of the
County Auditor; and
      (3)   The amount of the delinquent costs and the penalty. The Clerk-
Treasurer shall record a copy of each list or each instrument with the County
Recorder, who shall charge a fee for recording the list or instrument under the
fee schedule established in I.C. § 36-2-7-10 and the amount of a lien shall be
placed on the tax duplicate by the County Auditor. The total amount, including
any accrued interest, shall be collected in the same manner as delinquent taxes
are collected and shall be disbursed to the general fund of the town.
   (C)   Lien unavailable. Abatement costs shall not be enforceable as a lien
against a subsequent owner of property unless the lien for the delinquent costs
and penalty was recorded with the County Recorder before conveyance to the
subsequent owner. If the property is conveyed before the lien is recorded, the
town shall notify the person who owned the property at the time the fee became
payable. The notice must inform the person that payment, including penalty fees
for delinquencies, is due not later than 15 days after the date of the notice.
If payment is not received within 180 days after the date of the notice, the
amount due may be considered a bad debt loss.
(Ord. 2016-9, passed 8-22-2016)
§ 92.11 APPEAL OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION, CITATION OR ABATEMENT COSTS.
   (A)   Appeal of notice of violation. Within the time period specified for
the notice provided pursuant to §
92.07, an owner or persons known to have a substantial interest in the property
may notify the Clerk-Treasurer in writing of any specific objection to that
notice. No further abatement action shall be taken by the town until the
Council acts on the timely filed objection.
   (B)   Appeal of emergency exception citation. In the event that the town
abates a nuisance pursuant to §
92.07(D), an owner or persons known to have a substantial interest in the
property affected by the town's action may appeal the citation and abatement
costs to the Clerk-Treasurer within 30 days of the date of the citation.
   (C)   Abatement costs. Within the 30-day period specified in the notice of
costs provided pursuant to §
92.10(A), the Owner or persons known to have a substantial interest in the
property may notify the Clerk-Treasurer in writing of any objection to that
bill. No further abatement action shall be taken by the town until the Council
acts on the timely filed objection.
(Ord. 2016-9, passed 8-22-2016)
FIREWORKS
§ 92.30 USE OF CONSUMER FIREWORKS.
   No person within the corporate boundaries of the town shall use, ignite or
discharge or permit to be used, ignited, discharged any type of consumer
fireworks on any other day or time other than the following:
   (A)   June 29, June 30, July 1, July 2, July 3, July 5, July 6, July 7, July
8, July 9, between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and two hours after sunset;
   (B)   July 4 between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight; and
   (C)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. on December 31 and 1:00 a.m. on
January 1.
(Ord. 2016-9, passed 8-22-2016)
§ 92.31 ENFORCEMENT.
   A person found in violation of this subchapter shall be issued a citation
consistent with the provisions of §
92.99.
(Ord. 2016-9, passed 8-22-2016)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Anyone violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined not less
than $25.00 for the first offense, $50.00 for the second offence, and $100.00
for each subsequent.
   (B)   Each subsequent day shall be a separate and chargeable offense.
   (C)   The fines collected for these violations shall be deposited in the
town's general fund.
(Ord. 2016-9, passed 8-22-2016)
CHAPTER 93: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Construction
   
93.01   Opening permit required
   
93.02   Application and cash deposit
   
93.03   Restoration of pavement
   
93.04   Barriers around excavations
   
93.05   Warning lights
   
93.06   Sidewalk construction
Obstructions
   
93.20   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
93.21   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
93.22   Materials on street or sidewalk
Debris and Snow
   
93.35   Debris; snow
   
93.36   Snow removal
 
   
93.99   Penalty
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 93.01 OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized town official,
to make any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk or public way of the town
unless a permit to make the opening has been obtained prior to commencement of
the work.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single project and
shall be issued by the authorized town official. Application shall be made on a
form prescribed by the Town Council, giving the exact location of the proposed
opening, the kind of paving, the area and depth to be excavated and other facts
as may be provided for. The permit shall be issued only after a cash deposit
sufficient to cover the cost of restoration has been posted with the authorized
town official, conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory refilling of
excavations and restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
§ 93.03 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the authorized town
official, and in accordance with rules, regulations and specifications approved
by the Town Council.
   (B)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill the
excavation, restore the surface and remove all excess materials within the time
specified in the permit or where not specified therein, within a reasonable
time after commencement of the work, the town may proceed without notice to
make the fill and restoration, and the deposit referred to in §
93.02 shall be forfeited. Thereupon the deposit shall be paid into the
appropriate town fund, except the part demanded and paid to the permittee as
the difference between the deposit and the charges of the town for restoration
services performed by it. If the amount of the services performed by the town
should exceed the amount of the deposit, the Clerk-Treasurer or other proper
administrative officer shall proceed to collect the remainder due from the
permittee.
§ 93.04 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the
space involved exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for each
added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be the duty of the authorized town official to supervise
construction or repair of sidewalks within the town. He or she shall cause
specifications to be prepared for the construction of the various kinds of
pavements and transmit the specifications to the Town Council for approval.
When the specifications are approved, the Town Council shall advertise for
proposals to do all the work which may be ordered by the town in construction
and repair of sidewalks, and shall authorize the town executive to contract
therefor, for a period not exceeding one year, with the lowest responsible
bidder, who shall give bond for the faithful performance of the work. The town
executive, if authorized by Town Council, may make separate contracts for the
different kinds of work with different parties.
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 93.20 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the town by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   (A)   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk or other public
way within the town by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting
any fence or building to remain thereon.
   (B)   Each day that any fence or building is permitted to remain upon the
public way shall constitute a separate offense.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.22 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   (A)   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk.
   (B)   No owner, occupant or person having the care of any building or lot of
land, bordering on any street or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered
with barrels, boxes, cans, articles or substances of any kind so as to
interfere with the free and unobstructed use thereof.
Penalty, see §
93.99
DEBRIS AND SNOW
§ 93.35 DEBRIS; SNOW.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit debris, or a
significant amount of snow removed from any sidewalk, driveway or parking lot,
into or upon the traveled portion (including vehicle parking areas) of any
street or alley or within five feet of any fire hydrant, except as authorized
in advance and in writing by the Clerk-Treasurer or Marshal or a designee of
one of those two persons.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SIGNIFICANT. Enough to create either an obstacle or impediment to traffic
upon the street or slick surface on the street or alley materially increasing
the risk of injury and/or accident to persons or property.
(Prior Code, § 174.30) (Ord. 2000-3, passed 2-7-2000) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.36 SNOW REMOVAL.
   (A)   A snow emergency shall commence by executive order, determination and
proclamation of the President of the Town Council, or in his or her absence,
then the Town Marshal shall be authorized to act in his or her place. The
President of the Town Council, or his or her substitute, shall determine and
proclaim a snow emergency before, during or after a snow fall when, in his or
her sound judgment and discretion, the circumstances warrant the determination
of an emergency for the public safety of the town. This snow emergency shall
continue in effect until the President determines that an emergency no longer
exists and terminates the emergency order.
   (B)   The Town Council is authorized to designate certain streets as snow
emergency routes. The first streets to be cleared upon a snow emergency
proclamation by the President shall be those streets so designated.
   (C)   After a snow emergency has been declared and during its existence:
      (1)   No vehicle shall be parked on a snow emergency route;
      (2)   No vehicle shall be driven without chains, snow tires or four-wheel
drive, upon any street; and
      (3)   Any person who owns or drives a vehicle that becomes stalled or
incapable of moving under its own power or who leaves the vehicle unattended,
shall be in violation of this section.
   (D)   Publication and broadcast of the proclamation of a snow removal
emergency shall be done by the President using a press release to the local
news media.
   (E)   Any police officer upon discovering any vehicle unlawfully parked, or
stopped in violation of this section, may impound and remove the vehicle or
cause the same to be impounded and removed to any town-owned property, or to a
private garage or place where so authorized. Prior to removal, the officer
shall ticket the unlawfully parked vehicle and the owner thereof shall be fined
for his or her violation of this section. The vehicle shall be impounded and
retained at the location until the towing expense for the vehicle is paid to
the individual or company performing the towing service, and further until the
owner of the vehicle shall pay the fine assessed and present evidence of the
payment to obtain the release of his or her vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 174.31) (Ord. 367, passed 4-5-1978) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for
which no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of §
10.99.
   (D)   Debris and snow. Any person violating §
93.35 shall, upon conviction, be fined up to $50 for each violation. Any person
violating §
93.36 may be fined in any sum not to exceed $300.
(Prior Code, § 174.99)
(Ord. 367, passed 4-5-1978; Ord. 2000-3, passed 2-7-2000)
CHAPTER 94: PARKS
Section
   
94.01   Rules and regulations
   
94.02   Hours open to the public
   
94.03   Vandalism prohibited
   94.04   Possession, sale or consumption of alcoholic beverages
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The rules and regulations of this chapter are established for the management
and protection of the park and for the protection of the health, safety and
welfare of the citizens of the town.
(Prior Code, § 174.40) (Ord. 301, passed 9-3-1969; Ord. 2011-2, passed - -2011)
§ 94.02 HOURS OPEN TO THE PUBLIC.
   The park shall be open to the public from 5:00 a.m. until 11:00 p.m. No
person, other than town employees on town business, shall be permitted to go or
remain in the park except when it is open.
(Prior Code, § 174.41) (Res. 390, passed 7-16-1980; Ord. 2011-2, passed - -
2011) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 VANDALISM PROHIBITED.
   No person shall injure, deface or damage by any means any plants, buildings,
fences, benches, structures or statuary or other public or private property
within the park.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed - -2011) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 POSSESSION, SALE OR CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   Except as otherwise permitted pursuant to a temporary permit issued by the
Indiana Alcohol and Tobacco Commission, no alcoholic beverage as defined in
I.C. § 7.1-1-3-5, shall be brought into, consumed, sold, or given away, within
a park or other state, county, or municipal property.
(Ord. 2014-4, passed 6-9-2014)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   For violating the provisions of §§
94.02 and
94.03 of this chapter, a citation shall issue to the offender and the fine for
the first offense shall be $25; for the second offense the fine shall be $50;
and for all subsequent offenses the fine shall be $100.
   (B)   For violating the provisions of §
94.04 of this chapter, a citation shall issue to the offender and the fine for
the first offense shall be $100; for the second offense the fine shall be $200;
and for all subsequent offenses the fine shall be $300.
(Prior Code, § 174.99) (Ord. 2011-2, passed - -2011; Ord. 2014-4, passed 6-9-
2014)
CHAPTER 95: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
95.01   Policy statement
   
95.02   Definitions
   
95.03   Unlawful practice
   
95.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
95.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
95.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage service
   
95.07   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
95.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
95.09   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
95.10   Exemptions
   
95.11   Administrative enforcement
   
95.12   Severability of provisions
§ 95.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, the federal Housing and
Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2019-2, passed 3-25-2019)
§ 95.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions set forth in this section shall apply throughout this
chapter:
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who (I.C. 22-9.5-2-2):
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
   COMMISSION (I.C. 22-9.5-2-3). The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created
pursuant to I.C. 22-9-1-4 et seq.
   COMPLAINANT (I.C. 22-9.5-2-4). A person, including the Commission, who files
a complaint under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§ 95.04,
95.05, 95.06, 95.07, or 95.08 of this chapter or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families (I.C. 22-9.5-2-8).
   FAMILIAL STATUS. One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18
years being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of
such individual or the written permission of such parent or other person. The
protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of FAMILIAL STATUS
shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process of securing
legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18 years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual (I.C. 22-9.5-2-9), with the status of
such family being further defined in FAMILIAL STATUS in this section.
   HANDICAP. With respect to a person:
      (1)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one or
more of such person’s major life activities.
      (2)   A record of having such an impairment, or
      (3)   Being regarded as having such an impairment,
      (4)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990.
      (5)   Any other impairment defined in 910 IAC 2-3.
      The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or addictions
to a controlled substance as defined in Section 802 of Title 21 of the United
States Code 910 IAC 2-3-2(14); nor does the term HANDICAP include an individual
solely because that individual is a transvestite 910 IAC 2-3-2(14).
   PERSON (I.C. 22-9.5-2-11). Includes one or more individuals, corporations,
partnerships, associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual
companies, joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations,
trustees, trustees in cases under Title 11 of the United States Code,
receivers, and fiduciaries.
   TO RENT (I.C. 22-9.5-2-13). Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and
otherwise to grant for a consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned
by the occupant.
(Ord. 2019-2, passed 3-25-2019)
§ 95.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
    Subject to the provisions of division (B) of this section, §
95.09 of this chapter and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against
discrimination in the sale or rental of housing set forth I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and
in §
95.04 of this chapter shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) of this section and
I.C. 22-9.5-3.
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) of this section, nothing in
§
95.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24 month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesman, or any person in the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any
such broker, agent or salesman, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
95.04(C) of this chapter, but noting in this provision shall prohibit the use
of attorneys, escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title; or
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) of this section, a person shall be
deemed to be in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (2)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as agent,
other than in the sale of his own personal residence, in providing sales or
rental facilities or services in two or more transactions involving the sale or
rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   They are the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 2019-2, passed 3-25-2019)
§ 95.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
    As made applicable by §
95.03 and except as exempted by §§
95.03(B) and
95.09, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or
an intention to make any such preference, limitation, or discrimination.
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale, or rental when such dwelling is in fact so
available.
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induct any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (F)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
      (1)   That buyer or renter;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (G)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
      (1)   That person; or
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (H)   For purposes of this subsection, discrimination includes:
      (1)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
      (2)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
      (3)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
         (a)   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
         (b)   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
         (c)   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
            1.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
            2.   Light, switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
            3.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (I)   Compliance with the appropriate requirement Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 and of the American National Standard for Buildings
and Facilities providing accessibility and usability for physically handicapped
people (commonly cited as “ANSI Al 17.1”) suffices to satisfy the requirements
of division (H)(3)(c)3. of this section.
   (J)   Nothing in division (H) of this section requires that a dwelling be
made available to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat
to the health of safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in
substantial physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 2019-2, passed 3-25-2019)
§ 95.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial status.
(Ord. 2019-2, passed 3-25-2019)
§ 95.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple listing service, real estate brokers’
organization, or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him in the
terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
(Ord. 2019-2, passed 3-25-2019)
§ 95.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
    It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his having exercised
or enjoyed, or on account of his having aided or encouraged any other person in
the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or protected by §§
95.03,
95.04,
95.05, or
95.06 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2019-2, passed 3-25-2019)
§ 95.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempt to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin and because he is or has been selling,
purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting, or negotiating for
the sale, purchase, rental, financing, or occupation of any dwelling, or
applying for or participating in any service, organization, or facility
relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he is or has been, or in order to intimidate such
person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A) of
this section; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate; or
   (C)   Any citizen because he is or has been, or in order to discourage such
citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other persons
to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the activities,
services, organizations or facilities described in division (A) of this
section, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any
denial of the opportunity to participate shall be fined according to local,
state and federal law; and if bodily injury results shall be fined not more
than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if death
results shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 2019-2, passed 3-25-2019)
§ 95.09 EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to 24 CFR Part 5.403 and 24 CFR Part 574.3 the definition of FAMILY
is revised to include families regardless of the actual or perceived sexual
orientation, gender identity, or marital status of its members.
(Ord. 2019-2, passed 3-25-2019)
§ 95.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) of this section.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color, or
national origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not
in fact open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or
purposes provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a
commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to
its members or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this Section, ‘housing for
older persons’ means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the state civil
rights commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly person (as defined in the state or federal program); or
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, person 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 2019-2, passed 3-25-2019)
§ 95.11 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) of this section shall be vested in the President of the Town
Council of the Town of Andrews, Indiana.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the Town of
Andrews, Indiana, because of lack of financial and other resources necessary to
fully administer enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under the
ordinance, herein elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the
articles of this chapter by complainants to the Indiana Civil Rights Commission
for administrative enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the
President of the Town Council of the Town of Andrews, Indiana, shall refer all
said complaints to the Commission as provided for under division (A) of this
section to said Commission for purposes of investigation, resolution and
appropriate relief as provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the Town of Andrews, Indiana
shall administer their departments, programs and activities relating to housing
and urban development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this
chapter and shall cooperate with the President of the Town Council and the
Commission to further such purposes.
   (D)   The President of the Town Council of the Town of Andrews, Indiana, or
the President’s designee, shall provide information on remedies available to
any aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 2019-2, passed 3-25-2019)
§ 95.12 SEVERABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   If any provision of this chapter or the application thereof to any person or
circumstances shall be determined to be invalid, the remainder of the chapter
and the application of its provisions to other persons not similarly situated
or to other circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
(Ord. 2019-2, passed 3-25-2019)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
111.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
112.   LIQUOR RETAILERS
      
113.   CANVASSING
      
114.   CABLE TELEVISION
      
115.   GARAGE AND YARD SALES
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Licenses required to engage in certain trades, businesses or
professions
   
110.02   Application for license
   
110.03   Standards; issuance of license
   
110.04   Date and duration of license
   
110.05   License not transferable
   
110.06   License certificate to be displayed
   
110.07   Revocation or suspension
   
110.08   Appeal and review
   
110.09   Exemptions
§ 110.01 LICENSES REQUIRED TO ENGAGE IN CERTAIN TRADES, BUSINESSES OR
PROFESSIONS.
   No person shall engage in any of the trades, businesses or professions for
which licenses are required by any provision of this code or any other
ordinance of the town without first applying for and obtaining a license from
the Clerk-Treasurer or other duly authorized issuing authority.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   All original applications for licenses, unless otherwise specifically
provided, shall be made to the Clerk-Treasurer in writing upon forms to be
furnished by him or her and shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the applicant and of each officer, partner or business
associate;
      (2)   His or her present occupation and place of business;
      (3)   His or her place of residence for five years next preceding the
date of application;
      (4)   The nature and location of the intended business or enterprise;
      (5)   The period of time for which the license is desired;
      (6)   A description of the merchandise to be sold, if for a vendor; and
      (7)   Other information concerning the applicant and his or her business
as may be reasonable and proper, having regard to the nature of the license
desired.
   (B)   Renewal of an annual license may be granted to a licensee in good
standing upon the original application, unless otherwise provided.
   (C)   With each original or renewal application, the applicant shall deposit
the fee required for the license requested.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to knowingly make any false statement or
representation in the license application.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.03 STANDARDS; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application for a license, accompanied by the
proper fee, if approval by another officer or department is not required, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall forthwith deposit the fee in the General Fund of the town
and issue to the applicant a proper license certificate signed by the Clerk-
Treasurer and any other appropriate town official. If for any reason the
license is not issued, the license fee shall be returned to the applicant.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (C)   The application shall be approved unless the investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals or general welfare.
Tangible evidence of any of the following will constitute valid reasons for
disapproval of an application:
      (1)   The applicant has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   The applicant has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   The applicant has committed prior violations of ordinances
pertaining to itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors and the like;
      (4)   The applicant has committed prior fraudulent acts;
      (5)   The applicant has a record of continual breaches of solicited
contracts; or
      (6)   The applicant has an unsatisfactory moral character.
§ 110.04 DATE AND DURATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license shall not be valid beyond the expiration date therein
specified and, unless otherwise provided, shall not extend beyond December 31
of the year issued. However, at any time after December 14, licenses may be
issued for the ensuing calendar year. Unless otherwise specified, the full
annual fee will be required of licensees irrespective of the date of issue of
the license.
   (B)   In no event shall a license be granted to any business or any person
for a longer time than one year.
§ 110.05 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Every license shall be issued to a real party in interest in the enterprise
or business, and unless otherwise provided, no license shall be assigned or
transferred.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.06 LICENSE CERTIFICATE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   Every licensee carrying on business at a fixed location shall keep posted in
a prominent place upon the licensed premises the license certificate. Other
licensees shall carry their license certificates at all times and whenever
requested by any officer or citizen, shall exhibit the license.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.07 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be suspended or revoked for any of
the following reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in a way as
to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals or general welfare of the
public.
§ 110.08 APPEAL AND REVIEW.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
110.03 or
110.07 shall have the right to appeal to the Town Council. The appeal shall be
taken by filing with the Town Council, within 14 days after notice of the
decision has been mailed to the person’s last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The Town Council shall set the
time and place for a hearing, and notice for the hearing shall be given to the
person by mail at his or her last known address, at least ten days prior to the
date set for the hearing.
   (B)   The order of the Town Council after the hearing shall be final.
§ 110.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any business, occupation
or profession which is exempt from municipal licensing or license taxes
pursuant to state or federal law.
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License requirement
   
111.03   Application procedure
   
111.04   Standards for issuance
   
111.05   Revocation procedure
   
111.06   Standards for revocation
   
111.07   Appeal procedure
   
111.08   Exhibition of identification
   
111.09   Town policy on soliciting
   
111.10   Notice regulating soliciting
   
111.11   Duty of solicitors to ascertain notice
   
111.12   Prohibited solicitation
Statutory reference:
   Local regulation authorized, see I.C. 25-37-1-11
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler or solicitor, as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the town and who, in
the furtherance of the business, uses any building, structure, vehicle or any
place within the town.
   PEDDLER. Any person, not an itinerant merchant, who:
      (1)   Travels from place to place by any means carrying goods for sale or
making sales or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Without traveling from place to place, sells or offers goods for
sale from any public place within the town.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is not
a peddler.
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in that activity within the town.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the Town Council.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the Clerk-Treasurer. This application shall be signed by the
applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the
president if a corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the town;
         (b)   The local address of the individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of the individual; and
         (d)   The capacity in which the individual will act.
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character and quality of the goods or services to
be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock; and
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom the goods are manufactured or grown,
and where the goods are at the time of application.
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
and
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, the individual identified in division
(A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) above has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application, if required by the town, credentials from the person, if
any, for whom the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant
to act as the representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C) above,
a statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to
the date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless the investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant has done any of the following
will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts.
§ 111.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the
Clerk-Treasurer after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
111.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. The notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or her last known
address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 111.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in a way as
to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals or general welfare of the
public.
§ 111.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
111.04 or
111.06 shall have the right to appeal to the Town Council. The appeal shall be
taken by filing with the Town Council, within 14 days after notice of the
decision has been mailed to the person’s last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The Town Council shall set the
time and place for a hearing, and notice for the hearing shall be given to the
person in the same manner as provided in §
111.05.
   (B)   The order of the Town Council after the hearing shall be final.
§ 111.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the town shall be used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor
licensed under this chapter. The license shall contain the words “Licensed
Peddler” or “Licensed Solicitor,” the expiration date of the license and the
number of the license. The license shall be kept with the licensee during the
time he or she is engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.09 TOWN POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the town that the occupants of the
residences in the town shall make the determination of whether solicitors shall
be, or shall not be, invited to their respective residences.
§ 111.10 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors to any residence
shall be given on a weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four
inches in size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant and containing the applicable
words, as follows:
   “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”
   (B)   The letters shall be at least one-third inch in height. For the
purpose of uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the Chief of Police to
persons requesting, at the cost thereof.
   (C)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
§ 111.11 DUTY OF SOLICITORS TO ASCERTAIN NOTICE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises
in the town upon which a residence is located to first examine the notice
provided for in §
111.10 if any is attached, and be governed by the statement contained on the
notice. If the notice states “NO SOLICITORS INVITED,” then the solicitor,
whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the
premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.12 PROHIBITED SOLICITATION.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of the residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice exhibited
at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
111.10 above.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112: LIQUOR RETAILERS
Section
   
112.01   Liquor retailer’s permits
§ 112.01 LIQUOR RETAILER’S PERMITS.
   (A)   Liquor retailer’s permits may be issued to duly qualified applicants
by the State Alcoholic Beverage Commission with respect to premises located
within the town.
   (B)   In all respects, this chapter shall be construed with I.C. 7.1, and
all acts amendatory thereof and supplemental thereto. Nothing contained in this
section shall enlarge upon or restrict the rights of any holder of a liquor
retailer’s permit as set forth in I.C. 7.1.
(Prior Code, § 175.01) (Ord. 217, passed 4-17-1957)
CHAPTER 113: CANVASSING
Section
   
113.01   Canvassing; delivering merchandise prohibited
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 CANVASSING; DELIVERING MERCHANDISE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to canvas or solicit within the town for goods, books,
wares or merchandise of any kind or to deliver these articles under those
orders unless the person shall first obtain a license procured from the Town
Clerk-Treasurer for which he or she shall pay the sum of $50 per day and the
further sum of $1 to the Clerk-Treasurer for issuing the license. This
canvassing may be done between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
(Prior Code, § 175.02) (Ord. 1995-01, passed 8-14-1995) Penalty, see §
113.99
Cross-reference:
   Peddlers and solicitors, see
Ch. 111
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating §
113.01 shall be fined in the sum not exceeding $50.
(Prior Code, § 175.99) (Ord. 1995-01, passed 8-14-1995)
CHAPTER 114: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
   
114.01   Cable television regulations
§ 114.01 CABLE TELEVISION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The town shall regulate the providing of cable television services and
equipment to the full extent permitted by applicable authority in a manner
which shall not illegally discriminate and is in accordance with the
requirements of due process.
   (B)   The town hereby adopts and shall hereafter follow the Federal
Communications Commission’s regulations as prescribed in the Report and Order
in the Matter of Implementation of Sections of Cable Television Consumer
Protection and Competition Act of 1992: Rate Regulation, MM Docket 92-266, FCC
93-177 (released May 3, 1993), as those regulations are now in force, and as
they may hereafter be amended, modified and/or supplemented, and any provision
of this section or the town’s regulations which are now or in the future not in
compliance with then applicable authority, including, but not limited to, the
aforesaid FCC regulations, shall be deemed amended to the extent necessary to
come within the requirements of that authority, which amendment shall not
affect the validity or enforcement of the remainder of the ordinances and/or
regulations of the town.
   (C)   Before making a final decision on a matter which the Town Council
believes to be of particular material consequence and general interest with
regard to the regulation of cable television service within the town, the Town
Council shall conduct a public hearing in accordance with the provisions of
state law for those hearings. At each hearing, a reasonable opportunity shall
be provided for consideration of the views of interested parties.
   (D)   In requesting and utilizing information provided by a cable operator,
the town shall not disclose to the public or others without a “need to know” as
a part of this process, any of that information which that operator has
certified in writing as proprietary or constituting a trade secret of that
operator; provided however, the town reserves the right to require the operator
to reasonably validate any claim of proprietary interest or trade secret, and
the claims as are found to be without foundation by the town shall be
considered by the town in evaluating whether that cable operator would
misrepresent as to other matters.
   (E)   The person who holds the position of Clerk-Treasurer of the town from
time to time is hereby designated as the Cable Television Administrator. That
Administrator is hereby granted full authority to act as the authorized agent
of the town to act for and on behalf of the town, and do all things which that
Administrator determines to be appropriate, to implement cable television
regulation in accordance with applicable authority, excepting as herein
expressly reserved pursuant to division (F) below.
   (F)   To the full extent permitted by applicable law, the Town Council
shall:
      (1)   Adopt, and from time to time thereafter modify, regulations
governing charges for basic cable equipment and services for the town;
      (2)   Conduct those public hearings required by division (C) above and
other applicable authority;
      (3)   Finally approve or disapprove of cable television franchise
agreements and proposed modifications thereof;
      (4)   Finally approve or disapprove of the rates and charges of
franchised cable television operators within the town;
      (5)   Order rate reductions and/or rollbacks where appropriate;
      (6)   Authorize and direct filings and proceedings before the Federal
Communications Commission in the name of the town as may be appropriate;
      (7)   Authorize and direct enforcement of applicable customer service
standards of cable television operators before courts or other third party
decision makers; and
      (8)   Perform all other acts which, as a matter of law, may not be
delegated by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 175.03) (Ord. 1993-10, passed 10-11-1993; Ord. 1993-13, passed
11-22-1993)
CHAPTER 115: GARAGE AND YARD SALES
Section
   
115.01   Permit fee
   
115.02   Permit term
   
115.03   Number of permits
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 PERMIT FEE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any entity to hold or allow a garage sale,
yard sale, porch sale or other similar event within the town unless a permit
shall first have been obtained from the town.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a permit as provided for in this
chapter upon the payment of $2 to the town.
(Prior Code, § 176.09) (Ord. 2001-23, passed 8-6-2001) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.02 PERMIT TERM.
   A permit so issued shall be valid for the time specified in the permit, to a
maximum of three successive days.
(Prior Code, § 176.09) (Ord. 2001-23, passed 8-6-2001)
§ 115.03 NUMBER OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Only two permits shall be issued to any entity within any calendar
year.
   (B)   Only two permits shall be issued for those events at any one location
within any calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 176.09) (Ord. 2001-23, passed 8-6-2001)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   Any entity that holds or conducts any event with having first obtained a
permit as provided in §
115.01 shall be fined $25 for the first offense, and $50 for each offense that
occurs within 12-calendar months of another violation of §
115.03 for which that offending entity was fined hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 176.99) (Ord. 2001-23, passed 8-6-2001)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   WEAPONS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Disorderly conduct
   
130.02   Congregating in public places
   
130.03   Disturbing place of worship or meetings
   
130.04   Interference with officials
   
130.05   Civil emergencies
   
130.06   Trees
   
130.07   Curfew during the month of October
   
130.08   No possession of open alcoholic beverage container
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It is unlawful for any person or persons to disturb the peace and quiet of
the town or of its inhabitants by loud talking or by the making of unusual
noises, or by the crying of any alarm without good cause, or by threatening any
person or challenging him or her to fight or menacing him or her with physical
injury or pecuniary loss, or by accosting or approaching any person of the
opposite sex unknown to that person and by word, sign or gesture attempting to
speak to or become acquainted with the person against his or her will except in
the transaction of legitimate business.
(Prior Code, § 176.01) (Ord. 303, passed 11-19-1969) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 CONGREGATING IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   It is unlawful for any person to loiter or cause to be congregated a crowd
of three or more persons upon any public street, alley, sidewalk, parking lot,
school or school grounds, building or any other public place within the town so
as to obstruct the same or as to hinder or annoy passers-by or occupants of
adjacent premises, or as to interfere with the activities normally occurring on
the premises.
(Prior Code, § 176.02) (Ord. 303, passed 11-19-1969) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 DISTURBING PLACE OF WORSHIP OR MEETINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons within the town by any loud
or unnecessary talking or shouting or by any threatening, abusive, profane or
obscene language or violent action, or by any other rude behavior, to
interrupt, molest, annoy or disturb any group of persons convened for the
purpose of worship, or in like manner to interrupt, molest, annoy or disturb
any meeting of persons met together for any lawful purpose.
(Prior Code, § 176.03) (Ord. 303, passed 11-19-1969) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIALS.
   (A)   Unlawful. It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to
intentionally impede or interfere, or attempt to impede or interfere with any
police officer, firefighter or any other town official in the performance of
his or her duty or emergency functions as a firefighter, police officer or town
official.
   (B)   Defense. It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the
hindrance, obstruction, resistance, or interference alleged consisted of
constitutionally-protected speech only.
(Prior Code, § 176.04) (Ord. 303, passed 11-19-1969) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 CIVIL EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CIVIL EMERGENCY.
         (a)   A riot of unlawful assembly characterized by the use of actual
force of violence or any threat to use force if accompanied by immediate power
to execute such force by three or more persons acting together without
authority of law; or
         (b)   Any natural disaster or human-made calamity including flood,
conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake or explosion within the corporate
limits of the city resulting in the death or injury of persons or the
destruction of property to an extent that extraordinary measures must be taken
to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
      CURFEW. A prohibition against any person or persons walking, running,
loitering, standing or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public
property or vacant premises within the corporate limits of the town during the
hours in which a curfew has been imposed, excepting persons officially
designated to duty with reference to the civil emergency.
   (B)   Declaration of emergency. The Town Council President, or if not
available, a Council member, may declare that an emergency does exist in the
town. This declaration may be issued with the concurrence of any one person
holding a cited position as follows: Town Marshal, Fire Chief, Utility
Superintendent or any employee with knowledge of the specific situation. It
would become the responsibility of the office holder declaring the emergency to
contact the Town Council members and any and all agencies, public news media or
employees that an emergency does exist. The declaration of emergency would
include notification to the County Emergency Management Office and/or the
officer in charge that an emergency is in place and that further action would
involve support of that office.
   (C)   Imposition of curfew. After proclamation of a civil emergency as
described in division (B) above, a general curfew may be ordered, applicable to
the geographical areas of the town or to the town as a whole, as deemed
advisable and applicable during those hours of the day or night as deemed
necessary in the interest of the public safety and welfare.
   (D)   Additional regulations. After proclamation of a civil emergency, the
Council President or designee may also in the interest of public safety and
welfare make any or all of the following orders:
      (1)   Order the closing of all retail liquor stores;
      (2)   Order the closing of all taverns;
      (3)   Order the closing of all private clubs or portions thereof wherein
the consumption of intoxicating liquor and/or beer is permitted;
      (4)   Order the discontinuance of the sale of beer;
      (5)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing or giving away
gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle;
      (6)   Order the closing of gasoline stations and other establishments,
the chief activity of which is the sale, distribution or dispensing of liquid
flammable or combustible products;
      (7)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing or
giving away of firearms and/or ammunition; and
      (8)   Issue those other orders as are imminently necessary for the
protection of life and property.
   (E)   Emergency powers. During the period of a declared state of emergency,
the Council President or designee shall have the power to invoke any or all of
the following provisions.
      (1)   Alcoholic beverages. No person shall consume any alcoholic
beverages in a public street or place which is publicly owned, or in any motor
vehicle driven or parked thereon which is within a duly designated restricted
area.
      (2)   Weapons. No person shall carry or possess any rock, bottle, club,
brick or weapon, who uses or intends to use the same unlawfully against the
persons or property of another.
      (3)   Incendiary missiles. No person shall make, carry, possess or use
any type of Molotov cocktail, gasoline or petroleum base fire bomb or other
incendiary missile.
      (4)   Restricted areas. No person shall enter any area designated by the
Town Council as a restricted area unless in the performance of official duties
or with written permission from the Town Council or its duly designated
representative, or that person shall prove residence therein.
(Prior Code, § 176.05) (Ord. 303, passed 11-19-1969; Res. 1996-04, passed 3-25-
1996) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 TREES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to cut down,
girdle, trim or in any way injure or destroy any tree on or along any street in
the town, without first obtaining written permission to do so from the Clerk-
Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 176.07) (Ord. 339, passed 9-12-1973) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.07 CURFEW DURING THE MONTH OF OCTOBER.
   (A)   No person shall deface, remove, alter or possess property belonging to
another person without the express consent of the owner of the property.
   (B)   During the period from October 1 through October 31, no person under
the full age of 18 years shall be present upon a public street or in any public
place between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. unless accompanied by a
parent or guardian or unless the person’s presence on a public street shall be
occasioned by his or her lawful employment or he or she be in attendance or in
route to or from a school, church or community service; provided that nothing
herein shall be construed to prevent a parent or guardian from conducting
properly supervised activities in private homes where one or more parents or
guardians of children in attendance is present.
   (C)   No person shall enter upon any premises or property for the purpose of
engaging in the practice known as “trick or treating” except on dates so
designated by the Town Council, and then only between the hours of 6:00 p.m.
and 9:00 p.m.
   (D)   It is the policy of the town that the parent or guardian of any person
who shall violate division (A) above shall respond in damages to the owner of
the property affected, and to this end all police of the town are directed and
encouraged to assist in civil actions in which damages are sought for the
violation of division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 176.08) (Ord. 354, passed 9-1-1976)
§ 130.08 NO POSSESSION OF OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTAINER.
   (A)   As used in this section, CONTAINER has the meaning set forth in I.C. §
7.1-1-3-13.
   (B)   No person shall possess a container:
      (1)   That has been opened;
      (2)   That has a broken seal;
      (3)   From which some of the contents have been removed; or
      (4)   In a public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park or other
state, county or municipal property, except as otherwise permitted pursuant to
a permit issued by the Indiana Alcohol and Tobacco Commission.
(Ord 2014-4, passed 6-9-2014)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §§
130.01 through
130.05 or any order made by the Town Council in accordance with these sections
shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500, and/or imprisonment in the
county jail for a period not to exceed six months.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation found guilty of the violation of §
130.06 shall be fined in any sum not exceeding $100 or 30 days in jail or both.
Each violation of this section shall be deemed to constitute a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 176.99)
   (D)   No person shall violate any provision §
130.07 and any parent or guardian who shall permit his or her child or ward, as
appropriate, to violate any provision of §
130.07 shall be fined in an amount of not to exceed $500.
   (E)   For violating the provisions of §
130.08 of this chapter, a citation shall issue to the offender and the fine for
the first offense shall be $100; for the second offense the fine shall be $200;
and for all subsequent offenses the fine shall be $300.
(Prior Code, § 176.08)
(Ord. 303, passed 11-19-1969; Ord. 339, passed 9-12-1973; Ord. 354, passed 9-1-
1976; Res. 1996-04, passed 3-25-1996; Ord. 2014-4, passed 6-9-2014; Ord. 2016-
9, passed 8-22-2016)
CHAPTER 131: WEAPONS
Section
General Provisions
   
131.01   Discharging prohibited
Firearms on Town Property
   
131.15   Prohibition
   
131.16   Exemptions
 
   
131.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 131.01 DISCHARGING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall discharge, shoot, or fire any pistol, rifle, shotgun,
air gun, pellet gun, or any spring or air operated gun capable of emitting
projectiles, any slingshot, bow and arrow, crossbow, or any device designed to
propel a projectile by explosives, or by air or by spring pressure within the
corporate limits of the town except in cases where special written permission
has been granted by the Town Marshal. Such permission given shall be revoked if
unsafe and dangerous acts are evident.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed as prohibiting discharge of a
weapon:
      (1)   In defense of life or property under otherwise lawful
circumstances;
      (2)   By law enforcement officers in performance of their duties;
      (3)   Military functions, such as parades, funerals or firing blank
cartridges.
   (C)   The Town Marshal shall establish guidelines for permits; these
guidelines shall be received and approved by Council at Council's sole
discretion.
(Ord. 2017-15, passed 11-13-2017) Penalty, see §
131.99
FIREARMS ON TOWN PROPERTY
§ 131.15 PROHIBITION.
   The intentional display of a firearm at a public meeting is prohibited.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 3-11-2013) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.16 EXEMPTIONS.
   The prohibition of §
131.15 shall not apply to any person exempt from such prohibitions including
any state or federal law enforcement while on duty.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 3-11-2013)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating §
131.01 shall be fined not more than $500.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no other
penalty is provided shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 176.99) (Ord. 324, passed 7-21-1971; Ord. 2013-2, passed 3-11-
2013)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
152.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
      
153.   MANUFACTURED HOMES
      
154.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
155.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.001   State Building Code adopted by reference
   
150.002   State enforcement statutes adopted by reference
Minimum Housing Code
   
150.015   General provisions
   
150.016   Minimum standards
   
150.017   Administration and enforcement
Temporary Housing
   
150.020   Extended term for temporary housing
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.030   Title
   
150.031   Purpose
   
150.032   Authority; adoption of standards
   
150.033   Administration and enforcement
   
150.034   Unsafe procedure
   
150.035   Availability of state law
   
150.036   Appeals of administrative decision
   
150.037   Access to property; inspections
   
150.038   Emergency measure
   
150.039   Violations
Building Code General Provisions and Administration
   
150.050   Title
   
150.051   Purpose
   
150.052   Definitions
   
150.053   Authority
   
150.054   Scope
   
150.055   Adoption of rules by reference
   
150.056   Application for permits; record
   
150.057   Building permit fee schedule
   
150.058   Building inspections
   
150.059   Certificate of occupancy
   
150.060   Availability of state law
   
150.061   Access to property/inspections
   
150.062   Discretionary authority
   
150.063   Inspections by fire department
   
150.064   Emergency measures
   
150.065   Violations
   
150.066   Notice
   
150.067   Appeals of administrative decisions
   
150.068   Withhold issuance of permits
Electrical Code
   
150.080   Electrical Inspector; powers and duties
   
150.081   Electrical contractor’s license required; exemption
   
150.082   License classifications
   
150.083   Application for electrical license; reciprocity; examination of
applicants
   
150.084   Board of Electrical Examiners established; meetings
   
150.085   Issuance of license; fees; renewal
   
150.086   License to be available at job site
   
150.087   Electrical permit required
   
150.088   Permit application; issuance
   
150.089   Electrical permit fee schedule
   
150.090   Electrical inspections
   
150.091   Reconnection of power; condemnation of electrical installation
   
150.092   Liability
   
150.093   Enforcement; revocation of license
Plumbing Code
   
150.105   Plumbing Inspector
   
150.106   License required; exemption
   
150.107   Permit for plumbing work required
   
150.108   Application for permits
   
150.109   Plumbing permit fee schedule
   
150.110   Plumbing inspections
Fence Code
   
150.125   Application for fence permits
   
150.126   Obstruction of visibility at intersection prohibited
   
150.127   Encroachment of fence
   
150.128   Certain fences unlawful
   
150.129   Disputes concerning boundaries
Swimming Pool Code
   
150.140   Pool permit required; permit fee
   
150.141   Pool safety features
   
150.142   Lights
 
   
150.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.001 STATE BUILDING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Pursuant to the authority granted under I.C. 22-13-2-3, the town hereby
adopts by reference the Indiana Building Code, contained in 675 I.A.C. 13-2.5-
1 et seq., including any future amendments.
(Ord. 2004-05, passed 9-7-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to adopt future building code amendments by reference, see I.C.
22-13-2-3
§ 150.002 STATE ENFORCEMENT STATUTES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted under I.C. 36-7-9-3, the town hereby
adopts by reference I.C. 36-7-9, pertaining to enforcement of building
standards.
   (B)   The enforcement authority responsible for the administration of the
statutes adopted under this section shall be the town executive, or other
executive department as may be established or designated by ordinance.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST shall have
the same meaning as set forth in I.C. 36-7-9-2.
MINIMUM HOUSING CODE
§ 150.015 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BASEMENT. A portion of a building located partly underground, but having
less than two-thirds of its floor-to-ceiling height below the average grade of
the adjoining ground.
      BUILDING COMMISSIONER. The Deputy Town Marshal.
      CELLAR. A portion of a building located partly or wholly underground, and
having two-thirds or more of its clear floor-to-ceiling height below the
average grade of the adjoining ground.
      DWELLING. Any building which is wholly or partly used or intended to be
used for living or sleeping by human occupants; provided that “temporary
housing” as hereinafter defined shall not be regarded as a DWELLING. DWELLING
shall be construed as though followed by the words “or any part thereof.”
      DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating. DWELLING UNIT shall be
construed as though followed by the words “or any part thereof.”
      EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places, by removing or making inaccessible
materials which may serve as their food, by poisoning, spraying, fumigating,
trapping or by other recognized and legal pest elimination methods approved by
the Health Officer or Building Commissioner.
      GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
      HABITABLE ROOM. A room or other enclosed floor space used or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes; excluding bathrooms,
water closet compartments, laundries, pantries, foyers or communicating
corridors, closets and storage spaces.
      HEALTH OFFICER. The Health Officer of the town.
      INFESTATION. The presence within or around a dwelling of any insects,
rodents or other pests.
      MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any dwelling containing more than two dwelling units.
      OCCUPANT. Any person more than one year of age living, sleeping, cooking
or eating in or having actual possession of a dwelling unit or rooming unit.
      OPERATION. Any person who has charge, care or control of a building, or
part thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units are offered for rent.
      ORDINARY MINIMUM WINTER CONDITIONS. The temperature which is 15°F above
the lowest recorded temperature for the previous ten-year period.
      OWNER. Any person, who, alone or jointly, or severally with others:
         (a)   Shall have legal title to any dwelling unit, with or without
accompanying actual possession thereof; provided, however, that whenever the
dwelling or dwelling unit is subject to a conditional sales contract, lease
with option to purchase, or any other form of written contract under the terms
of which any person is entitled to a conveyance of legal title upon payment of
a specified sum, the term OWNER shall mean the person who shall have the
contractual right, rather than the person who is holding legal title; or
         (b)   Shall have charge, care or control of any dwelling or dwelling
unit as executor, executrix, trustee, receiver or guardian of the owner as
defined in division (1) above. Any person thus representing the actual owners
shall be bound to comply with the provisions of this Minimum Housing Code to
the same extent as if he or she were the owner. Any person acting as the agent
of the owner shall not be construed to be the owner within the terms of this
Minimum Housing Code, but shall be bound to notify the owner, by means of a
registered letter addressed to the owner at his or her last known address, of
any order or notice to be issued by the Health Officer or Building Commissioner
relating to the property of the owner.
      PLUMBING. All of the following supplied facilities and equipment; gas
pipes; gas burning equipment; water pipes; garbage disposal equipment; waste
pipes; water closets; sinks; installed dishwashers; lavatories; bathtubs;
shower baths; installed clothes-washing machines; catch basins; drains; vents;
and any other supplied fixtures together with all connections to water, sewer
or gas lines.
      PREMISES. Shall be construed as though followed by the words “or any part
thereof.”
      ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling or that part of any dwelling containing one
or more rooming units, in which space is let by the owner or operator to five
or more persons who are not husband or wife, sister or brother, son or
daughter, father or mother of the owner or operator. ROOMING HOUSE shall be
construed as though followed by the words “or any part thereof.”
      ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping but not for cooking or
eating purposes. ROOMING UNIT shall be construed as though followed by the
words “or any part thereof.”
      RUBBISH. Combustible or noncombustible waste materials, except garbage;
and the term shall include the residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke and
other combustible material, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior,
rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, leaves, tin cans, metals,
mineral matter, glass, crockery or dust.
      SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished or provided by, or under the control of the
owner or operator.
      TEMPORARY HOUSING. Any tent, trailer or other structure used for human
shelter which is designed to be transportable and which is not attached to the
ground, to another structure or to any utilities system on the same premises
for more than 30 consecutive days.
   (B)   Conflict with other regulations.
      (1)   In any case where a provision of this Minimum Housing Code is found
to be in conflict with a provision of any zoning, building, fire, safety or
health ordinance or code of the town existing on the effective date of this
Minimum Housing Code, the provision which establishes the higher standard for
the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the people shall
prevail. In any case where a provision of this Minimum Housing Code is found to
be in conflict with a provision of any other ordinance or code of the town
existing on the effective date of this Minimum Housing Code, which establishes
a lower standard for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of
the people, the provisions of this Minimum Housing Code shall be deemed to
prevail, and other ordinances or codes are hereby declared to be repealed to
the extent that they may be found in conflict of this Minimum Housing Code.
      (2)   If any section, division, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of
this Minimum Housing Code should be declared invalid for any reason whatsoever,
the decision shall not affect the remaining portions of this Minimum Housing
Code, which shall remain in full force and effect; and to this end the
provisions of this Minimum Housing Code are hereby declared to be severable.
(Prior Code, § 177.10) (Ord. 2000-17, passed 10-2-2000)
§ 150.016 MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   (A)   Minimum building occupancy standards. No person shall occupy as owner-
occupant or let to another for occupancy any dwelling or dwelling unit, for the
purpose of living therein, which does not comply with the following
requirements.
      (1)   Every foundation, floor, wall, ceiling and roof shall be reasonably
weathertight, watertight and rodent-proof; shall be capable of affording
privacy; and shall be kept in good repair.
      (2)   Every window, exterior door and basement hatchway shall be
reasonably weathertight, watertight and rodent-proof; and shall be kept in
sound working condition and good repair.
      (3)   Every inside and outside stair, every porch and every appurtenance
thereto shall be so constructed as to be safe to use and capable of supporting
any load that normal use may cause to be placed thereon; and shall be kept in
sound condition and good repair.
      (4)   Every plumbing fixture and water waste pipe shall be properly
installed and maintained in good sanitary working condition, free from defects,
leaks and obstructions.
      (5)   Every water closet compartment floor surface and bathroom floor
surface shall be constructed and maintained so as to be reasonably impervious
to water and so as to permit the floor to be easily kept in a clean and
sanitary condition.
      (6)   Every supplied facility, piece of equipment or utility which is
required under this Minimum Housing Code shall be so constructed or installed
that it will function safely and effectively, and shall be maintained in
satisfactory working condition.
      (7)   No owner, operator or occupant shall cause any service facility,
equipment or utility which is required under this Minimum Housing Code to be
removed or shut off from or discontinued for any occupied dwelling let or
occupied by him or her, except for a temporary interruption as may be necessary
while actual repairs or alterations are in process, or during temporary
emergencies or when discontinuance of service is approved by the Health Officer
or Building Commissioner.
      (8)   No owner shall occupy or let to any other occupant any vacant
dwelling unit unless it is clean, sanitary and fit for human occupancy.
      (9)   Every roof of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall be equipped with
adequate gutters and downspouts capable of carrying off normal rainfall and be
connected to a storm sewer where available, and the gutters and downspouts
shall be kept in good repair and free from obstruction.
   (B)   Plumbing, garbage disposal and egress from building. No persons shall
occupy as owner-occupant or let to another for occupancy and dwelling or
dwelling unit, for the purpose of living, sleeping, cooking or eating therein,
which does not comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   Every dwelling unit shall contain a kitchen sink in good working
condition and properly connected to a water and sewer system.
      (2)   Every dwelling unit, except as otherwise permitted under division
(B)(4) below, shall contain a room which affords the privacy to a person within
the room and which is equipped with a flush water closet and a lavatory in good
working condition and properly connected to a water and sewer system.
      (3)   In all buildings in which the whole or part of the building drain
or plumbing system thereof lies below the crown level of the main sewer, that
part of the sewage or building wastes discharging from the lines shall be
lifted by approved mechanical means and discharged into the building sewer.
      (4)   The occupants of two or more dwelling units, but not to exceed ten
persons in total number, may share a single flush water closet, a single
lavatory basin and a single bathtub or shower.
      (5)   At the expiration of a period of five years from the effective date
of this Minimum Housing Code, every kitchen sink, lavatory basin and bathtub or
shower required under the provisions of divisions (B)(1) through (B)(4) above
shall be properly connected with a water line.
      (6)   Every dwelling unit shall be supplied with adequate rubbish storage
facilities.
      (7)   Every dwelling unit shall have adequate garbage disposal facilities
or garbage storage containers.
      (8)   Every dwelling unit shall have safe, unobstructed means of egress
leading to safe and open space at ground level, as required by the laws of the
state and ordinances of the town.
      (9)   Where public water supply and public sewer service are not
available, the owner of a dwelling shall furnish a supply of safe water and a
private disposal system.
   (C)   Light, ventilation and heat. No person shall occupy as owner-occupant
or let to another for occupancy any dwelling or dwelling unit, for the purpose
of living therein, which does not comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   Every dwelling shall have heating facilities which are properly
installed, are maintained in safe and good working condition, and are capable
of safely and adequately heating all habitable rooms, bathrooms and water
closet compartments in every dwelling unit located therein to a temperature of
at least 70°F, at a distance of three feet above floor level, under ordinary
minimum winter conditions.
      (2)   During that portion of each year when the Health Officer or
Building Commissioner deems it necessary for protection against mosquitoes,
flies and other insects, every door opening directly from a dwelling unit to
outdoor space shall have supplied screens and a self-closing device; and every
window or other device with openings to outdoor space, used or intended to be
used for ventilation, shall likewise be supplied with screens; provided that
the screens shall not be required during the period in rooms deemed by the
Health Officer or Building Commissioner to be located high enough in the upper
stories of buildings, as to be free from insects, and in rooms located in areas
of the town which are deemed by the Health Officer or Building Commissioner to
have so few insects as to render screens unnecessary.
      (3)   Every basement or cellar window used or intended to be used for
ventilation, and every other opening to a basement which might provide an entry
for rodents, shall be supplied with a screen or any other device as will
effectively prevent their entrance.
   (D)   Cleanliness and sanitation.
      (1)   Every owner of a dwelling containing more than four dwelling units
shall be responsible for maintaining in a clean and sanitary condition the
shared or public area of the dwelling and premises thereof.
      (2)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall keep in a clean
and sanitary condition that part of the dwelling, dwelling unit and premises
thereof which he or she occupies and controls.
      (3)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall dispose of all
his or her rubbish in a clean and sanitary manner by placing it in the rubbish
container required by division (B)(6) above.
      (4)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall dispose of all
his or her garbage, and any other organic waste which might provide food for
rodents, in a clean and sanitary manner, by placing it in the garbage disposal
facilities or garbage storage containers required by division (B)(7) above. It
shall be the responsibility of the owner to supply those facilities or
containers for all dwelling units in a dwelling containing more than four
dwelling units and for all dwelling units located on premises where more than
four dwelling units share the same premises. In all other cases it shall be the
responsibility of the occupant to furnish these facilities or containers.
      (5)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall be responsible
for hanging all screens whenever the same are required under the provisions of
this Minimum Housing Code or of any rule or regulation adopted pursuant
thereto, except where the owner has agreed to supply the service.
      (6)   Every occupant of a dwelling containing a single-dwelling unit
shall be responsible for the extermination of any insects, rodents or other
pests therein or on the premises; and every occupant of a dwelling unit in a
dwelling containing more than one dwelling unit shall be responsible for the
extermination whenever his or her dwelling unit is the only one infested.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this division, whenever infestation
is caused by failure of the owner to maintain a dwelling in a ratproof or
reasonable insectproof condition, extermination shall be the responsibility of
the owner.
      (7)   Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall keep all plumbing fixtures
therein in a clean and sanitary condition and shall be responsible for the
exercise of reasonable care in the proper use and operation thereof.
   (E)   Rooming house. No person shall operate a rooming house, or shall
occupy or let to another for occupancy any rooming unit in any rooming house,
except in compliance with the provisions of every section of this Minimum
Housing Code except the provisions of divisions (B) and (D) above.
      (1)   No person shall operate a rooming house unless he or she holds a
valid rooming house license issued by the office of the Clerk-Treasurer in the
name of the operator and for the specific dwelling unit. The operator shall
apply to the office of the Building Commissioner for a permit for the license,
which shall be issued by the office of the Clerk-Treasurer upon compliance by
the operator, to the satisfaction of the Building Commissioner, with the
applicable provisions of this Minimum Housing Code. This license shall be
displayed in a conspicuous place within the rooming house at all times. No
license shall be transferable. Every person holding a license shall give notice
in writing to the office of the Clerk-Treasurer and the Building Commissioner
within 24 hours after having sold, transferred, given away or otherwise
disposed of ownership of, interest in or control of any rooming house. This
notice shall include the name and address of the person succeeding to the
ownership or control of the rooming house. Every rooming house license shall
expire at the end of one year following its date of issuance, unless sooner
suspended or revoked as hereinafter provided.
      (2)   Any person whose application for a permit to obtain a license to
operate a rooming house has been denied may request and shall be granted a
hearing on the matter, under the procedure provided by §
150.017(C).
      (3)   Whenever upon inspection of any rooming house the Health Officer or
Building Commissioner finds that conditions or practices exist which are in
violation of any provision of this Minimum Housing Code, the Health Officer or
Building Commissioner, as the case may be, shall give notice in writing to the
operator of the rooming house that unless these conditions or practices are
corrected within a reasonable period, to be determined by the Health Officer or
Building Commissioner, respectively, the operator’s rooming house license will
be suspended. At the end of that period the Health Officer or Building
Commissioner, as the case may be, shall reinspect the rooming house, and
if he or she finds that the conditions or practices have not been corrected, he
or she shall give notice in writing to the operator that the latter’s license
has been suspended. Upon receipt of notice of suspension, the operator shall
immediately cease operation of the rooming house, and no person shall occupy
for sleeping or living purposes any rooming unit therein.
      (4)   Any person whose license to operate a rooming house has been
suspended, or who has received notice from the Health Officer or Building
Commissioner that his or her license is to be suspended unless existing
conditions or practices at his or her rooming house are corrected, may request
and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the Town Council, under the
procedure provided by §
150.017(C); provided that if no petition for a hearing is filed within ten days
following the day on which the license was suspended, the license shall be
deemed to have automatically revoked.
      (5)   The operator of every rooming house shall change supplied bed linen
and towels therein at least once each week, and prior to the letting of any
room to any occupant. The operator shall be responsible for the maintenance of
all supplied bedding in a clean and sanitary manner.
      (6)   Every rooming unit shall have safe, unobstructed means of egress
leading to safe and open space at ground level, as required by the laws of the
state and the town.
      (7)   The operator of every rooming house shall be responsible for the
sanitary maintenance of all walls, floors and ceilings, and for maintenance of
a sanitary condition in every other part of the rooming house; and shall be
further responsible for the sanitary maintenance of the entire premises where
the entire structure or building is leased or occupied by the operator.
      (8)   Every provision of this Minimum Housing Code which applies to
rooming houses shall also apply to hotels, except to the extent that any
provision may be found in conflict with the laws of the state or with the
lawful regulations of any state board or agency.
(Prior Code, § 177.11) (Ord. 2000-17, passed 10-2-2000)
§ 150.017 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Inspections. The Health Officer and Building Commissioner are hereby
severally authorized and directed to make inspections to determine the
condition of dwellings, dwelling units and premises located within the town, in
order that they may perform their duty of safeguarding the health and safety of
the occupants of dwellings and of the general public. For the purpose of making
these inspections, the Health Officer and Building Commission are hereby
severally authorized to enter, examine and survey, at proper times after due
notice, all dwelling units, rooming units and premises. The owner or occupant
of every dwelling, dwelling unit and rooming unit, or the person in charge
thereof, shall give the Health Officer and Building Commissioner access to the
dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit and its premises, at proper times after
due notice, for the purpose of an inspection, examination and survey.
Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall give the owner thereof, or
his or her agent or employee, access to any part of the dwelling or dwelling
unit, or its premises, at all reasonable times for the purpose of making those
repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with the
provisions of this Minimum Housing Code.
   (B)   Designation of building as unfit for human habitation; condemnation.
      (1)   The designation of a dwelling or dwelling units as unfit for human
habitation and the procedure for the condemnation and placarding of the unfit
dwelling or dwelling units, shall be carried out in compliance with the
following requirements.
         (a)   Any dwelling or dwelling unit which shall be found to have any
of the following defects shall be condemned as unfit for human habitation and
shall be so designated and placarded by the Health Officer or Building
Commissioner:
            1.   One which is so damaged, decayed, dilapidated, unsanitary,
unsafe or vermin-infested that it creates a serious hazard to the health or
safety of the occupants or of the public;
            2.   One which lacks illumination, ventilation or sanitary
facilities adequate to protect the health or safety of the occupants or of the
public; and
            3.   One which because of its general condition or location is
unsanitary or otherwise dangerous to the health or safety of occupants or of
the public.
         (b)   Any dwelling or dwelling unit condemned as unfit for human
habitation, and so designated and placarded by the Health Officer or Building
Commissioner, shall be vacated within 60 days as ordered by the Health Officer
or Building Commissioner.
         (c)   Any dwelling or dwelling unit which has been condemned and
placarded as unfit for human habitation shall not again be used for human
habitation until written approval is secured from and the placard is removed by
the Health Officer or Building Commissioner. The Health Officer or Building
Commissioner shall remove the placard whenever the defect or defects upon which
the condemnation and placarding action were based have been eliminated.
      (2)   No person shall deface or remove the placard from any dwelling or
dwelling unit which has been condemned as unfit for human habitation and
placarded as such, except as provided in division (B)(1)(c) above.
      (3)   Any person affected by any notice or order relating to the
condemning and placarding of a dwelling or dwelling unit as unfit for human
habitation may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the
Town Council, and as the case may be, under the procedure set forth in division
(C) below.
   (C)   Notice of other violations; right to hearing.
      (1)   Whenever the Health Officer or Building Commissioner determines
that there are reasonable grounds to believe that there has been a violation of
any provision of this Minimum Housing Code which affects the health of the
general public, or whenever the Building Commissioner determines that there are
reasonable grounds to believe that there has been a violation of any provision
which affects the safety of any occupants or the safety of the general public,
the Health Officer or the Building Commissioner, as the case may be, shall give
notice of the alleged violation to the person or persons responsible therefor,
and to any known agent of the person, as hereinafter provided. The notice
shall:
         (a)   Be put in writing;
         (b)   Include a statement of the reasons why it is being issued;
         (c)   Allow a reasonable time for the performance of any act it
requires;
         (d)   Be served upon the owner or his or her agent, to the occupant,
as the case may require; provided that the notice shall be deemed to be
properly served upon the owner or agent, or upon the occupant, if a copy
thereof is served upon him or her personally, or if a copy thereof is sent by
registered mail to his or her last known address, or if a copy thereof is
posted in a conspicuous place in or about the dwelling affected by the notice,
or if he or she is served with the notice by any other method authorized or
required under the laws of this state; and
         (e)   The notice must contain an outline of remedial action which, if
taken, will effect compliance with the provisions of this Minimum Housing Code.
      (2)   Any person affected by any notice issued by the Health Officer or
Building Commissioner may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter
before the Town Council; provided that the person shall file in the office of
the Health Officer or Building Commissioner, as the case may be, within ten
days after service of the notice, a written petition requesting a hearing and
setting forth a brief statement of the grounds therefor. Upon receipt of the
petition, the Health Officer or Building Commissioner, respectively, shall
arrange a time and place for the hearing and shall give the petitioner written
notice thereof. The hearing shall be held at the next regularly scheduled
meeting of the Town Council. At the hearing, the petitioner shall be given an
opportunity to be heard and to show cause why the notice should not be complied
with.
      (3)   After the hearing, the respective Board shall sustain, modify or
withdraw the notice, depending upon its findings as to whether the provisions
of this Minimum Housing Code have been complied with. If the respective Board
shall sustain or modify the notice, it shall be deemed to be an order. Any
notice served pursuant to division (C)(1) above shall automatically become an
order if a written petition for a hearing is not filed in the office of the
Health Officer or Building Commissioner within ten days after the notice is
served. After a hearing in the case of any notice suspending any permit
required by this Minimum Housing Code, when the notice has been sustained by
the respective Board, the permit shall be deemed to have been revoked. Any
permit which has been suspended by a notice shall be deemed to be automatically
revoked if a petition for hearing is not filed in the office of the Health
Officer or Building Commissioner within ten days after the notice is served.
      (4)   (a)   The proceeding at the hearing, including the findings and
decision of the Council, shall be summarized, reduced to writing and entered as
a matter of public record in the offices of the Council.
         (b)   The record shall also include a copy of every notice or order
issued in connection with the matter.
         (c)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Council may seek
relief therefrom in any court of competent jurisdiction, as provided by the
laws of the state.
      (5)   Whenever the Health Officer or Building Commissioner finds that an
emergency exists which requires immediate action to protect the public health,
he or she may, without notice or hearing, issue an order reciting the existence
of an emergency and require that action be taken as he or she deems necessary
to meet the emergency. Notwithstanding the other provisions of this Minimum
Housing Code, the order shall be effective immediately. Any person to whom an
order is directed shall comply therewith immediately, but upon petition to the
Health Officer or Building Commissioner shall be afforded a hearing as soon as
possible in the manner provided in division (C)(2) above. After the hearing,
depending upon the findings as to whether the provisions of this Minimum
Housing Code have been complied with, the Council shall continue the order in
effect, or modify it or revoke it.
(Prior Code, § 177.12) (Ord. 2000-17, passed 10-2-2000)
TEMPORARY HOUSING
§ 150.020 EXTENDED TERM FOR TEMPORARY HOUSING.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer’s office shall furnish an application to any
individual desiring to utilize temporary housing for a time interval greater
than 30 days. Each applicant must:
      (1)   Have the temporary housing inspected by the Town Utility
Superintendent who shall indicate whether it is suitable for connection to the
town’s utilities;
      (2)   Have the temporary housing inspected by the Building Commissioner,
or the commissioner’s designee, who shall indicate whether it is suitable for
human occupancy for up to 180 days and if there are any limitations to such
occupancy; and
      (3)   Have the temporary housing inspected by the Health Officer, or the
officer’s designee, who shall indicate whether it is suitable for human
occupancy for up to 180 days and if there are any limitations to such
occupancy;
      (4)   Return the completed application with the signatures of the
individuals identified above to the Clerk-Treasurer’s office;
      (5)   Pay the permit application fee of $50; and
      (6)   Attend the next regularly-scheduled meeting of the Council to
answer any questions concerning the application.
   (B)   The completed application shall be added to the agenda for
consideration by the Council at the next regularly-scheduled meeting.
   (C)   Council, in its sole discretion, shall consider the completed
application and grant or deny the applicant a permit to utilize the temporary
housing for up to 180 days for human occupancy on the parcel identified on the
application. In determining whether to grant or deny an application for permit,
Council may consider any factors it deems relevant including, but not limited
to, the following: whether the unit is self-propelled or a tow-behind; its
model year; its interior square footage; whether it has a restroom with a bath
or shower; the number of occupants to reside in the unit; whether any pets will
reside with the occupant and, it so, the number and breed of the animals;
whether the unit is factory designed and factory built; and/or the occurrence
of nuisance or other code violations at the subject property.
   (D)   An individual may submit a written request to the Clerk-Treasurer for
Council’s consideration to renew the permit for one additional interval of 180
days without having to complete a new application. Council, in its sole
discretion, may grant or deny a renewal of the permit to utilize the temporary
housing for one additional 180 day period after considering factors including
but not limited to: any changes to the condition of the temporary housing. the
occurrence of nuisance or other code violations at the subject property, and
the current status of the utility services account for the subject property.
   (E)   The permit to occupy a temporary housing shall be limited to one such
unit per parcel.
   (F)   Upon expiration of the permit and any renewal, the temporary housing
shall be removed from the property.
(Ord. 2017-7, passed 5-8-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.030 TITLE.
   This subchapter, and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto, shall
be known as the Unsafe Building Code of the town, may be cited as such, and
will be referred to herein as such.
(Prior Code, § 177.02)
§ 150.031 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish unsafe building regulations
for the protection of the public health, safety and general welfare.
(Prior Code, § 177.02)
§ 150.032 AUTHORITY; ADOPTION OF STANDARDS.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9-3, I.C. 36-7-9 et seq. is hereby adopted and
incorporated by reference in this subchapter as if fully set forth herein
verbatim.
(Prior Code, § 177.02) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.033 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The “Department” authorized to administer this subchapter is the
Huntington Countywide Department of Community Development.
   (B)   The Department is the “Enforcement Authority” and shall be authorized
to administer and to proceed under the provisions of this subchapter in
ordering the inspection, repair, demolition, or removal of any building found
to be unsafe as specified therein or as specified hereafter.
   (C)   The “Hearing Authority” relative to this subchapter is the Town
Council.
   (D)   The definition of KNOWN OR RECORDED SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST set
forth in I.C. 36-7-9-2 is hereby incorporated by reference herein as if copied
in full.
   (E)   The definition of SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST set forth in I.C. 36-
7-9-2 is hereby incorporated by reference herein as if copied in full.
   (F)   The description of an unsafe building contained in I.C. 36-7-9-4 is
hereby supplemented to provide minimum standards for building condition or
maintenance in the Town, by adding the following definition. As used in this
subchapter, UNSAFE BUILDING means any building or structure which has any or
all of the conditions or defects hereinafter described, provided that such
conditions or defects exist to the extent that life, health, property, or
safety of the public or its occupants are endangered:
      (1)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway, or other means of exit is not
of sufficient width or size or is not so arranged as to provide safe and
adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic.
      (2)   Whenever the walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway or
other means of exit is so warped, worn, loose, torn, or otherwise unsafe as to
not provide safe and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic.
      (3)   Whenever the stress in any materials, member, or portion thereof,
due to all dead and live loads, is more than one and one-half times the working
stress or stresses allowed for new buildings of similar structure, purpose, or
location.
      (4)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire, earthquake,
wind, flood, or by any other cause, to such an extent that the structural
strength or stability thereof is materially less than it was before such
catastrophe and is less than the minimum requirements for new buildings of
similar structure, purpose, or location.
      (5)   Whenever any portion, member or appurtenance thereof is likely to
fail, to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and thereby injure
persons or damage property.
      (6)   Whenever any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance, or
ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or
stability or is not so anchored, attached, fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting a wind pressure of one-half of that specified for new
buildings of similar structure, purpose, or location without exceeding the
working stresses permitted for such buildings.
      (7)   Whenever any portion thereof has cracked, warped, buckled, or
settled to such an extent that walls or other structural portions have
materially less resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case
of similar new construction.
      (8)   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion thereof, because
of dilapidation, deterioration, or decay; faulty construction; the removal,
movement, or instability of any portion of the ground necessary for the purpose
of supporting such building; the deterioration, decay, or inadequacy of its
foundation; or any other cause, is likely to partially or completely collapse.
      (9)   Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure, or any portion
thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being used.
      (10)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural member
list, lean, or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the
center of gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third of the base.
      (11)   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundation,
shows 33% or more damage or deterioration of its supporting member or members,
or 50% damage or deterioration of its non-supporting members, enclosing or
outside walls or coverings.
      (12)   Whenever any building or structure has been so damaged by fire,
wind, earthquake, or flood or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated so as
to become an attractive nuisance to children, or freely accessible to persons
for the purpose of committing unlawful acts.
      (13)   Whenever any building or structure has been constructed, exists,
or is maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition
applicable to such building or structure provided by the building regulations
of the town, or of any law or ordinance of this state relating to the
condition, location or structure of buildings.
      (14)   Whenever any building or structure which, whether or not erected
in accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances has in any non-supporting
part, member, or portion less than 66% of the strength, fire-resistant
qualities or characteristics, or weather-resisting qualities or characteristics
required by law in the case of a newly constructed building of like area,
height, and occupancy in the same location.
      (15)   Whenever a building or structure, used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangement, inadequate light, air or sanitation
facilities, or otherwise, is determined by the County Health Officer or
designee to be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation, or in such a condition
that is likely to cause sickness or disease.
      (16)   Whenever any building or structure, because of dilapidated
condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, lack of sufficient fire-
resistive construction is determined by the fire chief, or appointed designee,
to be a fire hazard.
      (17)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a site
after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or whenever
any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six months so
as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive nuisance or
hazard to the public.
   (G)   All buildings or portions thereof within the Town which are
determined, after inspection by the Enforcement Authority, to be unsafe as
defined in this Section, are hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall
be abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition, or removal.
   (H)   Wherever in the building regulations of the Town Unsafe Building Law,
it is provided that anything must be done to the approval of or subject to the
direction of the Enforcement Authority or its authorized agent, this shall be
construed to give such officer only the discretion of determining whether the
rules and standards established by this Section have been complied with; and no
such provisions shall be construed as giving any officer discretionary powers
as to what such regulations or standards shall be, power to require conditions
not prescribed by ordinance, or to enforce ordinance provisions in an arbitrary
or discretionary manner.
   (I)   All work for the reconstruction, repair, or demolition of buildings or
other structures shall be performed in a good workmanlike manner according to
the accepted standards and practices in the trade. The provisions of the
building laws, as defined in I.C. 22-12-1-3, adopted as rules of the Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission, shall be considered standard and
acceptable practice for all matters covered by this Section or orders issued
pursuant to this chapter.
   (J)   An Unsafe Building Fund is hereby established in accordance with the
provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-14.
   (K)   No person, firm, or corporation, whether as owner, lessee, sub-lessee
or occupant, shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve,
remove, demolish, equip, use, occupy, or maintain any building or premises, or
cause or permit the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of any of the
provisions of this Section or any order issued pursuant to this chapter.
   (L)   Violations of this subchapter are subject to the penalties provided in
§
150.999(C).
(Ord. 2019-3, passed 7-8-2019) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.034 UNSAFE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Department shall proceed with enforcement on an unsafe building or
structure upon receipt of a written complaint, either hardcopy or digital.
   (B)   Following receipt of a complaint, the Department shall conduct a site
visit to assess the conditions of the property in question. Following the
initial site visit, a courtesy letter detailing all observed unsafe conditions
and required corrective measures shall be sent to the property owner. The
Department may allow the owner up to 90 days to comply. If compliance is not
obtained through the courtesy process, the Department shall issue an order of
enforcement pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9-5.
(Ord. 2019-3, passed 7-8-2019)
§ 150.035 AVAILABILITY OF STATE LAW.
   The Department shall maintain a current copy of 675 IAC on file in the
Department office.
(Ord. 2019-3, passed 7-8-2019)
§ 150.036 APPEALS OF ADMINISTRATIVE DECISIONS.
   (A)   At any hearing before the Hearing Authority to review any
administrative decision, the Hearing Authority shall make findings of fact and
affirm, rescind, or modify the administrative decision. If, at a hearing to
review an administrative decision, a person, firm, or corporation aggrieved by
the decision requests an additional period of time to accomplish any action
required by the decision, and shows good cause for the request to be granted,
the Hearing Authority may grant the request.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9-8, any final action taken by the Hearing
Authority is subject to review by the Huntington Circuit or Superior Court on
request of any person who has a substantial property interest relating to the
property affected by the administrative decision, or any person to whom that
order was issued. A person requesting judicial review must file a verified
complaint with the appropriate court within ten days after the date final
action was taken by the Hearing Authority. A judicial review is an action de
novo and the court may affirm, modify, or reverse the action taken by the
Hearing Authority.
(Ord. 2019-3, passed 7-8-2019)
§ 150.037 ACCESS TO PROPERTY; INSPECTIONS.
   The Enforcement Authority may inspect any building, structure, or lot in the
town at any reasonable time for the purpose of inspection, or for administering
and enforcing applicable law, relating to the subject matter of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2019-3, passed 7-8-2019)
§ 150.038 EMERGENCY MEASURES.
   The Enforcement Authority shall have the authority to order and implement
emergency measures necessary for safety to persons or property, pursuant to
I.C. 36-7-9-9. The Enforcement Authority may recover the costs incurred in
taking emergency action from the persons who held a fee interest, life estate
interest, or equitable interest of a contract purchaser in the unsafe premises
at the time the Enforcement Authority found it necessary to take emergency
action.
(Ord. 2019-3, passed 7-8-2019)
§ 150.039 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation, whether as owner, lessee, sub-lessee,
occupant, contractor, subcontractor, or licensee shall erect, construct,
reconstruct, enlarge, expand, alter, move, convert, use, occupy, or maintain
any building or structure in the town, or cause or permit the same to exist or
to be done, contrary to or in violation of any condition imposed by the
Department, any provision of this subchapter, or any other applicable law.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9-13 and I.C. 36-7-9-13.5, the Department may
recover the costs incurred by the Enforcement Authority in taking corrective
action regarding an unsafe premises.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9-17 and I.C. 36-7-9-18, the Department may file
a civil action in the Huntington County Circuit or Superior Court against the
persons who held a fee interest, life estate interest, or equitable interest of
a contact purchaser in the unsafe premises.
(Ord. 2019-3, passed 7-8-2019)
BUILDING CODE GENERAL PROVISIONS AND ADMINISTRATION
§ 150.050 TITLE.
   The ordinance codified herein, and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory
hereto, shall be known as the “Building Code of the Town of Andrews, Indiana,”
may be cited as such, and will be referred to herein as “this Code.”
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 2018-7, passed 6-25-2018)
§ 150.051 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this Code is to provide minimum standards for the protection
of life, health, environment, public safety and general welfare, and for the
conservation of energy in the design and construction of buildings and
structures.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 2018-7, passed 6-25-2018)
§ 150.052 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless otherwise clearly indicated by its context, the words and terms
defined in this section shall have the specified meanings:
   AGRICULTURAL BUILDING. A structure principally utilized for the storage of
machinery used for purposes of crop production or for the shelter and feeding
of livestock.
   BUILDING COMMISSIONER. Includes individuals employed by the Huntington
Countywide Department of Community Development that are authorized to represent
the Building Commissioner.
   CLASS I STRUCTURE. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-4.
   CLASS 2 STRUCTURE. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-5.
   CONSTRUCTION. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-7.
   DECORATIVE FENCE. Any fence constructed of boards or similar material no
greater than three inches in width, with the spacing between those boards or
pieces of material being no less than three inches. This term shall also
include wire and chain-link fencing which do not contain privacy slats.
   FENCE. Any above grade enclosure, barrier, or boundary wall made of posts,
boards, wire, concrete, stakes, or rails, including but not limited to,
entrance and exit gates designed and constructed for the purpose of enclosure,
screening, marking a boundary or ingress and egress.
   INDUSTRIALIZED BUILDING SYSTEM. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-
12-1-14.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-16.
   MOBILE STRUCTURE. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-17.
   PERSON. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-18.
   PRIVACY FENCE. Any opaque enclosure, barrier, or boundary wall designed and
constructed for the purpose of enclosure or screening. If constructed of boards
or similar material, the spacing between those boards or pieces of material is
less than three inches.
   STRUCTURE. Both Class 1 and Class 2 structures, unless specifically stated
otherwise.
   SWIMMING POOL. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in the Indiana Swimming Pool
Code.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 2018-7, passed 6-25-2018)
§ 150.053 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Huntington Countywide Department of Community Development
(hereinafter referred to as Department) is hereby authorized and directed to
administer and enforce all of the provisions of this chapter and the Building
Commissioner, (as Building Commissioner, Electrical Inspector, and Plumbing
Inspector) shall act on behalf of the Department for these purposes on a non-
exclusive basis.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner, after having been designated as the officer
of the Department to administer and enforce building regulations by mutual
agreement by and between the Town of Andrews and Huntington County, shall be
authorized to issue building permits, collect permit fees, perform inspections,
order correction of violations, and authorize occupancy of buildings and
structures situated within the corporate limits of the Town of Andrews.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner shall not engage in, or have a pecuniary
interest in, any business of building construction, either directly or
indirectly, which operates in the jurisdiction of the Building Commissioner.
   (D)   The Building Commissioner is hereby authorized and directed to
administer and enforce the following:
      (1)   All of the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Variances granted in accordance with I.C. 22-13-2-11.
      (3)   Orders issued under I.C. 22-12-7.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 2018-7, passed 6-25-2018)
§ 150.054 SCOPE.
   (A)   All construction shall be accomplished in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-6, this chapter shall not apply to
industrialized building systems or mobile structures certified under I.C. 22-
15-4; however, the provisions of this Building Code and the rules promulgated
by the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission do apply to any
construction related to an industrialized building system or mobile structure
not certified under I.C. 22-15-4.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-9, this Building Code is not applicable to
regulated amusement devices, regulated boilers, regulated pressure vessels, or
regulated lifting devices.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 2018-7, passed 6-25-2018)
§ 150.055 ADOPTION OF RULES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-3(b), the following rules of the Indiana Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission as set out in the following Articles
of Title 675 of the Indiana Administrative Code are hereby incorporated by
reference in this code and shall include any later amendments to those rules:
      (1)   Article 13-Building Codes.
      (2)   Article 14-1ndiana Residential Code.
      (3)   Article 16-1ndiana Plumbing Code.
      (4)   Article 17-1ndiana Electrical Code.
      (5)   Article 18-1ndiana Mechanical Code.
      (6)   Article 19-1ndiana Energy Conservation Code.
      (7)   Article 20-1ndiana Swimming Pool Code.
      (8)   Article 22-1ndiana Fire Code.
      (9)   Article 25-1ndiana Fuel Gas Code.
      (10)   Article 28--NFPA Standards.
   (B)   Copies of adopted building rules, codes, and standards shall be on
file with the Department.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 2018-7, passed 6-25-2018)
§ 150.056 APPLICATION FOR PERMITS; RECORD.
   (A)   (1)   A building permit shall be obtained for:
         (a)   Construction or location of new Class 1 and Class 2 structures;
         (b)   Construction of additions to Class 1 and Class 2 structures
including, but not limited to, rooms, porches, decks, or enclosure of existing
structures;
         (c)   Construction or location of accessory structures and additions
to accessory structures including, but not limited to, garages, carports,
sheds, storage buildings, pergolas, or gazebos;
         (d)   Replacement of any existing structure which, if new, would
require a building permit under this section;
         (e)   Construction of new roof projections or structural changes to a
roof;
         (f)   Location of a manufactured home;
         (g)   Interior commercial renovation and any work which requires state
design release.
      (2)   Any proposed structure utilizing an existing foundation shall be
permitted as new construction and not as an addition or renovation project.
   (B)   (1)   A building permit is not required for:
         (a)   Construction or location of an agricultural building on a tract
of land greater than or equal to ten acres in size;
         (b)   Construction or location of a livestock building if the
livestock operation is registered with the Department;
         (c)   Construction or location of a grain bin;
         (d)   Construction or location of an accessory structure under 200
square feet in size.
      (2)   In the absence of a building permit, an improvement location permit
is still required in accordance with the Town of Andrews Zoning Ordinance.
   (C)   (1)   All applications for building permits shall be filed with the
Department on forms provided by the Department, with one set of plans and
specifications showing and describing the work to be done.
      (2)   The plans and specifications shall include all items necessary for
the Department to determine the compliance of the proposed work with applicable
land use and building regulations, including:
         (a)   A site plan of the property upon which, or to which, the
building or structure shall be constructed or placed, showing all property line
dimensions; streets, alleys, and other rights-of-way; recorded easements;
utility and telephone lines (both overhead or underground); legal drains or
open ditches; existing and proposed buildings and structures; all setback
lines; height, width, and depth of the proposed building or structure; parking
areas; and landscaping when required by town ordinances.
         (b)   building floor plans, showing the location of all walls,
electrical outlets, plumbing fixtures, doors and windows.
         (c)   Any additional information requested by the Department which
relates to compliance review, which may include engineered plans.
   (D)   No building permit shall be issued for any building or structure which
requires plan review by the office of the Indiana Department of Homeland
Security (IDHS) Fire and Building Safety Division until a copy of the design
release, along with an electronic and/or hard copy of the full set of building
plans, are submitted to the Department.
   (E)   The Department shall endeavor to review, and make a determination on
all applications within 72 hours of filing. The review period may extend beyond
72 hours where circumstances require additional review.
   (F)   Upon receipt of the completed permit application with required state
releases, payment of permit fees as required by this code, and if the proposed
project otherwise conforms to applicable law, a
building permit shall be issued in the name of the applicant. The applicant
shall then be provided a building permit card authorizing the work to commence,
and to be utilized by the Building Commissioner to record completed
inspections. The building permit card shall be prominently posted on the
property at all times, protected from the elements, and no inspection shall be
completed in the absence of such posting.
   (G)   A permit, when issued, shall be for such installation or construction
as is described in the application and no deviation shall be made from the
installation so described.
   (H)   The Department shall keep a record of all permits issued within the
town.
   (I)   If the work described in the building permit has not been fully
completed within two years from the date of issuance, the permit shall expire.
Further work shall not proceed unless a new permit is obtained.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 2018-7, passed 6-25-2018)
§ 150.057 BUILDING PERMIT FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   All applicants for building permits shall, prior to the issuance of
such permit, pay fees as outlined in the Building Permit Fee Schedule, as
adopted and amended by the Town Council of Andrews.
   (B)   Should any work which requires a permit commence prior to said permit
being issued, the regular permit fee shall be doubled. Violations of this
section are in addition to other remedies and penalties herein provided.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 2018-7, passed 6-25-2018)
§ 150.058 BUILDING INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner shall be responsible for the completion of
all required inspections which shall be indicated on the building permit card.
   (B)   The permittee shall contact the Department and schedule an inspection
when work, for which an inspection is required or requested by the Building
Commissioner, is complete, and such notice shall be given as follows:
      (1)   Four hours prior to the earliest time an inspection is requested
for footers, foundations, or concrete slabs.
      (2)   For all other inspections, notice must be provided no less than 24
hours before an inspection is requested.
      (3)   Inspections of all framing, fire blocking, bracing, all pipes,
chimneys, rough electric, rough plumbing, and all heating wires, pipes, and
venting shall be performed during one inspection. The Department shall not
schedule inspections for any of the above mentioned components separately.
   (C)   The Department shall endeavor to schedule all inspections as
requested; however, priority is given to inspections which involve an immediate
life safety issue and on a first call-in basis.
   (D)   If a footer, foundation, or slab inspection has not been completed
within one hour of the time set by the Department, the permittee may pour
concrete and continue work on the footer, foundation, or slab provided the work
has been completed in compliance with applicable law.
   (E)   (1)   The Department may assess a re-inspection fee for:
         (a)   Requested footer, foundation, or slab inspections not cancelled
at least one hour prior to the earliest scheduled time requested for an
inspection;
         (b)   Other requested inspections not canceled at least three hours
prior to the earliest scheduled time requested for an inspection;
         (c)   Work not completed by the time requested for inspection;
         (d)   Work not in compliance with applicable codes.
      (2)   The re-inspection fee shall be paid prior to a re-inspection being
scheduled.
   (F)   The Building Commissioner shall note the passing of each inspection,
or the deficiencies and/or corrective work required, on the permit card at the
time of inspection. A re-inspection shall be requested by the permittee once
corrective work is completed and must pass inspection prior to any additional
work being completed which would affect the completion of the required
inspection. The Building Commissioner may require engineering analysis at the
expense of the permittee to certify that the work has been completed in
compliance with applicable law.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 2018-7, passed 6-25-2018)
§ 150.059 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   (1)   No change or expansion of use, or of occupancy, of any existing
or newly constructed building or structure shall take place without a
certificate of occupancy issued by the Department. This provision shall not
apply to changes in occupancy that relate only to ownership or possession
rights and do not otherwise affect usage.
      (2)   All new businesses occupying tenant space shall contact the
Department to schedule an inspection for a certificate of occupancy for the new
business/commercial use.
   (B)   A temporary certificate of occupancy may be issued for a period not
exceeding six months upon a determination by the Building Commissioner that a
need exists and there is no immediate danger to the public health, safety, and
welfare. The Building Commissioner may impose reasonable conditions as a part
of the temporary approval. Reasonable conditions shall include only those
requirements of applicable law, which have not been completed by the permittee
and/or property owner when a certificate of occupancy is requested.
   (C)   If a building permit has been issued in connection with a change
covered by this section, no additional fee shall be assessed for the
certificate of occupancy. If no permit is required for the change, no fee shall
be assessed for the certificate of occupancy. Should a change which requires a
certificate of occupancy occur without a certificate of occupancy being issued,
the Department may assess a penalty of $15.
   (D)   No certificate of occupancy shall be issued except after compliance
with all applicable state and local law as determined by the Building
Commissioner after required inspections.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 2018-7, passed 6-25-2018)
§ 150.060 AVAILABILITY OF STATE LAW.
   The Department shall maintain a current copy of 675 IAC on file in the
Department office.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 2018-7, passed 6-25-2018)
§ 150.061 ACCESS TO PROPERTY/INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner, Electrical Inspector, and Plumbing
Inspector, and designated persons acting on their behalf, may inspect any
building, structure, or lot in the Town at any reasonable time for the purpose
of inspection, or for administering and enforcing applicable law, relating to
the subject matter of this chapter.
   (B)   By making applications for permits as provided in this chapter, the
applicants certify that the applicant is acting for her/him/itself and as agent
for the property owner(s) to receive notice as to matters relating to the
project, and relating to access to the project site for the purposes referred
to herein. Any permit issued by the Department also grants full access rights
to Department representatives to any portion of the project for purposes
relating to inspection, administration, and enforcement and requires the
permittee and property owner to cooperate and do all things necessary to allow
access as requested by the Department.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 2018-7, passed 6-25-2018)
§ 150.062 DISCRETIONARY AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Whenever, in this Building Code, it is provided that an activity must
be accomplished subject to the approval of, or at the direction of the
Department or the Building Commissioner, the Building Code shall be construed
to grant only that discretion which is necessary to determine whether
provisions of this chapter have been fulfilled.
   (B)   The discretionary authority provided in this Building Code shall be
used as follows:
      (1)   The discretionary authority shall be utilized to determine
compliance with this Building Code.
      (2)   The discretionary authority shall not be utilized in an arbitrary,
capricious or discriminatory
manner.
      (3)   The discretionary authority shall not be utilized to impose greater
restrictions than are required by this Building Code.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 2018-7, passed 6-25-2018)
§ 150.063 INSPECTIONS BY FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   The Building Commissioner and the Fire Department having jurisdiction shall
work cooperatively to conduct inspections and investigations to promote
compliance with fire safety laws. The Fire Department has independent authority
to conduct inspections and take enforcement actions under I.C. 36-8-17.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 2018-7, passed 6-25-2018)
§ 150.064 EMERGENCY MEASURES.
   The Building Commissioner, Electrical Inspector, and Plumbing Inspector, and
designated persons acting on their behalf, shall have the authority to order
and implement the following emergency measures necessary for safety to persons
or property:
   (A)   Disconnection of electrical service, water service, gas service, and
other utility services.
   (B)   Evacuation of a building or premises due to an unsafe condition(s)
relative to the building(s) or premises.
   (C)   The securing of an unsafe building or unsafe premises.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 2018-7, passed 6-25-2018)
§ 150.065 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation, whether as owner, lessee, sub-lessee,
occupant, contractor, subcontractor, or licensee shall erect, construct,
reconstruct, enlarge, expand, alter, move, convert, use, occupy, or maintain
any building or structure in the Town, or cause or permit the same to exist or
to be done contrary to or in violation of any condition imposed by the
Department, and provision of this code, or any other applicable law.
   (B)   Upon a violation set forth in division (A) of this section, the
Department may impose any one or all of the following remedies:
      (1)   A stop work order whereby all work on the building or structure
shall cease at the time of posting. A written stop work order shall be posted
prominently on the building, structure, or otherwise at the project site, and
state thereon the reasons for the stop work order. The Department shall attempt
to notify the permittee, property owner, contractor, and other appropriate
individuals as to what action is necessary to release the stop work order. A
time limitation, not to exceed 90 days shall be indicated on the stop work
order when posted and shall be included on the notice sent to the appropriate
individual. All corrective work or action necessary to release the stop work
order shall be completed within the stated time limitation. Failure to adhere
to this time limitation is a violation of this code and is subject to the fines
and penalties as outlined in §
150.999
      (2)   A revocation of a certificate of occupancy or any permit issued
under this code after giving notice in the manner described in §
150.161 and upon a determination by the Department that a permit or certificate
of occupancy has been issued upon false, incorrect, or misleading information,
or upon a material or repeated violation of applicable law, or, as to temporary
permits and certificates of occupancy, a failure to strictly adhere to any
condition of the temporary permit or certificate imposed by the Department.
      (3)   Impose fines and penalties as provided in §
150.999.
      (4)   Any other remedy or penalty provided for herein, or by other
applicable law.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 2018-7, passed 6-25-2018)
§ 150.066 NOTICE.
   Whenever the Building Commissioner determines that there are reasonable
grounds to believe that there has been a violation of any provision of this
code, the Building Commissioner shall give notice of such alleged violation to
the person responsible therefore. The notice shall:
   (A)   Be in writing;
   (B)   Include a statement which indicates the precise reason for the
issuance of notice;
   (C)   Indicate a reasonable time for the performance of any act required to
bring the situation into compliance;
   (D)   Be served upon the person responsible, or the occupant, or the
landowner, as the case may be; provided that such notice shall be deemed to be
properly served upon such person, occupant, or landowner, if a copy thereof is
posted in a conspicuous place in or about the area affected by the notice, or
if he is served with such notice by any other method authorized or required
under the laws of this state;
   (E)   Such notice must contain an outline of remedial action which, if
taken, will effect compliance with the provisions of this code;
   (F)   such notice shall also contain the procedures to appeal the notice of
violation.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 2018-7, passed 6-25-2018)
§ 150.067 APPEALS OF ADMINISTRATIVE DECISIONS.
   (A)   Any determination or decision made by the Department, Board of
Electrical Examiners, Building Commissioner, Plumbing Inspector, and/or
Electrical Inspector, or their respective designee, is subject to review as
provided for in this section and applicable state law.
   (B)   Except as required by State Law, no person, firm, or corporation shall
be entitled to review of an administrative decision under this Code unless a
written request for review is received by the Department within ten days
following the date of the decision, or posting or notice thereof if posting or
notice is required by this code. The request must describe the decision to be
reviewed and the relief requested.
   (C)   Upon receipt of any request for review, the Department shall issue a
notice of review to all interested parties containing the name(s) of the person
(s) aggrieved by the administrative decision; a description of the decision to
be reviewed; and a statement of the time and place of a hearing before the Town
Council of Andrews, not earlier than five days from the issuance of the notice,
wherein aggrieved persons are entitled to appear with or without legal counsel,
present evidence, cross-examine opposing witnesses, and present arguments in
opposition to the administrative decision.
   (D)   At any hearing before the Town Council of Andrews to review any
administrative decision, the hearing authority shall make findings of fact and
affirm, rescind, or modify the administrative decision. If, at a hearing to
review an administrative decision, a person, firm, or corporation aggrieved by
the decision requests an additional period of time to accomplish any action
required by the decision, and shows good cause for the request to be granted,
the hearing authority may grant the request.
   (E)   Any final action taken by the Town Council of Andrews, except as
provided in division (F) of this section, is subject to review by the
Huntington Circuit or Superior Court on request of any person who has a
substantial property interest relating to the property affected by the
administrative decision, or any person otherwise directly affected by the
decision. A person requesting judicial review must file a verified complaint
with the appropriate court within ten days after the date final action was
taken by the hearing authority. A judicial review is an action de novo and the
Court may affirm, modify, or reverse the action taken by the hearing authority.
   (F)   Review of an order of the Building Commissioner pursuant to I.C. 36-7-
9 shall be made first to the Town Council of Andrews and then to the State Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission in accordance with I.C. 22-13-2-7 and
I.C. 4-21.5-3-7.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 2018-7, passed 6-25-2018)
§ 150.068 WITHHOLD ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Whenever an applicant for a permit owes fees (including checks
returned for insufficient funds) to the Department, the Building Commissioner
may withhold the issuance of subsequently requested permits until such time
that the debt is satisfied.
   (B)   Whenever a person applies for a permit for a structure that is not
being used or constructed in conformance with applicable provisions of the Town
of Andrews Zoning Ordinance, the Building Commissioner is authorized to
withhold the issuance of requested permits until such time that the property is
brought into conformance with applicable ordinances.
   (C)   Whenever an applicant for a permit or a specific property is in
violation of this code, the Building Commissioner may withhold the issuance of
subsequently requested permits for the applicant or property until such time
that all outstanding violations are corrected. This does not apply to
situations wherein a permit is required to correct violations of this code.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 2018-7, passed 6-25-2018)
ELECTRICAL CODE
§ 150.080 ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner shall serve as Electrical Inspector for the
Town to enforce and administer state and local law relating to electrical work.
   (B)   The Electrical Inspector shall not engage in, or have a pecuniary
interest in, any business of electrical contracting, either directly or
indirectly, which operates in the jurisdiction of the Electrical Inspector.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 2018-7, passed 6-25-2018)
§ 150.081 ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS LICENSE REQUIRED; EXEMPTION.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall engage in the business of
installing, or altering within the town any electrical wiring, devices, or
equipment when such installation, or alteration work requires a permit, unless
such person, or a person employed within the firm or corporation, shall have
received an electrical contractor’s license and certificate thereof.
   (B)   Nothing in these rules and regulations shall be construed to prevent a
person who owns and occupies a single or two-family residence from securing an
electrical permit, when required by §
150.087, for work in the residence or in other buildings on the property where
the residence is located.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 2018-7, passed 6-25-2018)
§ 150.082 LICENSE CLASSIFICATIONS.
   Two classes of license shall be issued by the Board of Electrical Examiners:
Class I - Master Electrician and Class II- Journeyman Electrician.
   (A)   A Class I Master Electrician License shall entitle the license holder
to install, repair, alter, add to or change any electrical wires, fixtures,
appliances, apparatus, raceways, conduit, or any part thereof which generates,
transmits, transforms, or utilizes electrical energy in any form for light,
heat, power, or communications. A master electrician may secure permits for the
installation or alteration of any electrical wiring, devices or equipment. The
holder of such a license may either do the work or employ a Class II
Journeyman. If a Class I Master employs a non-license holder for the purpose of
installing or altering electrical devices or equipment, the non-license holder
shall require the direct on-the-job supervision of a Class I Master or a Class
II Journeyman at all times when the non-licensed holder is at work. Any
individual who makes application for a Class I license must have worked for a
period of at least two years as a licensed Class II Journeyman and have worked
a minimum of 4,000 hours.
   (B)   A Class II Journeyman Electrician shall entitle the license holder to
undertake the work of installing, or altering electrical wiring, devices, and
equipment in the employ of a Class I Master Electrician. Any individual who
makes application for a Journeyman’s license must show written proof of having
worked full-time as an apprentice electrician or in an equivalent position, for
a period of two years or 4000 hours.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 2018-7, passed 6-25-2018)
§ 150.083 APPLICATION FOR ELECTRICAL LICENSE; RECIPROCITY; EXAMINATION OF
APPLICANTS.
   (A)   Application. Application for an electrical license shall be made to
the Board of Electrical Examiners on a form provided by the Department. The
application shall be accompanied by written proof of required experience
acceptable to the Board of Electrical Examiners. Paycheck stubs, payroll
records, and/or other electrical licenses held by the applicant shall be
acceptable written proof of experience.
   (B)   Reciprocity.
      (1)   Any applicant who holds a current electrical license from a
jurisdiction other than Huntington Town of Andrews (out of area license)
wherein the International Code Council or Prometric Electrical Exam was taken
to obtain the license, or wherein a comparable exam was taken to obtain the
license, may be exempt from the requirement of taking the license examination
as required in division (C) of this section. Any interpretation of whether an
out of area license examination qualifies for reciprocity shall be made by the
Board of Electrical Examiners. A record of those out of area licenses or
examinations which are accepted for reciprocity shall be maintained by the
Department.
      (2)   Any applicant who holds an out of area license which is accepted
for reciprocity shall submit the required proof of experience to the Board of
Electrical Examiners as required in division (A) of this section.
      (3)   If an out of area license qualifies for reciprocity, all license
fees for the issuance of a comparable license under this section shall be due
and payable in the same manner as all other such licenses.
   (C)   Examination.
      (1)   Application for a license shall include a $50 fee paid to the
Department. Once the fee is paid, the application will be reviewed by the Board
of Electrical Examiners to determine if the qualifications required to obtain
the license requested have been met. If met, the Department will certify the
applicant as eligible to take the applicable International Code Council or
Prometric Electrical Exam.
      (2)   License Examination shall be administered by and all applicable
examination fees shall be paid to the applicable testing agency.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 2018-7, passed 6-25-2018)
§ 150.084 BOARD OF ELECTRICAL EXAMINERS ESTABLISHED; MEETINGS.
   (A)   Establishment.
      (1)   There is hereby established a Board of Electrical Examiners which
shall consist of the following members:
         (a)   Electrical Inspector;
         (b)   Two Class I or Class II contractors, one appointed by the Mayor
and one appointed by the Huntington Town of Andrews Board of Commissioners; and
         (c)   Two citizen members, one appointed by the Mayor and one
appointed by the Huntington Town of Andrews Board of Commissioners.
      (2)   Appointments shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor and the Board
of Town of Andrews Commissioners, as the case may be, and shall be for a term
of one year. Appointed Board members may be removed by the appointing authority
with or without cause.
   (B)   Meetings.
      (1)   For the purpose of reviewing applications, grading examinations,
and conducting general business, the Board will meet on an as-needed basis in
the Department Office.
      (2)   The Electrical Inspector may call special meetings of the Board for
the purpose of examining applicants for licenses or transacting other business.
      (3)   Three members of the Board of Electrical Examiners present at any
meeting shall constitute a quorum and a majority vote of members present shall
be required for official action.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 2018-7, passed 6-25-2018)
§ 150.085 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; FEES; RENEWAL.
   (A)   Upon proper application and successful completion of the examination,
an appropriate certificate of license shall be issued to the applicant by the
Board of Electrical Examiners. The certificate shall be valid until January 1
of the following year. The examination fee includes the cost of the license for
the year in which the first certificate of license was issued. If the license
was issued due to reciprocity, the license fee for the year of issuance shall
be $20.
   (B)   License expiration and renewal.
      (1)   Each certificate of license, and any renewal, shall be valid for a
period of one year and shall expire on the first day of January each year. Any
license may be renewed by written request to the Department by the licensee at
any time within 30 days from the date of expiration. No electrical permits will
be issued to, or on account of, any electrical contractor with an expired
license.
      (2)   The annual renewal fee for any license issued shall be $20.
      (3)   A penalty of $20 may be assessed for any renewal requested and
issued after expiration. No license shall be renewed without re-examination if
the license has been expired for more than two years.
   (C)   All Class I contractors shall provide a certificate of liability
insurance for a minimum of $1,000,000. No permit will be issued without a
certificate of insurance on file with the Department which states a policy term
that includes the expected work period for the permit.
   (D)   No license or certificate issued in accordance with the provisions of
this section shall be assignable or transferable.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 2018-7, passed 6-25-2018)
§ 150.086 LICENSE TO BE AVAILABLE AT JOB SITE.
   An appropriate Certificate of License shall be available for inspection on
each job site by the Electrical Inspector. The Electrical Inspector may issue a
stop work order on a job site until the certificate is made available to the
Electrical Inspector for inspection.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 2018-7, passed 6-25-2018)
§ 150.087 ELECTRICAL PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   An electrical permit shall be obtained for:
      (1)   Construction of new Class 1 structures, Class 2 structures, and
agricultural buildings;
      (2)   Construction of additions to Class 1 and Class 2 structures;
      (3)   Construction of accessory structures and additions to accessory
structures, when electrical wiring, devices or equipment are installed;
      (4)   Class 1 structure interior renovations;
      (5)   Upgrade of service, installation of new service entrance conductor,
or relocation of service entrance conductor;
      (6)   Temporary service connection;
      (7)   Connection of service to a manufactured or mobile home;
      (8)   Replacement of service panel;
      (9)   Installation of a generator which connects directly to the
electrical utility.
   (B)   Any proposed structure utilizing an existing foundation shall be
permitted as new construction and not as an addition or renovation project.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 2018-7, passed 6-25-2018)
§ 150.088 PERMIT APPLICATION; ISSUANCE.
   (A)   All applications for electrical permits shall be filed with the
Department on forms provided by the Department. The application shall be
accompanied by such plans, specifications, and schedules as may be necessary to
determine compliance with applicable law.
   (B)   (1)   No permit for the installation or alteration of any electric
wiring, devices, or equipment shall be issued to any person, firm, or
corporation unless such person, or a person employed within the firm or
corporation, is the holder of a license entitled to secure permits for and to
execute the work described in the application for the permit. Application for
electrical permits shall be signed by the individual who holds the license. The
license holder may submit to the Department a signed affidavit listing those
individuals authorized to sign an application on their behalf.
      (2)   A person who owns and occupies a single or two-family residence may
secure an electrical permit, when required by §
157.087, for work in the residence, or in other buildings located on the
property where the residence is located.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the completed application, and payment of permit fees
as required, and if the proposed project otherwise conforms to applicable law,
an electrical permit shall be issued in the name of the applicant.
   (D)   A permit, when issued, shall be for such installation as is described
in the application and no deviation shall be made from the installation so
described without the approval of the Electrical Inspector.
   (E)   If the work described in the electrical permit has not been fully
completed within two years of the date of issuance, the permit shall expire.
Further work shall not proceed unless a new permit is obtained.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 2018-7, passed 6-25-2018)
§ 150.089 ELECTRICAL PERMIT FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   All applicants for electrical permits shall, prior to the issuance of
such permit, pay fees as outlined in the Electrical Permit Fee Schedule, as
adopted and amended by the Town Council of Andrews.
   (B)   Should any work which requires a permit commence prior to said permit
being issued, the regular permit fee shall be doubled. Violations of this
section are in addition to other remedies and penalties herein provided.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 2018-7, passed 6-25-2018)
§ 150.090 ELECTRICAL INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Electrical Inspector shall be responsible for the completion of
all required inspections which shall be indicated on the permit card.
   (B)   The permittee shall contact the Department and schedule an inspection
when work, for which an inspection is required or requested by the Electrical
Inspector, is complete, and such notice shall be given 24 hours before an
inspection is requested.
   (C)   The Department shall endeavor to schedule all inspections as
requested; however, priority is given to inspections which involve an immediate
life safety issue and on a first call-in basis.
   (D)   When any part of a wiring installation is to be hidden from view by
permanent placement of parts of the building, no parts of the wiring
installation shall be concealed until they have been inspected and approved by
the Electrical Inspector. On large installations, the person, firm or
corporation installing the wiring may request the Electrical Inspector to
complete periodic inspections of the work to allow the concealment of
electrical work which has passed inspection.
   (E)   The Department may assess a re-inspection fee for requested
inspections, not cancelled at least three hours prior to the earliest scheduled
time requested for an inspection, where work is not completed by the time
requested for inspection, or for work not in compliance with applicable law.
   (F)   The Electrical Inspector shall note the passing of each inspection, or
the deficiencies and/or corrective work required, on the building permit card
at the time of inspection. A re-inspection shall be requested by the permittee
once corrective work is completed and must pass inspection prior to any
additional work being completed which would require a separate inspection. An
approval sticker will be placed on all electrical equipment needing electrical
power hook-up which has passed inspection. No service connection is permitted
without an inspection sticker or approval from the electrical Inspector.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 2018-7, passed 6-25-2018)
§ 150.091 RECONNECTION OF POWER; CONDEMNATION OF ELECTRICAL INSTALLATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to make
service connection from a source of supply of electrical energy to any
electrical wiring, devices or equipment which has been disconnected or ordered
disconnected by the Electrical Inspector. The Electrical Inspector, in cases of
emergency, shall be the only individual authorized to order a reconnection of
power. If an emergency connection is made on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday,
or as a result of severe storm damage, such connection shall be reported to the
Electrical Inspector for inspection within five business days after the
connection. If such notification is not reported to the Electrical Inspector
within five business days after connection, the permit fee shall be doubled.
   (B)   When the Electrical Inspector condemns all or part of any electrical
installation the owner may, within five days after receiving written notice
from the Electrical Inspector, file a petition in writing for review of the
action of the Electrical Inspector with the Board of Electrical Examiners, upon
receipt of which the Board shall at once proceed to determine whether the
electrical installation complies with this subchapter and within five days make
a decision in accordance with its findings.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 2018-7, passed 6-25-2018) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.092 LIABILITY.
   This section shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the
responsibility or liability of any person, firm, or corporation owning,
operating, controlling, or installing any electric wiring, devices, or
equipment for damages to person or property caused by a defect therein, nor
shall the Town of Andrews or Town assume any such liability by reason of the
inspection authorized herein, or certificate of approval issued as herein
provided or the license and certificate issued as herein provided.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 2018-7, passed 6-25-2018)
§ 150.093 ENFORCEMENT; REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The Electrical Inspector may issue an order requiring action relative to any
electrical work, and may revoke an electrical license upon a determination that
the license holder willfully or repeatedly violated any applicable state or
local law relating to electrical work.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 2018-7, passed 6-25-2018)
PLUMBING CODE
§ 150.105 PLUMBING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner shall serve as Plumbing Inspector for the
town to enforce and administer state and local law relating to plumbing work.
   (B)   The Plumbing Inspector shall not engage in, or have a pecuniary
interest in, any business of plumbing contracting, either directly or
indirectly, which operates in the jurisdiction of the Plumbing Inspector.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 2018-7, passed 6-25-2018)
§ 150.106 LICENSE REQUIRED; EXEMPTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to operate
as a plumbing contractor in the Town without having first obtained an Indiana
State Plumbing Contractor License.
   (B)   No permit for plumbing work shall be issued to any person, firm, or
corporation unless such person, or a person employed within the firm or
corporation, holds an Indiana State Plumbing Contractor License and provides
proof of same to the Department.
   (C)   Nothing in these rules and regulations shall be construed to prevent a
person who owns and occupies a single or two-family residence from securing a
plumbing permit, when required by §
150.077, for work in the residence, or in other buildings located on the
property where the residence is located.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 2018-7, passed 6-25-2018) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.107 PERMIT FOR PLUMBING WORK REQUIRED.
   (A)   A plumbing permit shall be obtained for:
      (1)   Construction of new Class 1 structures, Class 2 structures, and
agricultural buildings, when plumbing lines or fixtures are installed;
      (2)   Construction of additions to Class 1 and Class 2 structures;
      (3)   Construction of accessory structures and additions to accessory
structures, when plumbing lines or fixtures are installed;
      (4)   Class 1 structure interior renovations.
   (B)   Any proposed structure utilizing an existing foundation shall be
permitted as new construction and not as an addition or renovation project.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 2018-7, passed 6-25-2018)
§ 150.108 APPLICATION FOR PERMITS.
   (A)   All applications for plumbing permits shall be filed with the
Department on forms provided by the Department. The application shall be
accompanied by such plans, specifications, and information as may be necessary
to determine whether the installation as described will be in conformity with
applicable law.
   (B)   Applications for plumbing permits shall be signed by the individual
who holds the plumbing contractor license. The license holder may submit to the
Department a signed affidavit listing those individuals authorized to sign an
application on their behalf.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the completed application, and payment of permit fees
as required, and if the proposed project otherwise conforms to applicable law,
a plumbing permit shall be issued in the name of the applicant.
   (D)   A permit, when issued, shall be for such installation as is described
in the application and no deviation shall be made from the installation so
described without the approval of the Plumbing Inspector.
   (E)   If the work described in the plumbing permit has not been fully
completed within two years of the date of issuance, the permit shall expire.
Further work shall not proceed unless a new permit is obtained.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 2018-7, passed 6-25-2018)
§ 150.109 PLUMBING PERMIT FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   All applicants for plumbing permits shall, prior to the issuance of
such permit, pay fees as outlined in the Plumbing Permit Fee Schedule, as
adopted and amended by the Town Council of Andrews.
   (B)   Should any work which requires a permit commence prior to said permit
being issued, the regular permit fee shall be doubled. Violations of this
section are in addition to other remedies and penalties herein provided.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 2018-7, passed 6-25-2018)
§ 150.110 PLUMBING INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Plumbing Inspector shall be responsible for the completion of all
required inspections which shall be indicated on the permit card.
   (B)   The permittee shall contact the Department and schedule an inspection
when work, for which an inspection is required or requested by the Plumbing
Inspector, is complete, and such notice shall be given 24 hours before an
inspection is requested.
   (C)   The Department shall endeavor to schedule all inspections as
requested; however, priority is given to inspections which involve an immediate
life safety issue and on a first call-in basis.
   (D)   When any part of a plumbing installation is to be hidden from view by
permanent placement of parts of the building, no parts of the plumbing
installation shall be concealed until they have been inspected and approved by
the Plumbing Inspector. On large installations the firm or corporation
installing the plumbing may request the Plumbing Inspector to complete periodic
inspections of the work to allow the concealment of plumbing work which has
passed inspection.
   (E)   The Department may assess a re-inspection fee for requested
inspections, not cancelled at least three hours prior to the earliest scheduled
time requested for an inspection, where work is not completed by the time
requested for inspection, or for work not in compliance with applicable law.
   (F)   The Plumbing Inspector shall note the passing of each inspection, or
the deficiencies and/or corrective work required, on the building permit card
at the time of inspection. A re-inspection shall be requested by the permittee
once corrective work is completed and must pass inspection prior to any
additional work being completed which would require a separate inspection.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 2018-7, passed 6-25-2018)
FENCE CODE
§ 150.125 APPLICATION FOR FENCE PERMITS.
   (A)   No fence shall be constructed, erected, or moved without a permit
issued by the Department. Application for a permit shall be filed with the
Department on forms provided by the Department and shall include a site plan of
the property showing all property lines; location of buildings; right-of-ways
including streets and alleys; location and size of the proposed fence; and any
additional information deemed necessary to review the application.
   (B)   A fence permit shall not be required for decorative or non-privacy
fencing on agriculturally zoned parcels provided that the proposed fence meets
all other applicable provisions of this code and applicable provisions of the
Town of Andrews Zoning Ordinance. Privacy fencing on agriculturally zoned
parcels shall require a fence permit.
   (C)   No fee shall be assessed for a fence permit.
   (D)   Should any work which requires a permit commence prior to said permit
being issued, a penalty of $20 shall be assessed. Violations of this section
are in addition to other remedies and penalties herein provided.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 2018-7, passed 6-25-2018)
§ 150.126 OBSTRUCTION OF VISIBILITY AT INTERSECTION PROHIBITED.
   On a corner lot no fence, plant, tree or shrubbery shall be erected, placed
or planted or allowed to grow in such a manner as to impede vision. Privacy
fences shall be prohibited within a radius of seven feet from the intersection
of any rights-of-way, including but not limited to streets, alleys and
thoroughfares.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 2018-7, passed 6-25-2018)
§ 150.127 ENCROACHMENT OF FENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any privacy fence taller than three feet to
encroach into any front yard setback. Fences placed on any side or rear
property line shall be kept two feet from any alley to allow ample space for
snow plows, garbage trucks, and service trucks.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 2018-7, passed 6-25-2018) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.128 CERTAIN FENCES UNLAWFUL.
   Except in agricultural, and suburban residential, open space, and
manufacturing zoned areas, it shall be unlawful to construct or erect in the
town, a fence equipped with or having an electrical charge, spikes, barbed
wire, or any similar device.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 2018-7, passed 6-25-2018) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.129 DISPUTES CONCERNING BOUNDARIES.
   Any civil dispute concerning legal property boundaries shall be resolved at
the expense of the property owners. The Town of Andrews or Town shall not be
responsible for determining or establishing legal lot lines.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 2018-7, passed 6-25-2018)
SWIMMING POOL CODE
§ 150.140 POOL PERMIT REQUIRED; PERMIT FEE.
   (A)   No person shall construct, erect, or alter any swimming pool until a
permit to do so is obtained from the Department. All applications for a permit
shall be filed with the Department on forms provided by the Department,
together with the plans and specifications for the pool. The Department shall
examine the plans and specifications to determine whether or not the pool
conforms with applicable law. A fee as outlined in the Building Permit Fee
Schedule, as adopted and amended by the Town Council of Andrews, shall be paid
prior to the issuance of the permit.
   (B)   No permit is required for an on-ground pool which is less than 42
inches in water depth. A permit is required for all in-ground pools, regardless
of water depth or size.
   (C)   Should any work which requires a permit commence prior to said permit
being issued, the regular permit fee shall be doubled. Violations of this
Section are in addition to other remedies and penalties herein provided.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 2018-7, passed 6-25-2018)
§ 150.141 POOL SAFETY FEATURES.
   A residential pool shall provide safety features in accordance with 675 IAC
20-4-27.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 2018-7, passed 6-25-2018)
§ 150.142 LIGHTS.
   Lights used to illuminate any pool shall be so arranged and shaded as to
reflect light away from adjoining premises and public streets.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 2018-7, passed 6-25-2018)
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter, for which no
other penalty is provided, shall be deemed to have committed a code violation
and, upon conviction, shall be fined not more than $100 for the first
violation, and not more than $200 for the second and each subsequent violation.
Each day a violation continues after the expiration of the time set forth by
legal notice specified in §
150.161, constitutes a separate violation.
      (2)   Any person in violation of this code shall be liable to the county
for any expenses and costs.
   (B)   Minimum housing. Judgment of up to $500 per day may be entered for a
violation of §§
150.015 through
150.017. Each day of noncompliance shall constitute a separate and distinct
violation.
(Prior Code, § 177.99)
   (C)   Unsafe building.
      (1)   The following fines may be imposed for a violation of §§
150.030 through
150.039:
         First violation:      $50
         Second violation:      $100
         Subsequent violations:   $250
      (2)   Each day of noncompliance shall constitute a separate and distinct
violation.   
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates any provision of §
150.020 shall be fined not less than $250 for the first offense, $500 for the
second offence, and $1,000 for each subsequent offense. Each day the violation
continues constitutes a distinct, separate and chargeable violation.
      (2)   The applicant, any occupants of the permitted unit, and the owner
of the property where the permitted unit is located, are jointly and severally
responsible for any violations of §
150.020.
(Ord. 2000-13, passed 7-17-2000; Ord. 2017-7, passed 5-8-2017; Ord. 2017-11,
passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 2018-7, passed 6-25-2018; Ord. 2019-3, passed 7-8-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Power to prescribe fines up to $2,500 granted, I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
   
151.01   Adopted by reference
§ 151.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Huntington County floodplain regulations, copies of which are on file in
the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer, are adopted and incorporated by the
town as part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at length
herein.
(Prior Code, § 177.01)
CHAPTER 152: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
152.01   Comprehensive Plan
§ 152.01 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   The Town Comprehensive Plan is hereby approved and incorporated by the town
as part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein. The
plan is available for inspection at the Clerk-Treasurer’s office and at the
offices of the Huntington Countywide Department of Community Development.
(Prior Code, § 177.07) (Res. 1997-8, passed 6-23-1997)
CHAPTER 153: MANUFACTURED HOMES
Section
   
153.01   Definitions
   
153.02   Limitation on the placement of mobile homes
   
153.03   Utilities requirements
   
153.04   Mobile home site requirements
   
153.05   Wheel removal and skirting
   
153.06   Minimum living space
   
153.07   Accessory buildings
   
153.08   Other ordinances
   
153.09   Violations
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LIVING QUARTERS. Those facilities as are used or are suitable to be used by
humans for more than occasional acts of sleeping, preparation of meals or
sanitary functions such as bathing, dishwashing, laundering clothing or the
elimination of personal biological waste material normally processed in a sewer
or septic system.
   MOBILE HOME. Movable or portable living quarters constructed to be towed on
its own chassis, connected to utilities for human occupancy, either alone or in
conjunction with other components, and truck bodies, tents, bus bodies,
railroad cards while off tracks, and all improvised shelters which may be
transported or towed from one place to another without the use of conventional
house moving equipment.
(Prior Code, § 177.04) (Ord. 2000-13, passed 7-17-2000)
§ 153.02 LIMITATION ON THE PLACEMENT OF MOBILE HOMES.
   A mobile home shall be permitted to be placed upon land within the town in a
mobile home court or park approved by the applicable regulatory authority of
the state, or on a lot consisting of at least 6,000 square feet in addition to
the petitioner securing a special exemption from the Town Board of Zoning
Appeals.
(Prior Code, § 177.04) (Ord. 2000-13, passed 7-17-2000)
§ 153.03 UTILITIES REQUIREMENTS.
   Each mobile home shall contain a flush toilet, sleeping accommodations, a
tub or shower, kitchen facilities and plumbing and electrical connections
designed for and attached to appropriate external systems, all of which shall
comply with any applicable requirements of the Office of Fire Prevention and
Building Safety for body and frame design and construction, and the
installations and specifications of plumbing, heating and electrical systems.
Each mobile home shall be connected to town water and sewer facilities, if
available.
(Prior Code, § 177.04) (Ord. 2000-13, passed 7-17-2000)
§ 153.04 MOBILE HOME SITE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Each mobile home site shall be provided with a pad consisting of
either a solid concrete slab or two reinforced ribbons, at least ten inches
wide and 36 inches deep, and otherwise adequate to support the maximum
anticipated loads during all seasons. When concrete ribbons are used, the area
between the ribbons shall be filled with a layer of crushed rock.
   (B)   Each mobile home must be equipped with substantial tie-downs and must
be securely attached to the land by the tie-downs.
(Prior Code, § 177.04) (Ord. 2000-13, passed 7-17-2000)
§ 153.05 WHEEL REMOVAL AND SKIRTING.
   Within 30 days after location, the wheels of the mobile home shall be
removed and skirting of wood or metal shall be affixed.
(Prior Code, § 177.04) (Ord. 2000-13, passed 7-17-2000)
§ 153.06 MINIMUM LIVING SPACE.
   No mobile home shall be placed, erected or altered so that its ground floor
area is less than 980 square feet, exclusive of porches, terraces, garages and
exterior stairs.
(Prior Code, § 177.04) (Ord. 2000-13, passed 7-17-2000)
§ 153.07 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   Accessory buildings are required to be placed on a mobile home site and must
meet all the general requirements of the district in which the mobile home is
being placed or erected and measure at least five feet by eight feet.
(Prior Code, § 177.04) (Ord. 2000-13, passed 7-17-2000)
§ 153.08 OTHER ORDINANCES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as amending, altering or
replacing any portion of the Housing Code as it exists or as it is amended from
time to time.
(Prior Code, § 177.04) (Ord. 2000-13, passed 7-17-2000)
§ 153.09 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   A mobile home sited upon property in violation of this chapter shall
be subject to removal from the property. However, the owner must be given a
reasonable opportunity to bring the property into compliance before action for
removal may be taken. If action finally is taken to bring compliance, the
expenses involved may be made a lien against the property.
   (B)   The Town Council may do all things advisable to institute a suit in
the court having jurisdiction for injunction relief to cause the violation to
be prevented, abated or removed as appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 177.04) (Ord. 2000-13, passed 7-17-2000) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Judgment of up to $500 per day may be entered for a violation of this
chapter. Each day of noncompliance shall constitute a separate and distinct
violation.
(Prior Code, § 177.99) (Ord. 2000-13, passed 7-17-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Power to prescribe fines up to $2,500 granted, I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
CHAPTER 154: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
   
154.01   Adopted by reference
§ 154.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Huntington County subdivision regulations, copies of which are on file
in the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer, are adopted and incorporated by the
town as part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at length
herein.
(Prior Code, § 177.06) (Ord. 2006-08, passed - -2006; Ord. 2012-8, passed 11-
12-2012; Ord. 2021-1, passed 3-22-2021; Ord. 2021-2, passed 3-22-2021; Ord.
2021-3, passed 3-22-2021; Ord. 2021-7, passed 3-22-2021; Ord. 2021-21, passed
8-9-2021)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING
Section
   
155.01   Adopted by reference
§ 155.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Huntington County Zoning Code, copies of which are on file in the office
of the Town Clerk-Treasurer, is adopted and incorporated by the town as part of
this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Prior Code, § 177.05) (Ord. 2006-04, passed - -2006; Ord. 2006-05, passed - -
2006; Ord. 2006-06, passed - -2006; Ord. 2006-07, passed - -2006; Ord. 2006-11,
passed - -2006; Ord. 2006-20, passed 12-28-2006; Ord. 2009-10, passed 7-20-
2009; Ord. 2009-13, passed 11-4-2009; Ord. 2012-9, passed 11-12-2012; Ord.
2013-9, passed 6-24-2013; Ord. 2013-12, passed 11-12-2013; Ord. 2015-01, passed
3-23-2015; Ord. 2016-7, passed 6-27-2016; Ord. 2018-1, passed 1-22-2018; Ord.
2020-4, passed 8-10-2020; Ord. 2020-8, passed 12-14-2020; Ord. 2020-9, passed
12-14-2020; Ord. 2020-10, passed 12-14-2020; Ord. 2020-11, passed 12-14-2020;
Ord. 2020-13, passed 12-14-2020; Ord. 2020-14, passed 12-14-2020; Ord. 2020-15,
passed 12-14-2020; Ord. 2021-4, passed 3-22-2021; Ord. 2021-5, passed 3-22-
2021; Ord. 2021-6, passed 3-22-2021; Ord. 2021-13, passed 8-9-2021; Ord. 2021-
14, passed 8-9-2021; Ord. 2021-15, passed 8-9-2021; Ord. 2021-16, passed 8-9-
2021; Ord. 2021-17, passed 8-9-2021; Ord. 2021-18, passed 8-9-2021; Ord. 2021-
19, passed 8-9-2021; Ord. 2021-20, passed 8-9-2021; Ord. 2022-4, passed 6-27-
2022)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   AGREEMENTS
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS
      
III.   ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION AREAS
      
IV.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
      
V.   VACATIONS
TABLE I: AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2004-10  12-6-2004   Wastewater service agreement with the Norwood Regional
                     Water and Sewer District.
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
–   12-3-  Annexation of real estate located north of the Cubberly’s and Bell’s Addition and
      1990   west of the intersection of Half and Snowden Streets.
1997- 4-28-  Annexation of an easterly portion of the Thomas and Rita Tullis property along
4     1997   Leedy Lane and an easterly portion of the Van and Kathy Juillerat property along
             Leedy Lane.
2001- 10-1-  Annexation of certain contiguous real estate as described therein.
14    2001
2001- 10-1-  Annexation of certain contiguous real estate as described therein.
16    2001
2001- 10-1-  Annexation of certain contiguous real estate as described therein.
18    2001
             Annexation of a part of Duck Reserve No. 34, Township 28, Range 8 East,
2003- 6-16-  consisting of 50.756 acres, more or less, and comprising all of parcels 002-
03    2003   00149-00 and 002-00469-00, more or less, a portion of parcel 002-00077-00 and a
             4.397 acre, more or less, portion of parcel 002-00416-00.
2020- 3-23-  Amending Ordinance No. 1997-4, annexing a portion of Leedy Lane that was
2     2020   mistakenly excluded.
            
 
TABLE III: ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION AREAS
 
Ord. No.    Date Passed Description
                        Confirming Res. 2009-1 designating an economic
Res. 2009-2 - -2009     revitalization area and granting final approval of the
                        statement of benefits for property tax abatement for
                        ten years.
Res. 2009-1 5-11-2009   Designating an economic revitalization area for 303
                        North Jackson Street for Transwheel Corporation.
 
TABLE IV: REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
Res.  10-5-  Authorizing the sale of certain real estate described therein to
139   1939   Milton E. Hull.
Res.  8-10-  Authorizing the Town Council to receive proposals at its 9-14-2009
2009- 2009   meeting relating to the lease of certain town-owned real estate to the
4            United States Cellular Operating Company of Chicago, LLC.
Res.  2-9-   Transferring 30 East Madison Street to the Andrews Dallas Township
2010- 2010   Public Library.
2
Res.  7-14-  Transferring real property to HCCSC for its use in conjunction with
2014- 2014   its operation of Andrews Elementary School in an “as is” transfer.
6
Res.  8-23-  Expressing intent to purchase parcels commonly known as 291 W.
2021- 2021   Jefferson Street, 273 W. Jefferson Street, and 255 W. Jefferson Street
5            and appointing appraisers.
Res.  8-23-  Expressing intent to purchase the parcel commonly known as 240 W.
2021- 2021   McKeever Street and appointing appraisers.
6
Res.  9-13-  Expressing intent to purchase the parcel commonly known as 498 W.
2021- 2021   McKeever Street and appointing appraisers.
7
Res.  9-13-  Expressing intent to purchase parcels commonly known as 520 W.
2021- 2021   McKeever Street and the vacant lot west of 520 W. McKeever Street and
8            appointing appraisers.
Res.  11-8-  Expressing intent to purchase parcels commonly known as 237 W.
2021- 2021   McKeever Street and the vacant lot east of 237 W. McKeever Street and
10           appointing appraisers.
Res.  11-8-  Expressing intent to purchase the parcel commonly known as 218 W.
2021- 2021   McKeever Street and appointing appraisers.
11
Res.  11-8-  Expressing intent to purchase the parcel commonly known as 280 W.
2021- 2021   McKeever Street and appointing appraisers.
12
Res.  11-8-  Expressing intent to purchase the parcel commonly known as 181 S.
2021- 2021   Berry Street and appointing appraisers.
13
            
 
TABLE V: VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
Res.  8-6-   Vacating Bellville Avenue from its intersection with Cliffton Street to the
120   1936   eastern end of Bellville Avenue.
Res.  12-17-
121-  1936   Vacating the alley between Lots 34 and 37 in Campbell’s Addition.
1/2
Res.  1-16-  Vacating a portion of Illinois Street east from Colorado Street to the
147   1941   corporate limits of the town.
      7-15-  Vacating a portion of an alley extending west from Jackson Street to its
–   1949   intersection with the north-south alley between McKeever Street and Madison
             Street.
      11-2-  Vacating a portion of the alley extending east from Main Street to its
–   1950   intersection with the north-south alley between Jefferson Street and Madison
             Street.
–   8-6-   Vacating an alley extending west from Main Street to its intersection with
      1953   Snowden Street.
–   8-19-  Vacating a portion of an alley between Lot 2 and Lot 3 in Leedy’s Addition.
      1964
–   8-19-  Vacating a portion of Berry Street between Lots 5 and 6 in McKeever’s
      1964   Addition.
–   8-19-  Vacating a portion of an alley extending east of Berry Street Lots 35, 36
      1964   and 49 to Lot 34.
Res.  9-5-   Vacation of an alley between Lots 32 and 33 in Campbell’s Addition.
377A  1979
Res.  3-2-   Vacating Morris Street from its intersection with Clifton Street east to
435   1983   Pearl Street.
–   6-6-   Vacating an alley in Lots 18 and 19 of Jacob Wintrode’s Addition.
      1984
1989- 4-6-   Vacating a street located in Joseph Leedy’s Addition.
02    1989
1990- 5-14-  Vacating a portion of Bell Street located in Cubberly’s Plat and Bell’s
01    1990   Addition.
–   8-13-  Vacating the undeveloped alley north of and abutting Lot 20 in Campbell’s
      1990   Addition.
1994- 2-28-  Vacating the alley located in the German Baptist Addition.
02    1994
–   2-26-  Vacating the alley on the south side of 181 South Berry Street.
      1996
1997- 6-23-  Vacating Starr Street northwest of and abutting Lots 1 and 2 in Jo Leedy’s
7     1997   Addition.
2000- 4-2-   Vacating a portion of Alabama Street in the Bellmans’s Second Addition.
6     2001
2002- 9-23-  Vacating a portion of an alley between Lot 27 in Campbell’s Addition of the
19    2002   town and Lot 1 in Wendel A. Schauner’s Addition.
2013- 6-10-  Vacating an unimproved portion of Columbia Street, east of Colorado Street,
6     2013   in Samuel Bellman’s Second Addition
2013- 7-22-  Vacating an unimproved portion of Alabama Street, east of Market Street and
10    2013   west of Jackson Street, in Bellman’s Addition to the Town of Antioch
2014- 12-8-  Vacating a certain undeveloped right-of-way starting at the Southwest corner
15    2014   of Lot 18 in Cubberly and Bell’s Addition.
2021- 8-23-  Vacating a portion of an unimproved platted alley located in Dallas
12    2021   Township.
            
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cites Code Section
I.C. Cites         Code Section
1-1-1-7            10.12
1-1-1-8            10.06
1-1-4-5            10.05
1-1-6-1            10.08
                   52.080;
1-1-7-1            53.03;
                   92.07;
                   92.09
3-8-5-2            32.02
3-10-6             32.16
3-10-7             32.16
4-21.5-3-7         150.067
5-2-1-9            32.36;
                   32.39
5-2-1-9(f)         32.41
                   30.27;
5-3-1              31.072;
                   34.51
5-11-1-4(a)        30.35
5-11-1-27          30.35
5-11-10            34.20
5-11-10-1.6        34.18
5-11-10-2          34.17
5-14-1.5           31.016
5-14-1.5-3.5       31.020
5-14-1.5-3.6       31.020
5-14-1.5-4(a)      31.019
5-14-1.5-4(b)      31.020
5-14-1.5-4(c)      31.020
5-14-1.5-6.1       31.017
5-14-3-1—5-14-3-130.20;
                   30.22
5-14-3-2           30.21
5-14-3-3           31.017
5-14-3-4           30.23
5-14-3-4(a)        30.25
5-14-3-4(b)        30.25
5-14-3-4(b)(12)    31.017
5-14-3-5           30.23
5-16-9             72.04
5-22               34.50
6-1.1-17           34.36;
                   34.37
6-1.1-17-3         34.35
7.1                112.01
7.1-1-3-5          94.04
7.1-1-3-13         130.08
8-1.5-3.5          50.02
8-1.5-5            54.01;
                   54.33
8-1.5-5-1          54.01
8-1.5-5-5          54.15
8-1.5-5-6          54.17;
                   54.30
8-1.5-5-29         54.47
8-1.5-5-30         54.47
8-1.5-5-31         54.47
8-14-1             34.21
8-14-2             34.21
8-22-2             31.017
8-22-3             31.017
8-23-4             90.07
9-13-2-1           90.02
9-13-2-6           70.01
9-13-2-8           90.02
9-13-2-16          90.02
9-13-2-47          70.01
9-13-2-49.3        70.01
9-13-2-56          70.01
9-13-2-63          90.02
9-13-2-73          70.01
9-13-2-77          70.01
9-13-2-84          70.01
9-13-2-105(a)      70.01
9-13-2-105(b)      70.01
9-13-2-105(c)      70.01
9-13-2-108(a)      70.01
9-13-2-118         70.01
9-13-2-121(a)      70.01
9-13-2-121(b)      70.01
9-13-2-121(c)      90.02
9-13-2-122         90.02
9-13-2-136         90.02
9-13-2-144         90.02
9-13-2-155         70.01
9-13-2-178         70.01
9-13-2-179         90.02
9-13-2-196(a)      70.01
9-13-2-196(d)      90.02
9-14-5             72.04
9-17               90.02
9-18-12            90.03
9-18-18            72.04
9-18-22            72.04
9-18.1-8           90.03
9-18.1-14.5        70.01
9-18.5-34          90.03
9-19               70.01
9-21-1-3           Ch. 71;
                   Ch. 72
9-21-5-6           Ch. 71
9-21-12-13         70.01
9-21-20-1          70.01
9-21-20-2          70.01
9-21-20-3          70.01
9-22-1-1           90.03
9-22-1-2           90.02
9-22-1-4           90.04;
                   90.08
                   90.05;
9-22-1-5           90.06;
                   90.08
9-22-1-7           90.05
9-22-1-8           90.05
9-22-1-11          90.07
9-22-1-12          90.07
9-22-1-13          90.07
9-22-1-14          90.07
9-22-1-15          90.06
9-22-1-16(a)       90.06
9-22-1-16(b)       90.06
9-22-1-17          90.06
9-22-1-18          90.07
9-22-1-19          90.08
9-22-1-31          90.09
9-22-1-32          90.10
9-25-4-1 et seq.   73.15
9-25-4-4           73.19
9-32               70.01
13-22              31.072
13-23              31.072
13-24              31.072
13-25-4            31.072
13-25-5            31.072
13-25-5-8.5(f)     31.072
16-18-2-110        70.01
16-22-8            70.01
16-34.5-1-2        31.017
22-9-1-4 et seq.   95.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.   95.01
22-9.5-2-2         95.02
22-9.5-2-3         95.02
22-9.5-2-4         95.02
22-9.5-2-8         95.02
22-9.5-2-9         95.02
22-9.5-2-11        95.02
22-9.5-2-13        95.02
22-9.5-3           95.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.   95.10
22-9.5-4-8         95.11
22-9.5-5           95.02
22-9.5-5-1         95.03
22-9.5-6           95.02;
                   95.11
22-11-14           92.03
22-12-1-3          150.033
22-12-1-4          150.052
22-12-1-5          150.052
22-12-1-7          150.052
22-12-1-14         150.052
22-12-1-16         150.052
22-12-1-17         150.052
22-12-1-18         150.052
22-12-7            150.053
22-13-2-3          150.001
22-13-2-3(b)       150.055
22-13-2-6          150.054
22-13-2-7          150.067
22-13-2-9          150.054
22-13-2-11         150.053
22-15-4            150.054
24-14-5            90.05
25                 31.017
25-37-1-11         Ch. 111
33-35-3-1          32.17
33-35-3-2          32.17
33-36-2-1          35.01;
                   35.02
33-36-2-2          35.02
33-36-2-3          35.03
33-36-3            35.03
33-36-3-1          35.04
33-36-3-2          35.05
33-36-3-3          35.06
33-36-3-5          35.07
33-36-3-6          35.08
33-36-3-7          35.09
33-37              35.08
33-37-4            35.08
33-37-7-5          35.08
33-37-7-6          35.08
34-13-3-1 et seq.  36.15;
                   36.16
34-13-3-12         36.16
35-47-5-13(a)      32.40
                   10.99;
36-1-3-8(a)(10)    150.999;  
                   153.99
36-1-5-4           32.05
36-1-6             92.03
36-1-6-2           92.07
36-1-10            31.017
36-1-11            31.017
36-1-20.2          32.05
36-1-21            32.05
36-2-7-10          92.10
36-5-2-3(a)        31.001
36-5-2-3(b)        31.001
36-5-2-3(c)        31.001
36-5-2-3(d)        31.001
36-5-2-3(e)        31.001
36-5-2-4.1         31.072
36-5-2-4.2         31.071
36-5-2-6           31.002
36-5-2-7           31.004
36-5-2-8           31.022
36-5-2-9           31.003
36-5-2-9.2         31.021
36-5-2-9.4(a)      31.070
36-5-2-9.4(b)      31.071
36-5-2-9.6         31.070
36-5-2-9.8         31.071
36-5-2-10          31.072
36-5-2-10.2        31.073
36-5-3-3           34.35
36-5-3-4           34.36
36-5-3-5           34.37
36-5-4-2           34.15
36-5-4-3           34.16
36-5-4-4           34.17
36-5-4-6           34.18
36-5-4-7           34.19
36-5-4-13(b)       34.21
36-5-6-2           32.17
36-5-6-3(a)        32.15
36-5-6-3(b)        32.16
36-5-6-3(c)        32.16
36-5-6-3(d)        32.16
36-5-6-4           32.16
36-5-6-5           32.17
36-5-6-5.1         32.19
36-5-6-6           32.17
36-5-7-2           32.35
36-5-7-3           32.36
36-5-7-4           32.37
36-5-7-5           32.38
36-5-7-6           32.39
36-5-7-7           32.40
36-7               31.071;
                   31.072
36-7-4-410(a)      33.01
36-7-4-410(b)      33.01
36-7-9             150.002;
                   150.067
36-7-9 et seq.     150.032
36-7-9-2           150.002;
                   150.033
36-7-9-3           150.002;
                   150.032
36-7-9-4           150.033
36-7-9-5           150.034
26-7-9-8           150.036
36-7-9-9           150.038
36-7-9-13          150.039
36-7-9-13.5        150.039
36-7-9-14          150.033
36-7-9-17          150.039
36-7-9-18          150.039
36-7-10.1          92.03
36-8               32.36;
                   32.39
36-8-17            150.063
36-9-23-33         52.080 ;
                   53.03
36-9-30-3          90.07
                   
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2012 Code
Prior Code 2012 Code
171.01     30.02
171.02     30.03
171.03     33.01
171.04     30.04
171.20     31.015
171.21     32.01
171.23     32.39
171.24     32.02
171.31     32.03
171.32     36.01
171.33     36.02
171.40     33.15
171.41     33.16
171.42     33.17
171.43     33.18
171.50     34.01
171.51     34.02
171.52     34.03
171.53     34.04
172.08     52.999
172.10     51.01
172.11     50.02
172.14     50.01
173.01     73.01
173.02     Ch. 74, Sch. III
173.03     71.04
173.05     71.06;
           71.99
173.20     Ch. 74, Sch. I
173.21     Ch. 74, Sch. II
173.99     71.99;
           Ch. 74, Sch. III
174.01     32.04
174.30     93.35
174.31     93.36
174.40     94.01
174.41     94.02
174.50     36.03
174.99     93.99;
           94.99
175.01     112.01
175.02     113.01
175.03     114.01
175.99     113.99
176.01     130.01
176.02     130.02
176.03     130.03
176.04     130.04
176.05     130.05
176.07     130.06
176.08     130.07;
           130.99
176.09     115.01—
           115.03
           115.99;
176.99     130.99;
           131.99
177.01     151.01
177.02     150.030—
           150.032
177.04     153.01—
           153.09
177.05     155.01
177.06     154.01
177.07     152.01
177.10     150.015
177.11     150.016
177.12     150.017
177.99     150.999;   
           153.99
           
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Description
Res. No. Date Passed Description
2005-02  - -         30.04
120      8-6-1936    TSO Table V
121-1/2  12-17-1936  TSO Table V
139      10-5-1939   TSO Table IV
147      1-16-1941   TSO Table V
305      2-4-1970    33.17
377A     9-5-1979    TSO Table V
390      7-16-1980   94.02
435      3-2-1983    TSO Table V
531      12-27-1988  34.01;
                     52.005
1990-01  2-12-1990   34.03
1996-01  1-8-1996    30.04
1996-05  2-26-1996   32.04
1996-04  3-25-1996   130.05;
                     130.99
1997-8   6-23-1997   152.01
2000-4   2-7-2000    36.02
2000-19  11-6-2000   36.01
2000-21  12-4-2000   36.03
2001-10  5-7-2001    30.03
2005-08  12-5-2005   51.01
2006-09  4-3-2006    51.01
2006-10  4-3-2006    51.01
2006-18  12-28-2006  51.01
2007-04  11-5-2007   52.081
2009-2   - -2009     TSO Table III
2009-1   5-11-2009   TSO Table III
2009-4   8-10-2009   TSO Table IV
2010-2   2-9-2010    TSO Table IV
2011-5   11-21-2011  34.51
2012-12  9-10-2012   50.03
- -      3-11-2013   32.03
2014-6   7-14-2014   TSO Table IV
2021-5   8-23-2021   TSO Table IV
2021-6   8-23-2021   TSO Table IV
2021-7   9-13-2021   TSO Table IV
2021-8   9-13-2021   TSO Table IV
2021-10  11-8-2021   TSO Table IV
2021-11  11-8-2021   TSO Table IV
2021-12  11-8-2021   TSO Table IV
2021-13  11-8-2021   TSO Table IV
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
95       - -         TSO Table V
186      - -         TSO Table V
382      - -         33.18
1999-5   - -         52.080;
                     52.081
96       10-21-1907  TSO Table V
152      12-29-1947  TSO Table IV
153      4-2-1948    Ch. 74, Sch. I
156      6-4-1948    TSO Table V
–      7-15-1949   TSO Table V
–      11-2-1950   TSO Table V
–      8-6-1953    TSO Table V
197      11-4-1953   TSO Table V
198      11-4-1953   TSO Table V
217      4-17-1957   112.01
                     52.001—
255      6-2-1961    52.004;
                     52.999
–      8-19-1964   TSO Table V
–      8-19-1964   TSO Table V
–      8-19-1964   TSO Table V
301      9-3-1969    94.01
                     130.01—
303      11-19-1969  130.05;
                     130.99
317      - -1971     TSO Table II
318      - -1971     TSO Table II
324      7-21-1971   131.99
339      9-12-1973   130.06;
                     130.99
354      9-1-1976    130.07;
                     130.99
367      4-5-1978    93.36;
                     93.99
383      3-5-1980    32.39
410      3-17-1982   73.01
428      12-1-1982   52.001
440      5-4-1983    TSO Table V
466      5-16-1984   TSO Table II
–      6-6-1984    TSO Table V
482      10-18-1985  Ch. 74, Sch. II
486      1-17-1986   Ch. 74, Sch. III
495      4-6-1987    71.06;
                     71.99
493      7-20-1987   TSO Table II
502      8-17-1987   TSO Table V
510      1-18-1988   33.15
511      1-18-1988   33.16
1989-02  4-6-1989    TSO Table V
1989-05  8-14-1989   32.01
1990-01  5-14-1990   TSO Table V
–      8-13-1990   TSO Table V
–      12-3-1990   TSO Table II
1992-01  4-13-1992   71.04;
                     71.99
1992-03  5-11-1992   34.02
1993-07  7-12-1993   51.01
1993-10  10-11-1993  114.01
1993-13  11-22-1993  114.01
1994-02  2-28-1994   TSO Table V
1995-01  8-14-1995   113.01;
                     113.99
1995-04  9-25-1995   32.03
–      2-26-1996   TSO Table V
1996-03  2-26-1996   51.01
1996-06  6-10-1996   30.02
1996-14  11-25-1996  30.03
1997-2   3-10-1997   33.01
1997-1   3-24-1997   34.04
1997-4   4-28-1997   TSO Table II
1997-7   6-23-1997   TSO Table V
1997-13  9-29-1997   52.080
                     53.01—
1998-1   1-26-1998   53.03;
                     53.99
1999-3   6-8-1999    50.02
1999-4   7-8-1999    51.01
2000-3   2-7-2000    93.35;
                     93.99
2000-12  7-17-2000   53.01
                     150.999;
2000-13  7-17-2000   153.01—
                     153.09;
                     153.99
2000-17  10-2-2000   150.015—
                     150.017
2000-6   4-2-2001    TSO Table V
2001-20  7-2-2001    32.02
                     115.01—
2001-23  8-6-2001    115.03;
                     115.99
2001-14  10-1-2001   TSO Table II
2001-16  10-1-2001   TSO Table II
2001-18  10-1-2001   TSO Table II
2002-19  9-23-2002   TSO Table V
2003-03  6-16-2003   TSO Table II
2005-01  1-11-2004   71.05;
                     71.99
2004-01  1-19-2004   31.015
2004-05  9-7-2004    150.001
2004-10  12-6-2004   52.081;
                     TSO Table I
2005-04  5-2-2005    31.015
2006-04  - -2006     155.01
2006-05  - -2006     155.01
2006-06  - -2006     155.01
2006-07  - -2006     155.01
2006-08  - -2006     154.01
2006-11  - -2006     155.01
2006-20  12-28-2006  155.01
2007-06  12-20-2007  30.05
2008-3   12-1-2008   34.20
2009-04  4-13-2009   31.015
2009-10  7-20-2009   155.01
                     30.20—
2009-9   8-10-2009   30.29;
                     30.99
                     73.15—
2009-11  9-7-2009    73.27;
                     73.99
2009-13  11-4-2009   155.01
2010-1   1-11-2010   53.03
2010-02  12-27-2010  32.20
                     94.01—
2011-2   - -2011     94.03;
                     94.99
2011-3   2-14-2011   32.03
                     50.01;
2011-4   3-14-2011   50.02;
                     51.01
                     52.001—
                     52.005;
                     52.020—
                     52.023;
                     52.035—
                     52.038;
2011-5   3-14-2011   52.050;
                     52.051;
                     52.065—
                     52.069;
                     52.080;
                     52.081;
                     52.999
                     53.01—
2011-6   3-14-2011   53.03;
                     53.99
2011-7   3-14-2011   51.01;
                     52.082
2011-9   8-8-2011    52.082
2011-05  11-21-2011  34.50
2012-2   4-9-2012    34.05
2012-4   5-21-2012   73.17
2012-5   6-11-2012   32.05
2012-8   11-12-2012  154.01
2012-9   11-12-2012  155.01
2012-10  11-12-2012  53.03
2012-11  11-12-2012  51.01
2012-12  12-10-2012  51.01
                     52.080—
2012-13  12-10-2012  52.082;
                     52.999
2013-01  2-25-2013   31.015;
                     31.018
                     131.15;
2013-2   3-11-2013   131.16;
                     131.99
2013-4   4-8-2013    32.41
2013-5   5-13-2013   Adopting Ordinance
2013-6   6-10-2013   TSO Table V
2013-9   6-24-2013   155.01
2013-10  7-22-2013   TSO Table V
2013-12  11-12-2013  155.01
                     91.01—
2013-13  12-9-2013   91.19;
                     91.99
2014-2   4-28-2014   34.50
2014-3   5-27-2014   51.01
                     94.04;
2014-4   6-9-2014    94.99;
                     130.08;
                     130.99
2014-6   7-14-2014   Adopting Ordinance
2014-15  12-8-2014   TSO Table V
2015-01  3-23-2015   155.01
2016-3   5-27-2016   52.080
2016-4   6-27-2016   30.35
2016-5   7-11-2016   51.01
2016-6   6-27-2016   30.02
2016-7   6-27-2016   155.01
                     71.99;
                     92.01—
2016-9   8-22-2016   92.11;
                     92.99;
                     130.99
2017-2   4-24-2017   53.03
2017-3   4-24-2017   51.01;
                     51.02
2017-4   4-24-2017   52.082
2017-5   4-24-2017   30.04
2017-6   5-8-2017    50.01
2017-7   5-8-2017    150.020;
                     150.999
2017-8   5-30-2017   52.080
                     150.050—
                     150.068;
                     150.080—
                     150.093;
                     150.105—
2017-11  8-14-2017   150.110;
                     150.125—
                     150.129;
                     150.140—
                     150.142;
                     150.999
                     50.04;
2017-14  10-10-2017  51.01;
                     51.10—
                     51.14
2017-15  11-13-2017  131.01
2018-1   1-22-2018   155.01
                     54.01—
                     54.03;
2018-2   3-12-2018   54.15—
                     54.18;
                     54.30—
                     54.33
2018-5   5-29-2018   54.45—
                     54.48
                     150.050—
                     150.068;
                     150.080—
                     150.093;
                     150.105—
2018-7   6-25-2018   150.110;
                     150.125—
                     150.129;
                     150.140—
                     150.142;
                     150.999
2018-11  11-26-2018  34.50
2019-2   3-25-2019   95.01—
                     95.12
                     150.033—
2019-3   7-8-2019    150.039;
                     150.999
2019-4   7-8-2019    Adopting Ordinance
2020-1   2-24-2020   34.04
2020-2   3-23-2020   TSO Table II
2020-4   8-10-2020   155.01
2020-8   12-14-2020  155.01
2020-9   12-14-2020  155.01
2020-10  12-14-2020  155.01
2020-11  12-14-2020  155.01
2020-13  12-14-2020  155.01
2020-14  12-14-2020  155.01
2020-15  12-14-2020  155.01
2021-1   3-22-2021   154.01
2021-2   3-22-2021   154.01
2021-3   3-22-2021   154.01
2021-4   3-22-2021   155.01
2021-5   3-22-2021   155.01
2021-6   3-22-2021   155.01
2021-7   3-22-2021   154.01
2021-9   4-26-2021   34.22
2021-10  4-26-2021   52.081
2021-12  8-23-2021   TSO Table V
2021-13  8-9-2021    155.01
2021-14  8-9-2021    155.01
2021-15  8-9-2021    155.01
2021-16  8-9-2021    155.01
2021-17  8-9-2021    155.01
2021-18  8-9-2021    155.01
2021-19  8-9-2021    155.01
2021-20  8-9-2021    155.01
2021-21  8-9-2021    154.01
2022-2   8-8-2022    53.01;
                     53.02
2022-3   4-25-2022   53.03
2022-4   6-27-2022   155.01
2022-5   6-27-2022   51.01
2022-6   8-8-2022    91.99
                    
 
 
