ARCADIA, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2021 S-2 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 2020-06, passed 11-2-2020
State Legislation current through 2020 A.L.S. Pamphlet #3   
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2016-04
AN ORDINANCE OF THE TOWN OF ARCADIA TO ADOPT A RECODIFICATION OF THE TOWN'S
ORDINANCES
   WHEREAS, the Town of Arcadia, Indiana ("Town") has established its code of
ordinances known as the Arcadia Town Code ("Town Code");
   WHEREAS, in 2014 the Town of Arcadia, hired an online publishing company,
American Legal Publishing Corporation to recodify its Town Code and to publish
the Town Code online;
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has completed the
recodification process; and
   WHEREAS, the Town now wishes to adopt the updated Town Code.
   NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE Town of Arcadia, Hamilton County,
Indiana, that:
   Section 1.   Adoption of Recodification. The Town of Arcadia hereby adopts
the recodification of the Arcadia Town Code as published by American Legal
Publishing Corporation, including all of the changes made to the Arcadia Town
Code.
   Section 2.   Effect. This Ordinance shall take effect upon approval of the
Arcadia Town Council.
THIS ORDINANCE IS HEREBY ADOPTED by the Town Council of the Town of Arcadia,
Indiana, this 19th day of September, 2016.
                        TOWN COUNCIL OF THE
                        TOWN OF ARCADIA, INDIANA
                        /s/                                             
                        Maurice St. Louis, President
                        /s/                                             
                        Mitch Russell
                        /s/                                             
                        Randy Hill
ATTEST:
/s/                                                 
Jennifer S. Pickett - Clerk Treasurer
Town of Arcadia, Indiana
TITLE I:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   TOWN STANDARDS
      
12.   HOME RULE PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10:  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.17   Codification authorized
   
10.18   Incorporation by reference
   
10.19   Code as evidence
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“Arcadia Town Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified
ordinances” or “code” may be substituted.
   (B)   Code title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any part of
the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04  CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   (1)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws,
amendments thereto and newly enacted laws.
      (2)   Any previously existing law or amendment thereto reenacted by this
code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it had not been repealed by
this code.
      (3)   All rules and regulations adopted under laws reenacted in this code
shall remain in full force and effect unless repealed or amended subsequent to
the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05  RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical  words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate  meaning
in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Arcadia Town Council.
      COUNCIL. The Arcadia Town Council.
      COUNTY. Hamilton County, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON.
         (a)   Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic.
         (b)   Whenever used in any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty,
the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to any unincorporated entity, shall
mean the partners or members thereof, and as applied to corporations, the
officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      STATE. The State of Indiana.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06  SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
non-severability provision, each division or part of every section is
severable. If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a statute stating that the provisions of an act are
severable as provided in division (B) above does not affect the operation of
division (B) above with respect to that act.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of the town exercising the
powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10  REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   (A)   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former
section or law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section
or law is not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any
section shall not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture or liability
incurred under the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides.
   (B)   The section shall be treated as still remaining in force for the
purposes of sustaining any proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of
the penalty, forfeiture or liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12  LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section.
   (C)   In addition to an indication thereof as may appear in the text of the
proposed ordinance, a caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the
ordinance.
§ 10.15  SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
         § 39.01  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the city published in prior year and subsequently amended, the
previous code section number shall be indicated in the history by “    )”.
§ 10.16  PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.17  CODIFICATION AUTHORIZED.
   The Town Council shall codify, revise, rearrange or compile the ordinances
of the town into a complete, simplified code excluding formal parts of the
ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 2:4:01)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-1-5-1
§ 10.18  INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The Town Council may incorporate by reference into an ordinance or
code any material.
   (B)   The ordinance or code must state that two copies of the material are
on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer for the Town Council for public
inspection, and the copies must be on file as stated for public inspection.
(Prior Code, § 2:4:02)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-1-5-4
§ 10.19  CODE AS EVIDENCE.
   A printed code that has taken effect constitutes presumptive evidence in any
legal proceeding of the following:
   (A)   Of the provisions of the code;
   (B)   Of the date of adoption of the code;
   (C)   The code has been properly signed, attested, recorded and approved;
and
   (D)   Any public hearings required have been held, with any notices
required, given.
(Prior Code, § 2:4:03)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-1-5-5
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
CHAPTER 11:  TOWN STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Election districts
   
11.02   Municipal boundaries
§ 11.01  ELECTION DISTRICTS.
   (A)   There are hereby created and established three districts within the
town, such districts to be named and described as follows:
      (1)   District #1, which is hereby defined and described as follows:
beginning at the point of intersection of the centerline of Illinois Street and
the centerline of Franklin Avenue in the Town of Arcadia, Jackson Township,
Hamilton County, Indiana; thence east on and along the centerline of Franklin
Avenue to the east line of the northeast quarter of Section 24, Township 20
North, Range 4 East; thence north on and along the east line of said northeast
quarter to the northeast corner of said northeast quarter and the southeast
corner of the southeast quarter of Section 13, Township 20 North, Range 4 East;
thence north 270 feet on and along the east line of said southeast quarter;
thence west 184 feet parallel with the south line of said southeast quarter;
thence northwesterly 658.1 feet; thence westerly to the east line of Arcadia
Estates Replat (Plat Book 6, Page 164); thence northwesterly to the north
corner of Lot #19 in Arcadia Estates Replat; thence west on and along the north
line of Arcadia Estates Replat to the northwest corner of Lot #11 in Arcadia
Estates Replat; thence southeasterly on and along the west line of said Lot #11
and on and along the southeasterly extension of the west line of said Lot #11
to its point of intersection with the centerline of John Street; thence south,
southerly and southeasterly on and along the centerline of John Street to its
terminus as platted in Arcadia Estates Replat; thence southeasterly to the
point of intersection of the centerline of North Street with the centerline of
John Street; thence south on and along the centerline of John Street to the
centerline of Hamilton Avenue; thence east on and along the centerline of
Hamilton Avenue to the centerline of John Street; thence south on and along the
centerline of John Street to the centerline of Howard Avenue; thence west on
and along the centerline of Howard Avenue to the centerline of Illinois Street;
thence south on and along the centerline of Illinois Street to the point of
beginning;
      (2)   District #2, which is hereby defined and described as follows:
beginning at the northeast corner of the southwest quarter of the southeast
quarter of Section 13, Township 20 North, Range 4 East in Jackson Township,
Hamilton County, Indiana; thence west on and along the north line of the
southwest quarter of said southeast quarter and on and along the north line of
the southeast quarter of the southwest quarter of said section to its point of
intersection with the centerline of the Norfolk and Western Railroad tracks;
thence southerly on and along the centerline of said railroad tracks to its
point of intersection with the south line of the north half of Section 24,
Township 20 North, Range 4 East; thence east on and along the south line of
said north half to its point of intersection with the centerline of Illinois
Street in Arcadia Land and Improvement Company’s 1st Addition to Arcadia as per
plat thereof recorded in Deed Record 59, Pages 46 and 47 in the records of
Hamilton County, Indiana; thence north on and along the centerline of said
Illinois street to the centerline of Howard Avenue; thence east on and along
the centerline of Howard Avenue to the centerline of John Street; thence north
on and along the centerline of John Street to the centerline of Hamilton
Avenue; thence west on and along the centerline of Hamilton Avenue to the
centerline of John Street; thence north on and along the centerline of John
Street to the centerline of North Street; thence northwesterly to the
centerline of John Street as platted in Arcadia Estates Replat (Plat Book 6,
Page 164); thence northwesterly, northerly and north on and along the
centerline of John Street to its point of intersection with the southeasterly
extension of the west line of Lot #11 in Arcadia Estates Replat; then
northwesterly on and along the southeasterly extension of the west line of said
Lot #11 and on and along the west line of said Lot #11 to the north line of
Arcadia Estates Replat; thence west on and along the north line of Arcadia
Estates Replat to its northwest corner; thence north on and along the northerly
extension of the west line of Arcadia Estates Replat to the point of beginning;
and
      (3)   District #3, which is hereby defined and described as follows:
beginning at the point of intersection of the north line of the south half of
the southwest quarter of Section 13, Township 20 North, Range 4 East and the
centerline of the Norfolk and Western Railroad tracks in Jackson Township,
Hamilton County, Indiana; thence west on and along the north line of the south
half of said southwest quarter to the west line of Mary Siersdorfer’s Addition,
as per plat thereof, recorded in Deed Record 61, Page 320, in the office of the
Hamilton County Recorder; thence south on and along said west line of said
Siersdorfer’s Addition to the southwest corner of Lot #1 in said Addition;
thence west 16 feet; thence south parallel with the west line of Olive Street
to the north line of Knause Street; thence west on and along the north line of
said Knause Street to the west line of Magnolia Street; thence south on and
along the west line of said Magnolia Street to the north line of North Street;
thence west on and along the north line of said North Street to the west line
of Dora Street; thence south on and along the west line of Dora Street to the
northeast corner of Lot #8 in J.R. Kiste’s Addition, as per plat thereof,
recorded in Plat Book 2, Page 96, in the office of the Hamilton County
Recorder; thence west on and along the north line of said Lot #8 to the west
line thereof; thence south on and along the west line of said Lot #8 and Lot #7
in said Addition to the north line of Lot #2 in said Addition; thence west on
and along the north line of Lots #2, #3, #4, and #5 in said Addition and the
north line of Lot #1 in the Replat of J.R. Kiste’s 2nd Addition, as per plat
thereof, recorded in Plat Book 3, Pages 58 and 59, in the office of the
Hamilton County Recorder, 348.6 feet; thence north 415 feet; thence west 826
feet to the west line of said Section 13; thence south on and along said west
line 580 feet to the north line of Section 24, Township 20 North, Range 4 East;
thence east on and along said north line to a point 521.5 feet east of the
northwest corner of said Section 24; thence south to the southwest corner of a
tract of land owned by C. M. Robbins, as recorded in Deed Record 138, Page 242,
in the office of the Recorder of Hamilton County; thence easterly on and along
the south line of said Robbins land and the eastward projection thereof to the
west line of Olive Street produced south; thence south on and along the west
line of said Olive Street produced south to the south line of the north half of
said Section 24; thence east on and along said south line to its point of
intersection with the centerline of the Norfolk and Western Railroad tracks;
thence northerly on and along the centerline of said railroad tracks to the
point of beginning.
   (B)   The members of the Town Council shall be elected at large by a vote of
all voters in the town, but shall represent the district from which he or she
runs.
      (1)   To be eligible to run for the office of Town Council, a person must
be a resident of the district he or she seeks to represent, be a citizen of the
United States and be of legal voting age.
      (2)   A Town Council member who is elected by the voters of the entire
town but is elected or selected as a candidate from a district forfeits office
if the Council member ceases to be a resident of the district and shall be
replaced according to the applicable state statute.
      (3)   A Town Council member who moves his or her place of residence
outside the corporate limits of the town vacates his or her seat on the Town
Council, and shall be replaced according to the applicable state statute.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 3-8-5-2(a) and (c), candidates for offices for the
Town of Arcadia, Indiana shall be nominated by:
      (1)   A primary election,
      (2)   A petition filed under I.C. 3-8-6, or
      (3)   If a primary election is not required under I.C. 3-8-5-10 for the
political party of which the candidate is a member, by the candidate's
declaration of candidacy.
   (D)   The Hamilton County Election Board shall conduct all primary elections
for the town.
   (E)   The Town of Arcadia shall pay for all costs relating to said primary
elections that are directly attributable to the town. In addition, the town
shall pay a portion of the Hamilton County Election Office's other primary
election expenses which are divided between each of the municipalities in
Hamilton County that are participating in the primary election.
   (F)   All statutes governing primary elections to towns shall apply.
(Ord. 2012-06, passed 7-2-2012; Ord. 2018-04, passed 10-15-2018)
§ 11.02  MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES.
   The corporate boundaries of the town shall be defined as follows:
   (A)   Part of Section 13, Township 20 North, Range 4 East and part of
Section 24, Township 20 North, Range 4 East in Hamilton County, Indiana, more
particularly described as follows: beginning at the southeast corner of Section
13, Township 20 North, Range 4 East; thence north on and along the East line of
said Section 13, a distance of 270 feet; thence west parallel with the south
line of said Section 13, a distance of 184 feet; thence northwesterly 658.1
feet; thence westerly to the northeast corner of a tract of land owned by the
Arcadia Methodist Church, as recorded in Deed Record 204, pages 195 and 196, in
the office of the Hamilton County Recorder; thence in a southwesterly and
westerly direction on and along the northerly boundary of said church tract to
the northwest corner thereof; thence west parallel with the south line of said
Section 13, to the west line of the east half of the southeast quarter of said
Section 13; thence north on and along said west line to the north line of the
south half of said southeast quarter; thence west on and along said north line
and the north line of the south half of the southwest quarter of said Section
13 to the west line of Mary Siersdorfer’s Addition, as per plat thereof,
recorded in Deed Record 61, page 320, in the office of the Hamilton County
Recorder; thence south on and along said west line of said Siersdorfer’s
Addition to the southwest corner of Lot #1 in said Addition; thence west 16
feet; thence south parallel with the west line of Olive Street to the north
line of Knause Street; thence west on and along the north line of Knause Street
to the west line of Magnolia Street; thence south on and along the west line of
said Magnolia Street to the north line of North Street; thence west on and
along the north line of said North Street to the west line of Dora Street;
thence south on and along the west line of said Dora Street to the northeast
corner of Lot #8 in J.R. Kiste’s Addition, as per plat thereof, recorded in
Plat Book 2, page 96, in the office of the Hamilton County Recorder; thence
west on and along the north line of said Lot #5 to the west line thereof;
thence south on and along the west line of said Lot #8 and Lot #7 in said
Addition to the north line of Lot #2 in said Addition; thence west on and along
the north line of Lots #2, #3, #4 and #5 in said Addition and the north line of
Lot #l in the Replat of J.R. Kiste’s 2nd Addition, as per plat thereof,
recorded in Plat Book 3, pages 58 and 59, in the office of the Hamilton County
Recorder, 348.6 feet; thence north 415 feet; thence west 826 feet to the west
line of said Section 13; thence south on and along said west line 580 feet to
the north line of Section 24, Township 20 North, Range 4 East; thence east on
and along said north line to a point 521.5 feet east of the northwest corner of
said Section 24; thence south to the southwest corner of a tract of land owned
by C.M. Robbins, as recorded in Deed Record 138, page 242, in the office of the
Recorder of Hamilton County; thence easterly on and along the south line of
said Robbins land and the eastward projection thereof to the west line of Olive
Street produced south; thence south on and along the west line of said Olive
Street produced south to the south line of the north half of said Section 24;
thence east on and along said south line to the east line of Illinois Street in
Arcadia Land Improvement Company Addition, as per plat thereof, recorded in
Deed Record 59, pages 46 and 47, in the office of the Hamilton County Recorder;
thence north on and along the east line of said Illinois Street to the south
line of Franklin Street in said Addition; thence east on and along the south
line of said Franklin Street to the east line of said Section 24; thence north
on and along said east line to the place of beginning; and (Ordinance recorded
in Book 136, page 87, Instrument No. 9458, on 10-25-1972, in the Office of the
Recorder of Hamilton County, Indiana.)
   (B)   Also: part of the east half of the southeast quarter of Section 13,
Township 20 North, Range 4 East, in Hamilton County, Indiana, more particularly
described as follows: beginning at a point 1,368.38 feet south 00 degrees 02
minutes 20 seconds west of the northwest corner of said east half; thence south
00 degrees 02 minutes 20 seconds west on the west line of said east half 784.20
feet; thence north 89 degrees 31 minutes 25 seconds east 239.76 feet; thence
north 61 degrees 41 minutes 22 seconds east 50.00 feet to a point; thence
northwesterly on a curve, center of said curve being south 61 degrees 41
minutes 22 seconds east 113.00 feet from said point, 80.90 feet to a point,
said point being north 23 degrees 40 minutes 21 seconds east 113.00 feet from
the center of said curve; thence northwesterly on a curve, center of said curve
being north 23 degrees 40 minutes 21 seconds east 97.00 feet from said point,
112.36 feet to a point, said point being south 89 degrees 57 minutes 40 seconds
west 97.00 feet from the center of said curve; thence north 00 degrees 02
minutes 20 seconds east 68.59 feet; thence south 89 degrees 57 minutes 40
seconds east 233.78 feet to the point of curvature of a curve to the left with
a radius of 350.00 feet; thence northeasterly on said curve to the left 209.36
feet, through a central angle of 34 degrees 16 minutes 20 seconds to its point
of tangency; thence north 55 degrees 46 minutes 00 seconds east 178.04 feet;
thence southeasterly on a non-tangent curve to the right with a radius of
630.47 feet 242.08 feet through a central angle of 22 degrees 00 minutes 00
seconds to its point of tangency, which bears south 23 degrees 14 minutes 00
seconds east 240.60 feet from the last described point; thence north 68 degrees
49 minutes 39 seconds east 198.43 feet to a point on a tract of ground
described in Book No. 268, page 163; thence north 21 degrees 18 minutes 18
seconds west on the west line of said tract 171.63 feet to the southwest corner
of a tract of ground described in mortgage release record 40, page 16; thence
north 26 degrees 18 minutes 46 seconds west 175.42 feet to the southwest corner
of a tract as described in book no. 168, page 344; thence north 34 degrees 14
minutes 00 seconds west on the west line of said tract 95.00 feet to the
northwest corner thereof; thence north 55 degrees 46 minutes 00 seconds east on
the northerly line of said tract and its prolongation 197.19 feet to the
centerline of State Road 19, thence northwesterly on a non-tangent curve to the
left with a radius of 2291.83 feet, 50.03 feet through a central angle of 01
degrees 15 minutes 03 seconds to a point; thence south 55 degrees 46 minutes 00
seconds west 199.13 feet; thence north 34 degrees 14 minutes 00 seconds west
120.00 feet to the south line of a tract described in Book 241, page 149;
thence south 89 degrees 59 minutes 48 seconds west 737 feet (738.49 feet
measured) on said south line to the point of beginning containing 11.859 acres,
more or less, subject to drainage and utility easements as shown on the
attached plat. Subject, also, to an electric pole line easement, recorded 10-6-
1969, in Deed Record 231, pages 304 and 305, subject also to all other legal
easements and rights-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 1:3:01)  (Ord. passed 5-4-1977)
CHAPTER 12:  HOME RULE PROVISIONS
Section
   
12.01   Definitions of terms used in home rule statutes
   
12.02   Home rule
   
12.03   Presumption in favor of existence of powers
   
12.04   Presumption that unit has powers necessary to conduct affairs
   
12.05   Procedures for exercise of powers
   
12.06   Powers specifically prohibited
   
12.07   Jurisdiction of the town
   
12.08   General corporate powers
§ 12.01  DEFINITIONS OF TERMS USED IN HOME RULE STATUTES.
   (A)   In addition to the definitions contained in §
10.05 of this code of ordinances, the following are definitions of certain
words used in the home rule statutes which are applicable to and incorporated
in this code.
      BONDS. Any evidence of indebtedness, whether payable from property taxes,
revenues or any other source, but does not include notes or warrants
representing temporary loans that are payable out of taxes levied in the source
of collection.
      CLERK. The Clerk-Treasurer for a town.
      EXECUTIVE. The President of the Town Council.
      FISCAL BODY. The Town Council.
      FISCAL OFFICER. The Clerk-Treasurer for a town.
      LAW. Includes the Constitution of Indiana, statutes and ordinances.
      LEGISLATIVE BODY. The Town Council.
      MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. Unit, school corporation, library district, local
housing authority, fire protection district, public transportation corporation,
local building authority, local hospital authority or corporation, local
airport authority, special service district or other separate local government
entity that may sue and be sued. The term does not include special taxing
district.
      MUNICIPALITY. City or town.
      PERSON. Individual, firm, corporation, association, fiduciary or
governmental entity.
      POLITICAL SUBDIVISION. Municipal corporation or special taxing district.
      POPULATION. The population according to the most recent federal special
or decennial census. This definition applies even if the reference is to the
most recent federal decennial census.
      REGULATE. Includes license, inspect or prohibit.
      SCHOOL CORPORATION. A local public school corporation established under
state law.
      SPECIAL TAXING DISTRICT. A geographic area within which a special tax may
be levied and collected on an ad valorem basis on property for the purpose of
financing local public improvements that are: not political or governmental in
nature; and of special benefit to the residents and property of the area.
      STATUTE. A law enacted by the general assembly of the state.
      TAXING DISTRICT. A geographic area within which property is taxed by the
same taxing entities and at the same total rate.
      TOWN. An incorporated town, unless the reference is to a school town.
      TOWNSHIP. A civil township, unless the reference is to a congressional
township or school township.
      UNIT. County, municipality or township.
   (B)   (1)   The words BOARD or BOARD OF TRUSTEES mean the Town Council. (In
1989, the legislature of the state amended state statutes to provide that
“Board of Trustee(s)” of the towns shall be renamed and shall be known as “Town
Council(s)”.)
      (2)   Wherever the words BOARD or the BOARD OF TRUSTEES appear in this
code, they shall mean and refer to the “Town Council” of Arcadia, Indiana.
(Prior Code, § 2:1:01)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-1-2-2 through 36-1-2-23
§ 12.02  HOME RULE.
   The policy of the state is to grant units all the powers they need for the
operation of government as to local affairs.
(Prior Code, § 2:2:01)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-1-3-2
§ 12.03  PRESUMPTION IN FAVOR OF EXISTENCE OF POWERS.
   (A)   The rule of law that any doubt as to the existence of a power of a
unit shall be resolved against its existence is abrogated.
   (B)   Any doubt as to the existence of a power of a unit shall be resolved
in favor of its existence.
(Prior Code, § 2:2:02)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-1-3-3
§ 12.04  PRESUMPTION THAT UNIT HAS POWERS NECESSARY TO CONDUCT AFFAIRS.
   (A)   A unit has all powers granted it by statute, and all other powers
necessary or desirable in the conduct of its affairs.
   (B)   A unit may exercise any power it has to the extent that the power is
not expressly denied by the state’s Constitution or by statute, and is not
expressly granted to another entity.
(Prior Code, § 2:2:03)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-1-3-4, 36-1-3-5
§ 12.05  PROCEDURES FOR EXERCISE OF POWERS.
   (A)   If there is a constitutional or statutory provision requiring a
specific manner for exercising a power, a unit wanting to exercise the power
must do so in that manner.
   (B)   If there is no constitutional or statutory provision requiring a
specific manner for exercising a power, a unit wanting to exercise the power
must either adopt an ordinance prescribing a specific manner for exercising the
power or comply with a statutory provision permitting a specific manner for
exercising the power.
   (C)   The aforementioned ordinance must be passed by the legislative body
(Town Council) of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 2:2:04)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-1-3-6
§ 12.06  POWERS SPECIFICALLY PROHIBITED.
   A unit (Arcadia) does not have the following:
   (A)   The power to condition or limit its civil liability, except as
expressly granted by statute;
   (B)   The power to prescribe the law governing civil actions between private
persons;
   (C)   The power to impose duties on another political subdivision, except as
expressly granted by statute;
   (D)   The power to impose a tax, except as expressly granted by statute;
   (E)   The power to impose a license or other fee greater than that
reasonably related to the administrative cost of exercising a regulatory power;
   (F)   The power to impose a service charge greater than that reasonably
related to the cost of the service provided;
   (G)   The power to regulate conduct that is regulated by a state agency,
except as expressly granted by statute;
   (H)   The power to prescribe a penalty for conduct constituting a crime or
infraction under a statute;
   (I)   The power to prescribe a penalty of imprisonment for an ordinance
violation;
   (J)   The power to prescribe a penalty of a fine of more than $2,500 for an
ordinance violation; and
   (K)   The power to invest money, except as expressly granted by statute.
(Prior Code, § 2:2:05)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-1-3-8
§ 12.07  JURISDICTION OF THE TOWN.
   (A)   The town has exclusive jurisdiction over bridges (subject to I.C. 8-
16-3-1), streets, alleys, sidewalks, watercourses, sewers, drains and public
grounds inside its corporate boundaries, unless a statute provides otherwise.
   (B)   The area inside the corporate boundaries of the town comprises its
territorial jurisdiction, except to the extent that a statute expressly
authorizes the municipality to exercise a power in areas outside its corporate
boundaries.
(Prior Code, § 2:2:06)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-1-3-9
§ 12.08  GENERAL CORPORATE POWERS.
   The town possesses the following general powers:
   (A)   May sue and be sued;
   (B)   May have a corporate seal;
   (C)   May acquire, by eminent domain or other means, and own interests in
real and personal property;
   (D)   May use, improve, develop, insure, protect, maintain, lease and
dispose of its interests in property;
   (E)   May enter into contracts;
   (F)   May pay debts;
   (G)   May borrow money;
   (H)   May accept donations of money or other property and execute any
documents necessary to receive money or other property from the state or
federal government or any other source;
   (I)   May adopt, codify and enforce ordinances;
   (J)   May require the attendance of witnesses and the production of
documents relevant to matters being considered at meetings of the board of
trustees, department or agency;
   (K)   May punish contempt and disorder in rooms of a department or agency;
   (L)   May hire and discharge employees;
   (M)   May fix the level of compensation of its officers and employees;
   (N)   May ratify any action of the town or its officers or employees if that
action could have been approved in advance. Ratification of an action under
this division (N) must be made by the same procedure that would have been
required for approval of the action in advance; and
   (O)   May compromise claims made against it.
(Prior Code, § 2:3:01)
Editor’s note:
   The initiation and utilization of one or more of the general powers listed
above may require that certain procedures be followed, certain notices given
and the like. Therefore, all relevant statutes of the state should be carefully
reviewed prior to exercising said power.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-1-4-3 through 36-1-4-17
TITLE III:  ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   TOWN COUNCIL
      
31.   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
34.   CIVIL DEFENSE
CHAPTER 30:  TOWN COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Designation of town legislative body
   
30.02   Members; terms
   
30.03   Town Council President
   
30.04   Quorum
   
30.05   When majority vote required
   
30.06   When two-thirds vote required
   
30.07   Town Clerk-Treasurer authorized to break ties
   
30.08   When ordinance takes effect
   
30.09   Record of ordinance
Order of Business; Ordinances
   
30.20   Order of business
   
30.21   Reading ordinances prior to passage
   
30.22   Numbering of ordinances
Cross-reference:
   Home Rule provisions, see
Ch. 12
Editor’s note:
   The Town Council has been renamed the Town Council by amendments made to
state statutes in 1989 by the Indiana State Legislature. (See I.C. 36-1-2-
2 through 36-1-2-24 and 36-5-2-2; also, see Ord. 89-6, adopted by the Town
Council of Arcadia, Indiana, on 10-4-1989.)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01  DESIGNATION OF TOWN LEGISLATIVE BODY.
   The legislative body of the town be known as the Town Council and shall
consist of three members elected at large by the voters of the whole town.
(Prior Code, § 3:1:01)
§ 30.02  MEMBERS; TERMS.
   (A)   The district member for District 1 shall be elected for a term of four
years in the 2019 municipal election and said member for District 1 or their
successors shall be elected to four-year terms thereafter.
   (B)   The district members for Districts 2 and 3 elected in the municipal
election held in 2019 shall serve an initial term of three years. Thereafter,
district members for Districts 2 and 3, or their successors, shall be elected
to four-year terms in the general election. This shall commence in the general
election of 2022.
   (C)   Each term of office shall begin at noon on January 1 following the
election and/or the appointment, whichever is applicable, and shall continue
until a successor is elected and qualified.
(Prior Code, § 3:1:02)  (Ord. 2018-03, passed 10-15-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-5-2-3
§ 30.03  TOWN COUNCIL PRESIDENT.
   The Town Council shall select one of its members to be its President for a
definite term, which may not exceed his or her term of office as a member of
the legislative body. The President of the Town Council is the town executive.
(Prior Code, § 3:1:03)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-5-2-3
§ 30.04  QUORUM.
   A majority of all the elected members of the Town Council constitutes a
quorum.
(Prior Code, § 3:1:04)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-5-2-9.2
§ 30.05  WHEN MAJORITY VOTE REQUIRED.
   A majority vote of the Town Council is required to pass an ordinance, unless
a greater vote is required by statute. A majority vote means at least a
majority vote of all the elected members.
(Prior Code, § 3:1:05)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-5-2-9.4
§ 30.06  WHEN TWO-THIRDS VOTE REQUIRED.
   A two-thirds vote, with unanimous consent of the members present, is
required to pass an ordinance on the same day or at the same meeting at which
it is introduced. A two-thirds vote means at least a two-thirds vote of all the
elected members.
(Prior Code, § 3:1:06)
§ 30.07  TOWN CLERK-TREASURER AUTHORIZED TO BREAK TIES.
   (A)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is the Clerk of the Town Council.
   (B)   Whenever the Town Council has an even number of members for any
reason, the Clerk-Treasurer is an ex-officio member for the purpose of casting
the deciding vote to break a tie.
(Prior Code, § 3:1:07)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-5-2-8
§ 30.08  WHEN ORDINANCE TAKES EFFECT.
   (A)   (1)   An ordinance, order or resolution passed by the Town Council
becomes effective when signed by the President of the Council unless the
ordinance, order or resolution by its own terms establishes the date upon which
it takes effect.
      (2)   If required by statute, an adopted ordinance, order or resolution
must be promulgated or published before it takes effect.
   (B)   An ordinance prescribing a penalty for a violation must, before it
takes effect, be published in the manner prescribed by I.C. 5-3-1-1 through 5-
3-1-9 unless:
      (1)   It is published under I.C. 36-1-5-1 through 36-1-5-6; or
      (2)   It declares an emergency requiring its immediate effectiveness and
is posted in one public place in each district in the town.
(Prior Code, § 3:1:08)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-5-2-10
§ 30.09  RECORD OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Within a reasonable time after an ordinance of the Town Council is
adopted, the Clerk- Treasurer shall record the ordinance in a book and/or code
kept for that purpose.
   (B)   The record must include: the signature of the executive; the
attestation of the Clerk-Treasurer; and the date of each recorded item.
(Prior Code, § 3:1:09)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-5-2-10.2
ORDER OF BUSINESS; ORDINANCES
§ 30.20  ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   The order of business at a regularly held meeting of the Town Council shall
be as follows:
   (A)   Call the meeting to order;
   (B)   Reading and approval of the minutes of the prior meeting of the
Council;
   (C)   Committee and/or departmental reports;
   (D)   Old and unfinished business;
   (E)   New business;
   (F)   Questions and/or discussion from the floor; and
   (G)   Adjournment.
(Prior Code, § 3:10:01)  (Ord. 82-14, passed 12-31-1982)
§ 30.21  READING ORDINANCES PRIOR TO PASSAGE.
   (A)   Except as otherwise required under the statutes of the state, the
introduction and passage of all ordinances by the Town Council may be by title
only, and the Council may dispense with reading any part of or the entire
ordinance at a public meeting prior to the passage of the same. All ordinances
introduced and/or passed by title only shall be made available by the Clerk-
Treasurer, upon request, to any member of the public who desires to review the
ordinance either prior to, during or after its introduction and/or passage.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer may impose a reasonable charge to members of the
public to cover the costs of reproducing (copying and/or Xerox costs) the
ordinance requested.
(Prior Code, § 3:10:02)  (Ord. 82-14, passed 12-31-1982)
§ 30.22  NUMBERING OF ORDINANCES.
   From and after the passage of this code of ordinances, each ordinance passed
shall be assigned a set of numbers as follows: the first two numbers shall
correspond to the last two digits of the year in which the ordinance was
passed; and the next number(s), which shall be separated by a hyphen from the
first two numbers, shall represent the numerical order of passage of a
particular ordinance during the calendar year in relation to other ordinances
which may have been passed prior to it in the same year. For example, the first
ordinance to be passed in 1984 shall be assigned the number 84-1 and the second
ordinance to be passed shall bear the number 84-2 and the like.
(Prior Code, § 3:10:03)  (Ord. 82-14, passed 12-31-1982)
CHAPTER 31:  OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Employees
   
31.02   Nepotism
   
31.03   Drug-free workplace
Clerk-Treasurer
   
31.15   Town Fiscal Officer
   
31.16   Term of office
   
31.17   Election
   
31.18   Administration of oaths
   
31.19   Powers and duties
   
31.20   Deputies and employees
   
31.21   Violations Clerk
Town Marshal, Deputy Marshals and Police Reserves
   
31.35   Appointment
   
31.36   Removal from office
   
31.37   Powers and duties
   
31.38   Deputy Marshals
   
31.39   Police Reserves
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01  EMPLOYEES.
   The legislative body (Town Council) may appoint a Street Commissioner, Water
Commissioner, Sewer Commissioner, Building Inspector and other employees who
shall perform the duties assigned to them by the legislative body. One or more
of the aforementioned offices and/or functions may be held by the same
employee.
(Prior Code, § 3:6:01)
§ 31.02  NEPOTISM.
   (A)   The town finds that it is necessary and desirous to adopt a policy of
conduct with regard to nepotism in the employment with the town and in
contracting with the town in order to continue to be able to provide local
government services to its residents and to comply with the new laws effective
7-1-2012, known as I.C. 36-1-20.2 and 36-1-21, respectively.
   (B)   On 7-1-2012, the town shall have a nepotism policy and a contracting
with a unit policy that complies with the minimum requirements of I.C. 36-1-
20.2 (hereinafter, “nepotism policy”) and I.C. 36-1-21 (hereinafter,
“contracting with relatives of elected officials and the like policy”) and
implementation will begin.
   (C)   The town’s nepotism policy is hereby established effective 7-1-2012 by
adopting the minimum requirements provisions of I.C. 36-1-20.2, and including
all future supplements and amendments thereto which become law from time to
time, and making them a part hereof as if fully set out herein.
   (D)   The town’s contracting with relatives of elected officials and the
like policy is hereby established effective 7-1-2012 by adopting the minimum
requirements provisions of I.C. 36-1-21, and including all future supplements
and amendments thereto which become law from time to time, and making them a
part hereof as if fully set out herein.
   (E)   The town finds that both I.C. 36-1-20.2 and 36-1-21 specifically allow
a unit to adopt requirements that are “more stringent or detailed” and that
more detailed are necessary.
   (F)   The town further finds that a single member of the legislative body
cannot act for the body to make work assignments, compensation, grievances,
advancement or a performance evaluation without prior authority of a majority
of the body and therefore without such authority by the majority he or she will
not be in the direct line of supervision.
   (G)   The town finds that a single member of governing bodies with authority
over employees in the town cannot act for the governing body to make work
assignments, compensation, grievances, advancement or a performance evaluation
without prior authority of a majority of the body, when a statute provides that
a majority is needed to act and, therefore, without such authority by the
majority the single member will not be in the direct line of supervision.
   (H)   All elected and appointed officials and employees of the town are
hereby directed to cooperate fully in the implementation of the policies
created by this section and demonstrating compliance with these same policies.
   (I)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance
and certifications connected with the nepotism policy is a violation and may
result in the discipline, including termination, of an employee or a transfer
from the direct line of supervision or other curative action. An elected or
appointed official of the town who fails to abide by or cooperate with the
implementation, with the compliance and with mandated certifications of either
the nepotism policy may be subject to action allowed by law.
   (J)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance
and certifications connected with the contracting with relatives of elected
officials and the like policy is a violation and may result in the discipline,
including termination, of an employee or a curative action. An elected or
appointed official of the town who fails to abide by or cooperate with the
implementation, with the compliance and with mandated certifications of either
the nepotism policy or the contracting with relatives of elected officials and
the like policy may be subject to action allowed by law.
   (K)   (1)   The polices created by this section are hereby directed to be
implemented by any of the following actions:
         (a)   Posting a copy of this section in its entirety in at least one
of the locations in the town where it posts employer posters or other notices
to its employees;
         (b)   Providing a copy of this section to its employees and elected
and appointed officials;
         (c)   Providing or posting a notice of the adoption of this section;
or
         (d)   Any such other action or actions that would communicate the
polices established by this section to its employees and elected and appointed
officials.
      (2)   Upon any of taking these actions, these policies are deemed
implemented by the town.
   (L)   A copy of the provisions of I.C. 36-1-20.2 and 36-1-21, effective 7-1-
2012, are annexed to the ordinance codified herein as “Exhibit A” and “Exhibit
B”.
   (M)   Two copies of I.C. 36-1-20.2 and 36-1-21, and as supplemented or
amended, are on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer for the town for
public inspection as maybe required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
   (N)   With the passage of this section, the Town Council hereby adopts:
“Exhibit C”, entitled “Verification of Applicant for Employment for Compliance
with Municipal Nepotism Policy”; “Exhibit D”, entitled “Council Member and
Other Elected Officials Disclosure of Relative’s Contract with Municipality”;
“Exhibit E”, entitled “Certification of Elected Official to the Executive of
the Town on Compliance with Municipal Nepotism Policy”; and “Exhibit F”,
entitled “Annual Certification of Elected Official to the Executive of the Town
of Arcadia on Compliance with Municipal Nepotism Policy Involving Direct Line
Supervision”. (All exhibits are attached to the ordinance codified herein.) The
Town Council may amend, from time to time, any part of the wording in the
attached “Exhibit C”, “Exhibit D”, “Exhibit E” and “Exhibit F”.
(Ord. 2012-05, passed 6-18-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-4-6-11, 36-5-2-9.4
§ 31.03  DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE.
   (A)   Violation of any provision of this section will be considered just
cause for disciplinary action up to and including discharge, even for a first
offense. In addition, refusal to adhere to any part of the policy may be
considered an act of insubordination and also may lead to disciplinary action
up to and including discharge.
   (B)   This section and related procedures may be modified by the town at any
time in order to comply with any applicable federal, state or local laws or to
better serve the needs of the town.
   (C)   (1)   PROHIBITED DRUGS are defined as illegal substances, including
controlled substances, as defined in the Controlled Substance Act (21 U.S.C. §
8120 and 21 C.F.R. §§ 1308.11 through 1308.15) and prescription controlled
substance which have not been prescribed by a licensed physician or dentist for
specific treatment purposes for the employee.
      (2)   Abuse of prescription or over-the-counter drugs will also be
treated as a substance abuse problem under this section.
      (3)   This section prohibits the illegal use, sale, transfer,
distribution, possession or unlawful manufacture of narcotics, drugs or other
controlled substances while on the job or on county premises (including
vehicles used for town business). These include, but are not limited to,
marijuana, cocaine, crack, PCP, heroin, LSD, amphetamines, hallucinogens and
barbiturates.
      (4)   Any illegal substances found on such premises will be turned over
to the state police and may lead to criminal prosecution.
   (D)   (1)   The use of alcohol on the job or on town premises is prohibited,
unless such use is non-abusive and is part of an authorized official event held
off town premises. The use of alcohol in vehicles used for town business is
strictly prohibited.
      (2)   Alcohol possession applies to all open or unsealed alcoholic
beverage containers. Such containers are not allowed on the job or on town
premises, unless their possession is part of an authorized official event.
Possession of such containers in vehicles used for town business is never
authorized.
   (E)   (1)   Employees must as a condition of employment, abide by the terms
of this section and report any conviction to the town under a criminal drug
statute for violations occurring on or off town premises when conducting town
business. Report of a conviction must be made to the town within five business
days after the conviction. The town will then notify the appropriate
contracting officer within ten days after receiving notice from either the
employee or from another source. (These requirements are mandated by the Drug-
Free Workplace Act of 1988.)
      (2)   An employee who is involved with off the job illegal drug activity
may be considered in violation of this section. In determining whether
disciplinary action will be imposed for this activity, the town will consider
the circumstance of each incident, including, but not limited to, any adverse
effect the employee’s actions may have on its customers, other employees, the
public or the county’s reputation and image.
      (3)   Any questions regarding the reporting of violations should be
directed to the Clerk- Treasurer.
   (F)   (1)   Health maintenance is primarily a personal responsibility and it
is the individual’s responsibility to correct unsatisfactory job performance or
behavioral problems caused by alcohol or drug abuse. In an effort to assist
employees, the town will provide various means for employees and their family
members to remain aware of the dangers of substance abuse in the workplace and
to overcome drug and alcohol related problems.
      (2)   Employees with a personal, alcohol or drug related problems are
encouraged to volunteer to participate in a approved rehabilitation program
upon referral from the Employee and Family Assistance Program, before work
performance becomes affected.
      (3)   Participation in a rehabilitation program will not be considered a
barrier to not a cause for disciplinary action. Employees will not be
disciplined merely because of participation in a rehabilitation program or
excused from the disciplinary consequences of conduct which is in violation of
this section or any other town policies or job requirements.
      (4)   Any employee identified through a town investigation as having a
substance abuse problem also may not avoid disciplinary action by requesting to
participate in an approved rehabilitation program.
Circumstances in each case will be evaluated to determine the course of action
to be taken (i.e., whether the employee will be offered the opportunity to
participate in a rehabilitation program and/or will be subject to discipline).
   (G)   (1)   The town will not ask employees to submit to random alcohol or
drug tests. Alcohol or drug tests may be required for employees in the
following circumstances:
         (a)   When unsatisfactory job performance or other employee behavior
is reasonably indicative of substance abuse;
         (b)   During and after participation in a drug or alcohol
rehabilitation program for a reasonable period of time as determined by the
town; and
         (c)   When required by law.
      (2)   If a supervisor identifies an employee with a behavior pattern and/
or job performance reasonably indicative of substance abuse, the supervisor
(with the concurrence of the next level of supervision) may recommend that the
employee have a fitness for duty examination by a physician designated by the
town. The physician will determine whether a fitness for duty examination is
necessary and whether alcohol or drug tests will be required.
      (3)   Pre-employment drug testing is part of the pre-employment physical.
         (a)   The method of testing will be determined by the town.
         (b)   Applicants who test positive for prohibited drugs in their
systems will not be offered employment.
         (c)   Any questions regarding reapplication opportunities should be
directed to the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 7-21-2008)
CLERK-TREASURER
§ 31.15  TOWN FISCAL OFFICER.
   The Clerk-Treasurer is both the Town Clerk and the town’s fiscal officer.
(Prior Code, § 3:4:01)  (Ord. 2006-02, passed 4-17-2006)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-5-6-2
§ 31.16  TERM OF OFFICE.
   The term of office of the Clerk-Treasurer is four years, beginning at noon
on January 1 after his or her election and continuing until his or her
successor is elected and qualified.
(Prior Code, § 3:4:02)  (Ord. 2006-02, passed 4-17-2006)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-5-6-3
§ 31.17  ELECTION.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be elected by the voters of the whole town.
(Prior Code, § 3:4:03)  (Ord. 2006-02, passed 4-17-2006)
§ 31.18  ADMINISTRATION OF OATHS.
   The Clerk-Treasurer may administer oaths, take deposition and take
acknowledgments of instruments required by statute to be acknowledgments of
instruments required by statute to be acknowledged.
(Prior Code, § 3:4:04)  (Ord. 2006-02, passed 4-17-2006)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-5-6-5
§ 31.19  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Receive and care for all town moneys, and pay them out only on order
of the town legislative body (Town Council);
   (B)   Keep accounts showing when and from what sources he or she has
received town moneys, and when and to whom he or she has paid out town moneys;
   (C)   File each month with the legislative body (Town Council) a statement
showing the receipts and disbursements of the town treasury for the preceding
month and the balance remaining in each town fund;
   (D)   Keep his or her records open for inspection by the legislative body
(Town Council) or a person appointed by the legislative body for that purpose;
   (E)   Maintain custody of the town seal and the records of the legislative
body;
   (F)   Issue all licenses authorized by statute;
   (G)   Serve as clerk of the legislative body (Town Council) by attending its
meetings and recording its proceedings; and
   (H)   Perform all other duties prescribed by law.
(Prior Code, § 3:4:05)  (Ord. 2006-02, passed 4-17-2006)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-5-6-6
§ 31.20  DEPUTIES AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer may appoint the number of deputies and employees
authorized by the town legislative body (Town Council).
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer’s deputies and employees serve at his or her
pleasure and may be dismissed at any time by him or her without cause.
(Prior Code, § 3:4:06)  (Ord. 2006-02, passed 4-17-2006)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-5-6-7
§ 31.21  VIOLATIONS CLERK.
   The Clerk Treasurer is hereby designated as the Violations Clerk, pursuant
to I.C. 33-36-2-2 et seq., and as amended.
(Prior Code, § 3:4:07)  (Ord. 2006-02, passed 4-17-2006)
Cross-reference:
   Ordinance violations, see §
10.99(B)
TOWN MARSHAL, DEPUTY MARSHALS AND POLICE RESERVES
§ 31.35  APPOINTMENT.
   The town legislative body (Town Council) shall appoint a Town Marshal and
fix his or her compensation.
(Prior Code, § 3:5:01)  (Ord. 82-38, passed 2-2-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-5-7-2
§ 31.36  REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   The Marshal serves at the pleasure of the town legislative body (Town
Council). However, before terminating or suspending a Marshal who has been
employed by the town for more than six months after completing the minimum
basic training requirements adopted by the Law Enforcement Training Board under
I.C. 5-2-1-9, the legislative body (Town Council) must conduct the disciplinary
removal and appeals procedure prescribed by I.C. 36-8-1-1 through 36-8-2-12 for
city, fire and police departments.
(Prior Code, § 3:5:02)  (Ord. 82-38, passed 2-2-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-5-7-3
§ 31.37  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Marshal is the chief police officer of the town and has the powers
of other law enforcement officers in executing the orders of the legislative
body and enforcing laws.
   (B)   The Marshal or his or her Deputy:
      (1)   Shall serve all process directed to him or her by the legislative
body (Town Council) and shall enforce all ordinances of the town;
      (2)   Shall arrest without process ail persons who commit an offense
within his or her view, take them before a court having jurisdiction and detain
them in custody until the cause of the arrest has been investigated;
      (3)   Shall suppress breaches of the peace;
      (4)   May, if necessary, call the power of the town to his or her aid;
      (5)   May execute search warrants and arrest warrants; and
      (6)   May pursue and jail persons who commit an offense.
(Prior Code, § 3:5:03)  (Ord. 82-38, passed 2-2-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-5-7-4
§ 31.38  DEPUTY MARSHALS.
   (A)   The town legislative body (Town Council) may by ordinance authorize
the Marshal to appoint Deputy Marshals. Deputy Marshals have the powers and
liabilities of the Marshal in executing the orders of the legislative body
(Town Council) or enforcing laws.
   (B)   One Deputy Marshal may be designated as the town’s humane officer. He
or she has the duties prescribed by I.C. 36-8-1-1 through 36-8-14-4 for city
humane officers.
   (C)   The legislative body (Town Council) shall fix the amount of bond,
compensation and term of service of Deputy Marshals. The Marshal may dismiss a
Deputy Marshal at any time. However, a Deputy Marshal who has been employed by
the town for more than six months after completing the minimum basic training
requirements adopted by the Law Enforcement Training Board under I.C. 5-2-1-
9 may be dismissed only if the procedure prescribed by I.C. 36-5-7-3 is
followed.
(Prior Code, § 3:5:04)  (Ord. 82-38, passed 2-2-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-5-7-6
§ 31.39  POLICE RESERVES.
   (A)   The Town Council may appoint any number of persons as police reserves
who shall serve at the pleasure of the Town Council.
   (B)   Police reserves shall not be members of the regular Police Department
of the town.
   (C)   Police reserves shall have only those powers as provided by the rules
and regulations adopted by the Town Council and as set forth or limited by
statutes, rules and regulations of the state.
   (D)   Members of the town’s Police Reserves, to the extent that sums, if
any, for the benefits are appropriated by the Town Council, may:
      (1)   Receive a uniform allowance;
      (2)   Receive compensation for time lost from other employment because of
court appearance; and
      (3)   Be insured for life, accident and sickness coverage.
   (E)   Members of the town’s Police Reserves are not eligible to participate
in any pension programs provided for regular members of the Department.
   (F)   The Town Council is not required to appropriate any sums of money for
benefits, compensation, insurance and other allowances for members of the
Police Reserves and, in such instances, members of the Police Reserves shall
provide their own uniforms and shall serve without receiving any type or form
of compensation or benefits from the town, nor shall they make or file a claim
against the town for benefits, compensation or allowances.
   (G)   A police reserve may not be appointed until he or she has completed
the training and probationary period specified by rules of the Police
Department.
(Prior Code, § 3:5:05)  (Ord. 82-38, passed 2-2-1983)
CHAPTER 32:  TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Economic Development Committee
   
32.01   Creation
   
32.02   Control and authority
   
32.03   Members; terms
   
32.04   Bylaws
   
32.05   Function
Local Planning Team
   
32.20   Creation and establishment
   
32.21   Authority; reports
   
32.22   Members
   
32.23   Responsibilities and tasks
Plan Commission
   
32.35   Members of the Plan Commission
   
32.36   Term of office
   
32.37   Qualification of citizen members
   
32.38   Vacancies
Board of Zoning Appeals
   
32.50   Members of the Board of Zoning Appeals
   
32.51   Term of office
   
32.52   Qualification of members
   
32.53   Vacancies
   
32.54   Removal for cause
Cross-reference:
   Home Rule Provisions, see
Ch. 12
   Town Council, see
Ch. 30
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE
§ 32.01  CREATION.
   There is hereby created the town’s Economic Development Committee which
shall serve in an advisory capacity to the town’s government agencies, the
various utilities, the business community and the community at large in
promoting and facilitating the prosperity, economic stability and general
welfare of the town.
(Ord. 2009-06, passed 10-19-2009)
§ 32.02  CONTROL AND AUTHORITY.
   The Committee shall be under the control of the Town Council.
(Ord. 2009-06, passed 10-19-2009)
§ 32.03  MEMBERS; TERMS.
   (A)   The town’s Economic Development Committee shall consist of five
members who shall be appointed as follows.
      (1)   The President of the Town Council shall appoint two members who
shall serve a term of two years; and one of the two members appointed herein by
the President must be a resident who either resides within the corporate
municipal boundaries of the town or within one mile of the town’s corporate
municipal boundary, and the remaining member appointed by the President of the
Town Council must either be a business owner or a designated representative of
a business which is located within the town.
      (2)   Three members shall be appointed by the Town Council of which two
members must be residents of and reside within the corporate municipal
boundaries of the town and the third appointment of the Town Council must
either own a business that is located within the town or is a designated
representative of a business that is located within the town.
   (B)   The term of office for the members of the Committee appointed by the
President of the Town Council shall be for a two-year period, and the term of
office for the members appointed by the Town Council shall be for a period of
three years.
   (C)   The appointment of members the town’s Economic Development Committee
shall be made by the respective appointing entity within 15 days after
receiving notice from the Secretary of the Town Council that they are required
to make such appointments. At the expiration of the respective initial terms of
each of the members originally appointed, their respected successors shall be
selected before the expiration of the term in the same manner as the original
appointee, and each succeeding member shall serve a term of two years. In the
event any person appointed as a member shall fail to accept the appointment
hereunder, within ten days after the mailing of notice to him or her of his or
her appointment, or if any member after being appointed shall die, resign or
vacate such office, a new member shall be selected and appointed to fill such
vacancy in the same manner as the member in respect to whom such vacancy
occurred, and the member so appointed shall serve the remainder of the vacated
term. Members shall hold over after the expiration of their terms until their
respective successors have been duly appointed and qualified. Such members
shall receive no salaries or remuneration of any kind.
   (D)   The Committee shall elect one of its members as President, one as Vice
President, one as Secretary, each of which officers shall serve from the day of
his or her election until June 1 next following his or her election and until
his or her successor is elected and qualified. In addition to the election of a
President, a Vice President and a Secretary, the Committee may also elect a
Recording Secretary whose duties and responsibilities shall be to record the
minutes of the meetings and to care for and maintain the various records and
documents of the Committee.
(Ord. 2009-06, passed 10-19-2009)
§ 32.04  BYLAWS.
   (A)   The Committee is authorized to adopt such bylaws, rules and
regulations as it may deem necessary for the proper conduct of its proceedings
and the carrying out of its duties. Said bylaws, rules and regulations shall be
subject to review and approval by the Town Council.
   (B)   Regular or special meetings of the Committee shall be held at such
time as it may determine and upon such notice as it may decide, either by
resolution or in accordance with the provisions of the bylaws, rules and
regulations adopted.
   (C)   A majority of the Committee shall constitute a quorum and the
concurrence of the majority shall be necessary to authorize any action.
(Ord. 2009-06, passed 10-19-2009)
§ 32.05  FUNCTION.
   (A)   (1)   As stated above, the said Committee shall serve in an advisory
function and capacity to the Town Council, to the town’s business community, to
various other governmental and or utility agencies and to the community at
large. The Committee shall, among other things, provide input to the various
governmental bodies regarding existing and/or new ordinances that have a direct
effect on the business community. It shall vigorously recruit business and
industry, and it shall create awareness of the business opportunities and
resources that are available to businesses in and around the town. In addition,
the Committee will provide businesses with a central location to gather
pertinent, up/to date information on the local opportunities of doing business
in the town, including, but not limited to, licensing, permits and building
services.
      (2)   In addition to foregoing, the Committee will undertake additional
tasks as may be assigned from time to time by the Town Council.
   (B)   Since the town’s Economic Development Committee will serve only in an
advisory capacity, it does not have the legal authority, nor the legal
standing, to incur debt, enter into contracts or agreements, or to undertake
any actions of any kind that would be legally binding upon the town, the Town
Council or the residents of the town.
(Ord. 2009-06, passed 10-19-2009)
LOCAL PLANNING TEAM
§ 32.20  CREATION AND ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created and established a Local Planning Team (LPT) pursuant
to and under the authority of the state’s Wellhead Protection Rule (327 I.A.C.
8-4.1).
(Ord. 2001-03, passed 6-4-2001)
§ 32.21  AUTHORITY; REPORTS.
   (A)   The LPT shall be composed of a minimum of four members who shall be
appointed by the Town Council, and each member of the LPT shall be appointed
for a four-year term.
   (B)   The LPT shall report directly to the Town Council and shall meet as
necessary to complete Phase 1 and Phase 2 of the wellhead protection plan and
shall complete the various progress reports that may be required by IDEM and by
the state’s wellhead protection rules and regulations.
   (C)   In addition to the foregoing, the Town Council reserves the authority
and the right to enact ordinances which, among other things, establishes
wellhead protection zones, require site and plan review, create development
standards and prohibitions and covering any other mailer authorized by and/or
provided in the state’s wellhead protection statute and regulations.
(Ord. 2001-03, passed 6-4-2001)
§ 32.22  MEMBERS.
   Members of the LPT shall include one or more members of the Town Council,
one or more members of the town’s Plan Commission, and one or more “affected
persons”, as defined under the state’s wellhead protection rule, and the Town
Council’s designee shall serve as Chairperson of the LPT.
(Ord. 2001-03, passed 6-4-2001)
§ 32.23  RESPONSIBILITIES AND TASKS.
   The responsibilities and tasks for the LPT shall include, but are not
limited to, the following:
   (A)   Create, define and delineate the area of the town’s wellhead
protection plan;
   (B)   Develop and maintain a wellhead protection plan (WHPP) that is in
compliance with IDEM’s requirements (327 I.A.C. 8-4.1);
   (C)   Provide an annual report to the Town Council on the progress of the
town’s WHPP;
   (D)   Recommend and advise the Town Council as to changes which may be
required and/or improvements which may be deemed necessary to the WHPP; and
   (E)   Act as the primary liaison with the county’s Wellhead Task Force and
the state’s Department of Environmental Management for Wellhead issues.
(Ord. 2001-03, passed 6-4-2001)
PLAN COMMISSION
§ 32.35  MEMBERS OF THE PLAN COMMISSION.
   The town’s Plan Commission shall be composed of nine members who are
appointed as follows.
   (A)   The legislative body (Town Council) shall appoint three persons in the
municipal government as members.
   (B)   The municipal executive (President of Town Council) shall appoint four
citizen members, of whom, no more than two may be of the same political party.
   (C)   (1)   Since the Plan Commission exercises jurisdiction within a two-
mile area outside the municipal boundaries of the town, the executive of the
county shall appoint two additional citizen members to the Plan Commission.
      (2)   The two additional citizen members must reside in the two-mile
unincorporated area and be of opposite political parties.
(Prior Code, § 3:7:01)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-7-4-207(b), 36-7-4-214
§ 32.36  TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   The initial term of the four citizen members of the Plan Commission
appointed by the executive are as follows: one for a term of one year; one for
a term of two years; one for a term of three years; and one for a term of four
years. Thereafter, each appointment is for a term of four years.
   (B)   The three persons appointed from the membership of the legislative
body (Town Council) shall serve a term that is coextensive with the member’s
term of office on the Town Council unless the Town Council, at its first
regular meeting in any year, appoints another person in the government to serve
as its representative on the Plan Commission.
   (C)   The initial term of the two citizen members appointed by the executive
of the county to serve on the Plan Commission from the unincorporated area
shall be as follows: one member shall be appointed for a term of one year; and
the other member shall be appointed for a term of four years. Thereafter, each
appointment is for a term of four years.
(Prior Code, § 3:7:02)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-7-4-214, 36-7-4-217
§ 32.37  QUALIFICATION OF CITIZEN MEMBERS.
   (A)   Each citizen member shall be appointed because of his or her knowledge
and experience in community affairs, his or her awareness of the social
economic, agricultural and industrial problems of the area and his or her
interest in the development and integration of the area. A citizen member may
not hold other elective or appointive office in municipal, county or state
government. A citizen member must be a resident of the jurisdictional area of
the Plan Commission.
   (B)   A member of the Plan Commission or the Town Council may not
participate in a hearing or decision of that Commission or Board concerning a
zoning matter in which he or she has a direct or indirect financial interest.
The Commission or Board shall enter in its records the fact that its member has
such a disqualification.
(Prior Code, § 3:7:03)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-7-4-216, 36-7-4-223
§ 32.38  VACANCIES.
   If a vacancy occurs among the members of a Plan Commission, the appointing
authority shall appoint a member for the unexpired term of the vacating member.
(Prior Code, § 3:7:04)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-7-4-220
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
§ 32.50  MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   The two’s Board of Zoning Appeals shall be composed of five members who are
appointed as follows.
   (A)   Three citizen members shall be appointed by the executive of the
municipality, of whom one must be a member of the Plan Commission and two must
not be members of the Plan Commission.
   (B)   One citizen member appointed by the fiscal body of the municipality,
who must not be a member of the Plan Commission.
   (C)   One citizen member appointed by the advisory Plan Commission, who must
be a member of the Plan Commission, who must be a member of the Plan Commission
other than the member appointed under division (A) above, and the town’s Plan
Commission’s appointment to the Board of Zoning Appeals, as set forth
hereinabove, shall represent the unincorporated area (the two-mile
unincorporated area from the town’s boundaries). The citizen member must reside
in the unincorporated area. He or she shall be appointed for a term of four
years. He or she shall be entitled to participate and vote in all deliberations
of the town’s Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Prior Code, § 3:8:01)  (Ord. 77-Z-107, passed - -; Ord. 82-50, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-7-4-902(1), 36-7-4-902(2) and 36-7-4-902(3)
§ 32.51  TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   The initial term of the five members of the Board of Zoning Appeals
are as follows: one for a term of one year; one for a term of two years; one
for a term of three years; and two for a term of four years. Thereafter, each
appointment is for a term of four years.
   (B)   The one citizen member appointed by the Plan Commission shall serve
for a term of four years. Thereafter, each appointment shall also be for a term
of four years.
(Prior Code, § 3:8:02)  (Ord. 77-Z-107, passed - -; Ord. 82-50, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-7-4-903, 36-7-4-906
§ 32.52  QUALIFICATION OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   Each member shall be appointed because of his or her knowledge and
experience in community affairs, his or her awareness of the social, economic,
agricultural and industrial problems of the area and his or her interest in the
development and integration of the area. A member may not hold other elective
or appointive office in municipal, county or state government. A member must be
a resident of the jurisdictional area of the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (B)   A member of the Board of Zoning Appeals may not participate in a
hearing or decision of that Board concerning a zoning matter in which he or she
has a direct or indirect financial interest. The Board shall enter in its
records the fact that its member has such a disqualification.
(Prior Code, § 3:8:03)  (Ord. 77-Z-107, passed - -; Ord. 82-50, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-7-4-905, 36-7-4-909
§ 32.53  VACANCIES.
   If vacancy occurs among the members of the Board of Zoning Appeals, the
appointing authority shall appoint a member for the unexpired term of the
vacating member.
(Prior Code, § 3:8:04)  (Ord. 77-Z-107, passed - -; Ord. 82-50, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-7-4-907
§ 32.54  REMOVAL FOR CAUSE.
   The appointing authority may remove a member from the Board of Zoning
Appeals for cause. For the appropriate procedure to be followed, see I.C. 36-7-
4-906(f).
(Prior Code, § 3:8:05)  (Ord. 77-Z-107, passed - -; Ord. 82-50, passed - -)
CHAPTER 33:  FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
33.001   Accident report fees
Purchasing Policies
   
33.015   Protection of offers; status of documents as public records
   
33.016   Discussion with offerors responding to requests for proposals
   
33.017   Delay of opening offers
   
33.018   Evidence of financial responsibility
   
33.019   Use of RFP for purchases of designated types of supplies
   
33.020   Modification and termination of contracts
   
33.021   Small purchases
   
33.022   Required purchases
   
33.023   Purchasing Agency
Budgets
   
33.035   Compensation of Town Council members and employees
   
33.036   Preparation of annual budget
   
33.037   Ordinance fixing tax rate
   
33.038   Increase or decrease of appropriations
Disbursement of Funds
   
33.050   Disbursement of funds
   
33.051   Issue of warrants
   
33.052   Allowance of claims
   
33.053   Warrants for payment of claims
   
33.054   Payment to officer or employee prior to vacation leave
   
33.055   Promotion of town business
Promotional Accounts and Membership Dues
   
33.070   Promotional Fund
   
33.071   Expenditures
   
33.072   Approval by Town Council President
Internal Control System
   
33.080   Internal control system mission
Statutory reference:
   Disbursement of funds, see I.C. 5-11-10-1, 5-11-10-2, 36-5-4-4, 36-5-4-6,
36-5-4-7, 36-7-2-7
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.001  ACCIDENT REPORT FEES.
   (A)   The town’s Police Department shall charge a fee of $5 for each
accident report that is requested by and given to members of the public. Each
person, corporation, agency or entity of any kind requesting such an accident
report shall first pay to the town’s Police Department a sum of $5 for each
report so requested.
   (B)   The fees collected under division (A) above shall be deposited in the
Local Law Enforcement Continuing Education Fund, as required by I.C. 5-2-8-2.
(Ord. 98-03, passed 7-6-1998)
PURCHASING POLICIES
§ 33.015  PROTECTION OF OFFERS; STATUS OF DOCUMENTS AS PUBLIC RECORDS.
   (A)   Protection of offers prior to opening. The Town Council, or the Clerk-
Treasurer who receives offers, shall retain all offers received in a secure
location prior to the date and time as which offers will be opened in order to
prevent disclosure of the contents prior to the opening of the offers.
   (B)   Unobstructed evaluation of offers. After offers have been opened, the
purchasing agent shall be responsible for maintaining the offers in such a
manner as to permit evaluation of the offers by the persons responsible for
evaluating the offers.
   (C)   Public records status of bids. Bids submitted in response to an
invitation for bids must be made available for public inspection and copying
after the time of the bid opening, unless the bid opening is delayed, as
authorized in this subchapter or any other statute or ordinance.
   (D)   Register of proposals. The purchasing agent shall prepare a register
of proposals for each request for proposals issued which shall contain
information concerning the proposals available for public inspection and
copying. Proposals may not be disclosed.
(Ord. 98-06, passed 7-6-1998)
§ 33.016  DISCUSSIONS WITH OFFERORS RESPONDING TO REQUESTS FOR PROPOSALS.
   The purchasing agent may conduct discussions with parties who are submitting
proposals. Final offers may be obtained from responsible offerors who submit
proposals and are determined to be reasonably susceptible of being selected for
a contract award.
(Ord. 98-06, passed 7-6-1998)
§ 33.017  DELAY OF OPENING OFFERS.
   (A)   When the Town Council makes a written determination that is in the
town’s best interest, offers may be opened after the time stated in the
solicitation.
   (B)   The date, time and place of the rescheduled opening must be announced
at the time and place of the rescheduled opening must be announced at the time
and place of the originally scheduled opening.
(Ord. 98-06, passed 7-6-1998)
§ 33.018  EVIDENCE OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Purchases less than $25,000. The purchasing agent may not require
evidence of financial responsibility when the estimated cost of a purchase is
less than $25,000.
   (B)   Purchases between $25,000 and $75,000.
      (1)   The solicitation may include a requirement that an offeror provide
evidence of financial responsibility. If evidence of financial responsibility
is required, the solicitation must indicate the kind of evidence that will be
acceptable.
      (2)   If a bond or certified check is required, it may not exceed 10% of
the estimated cost of the purchase.
   (C)   Purchases over $75,000. The solicitation shall include a requirement
that an offeror provide evidence of financial responsibility and must indicate
the kind of evidence that will be acceptable. If a bond or certified check is
required, it may not exceed 10% of the estimated cost of the purchase.
(Ord. 98-06, passed 7-6-1998)
§ 33.019  USE OF RFP FOR PURCHASES OF DESIGNATED TYPES OF SUPPLIES.
   If the Town Council determines that it is either not practicable, nor
advantageous, to purchase certain types of supplies by sealed competitive
bidding, it shall authorize the appropriate purchasing agent to receive
proposals.
(Ord. 98-06, passed 7-6-1998)
§ 33.020  MODIFICATION AND TERMINATION OF CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Price adjustments. Any purchasing agent for the town may include
provisions to permit price adjustments in a purchase contract. The following
provisions for price adjustments may be included.
      (1)   Price adjustments must be computed by agreement on a fixed price
adjustment before the beginning of the pertinent performance or as soon after
the beginning of performance as possible.
      (2)   Price adjustments must be computed by unit prices specified in the
contract or subsequently agreed upon.
      (3)   Price adjustments must be computed by costs attributable to the
events or situations under such clauses with adjustment of profit or fee, all
as specified in the contract or subsequently agreed upon.
      (4)   Price adjustments must be computed in such other manner as the
contracting parties may mutually agree upon.
   (B)   Adjustments in time performance. The purchasing agent may include
provisions in a purchase contract concerning adjustments for time of
performance under the contract.
   (C)   Unilateral rights of town. The purchasing agent may include in a
purchase contract provisions dealing with the unilateral right of the
purchasing agent, or the Town Council, to order changes in the work within the
scope of the contract or to order temporary work stoppage or delays in time of
performance.
   (D)   Quantity variations. The purchasing agent may include in a purchase
contract provisions dealing with variations between the estimated quantities of
work in a contract and the actual quantity delivered.
(Ord. 98-06, passed 7-6-1998)
§ 33.021  SMALL PURCHASES.
   This section applies to all purchases which are defined as small purchases
under I.C. 5-22-8-2.
   (A)   In the event the purchase is between $5,000 and $25,000, the
purchasing agent making the purchase shall receive prices either by phone, in
writing, or in person from at least three suppliers.
   (B)   The purchasing agent shall keep a file for purchases made under this
section with the following information:
      (1)   The name, address and phone number of each supplier who provided a
price;
      (2)   The price provided by each supplier;
      (3)   The supplier chosen and the reason for the choice if the supplier
did not provide the lowest price; and
      (4)   The reasons why less than three suppliers were not contacted.
(Ord. 98-06, passed 7-6-1998)
§ 33.022  REQUIRED PURCHASES.
   All purchases made by any purchasing agent or the purchasing agency shall be
supplies manufactured in the United States unless there is a specific finding,
in writing, that the exceptions set out in I.C. 5-22-15-21 apply.
(Ord. 98-06, passed 7-6-1998)
§ 33.023  PURCHASING AGENCY.
   (A)   The Town Council is designated as the purchasing agency for the town.
   (B)   The purchasing agency shall have all the powers and duties authorized
under I.C. 5-22, as may be amended from time to time by law, or supplemented
from time to time by ordinances adopted by the Town Council, and policies
adopted by the purchasing agency.
   (C)   The purchasing agency, pursuant to I.C. 5-22-4-3, shall act as
purchasing agency and as purchasing agent for every agency, board, office,
branch, bureau, commission, council and department.
(Ord. 98-05, passed 7-6-1998)
BUDGETS
§ 33.035  COMPENSATION OF TOWN COUNCIL MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The Town Council shall, by ordinance, fix the compensation of its own
members, the Clerk- Treasurer, the Town Marshal and other town officers and
employees.
   (B)   The compensation of an elected town officer may not be changed in the
year for which it is fixed, nor may it be reduced below the amount fixed for
the year 1980.
(Prior Code, § 3:2:01)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-5-3-2
§ 33.036  PREPARATION OF ANNUAL BUDGET.
   Before the publication of notice of budget estimates required by I.C. 6-1.1-
17-3, the town shall formulate a budget estimate for the ensuing budget year in
the following manner.
   (A)   Each department head shall prepare for his or her department an
estimate of the amount of money required for the ensuing budget year, stating
in detail each category and item of expenditure he or she anticipates.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer (fiscal officer) shall prepare an itemized
estimate of revenues available for other purposes above the money proposed to
be used by the departments.
   (C)   The town executive and/or the Town Council shall meet with the
department heads and the Clerk-Treasurer (fiscal officer) to review and revise
their various estimates.
   (D)   After the review and revision set forth in division (C) above, the
Clerk-Treasurer (fiscal officer) shall prepare for the executive and/or Town
Council a report of estimated department budgets, miscellaneous expenses and
revenues necessary or available to finance the estimates.
(Prior Code, § 3:2:02)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-5-3-3
§ 33.037  ORDINANCE FIXING TAX RATE.
   The Clerk-Treasurer (fiscal officer) shall present the report of budget
estimates to the town legislative body (Town Council) pursuant to I.C. 6-1.1-
17-1 through 6-1.1-17-19. After reviewing the report, the legislative body
(Town Council) shall prepare an ordinance fixing the rate of taxation for the
ensuing budget year and an ordinance making appropriations for the estimated
department budgets and other town purposes during the ensuing budget year. The
legislative body (Town Council), in the appropriation ordinance, may change any
estimated item from the figure submitted in the report of the Clerk-Treasurer
(fiscal officer). The legislative body (Town Council) shall promptly act on the
appropriation ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 3:2:03)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-5-3-4
§ 33.038  INCREASE OR DECREASE OF APPROPRIATIONS.
   After the passage of the appropriation ordinance, the legislative body (Town
Council) may make further or additional appropriations by ordinance, unless
their result is to increase the tax levy set under I.C. 6-1.1-17-1 to 6-1.1-17-
19. The legislative body (Town Council) may, by ordinance, decrease any
appropriation set by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 3:2:04)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-5-3-5
DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS
§ 33.050  DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Unless a federal and/or state statute provides otherwise, town moneys
may be disbursed only after an appropriation made by ordinance of the town
legislative body (Town Council) and recorded in a book kept for that purpose by
the legislative body (Town Council).
   (B)   Each appropriation must be made from the fund against which the
expenses arose.
(Prior Code, § 3:3:01)
§ 33.051  ISSUANCE OF WARRANTS.
   The town legislative body (Town Council) of the town may order the issuance
of warrants for payment of money by the town only at a meeting of the Town
Council (legislative body). A town officer or employee who violates this
section forfeits his or her office and/or employment.
(Prior Code, § 3:3:02)
§ 33.052  ALLOWANCE OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   The legislative body (Town Council) shall allow a claim as follows:
      (1)   Only at a meeting of the legislative body (Town Council); and
      (2)   Only if the claim was filed in the manner prescribed by I.C. 5-11-
10-2 at least five days before the meeting.
   (B)   A town officer or employee who violates this section forfeits his or
her office.
(Prior Code, § 3:3:03)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-5-4-4
§ 33.053  WARRANTS FOR PAYMENT OF CLAIMS.
   A warrant for payment of a claim against a town may be issued only if the
claim is:
   (A)   Itemized and certified under I.C. 5-11-10-1;
   (B)   Filed with the Clerk-Treasurer (fiscal officer); and
   (C)   Allowed by the town legislative body (Town Council).
(Prior Code, § 3:3:04)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-5-4-6
§ 33.054  PAYMENT TO OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE PRIOR TO VACATION LEAVE.
   One to three days before the vacation leave period of a town officer of
employee begins, the town may pay him or her the amount of compensation he or
she will earn while he or she is on vacation leave.
(Prior Code, § 3:3:05)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-5-4-7
§ 33.055  PROMOTION OF TOWN BUSINESS.
   (A)   General. Town officials may incur expenses in promoting the best
interest of the town. Such expenses may include, but not necessarily be limited
to, the rental of meeting places, meals, decorations, memorabilia, awards,
expenses incurred in interviewing job applicants, expenses incurred in
promoting industrial, commercial and residential development, expenses incurred
in developing relations with other units of government and any other expenses
of a civic or governmental nature deemed by the Town Council to be in the
interest of the town.
   (B)   Reimbursement of expenses. The expenses of town officials incurred in
the accomplishment of the above activities are hereby authorized and may be
reimbursed upon the presentment of an itemized invoice.
   (C)   Authorizing statute. This section was passed pursuant to I.C. 36-7-2-
7.
(Prior Code, § 3:3:06)  (Ord. 2009-01, passed 2-16-2009)
PROMOTIONAL ACCOUNTS AND MEMBERSHIP DUES
§ 33.070  PROMOTIONAL FUND.
   A fund, the Arcadia Promotional Fund, is hereby established. The Town
Council is hereby authorized to budget and appropriate funds from the General
Fund or from other funds to pay the expenses incurred in promoting the
betterment of the town.
(Prior Code, § 3:9:01)
§ 33.071  EXPENDITURES.
   Expenditures from this Fund may include, but are not necessarily limited to,
the following:
   (A)   Membership dues in local, regional, state and national associations of
a civic, education or governmental nature, which have as their purpose the
betterment and improvement of town operations;
   (B)   Direct expenses for travel, meals and lodging in conjunction with the
municipal business or meetings or organizations to which the town belongs;
   (C)   Expenses incurred in the promotion of economic or industrial
development for the town, including meeting room rental, decorations, meals and
travel;
   (D)   Commemorative plaques, certificates or objects such as commemorative
keys; and
   (E)   Other purposes which are deemed by the Town Council to directly relate
to the promotion or betterment of the town.
(Prior Code, § 3:9:02)
§ 33.072  APPROVAL BY TOWN COUNCIL PRESIDENT.
   No expenses shall be allowed from this Fund without prior authorization and
approval of the Town Council President. Claims for expenses under this
subchapter will be allowed as prescribed by law.
(Prior Code, § 3:9:03)  (Ord. passed 9- -1982)
INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM
§ 33.080  INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM MISSION.
   (A)   The town finds that its mission as related to an internal control
system is as follows:
      (1)   Provision of a democratic governmental structure at the grassroots
level;
      (2)   Provision of services as determined through the political process
including but not limited to the town's services including, but not limited to,
police, fire, utilities, planning, Clerk-Treasurer responsibilities,
development and parks;
      (3)   Promotion of government efficiency, accountability, reliability and
transparency; and
      (4)   Promotion of safeguards to reduce the risk of loss due to fraud,
waste, abuse, mismanagement or errors.
   (B)   The town finds that its interrelated and often overlapping objectives
as related to an internal control system are as follows:
      (1)   Operations objectives which involve the ways governmental services
are performed and the performance of those providing governmental services
including by way of example budgeting, purchasing, permitting, cash management
and planning among others.
      (2)   Reporting objectives which involve the filing of financial and non-
financial information to those inside the government and those outside of the
government including by way of example filing the annual report, audit and
examination cooperation, filing uniform conflict of interest forms and the
other filings with any governmental agency or official or information required
to be kept such as an OSHA log and responding to a public records request among
others.
      (3)   Compliance objectives involve the adherence to law and regulations
including by way of example following guidance documents such as the State
Board of Accounts' manuals, bulletins, directives and the Department of Local
Government Finance's forms and directions and including other outside of
government trainings and documents such as IACT among others.
   (C)   The town adopts and directs the minimum level of internal control
standards and internal control procedures for an internal control system that
includes the following five standards to promote government accountability and
transparency as described in the Uniform Internal Control Standards for Indiana
Political Subdivisions guidance document from the State Board of Accounts dated
September 2015 and as thereafter modified.
      (1)   Control environment.
      (2)   Risk environment.
      (3)   Control activities.
      (4)   Information and communication.
      (5)   Monitoring.
   (D)   The town adopts and directs the following principles in explanation of
the pertinent standards above to be followed at all levels of the Town
Government:
      (1)   Control environment:
         (a)   The oversight body and management demonstrate a commitment to
integrity and ethical values.
         (b)   The oversight body oversees the town's internal control system.
         (c)   Management establishes an organizational structure, assigns
responsibility and delegates authority to achieve the town's objectives.
         (d)   Management demonstrates a commitment to attract, develop and
retain competent individuals. Management evaluates performance and holds
individuals accountable for their internal control responsibilities.
      (2)   Risk assessment:
         (a)   Management defines objectives clearly to enable the
identification of risks and defines risk tolerances.
         (b)   Management identifies, analyzes and responds to risk related to
achieving the defined objectives.
         (c)   Management considers the potential for fraud when identifying,
analyzing and responding to risks.
         (d)   Management identifies, analyzes and responds to significant
changes that could impact the internal control system.
      (3)   Control activities:
         (a)   Management designs control activities to achieve objectives and
respond to risks.
         (b)   Management designs the town's information system and related
control activities to achieve objectives and respond to risks.
         (c)   Management implements control activities through policies.
      (4)   Information and communication:
         (a)   Management uses quality information to achieve the town's
objectives.
         (b)   Management internally communicates the necessary quality
information to achieve the town's objectives.
         (c)   Management externally communicates the necessary quality
information to achieve the town's objectives.
      (5)   Monitoring:
         (a)   Management establishes and operates monitoring activities to
monitor the internal control systems and evaluate the results.
         (b)   Management remediates identified internal control deficiencies
on a timely basis.
   (E)   The town adopts the internal control standards above so as to
establish an effective internal control system for the town through its design,
implementation and operation.
   (F)   The town directs that the above internal control standards be used to
design, implement, operate and modify current operations, reporting and
compliance objectives that will safeguard the assets of the town, promote
rehability, accountability and transparency of financial and non-financial
information and to assure compliance with laws and regulations for each office,
department and personnel, as defined herein, for an effective and reasonable
internal control system of the town.
   (G)   The town authorizes the Clerk-Treasurer to review the current internal
control system of the town and adopt a policy for the future internal control
system to be effective after June 30, 2016 and perform an annual review, or
more if determined necessary for compliance with this section.
   (H)   The personnel, whether an official or employee, of the town whose
official duties include receiving, processing, depositing, disbursing, or
otherwise having access to funds that belong to the federal government, state
government, a political subdivision, or another governmental entity shall
comply with these minimum internal control standards and procedures and any
other policy regarding standards and procedures determined necessary by the
town now and as modified in the future.
   (I)   The personnel of the town whose official duties include receiving,
processing, depositing, disbursing, or otherwise having access to funds that
belong to the federal government, state government, a political subdivision, or
another governmental entity shall be trained at least once during a calendar
year and annually thereafter, unless on leave status, on the minimum internal
control standards and procedures and any other standards and procedures
determined necessary by the town and shall cooperate with the Fiscal Officer or
designee so that the Fiscal Officer can timely certify to the State Board of
Accounts that the training was received annually by the personnel as provided
by law.
   (J)   The town authorizes the Clerk's office to determine the position and
person who are the personnel referred to in divisions (H) and (I) above and
notify such personnel.
   (K)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be responsible for performing all the
internal control system activities and duties. The Clerk-Treasurer may delegate
these responsibilities as necessary to create the internal control systems
policy.
   (L)   All elected and appointed officials and employees of the town are
hereby directed to abide by and to cooperate fully in the implementation of the
internal control system of the town.
   (M)   An employee who fails to abide by or cooperate with the
implementation, compliance and certifications connected with the internal
control system commits a violation and may result in the discipline, including
termination, of the employee.
   (N)   An elected or appointed official of the town who fails to abide by or
cooperate with the implementation and the mandated certifications of the
internal control system may be subject to any action allowed by law.
   (O)   This section may be implemented by any and all of the following
actions or such others as authorized by this Council:
      (1)   Posting a copy of this section in its entirety in at least one of
the locations in the town where it posts employer posters or other notices to
its employees;
      (2)   Providing a copy of this section to its employees and elected and
appointed officials;
      (3)   Providing or posting a notice of the adoption of this section; or
      (4)   Any such other action or actions that would communicate the polices
established by this section to its employees and elected and appointed
officials.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 6-20-2016)
CHAPTER 34:  CIVIL DEFENSE
Section
   
34.01   Creation of a Civil Defense Organization
   
34.02   Appointment of a Director
   
34.03   Receipt and disbursement of funds
§ 34.01  CREATION OF A CIVIL DEFENSE ORGANIZATION.
   There is created and established within the town an organization for civil
defense to be operated in conformity with I.C. 10-14-3. This organization will
be known as the town’s Emergency Disaster Department, in conjunction with the
state’s Civil Defense Department.
(Prior Code, § 3:11:01)  (Ord. 82-4, passed 9-1-1982)
§ 34.02  APPOINTMENT OF A DIRECTOR.
   The Town Council shall appoint a Director/Coordinator of the town’s
Emergency Disaster Department, who shall serve at the pleasure of the Town
Council.
(Prior Code, § 3:11:02)  (Ord. 82-4, passed 9-1-1982)
§ 34.03  RECEIPT AND DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be responsible for the receipt and disbursement of
all funds which have been designated for civil defense purposes.
(Prior Code, § 3:11:03)  (Ord. 82-4, passed 9-1-1982)
TITLE V:  PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL UTILITIES
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50:  GENERAL UTILITIES
Section
Red Flag Policy
   
50.01   Statement of purpose
   
50.02   Contact information
   
50.03   Identifying relevant red flags
   
50.04   Detecting red flags
   
50.05   Responding to red flags
   
50.06   Personal information security procedures
   
50.07   Administration of program
   
50.08   Service provider agreements; oversight
   
50.09   Identity theft prevention program; review and approval
Extensions of the Sewage Works and Water Distribution Systems
   
50.20   Definitions
   
50.21   Approval of plans, annexation and dedication
   
50.22   Availability charge
   
50.23   Determination of connection charges, schedule of users and equivalent
charges
   
50.24   Tap fees
   
50.25   Conditions regarding installation of services
   
50.26   Amendments
Unclaimed Utility Deposits
   
50.40   Authority
   
50.41   Return of water and sewer deposits
   
50.42   Subordination of rates, rights, rules and laws
Solid Wastes
   
50.50   Disposition of garbage, rubbish, and other waste substances
 
   
50.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority for utility extensions, see I.C. 36-9-23-1 through 36-9-23-36
   Deposits, see I.C. 36-5-2-9
RED FLAG POLICY
§ 50.01  STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is intended to identify red flags that will alert employees
when new or existing accounts are opened using false information, protect
against the establishment of false accounts, methods to ensure existing
accounts were not opened using false information and measures to respond to
such events.
(Ord. 2012-08, passed 12-17-2012)
§ 50.02  CONTACT INFORMATION.
   The senior management persons responsible for this plan are:
   (A)   The Utilities Office Manager: 317-984-3512;
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer: 317-984-3512; and
   (C)   The Town Council.
(Ord. 2012-08, passed 12-17-2012)
§ 50.03  IDENTIFYING RELEVANT RED FLAGS.
   The program shall consider the following risk factors in identifying
relevant red flags for covered accounts as appropriate:
   (A)   The types of covered accounts offered or maintained;
   (B)   The methods provided to open covered accounts;
   (C)   The methods provided to access covered accounts; and
   (D)   Its previous experience with identity theft.
(Ord. 2012-08, passed 12-17-2012)
§ 50.04  DETECTING RED FLAGS.
   (A)   The town adopts the following red flags to detect potential fraud.
   (B)   These are not intended to be all-inclusive and other suspicious
activity may be investigated as necessary:
      (1)   Alerts, notifications and warnings from a credit reporting company:
         (a)   Fraud or active duty alerts included with consumer reports;
         (b)   Notice of credit freeze provided by consumer reporting agency;
         (c)   Notice of address discrepancy provided by consumer reporting
agency; and
         (d)   Inconsistent activity patterns indicated by consumer report such
as:
            1.   Recent and significant increase in volume of inquiries;
            2.   Unusual number of recent credit applications;
            3.   A material change in use of credit; and
            4.   Accounts closed for cause or abuse.
      (2)   Suspicious documents:
         (a)   Identification documents that appear to be altered;
         (b)   Photo and physical description that do not match appearance of
applicant;
         (c)   Other information that is inconsistent with information provided
by applicant;
         (d)   Other information provided by applicant that is inconsistent
with information on file; and
         (e)   The application appears to be altered or destroyed and
reassembled.
      (3)   Suspicious personal identifying information:
         (a)   Personal information provided by applicant that does not match
other sources of information (e.g., credit reports, Social Security number not
issued or listed as deceased);
         (b)   Lack of correlation between the Social Security number range and
date of birth;
         (c)   Information provided is associated with known fraudulent
activity (e.g., address or phone number provided is same as that of a
fraudulent application);
         (d)   Information commonly associated with fraudulent activity is
provided by applicant (e.g., address that is a mail drop or prison, non-working
phone number or phone number associated with answering service/pager);
         (e)   Social Security number, address or telephone number is the same
as that of other customer at utility.
      (4)   Customer fails to provide all information requested;
      (5)   Personal information provided is inconsistent with information on
file for a customer;
      (6)   Applicant cannot provide information requested beyond what could
commonly be found in a purse, wallet or credit report (e.g., a person who
cannot answer a challenge question); and
      (7)   Identity theft is reported or discovered.
(Ord. 2012-08, passed 12-17-2012)
§ 50.05  RESPONDING TO RED FLAGS.
   (A)   Any employee that may suspect fraud or detect a red flag will
implement the following response as applicable.
   (B)   All detections or suspicious red flags shall be reported to the senior
management official:
      (1)   Monitor a covered account for evidence of identity theft;
      (2)   Contact the customer;
      (3)   Ask applicant for additional documentation;
      (4)   Notify internal manager: any town employee who becomes aware of a
suspected or actual fraudulent use of customer or potential customers identity
must notify Utility Office Manager or Clerk- Treasurer;
      (5)   Notify law enforcement: the utilities will notify the Town Marshal
at 317-984-3456 of any attempted or actual identity theft;
      (6)   Do not open the account;
      (7)   Close the account; and
      (8)   Do not attempt to collect against the account, but notify
authorities.
(Ord. 2012-08, passed 12-17-2012)
§ 50.06  PERSONAL INFORMATION SECURITY PROCEDURES.
   The town adopts the following security procedures:
   (A)   When opening a new water or wastewater account, the customer must
apply in person and furnish photo identification, proof of ownership or rental
agreement;
   (B)   Paper documents, files and electronic media containing secure
information will be stored in secure file cabinets;
   (C)   Only specially identified employees with a legitimate need will have
access to the cabinet;
   (D)   Files containing personally identifiable information are kept in
secure file cabinets, except when an employee is working on the file;
   (E)   Employees are not to leave sensitive papers out on their desks when
they are away from their workstations;
   (F)   Employees log off their computers when leaving their work areas;
   (G)   Any sensitive information shipped will be shipped using a shipping
service that allows tracking of the delivering this information;
   (H)   Visitors who must enter areas where sensitive files are kept must be
escorted by an employee of the utilities;
   (I)   No visitor will be given any entry codes or allowed unescorted access
to the office;
   (J)   Access to sensitive information will be controlled using “strong”
passwords. Employees will choose passwords with a mix of letters, numbers and
characters. User names and passwords will be different. Passwords will be
changed at least monthly;
   (K)   Passwords will not be shared or posted near workstations;
   (L)   Password-activated screen savers will be used to lock employee
computers after a period of inactivity;
   (M)   When installing new software, immediately change vendor-supplied
default passwords to a more secure strong password;
   (N)   Sensitive information will not be sent on private or public networks
unless it is password protected;
   (O)   Sensitive information that is stored on computer network or portable
storage devices used by employees will be password protected;
   (P)   Personal identifying information will not be sent by email
transmissions;
   (Q)   Anti-virus and anti-spyware programs will be run on individual
computers and on servers daily;
   (R)   When credit card data is received or transmitted, secure connections
will be used;
   (S)   Password-activated screen savers will be used to lock employee
computers after a period of inactivity;
   (T)   The use of laptops is restricted to those employees who need them to
perform their jobs.
      (1)   Laptops are stored in a secure place.
      (2)   Laptop users will not store sensitive information on their laptops.
      (3)   Employees never leave a laptop visible in a car, at a hotel luggage
stand or packed in checked luggage. If a laptop must be left in a vehicle, it
is locked in a trunk.
   (U)   The computer network will have a firewall where your network connects
to the Internet;
   (V)   Any wireless network in use is secured;
   (W)   Maintain central log files of security-related information to monitor
activity on your network (automatically done on server);
   (X)   Server will monitor incoming and outgoing traffic for signs of a data
breach;
   (Y)   Breach response plan: bring down the internet, turn off DSL and audit
security log;
   (Z)   Check references or do background checks before hiring employees who
will have access to sensitive data;
   (AA)   New employees sign an agreement to follow the company’s
confidentiality and security standards for handling sensitive data;
   (BB)   Access to customer’s personal identity information is limited to
employees with a “need to know”;
   (CC)   Procedures exist for making sure that workers who leave employ or
transfer to another part of the company no longer have access to sensitive
information;
   (DD)   Implement a regular schedule of employee training;
   (EE)   Employees will be alert to attempts at phone phishing (do not answer
questions);
   (FF)   Employees are required to notify the Utility Office Manager or the
Clerk-Treasurer immediately if there is a potential security breach, such as a
lost or stolen laptop;
   (GG)   Service providers notify you of any security incidents they
experience, even if the incidents may not have led to an actual compromise of
our data;
   (HH)   Employees who violate security policy are subjected to discipline, up
to, and including, dismissal; and
   (II)   Paper records will be shredded before being placed into the trash.
      (1)   Paper shredders will be available in each department.
      (2)   Any data storage media will be disposed of by shredding, punching
holes in or incineration.
(Ord. 2012-08, passed 12-17-2012)
§ 50.07  ADMINISTRATION OF PROGRAM.
   (A)   Updating the program. The program shall be updated periodically to
reflect changes in risks to customers or to the safety and soundness of the
town from identity theft based on factors such as:
      (1)   The experiences of the town with identity theft;
      (2)   Changes in methods of identity theft;
      (3)   Changes in methods to detect, prevent and mitigate identity theft;
      (4)   Changes in the types of accounts that the organization offers or
maintains; and
      (5)   Changes in the business arrangements of the town, including
mergers, acquisitions, alliances, joint ventures and service provider
arrangements.
   (B)   Oversight. Oversight of the program shall include:
      (1)   Review of reports prepared by staff regarding compliance. The
reports should address materials matters related to the program and evaluate
issues such as:
         (a)   The effectiveness of the policies and procedures in addressing
the risk of identity theft in connection with the opening of covered accounts
and with respect to existing covered accounts;
         (b)   Significant incidents involving identity theft and management’s
response; and
         (c)   Recommendations for material changes to the program.
      (2)   Approval of material changes to the program as necessary to address
changing risks of identity theft.
   (C)   Report. A senior management person responsible for development,
implementation and administration of the program shall report to the Town
Council if the program needs to be updated or revised.
(Ord. 2012-08, passed 12-17-2012)
§ 50.08  SERVICE PROVIDER AGREEMENTS; OVERSIGHT.
   The town shall take steps to ensure that the activity of a service provider
is conducted in accordance with reasonable policies and procedures designed to
detect, prevent and mitigate the risk of identity theft whenever the town
engages a service provider to perform an activity in connection with one or
more covered accounts.
(Ord. 2012-08, passed 12-17-2012)
§ 50.09  IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM REVIEW AND APPROVAL.
   This plan, upon passage as an ordinance, has been reviewed and adopted by
the Town Council. Appropriate employees have been trained on the contents and
procedures of this identity theft prevention program.
(Ord. 2012-08, passed 12-17-2012)
EXTENSIONS OF THE SEWAGE WORKS AND WATER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEMS
§ 50.20  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AVAILABILITY CHARGE. A payment required by an owner or developer for the
privilege of connecting directly or indirectly to the town’s water and/or
sanitary sewer systems.
   CONNECTION CHARGE. A payment required in addition to the tap fees for the
privilege of connecting a sanitary sewer line to the town’s sewer system. Fees
to be paid when building permit for the premises is issued by the town.
   DEVELOPER. The entity developing, owning or selling the property to be
served.
   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer line installed usually in a roadway, street or
easement, to collect from lateral sewers, or in some cases service lines, and
transport sewage to treatment facilities; not primarily designed for collection
of sewage from individual customers.
   LATERAL SEWER. A sanitary sewer usually in a roadway, street, alley or
easement, collecting from service lines leading to an interceptor sewer.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   SERVICE LINE. The customer’s line running from the structure’s sanitary
sewer system on the premises to the sewer lateral or in some cases an
interceptor sewer. Also the customer’s water line running from the structure’s
water system on the premises to the water meter setting.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   TAP FEES. A fee required by the town in addition to the connection charge
for all costs incurred by the town for tapping, or extending water and sanitary
sewer services. Fees to be paid when building permit for the premises is issued
by the town.
   TOWN. The Town of Arcadia, Indiana, or to the Arcadia Town Council as those
duly elected and charged with the responsibility of managing the town’s affairs
including the municipal water and sewage works.
(Prior Code, § 8:5:01)  (Ord. 82-44, passed 5-4-1983; Ord. R-2017-01, passed 4-
3-2017)
§ 50.21  APPROVAL OF PLANS, ANNEXATION AND DEDICATION.
   (A)   Plans and specifications. Prior approval of plans (subdivision,
development, additions) by the town’s Plan Commission, entered in writing on
the plat by the President and Secretary of the Commission and approval by the
state’s Board of Health are required before any consideration of plans by the
Town Council.
   (B)   Data. Plans and specifications will contain the following data:
      (1)   Subdivision name and location;
      (2)   Major thorough-fares related to the subdivision;
      (3)   Streets and rights-of-way on or adjoining the site;
      (4)   Easements - locations, widths and purposes;
      (5)   Utilities - including sanitary and storm sewers, water lines, gas
mains and electric utilities. Size and capacity of each to be shown and the
locations of or distance to each existing utility indicated;
      (6)   Zoning of the site and adjoining property;
      (7)   Layouts of the lots showing dimensions and numbers;
      (8)   Building setback or front yard lines;
      (9)   Names and addresses of owner, subdivider and engineer who prepared
the plans;
      (10)   Certification by a registered professional engineer or registered
land surveyor;
      (11)   Key plan, legend and notes; and
      (12)   Scale, north point and date
   (C)   Annexation of area to be served by extension of services. No sewer
collection facilities will be extended, nor shall any connections be made, to
the town municipal sewage system and no water distribution facilities will be
extended nor shall any connections be made to the town municipal water system
unless and until such area to which services will be extended is within the
town limits or has agreed not to remonstrate against annexation proceedings, if
ever they occur.
   (D)   Dedication. All lateral or interceptor sewers and ail water
distribution lines to be connected directly or indirectly to the town’s sewer
system and/or water distribution system shall at the owner’s or developer’s
expense, be constructed and installed by the owner or developer to
specifications approved by the town and after a period of five years, that date
commencing with completion of said services, shall dedicate the water and sewer
systems to the town along with all rights-of-way and easements relating to the
water and sewer systems installed by the owner or developer. It shall be the
owner’s or developer’s responsibility, during the five-year period, to maintain
the water and sewer systems at their expense and the systems shall have an
inspection by the town before acceptance of the dedicated systems.
(Prior Code, § 8:5:02)  (Ord. 82-44, passed 5-4-1983)
§ 50.22  AVAILABILITY CHARGE.
   This is the payment required for the privilege of connecting a unit or area
directly or indirectly to the town’s sewage collection system and/or water
distribution system. For the payment of the system enlargement charge the town
shall accept, after the five-year period, the dedication to the town of all
water and sewage systems and easements and rights-of-way installed and
constructed by the owner and developer in the unit or area. This system
enlargement charge shall be considered the owner or developer’s capital
contribution to the town’s sewage systems and water systems.
(Prior Code, § 8:5:03)  (Ord. 82-44, passed 5-4-1983; Ord. R-2017-01, passed 4-
3-2017)
§ 50.23  DETERMINATION OF CONNECTION CHARGES, SCHEDULE OF USERS AND EQUIVALENT
CHARGES.
   (A)   Connection charges. Connection charges shall be payable in accordance
with this division (A). No building permits will be issued prior to the receipt
of all connection charges by the utility. All building and development shall be
subject to the fees of this section. The connection fees required by this
section shall be effective on August 1, 2005. Development or portions of
development currently involved in the review process of the town and the town’s
Plan Commission not constructed and accepted by the town by August 1, 2005
shall be subject to the fees of this section.
   (B)   Determination of charge. The connection charge for a sanitary sewer
connection is $1,000 per single family dwelling unit (“S.F.D.U.”). The
connection charge for a water connection is $800 per S.F.D.U. Such amounts
shall be higher where commercial or industrial use of the property is involved.
The equivalent number of dwelling units in the case of users or units other
than a single-family dwelling unit, shall be determined in accordance with the
EDU table set forth in division (C) below. The number of equivalent units for
situations not covered by division (C) below shall be determined by the Town
Council. No connection shall be permitted to the town’s sanitary sewer system
or to the town’s water system, as the case may be, until such fees are paid to
the utility representing the equivalent cost as set forth in division (C)
below. The Town Council, in determining the unit equivalent for situations not
covered by division (C) shall consider the size of the use, the effect the use
will have on the system, and any other item the Town Council considers relevant
in making its assessment.
   (C)   Schedule of users and their equivalent charges.
Type of User Unit Equivalent
Type of User                      Unit Equivalent
Assembly halls, lodges, veteran   0.01 per seat
organizations
Barber and beauty shops           0.60 per chair
Bars and cocktail lounges         0.10 per seat
Bowling alleys                    0.32 per lane
Change in character or use by an  Per above table as applicable
addition or a remodel
Churches                          0.01 per seat
Day care centers                  0.03 per child and staff member
Doctor/dentist office             2.00per 1,000 sf of bldg. area
Drive-in/drive-thru restaurants   0.40 per car space
Drive-in theaters                 0.02 per space
Hospitals                         0.50 per bed
Institutions other than hospitals 0.40 per bed
Laundromats                       1.00 per washing machine
                                  Based on industrial precess used, town
Manufacturing facilities          shall estimate usage in terms of its
                                  equivalence to a single family dwelling
                                  unit
Mobile home parks                 0.75 per space
Motels and hotels                 0.32 per room
Multi-family residences
   One bedroom                 0.64
   Two bedrooms                0.96
   Three or more bedrooms      1.00
Nursing homes                     0.30 per bed
Offices/governmental agencies     0.50 per 1,000 sq. ft. of building area
Restaurants                       0.10 per seat
Retail space                      1.00 per 1,000 sq. ft. of building area
   With fountain space add     0.10 per seat
Rooming houses                    0.30 per renter
Schools                           0.05 per pupil
   With cafeteria and showers  0.09 per pupil
Service stations                  0.70 per island
Single-family residences and      1.00
condominiums
Theaters                          0.01 per seat
Unique facilities                 Negotiated with the town
NOTES TO TABLE:
*EDU - Equivalent Dwelling Unit = 310 gpd
All figures equate to a single family dwelling unit
 
(Prior Code, § 8:5:04)  (Ord. 82-44, passed 5-4-1983; Ord. 2005-11, passed 10-
17-2005; Ord. R-2017-01, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 50.24  TAP FEES.
   The tap fee for a 3/4” water tap shall be $750. The tap fee for a four-inch
sanitary sewer tap shall be $750. For larger size taps or to cut the street to
extend the water and/or sanitary sewer service, the charge shall be in the
amount to reimburse the town for labor, material and overhead necessary for
tapping the main. The tap fee shall include but not be limited to the town’s
cost of:
   (A)   Tapping a trunk line or lateral sewer;
   (B)   Tapping a water main;
   (C)   Constructing connective spurs for water or sewer;
   (D)   Pavement reconstruction or other cost in connection with a connective
spur; and
   (E)   Fees for inspection.
(Prior Code, § 8:5:05)  (Ord. 82-44, passed 5-4-1983; Ord. R-2017-01, passed 4-
3-2017)
§ 50.25  CONDITIONS REGARDING INSTALLATION OF SERVICES.
   (A)   All materials and methods of installation for extensions or additions
to the town’s water and/or sewage systems shall be as specified by the town,
prior to any construction or installation by owners or developers.
   (B)   All construction and installation shall also be inspected and approved
by the town’s Utility Superintendent or appointed representative at the time of
connection and prior to any backfilling operation.
   (C)   This right of inspection does not in any way make the town liable or
responsible for any items or work inspected.
(Prior Code, § 8:5:06)  (Ord. 82-44, passed 5-4-1983)
§ 50.26  AMENDMENTS.
   This subchapter and the costs and charges set out herein may be amended from
time to time by the Town Council of the town when conditions exist that
indicate to the Town Council that charges herein are not equitable for the
customers or the municipal water and sewer systems or for the subdividers,
developers or owners of property connected to the town’s water and sewer
systems.
(Prior Code, § 8:5:07)  (Ord. 82-44, passed 5-4-1983)
UNCLAIMED UTILITY DEPOSITS
§ 50.40  AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is made by the Town Council pursuant to the authority
granted it by I.C. 36-5-2-9.
(Prior Code, § 8:6:01)  (Ord. 82-39, passed 2-2-1983)
§ 50.41  RETURN OF WATER AND SEWER DEPOSITS.
   (A)   Upon the expiration of two years from the date a customer pays a sewer
and/or water deposit to the town’s utility, the deposit shall be returned to
the customer providing he or she has kept current and has paid any and all
service and usage charges and assessments for water and sewer service provided
by the utilities.
   (B)   In the event a customer moves from the town prior to the expiration of
the two-year period and providing he or she has paid all sums due the sewer and
water utilities, the full amount of the deposit shall be returned to him or
her. If the customer is delinquent in his or her payments to the utilities on
the date that he or she moves from the town and/or terminates, for any reason,
the services provided by the water and sewer utilities, then so much of the
deposits as may be necessary to satisfy the amounts owing the utilities shall
be applied by the town toward payment of the same, and any amounts remaining
thereafter shall be returned to the customer.
   (C)   (1)   Deposits unclaimed after the two-year period by customers who
have terminated for any reason, the services provided by the water and sewer
utility, shall be deemed gifts to the respective public utility and shall be
transferred to the cash operating account of the utility. Prior to transferring
the deposit into the cash operating account, however, the Clerk of the Utility
shall make every reasonable effort to locate the customer and to return any
deposits, or any part thereof, remaining in the customer’s account with the
utility.
      (2)   If the Clerk of the Utility is unable to locate the customer and/or
to return the deposit, or any part thereof, remaining in the account to him or
her within 60 days from the expiration date of the two-year period, then the
same shall be transferred to the cash operating fund as provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 8:6:02)  (Ord. 82-39, passed 2-2-1983)
§ 50.42  SUBORDINATION OF RATES, RIGHTS, RULES AND LAWS.
   The terms and provisions of this subchapter is subject and subordinate to
the rate ordinances of the utilities, rights of bondholders, the rules,
regulation and jurisdiction of the Public Service Commission of the state and
the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 8:6:03)  (Ord. 82-39, passed 2-2-1983)
SOLID WASTES
§ 50.50  DISPOSITION OF GARBAGE, RUBBISH, AND OTHER WASTE SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   There is hereby established a garbage collection fee for resident
dwelling units, as previously defined, per month, per unit (family), as
follows:
      Year      Amount
      2018      $16.13
      2019      $16.58
      2020      $17.05
      2021      $17.53
   (B)   Said garbage collection fee shall be billed and collected as part of
the normal water and sewer billing system of the town.
   (C)   In the event that any individual garbage collection fee is paid later
than five days after due date, an additional charge in the amount of 5% shall
be assessed.
   (D)   This section shall apply to all residential dwelling units, as
previously defined, located within the municipal boundaries of the town.
   (E)   Said garbage collection shall commence on April 1, 2018.
   (F)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized and directed to bill said households
for such service along with other town utility billings. Said bill shall be in
the amount of the price for such service as negotiated by the Town Council plus
any service charge authorized by the Town Council, and the Town Council has
determined that the monthly charge of the service plus administration and
services charges total the amounts outlined in division (A).
   (G)   In the event a tenant fails and/or refuses to pay the monthly garbage
collection fee, the landlord (owner of the real estate) shall be responsible to
pay the same.
   (H)   In the event the occupant of the real estate (owner or renter) is not
physically occupying the residence due to vacation or an extended stay
elsewhere, the occupant of the real estate is still responsible to pay the
monthly garbage collection fee.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 12-29-2017)
§ 50.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of §§
50.20 through
50.26 of this chapter, or who undertakes, permits or allows an act of conduct
prohibited herein, shall, upon conviction, be punished with a minimum fine of
$25 and a maximum fine of $2,500, in addition to costs. A separate violation
shall be deemed committed upon each day during or on which a violation occurs
or continues.
      (2)   In addition to the penalty provided in division (A) above, the town
is empowered to obtain a restraining order and/or a permanent injunction
against any person, firm, corporation or any other entity who shall be in
violation of §§
50.20 through
50.26 of this chapter. A person against whom the town recovers a judgment shall
pay all costs of the court action and the town’s attorney fees.
(Prior Code, § 8:5:09)  (Ord. 82-44, passed 5-4-1983)
CHAPTER 51:  WATER
Section
Water Utility
   
51.01   Town-owned waterworks system
   
51.02   Income and revenues
   
51.03   Records
   
51.04   Fixing rates
   
51.05   Metered rates per month and schedule of rates
   
51.06   Reading of meters
   
51.07   Rates; due dates of payments; delinquent accounts; disconnection of
service
   
51.08   Disconnection for late payment
   
51.09   Location and relocation of water mains and lines
   
51.10   Authority of Superintendent of Water Utility
Cross-Connections
   
51.20   Definition of “cross-connection”
   
51.21   Prohibition against cross-connections
   
51.22   Inspections by personnel of Water Utility
   
51.23   Right of entry on private property by personnel of Water Utility
   
51.24   Discontinuance of water service; notice; hearing opportunity
   
51.25   Installation of a backflow preventer
   
51.26   State Uniform Plumbing Code
Water Management
   
51.40   Application
   
51.41   Declaration of need
   
51.42   Conservation measures
   
51.43   Voluntary conservation
   
51.44   Mandatory conservation
   
51.45   Rationing
   
51.46   Exceptions
   
51.47   Notice
 
   
51.99   Penalty
WATER UTILITY
§ 51.01  TOWN-OWNED WATERWORKS SYSTEM.
   The town owns and operates a waterworks system which supplies the town and
its inhabitants with water for sanitary purposes. In return for the use of and
the service rendered by the waterworks system, the town shall fix and charge
reasonable rates to its customers, and the rates charged shall be based on the
use of water supplied by the waterworks system pursuant to and in the manner
prescribed in I.C. 8-1.5, and all acts amendatory thereof or supplemental
thereto. The term “waterworks”, “water system”, “system” and “waterworks
system”, where used in this subchapter, shall be construed to mean and include
the existing waterworks system owned by the town and all extensions, additions,
improvements and/or replacements made to the system either at the present time
or in the future.
(Prior Code, § 8:1:01)  (Ord. 78-W-101, passed 2-1-1978; Ord. 78-W-104, passed
5-19-1978; Ord. 1982-01, passed 1-20-1982; Ord. 82-45, passed 5-4-1983; Ord.
passed 5-1-1969; Ord. 86-2, passed 6-18-1986; Ord. 86-3, passed 11-5-1986; Ord.
92-04, passed 12-2-1992; Ord. 94-02, passed 6-15-1994; Ord. 2005-7, passed 8-
15-2005)
§ 51.02  INCOME AND REVENUES.
   The income and revenues of the existing waterworks system, together with the
income and revenue of ail extensions, additions, improvements or replacements
to the system shall be set aside into three separate and special accounts which
are to be used and applied as follows:
   (A)   Forty percent of the gross revenues of the waterworks system shall be
placed into the Operations and Maintenance Account, and shall be used to pay
the necessary cost of the reasonable and proper operation and maintenance of
the waterworks, including any taxes required to be paid;
   (B)   Eleven and four-tenths percent of the gross revenues of the system
shall be paid into the Depreciation Account, and shall be expended in making
good depreciation in the waterworks, or in new construction, extensions or
additions to the property of the waterworks system; and
   (C)   Forty-eight and six-tenths percent of the gross revenues of the
waterworks shall, as such revenues are received, be set apart and paid into a
special account identified as the Bond and Interest Redemption Account. The
funds in this account shall be used solely for the purpose of paying the
interest on and principal of bonds which by their terms are payable from the
revenues of the waterworks.
(Prior Code, § 8:1:02)  (Ord. 78-W-101, passed 2-1-1978; Ord. 78-W-104, passed
5-19-1978; Ord. 1982-01, passed 1-20-1982; Ord. 82-45, passed 5-4-1983; Ord.
passed 5-1-1969; Ord. 86-2, passed 6-18-1986; Ord. 86-3, passed 11-5-1986; Ord.
92-04, passed 12-2-1992; Ord. 94-02, passed 6-15-1994; Ord. 2005-7, passed 8-
15-2005)
§ 51.03  RECORDS.
   The town shall keep proper books of records and accounts, separate from all
of its other records and accounts, in which complete and correct entries shall
be made showing all revenues collected from the waterworks and all
disbursements made on account of the system, also all transactions relating to
the system. All revenues derived from the operation of the waterworks system
and from the collection of water rates and charges shall be segregated and kept
separate and apart from all other funds and bank accounts of the town. No
monies derived from the revenues of the waterworks system shall be transferred
to the General Fund of the town or be used for any purpose not connected with
the waterworks system.
(Prior Code, § 8:1:03)  (Ord. 78-W-101, passed 2-1-1978; Ord. 78-W-104, passed
5-19-1978; Ord. 1982-01, passed 1-20-1982; Ord. 82-45, passed 5-4-1983; Ord.
passed 5-1-1969; Ord. 86-2, passed 6-18-1986; Ord. 86-3, passed 11-5-1986; Ord.
92-04, passed 12-2-1992; Ord. 94-02, passed 6-15-1994; Ord. 2005-7, passed 8-
15-2005)
§ 51.04  FIXING RATES.
   The town shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, establish, maintain
and collect reasonable and just rates and charges for the services and
facilities afforded by the waterworks which will provide revenues at least
sufficient to pay the reasonable and proper cost of the maintenance and
operation of the waterworks, to provide a proper and reasonable depreciation
account and to pay the principal of and interest on the bonds payable from the
revenues of the waterworks as the same become due and provide a surplus or
margin of 10% of the principal and interest due each year, which shall be
cumulative. None of the facilities and services afforded by the waterworks
system shall be furnished to any person, firm, corporation, residence, business
or the town without a reasonable and just charge being made for the same.
(Prior Code, § 8:1:04)  (Ord. 78-W-101, passed 2-1-1978; Ord. 78-W-104, passed
5-19-1978; Ord. 1982-01, passed 1-20-1982; Ord. 82-45, passed 5-4-1983; Ord.
passed 5-1-1969; Ord. 86-2, passed 6-18-1986; Ord. 86-3, passed 11-5-1986; Ord.
92-04, passed 12-2-1992; Ord. 94-02, passed 6-15-1994; Ord. 2005-7, passed 8-
15-2005)
§ 51.05  METERED RATES PER MONTH AND SCHEDULE OF RATES.
   There are hereby established for the use of and the service rendered by the
waterworks system of the town. Rates and charges, based on the use of water
supplied by said waterworks system, are hereby set by Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 8:1:05)  (Ord. 78-W-101, passed 2-1-1978; Ord. 78-W-104, passed
5-19-1978; Ord. 1982-01, passed 1-20-1982; Ord. 82-45, passed 5-4-1983; Ord.
passed 5-1-1969; Ord. 86-2, passed 6-18-1986; Ord. 86-3, passed 11-5-1986; Ord.
92-04, passed 12-2-1992; Ord. 94-02, passed 6-15-1994; Ord. 2005-7, passed 8-
15-2005)
§ 51.06  READING OF METERS.
   For the purpose of billing and collecting the charges for water use, the
Superintendent may authorize and require that meters shall be read once each
month, in which event, the water service billings shall be on the basis of the
actual water usage for that month as determined by the said reading. If the
Superintendent elects not to utilize the aforementioned procedure of reading
water meters on a monthly basis, then the following procedure shall apply: for
the purpose of billing and collecting the charges for water use, the meters
shall be read once each quarter and the first two monthly water service
billings in such quarter shall be on the basis of estimated water usage and a
final billing in each quarter shall consist of the remainder of the total
charge for the quarter.
(Prior Code, § 8:1:06)  (Ord. 78-W-101, passed 2-1-1978; Ord. 78-W-104, passed
5-19-1978; Ord. 1982-01, passed 1-20-1982; Ord. 82-45, passed 5-4-1983; Ord.
passed 5-1-1969; Ord. 86-2, passed 6-18-1986; Ord. 86-3, passed 11-5-1986; Ord.
92-04, passed 12-2-1992; Ord. 94-02, passed 6-15-1994; Ord. 2005-7, passed 8-
15-2005)
§ 51.07  RATES; DUE DATES OF PAYMENTS; DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS; DISCONNECTION OF
SERVICE.
   (A)   All such billings shall be made no later than the fifth day of each
month.
   (B)   All such bills so rendered shall be due and payable on or before the
fifteenth day following such billing and, if not paid on or before the
fifteenth day following such billing, shall be delinquent. If the fifteenth day
falls on a Sunday, Wednesday or on a legal holiday, then the bill shall become
delinquent on the next following day that the utility office is open for
business. If any such delinquency shall continue on the eighteenth day
following such billing, the Utility Clerk shall give written notice on the
eighteenth day following such billing to such customer that water service shall
be discontinued on the twenty-fifth day following such billing. If the
eighteenth day and/or the twenty-fifth day falls on a Sunday, Wednesday or on a
legal holiday, then the written notice shall be sent and/or the water service
shall be discontinued on the next following day that the utility office is open
for business.
(Prior Code, § 8:1:07)  (Ord. 78-W-101, passed 2-1-1978; Ord. 78-W-104, passed
5-19-1978; Ord. 1982-01, passed 1-20-1982; Ord. 82-45, passed 5-4-1983; Ord.
passed 5-1-1969; Ord. 86-2, passed 6-18-1986; Ord. 86-3, passed 11-5-1986; Ord.
92-04, passed 12-2-1992; Ord. 94-02, passed 6-15-1994; Ord. 2005-7, passed 8-
15-2005; Ord. 2010-01, passed 2-1-2010; Ord. Ord. 2013-01, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 51.08  DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills.  The town’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill; and
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the town
official in charge of utility billing.  This official shall be authorized to
order that the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the
authority to make a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered.  In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (C)   When it becomes necessary for the town to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on charge in
the sum of $35.
§ 51.09  LOCATION AND RELOCATION OF WATER MAINS AND LINES.
   (A)   All publicly-owned water mains shall be placed in streets, alleys,
utility easement and other public rights-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 8:1:08)
   (B)   The Superintendent of the Water Utility is authorized, but not
required, to place, locate, relocate and move any and all water meters and pits
situated upon private property onto public property, providing it is
economically feasible to do so.
(Prior Code, § 8:1:09)
(Ord. 78-W-101, passed 2-1-1978; Ord. 78-W-104, passed 5-19-1978; Ord. 1982-01,
passed 1-20-1982; Ord. 82-45, passed 5-4-1983; Ord. passed 5-1-1969; Ord. 86-2,
passed 6-18-1986; Ord. 86-3, passed 11-5-1986; Ord. 92-04, passed 12-2-1992;
Ord. 94-02, passed 6-15-1994; Ord. 2005-7, passed 8-15-2005)
§ 51.10  AUTHORITY OF SUPERINTENDENT OF WATER UTILITY.
   Subject to the authority of the Town Council, the Superintendent of the
town’s Water Utility shall be responsible for making, setting out and enforcing
the policy, standards of design and construction, guidelines and the rules and
regulations of the town’s water utility.
(Prior Code, § 8:1:10)  (Ord. 78-W-101, passed 2-1-1978; Ord. 78-W-104, passed
5-19-1978; Ord. 1982-01, passed 1-20-1982; Ord. 82-45, passed 5-4-1983; Ord.
passed 5-1-1969; Ord. 86-2, passed 6-18-1986; Ord. 86-3, passed 11-5-1986; Ord.
92-04, passed 12-2-1992; Ord. 94-02, passed 6-15-1994; Ord. 2005-7, passed 8-
15-2005)
CROSS-CONNECTIONS
§ 51.20  DEFINITION OF “CROSS-CONNECTION”.
   A CROSS-CONNECTION shall be defined as any physical connection or
arrangement between two otherwise separate systems, one of which contains
potable water from the town water system, and the other, water from a private
source, water of unknown or questionable safety, or steam, gases or chemicals,
whereby there may be a flow from one system to the other, the direction of flow
depending on the pressure differential between the two systems.
(Prior Code, § 8:2:01)  (Ord. 82-48, passed 6-15-1983)
§ 51.21  PROHIBITION AGAINST CROSS-CONNECTIONS.
   No person, firm or corporation shall establish or permit to be established
or maintain or permit to be maintained any cross-connection. No inter-
connection shall be established whereby potable water from a private, auxiliary
or emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply of the
town may enter the supply or distribution system of said municipality, unless
such private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the method of connection
and use of such supply shall have been approved by the town’s Water Utility and
by the Environmental Management Board in accordance with Rule 320 I.A.C. 3-9.
(Prior Code, § 8:2:02)  (Ord. 82-48, passed 6-15-1983)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.22  INSPECTIONS BY PERSONNEL OF WATER UTILITY.
   It shall be the duty of the town’s Water Utility to cause inspections to be
made of all properties served by the public water system where cross-
connections with the public water system is deemed possible. The frequency of
inspections and reinspections based on potential health hazards involved shall
be as established by the town’s Water Utility.
(Prior Code, § 8:2:03)  (Ord. 82-48, passed 6-15-1983)
§ 51.23  RIGHT OF ENTRY ON PRIVATE PROPERTY BY PERSONNEL OF WATER UTILITY.
   Upon presentation of credentials, the representative of the town’s Water
Utility shall have the right to request entry at any reasonable time to examine
any property served by a connection to the public water system of the town for
cross-connections. On request, the owner, lessee or occupant of any property so
served shall furnish to the inspection agency any pertinent information
regarding the piping system or systems on such property. The refusal of access
or refusal of requested pertinent information shall be deemed evidence of the
presence of cross-connections.
(Prior Code, § 8:2:04)  (Ord. 82-48, passed 6-15-1983)
§ 51.24  DISCONTINUANCE OF WATER SERVICE; NOTICE; HEARING OPPORTUNITY.
   (A)   The town’s Water Utility is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue water service to any property wherein any connection in violation
of this subchapter exists, and to take such other precautionary measures deemed
necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water system.
Water service shall be discontinued only after reasonable notice is served on
the owner, lessee or occupants of the property or premises where a violation is
found or suspected to exist. Water service to such property shall not be
restored until the cross-connection(s) has been eliminated in compliance with
the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 8:2:05)
   (B)   If it is deemed by the town’s Water Utility that a cross-connection or
an emergency endangers public health, safety or welfare and requires immediate
action, and a written finding to that effect is fifed with the Clerk-Treasurer
of the town and delivered to the consumer’s premises, service may be
immediately discontinued. The consumer shall have an opportunity for a hearing
within ten days of such emergency discontinuance, and said hearing shall be
before the Superintendent of the town’s Water Utility. Within ten days from the
date of the hearing before the Superintendent of the town’s Water Utility, the
consumer may request a hearing before the Town Council for the purpose of
reviewing the decision of the Superintendent. The Town Council’s decision shall
be final.
(Prior Code, § 8:2:06)
(Ord. 82-48, passed 6-15-1983)
§ 51.25  INSTALLATION OF A BACKFLOW PREVENTER.
   All consumers using toxic or hazardous liquids, all hospitals, mortuaries,
wastewater treatment plants, laboratories and all other hazardous users install
and maintain a reduced-pressure principle backflow preventer in the main water
line serving each building on the premises. The backflow preventer must be
installed in an easily accessible location not subject to flooding or freezing.
(Prior Code, § 8:2:07)  (Ord. 82-48, passed 6-15-1983)
§ 51.26  STATE UNIFORM PLUMBING CODE.
   This subchapter does not supersede the state’s Uniform Plumbing Code or the
other ordinances or chapters of this code of ordinances, but is supplementary
to them.
(Prior Code, § 8:2:08)  (Ord. 82-48, passed 6-15-1983)
WATER MANAGEMENT
§ 51.40  APPLICATION.
   This subchapter shall apply to all persons, firms, partnerships,
corporations, company or organizations connected to the town’s public water
system or using water therefrom (hereafter, “users”).
(Ord. 2007-04, passed 10-15-2007)
§ 51.41  DECLARATION OF NEED.
   Upon determining that the town’s public water system is in a condition of
water shortage, the Town Council shall declare a water conservation emergency
and establish the appropriate measures and the duration thereof.
(Ord. 2007-04, passed 10-15-2007)
§ 51.42  CONSERVATION MEASURES.
   (A)   Practices that conserve water should be used at all times.
   (B)   Examples of conservation measures include:
      (1)   Judiciously sprinkling, watering or irrigating shrubbery, trees,
grass, ground covers, plans, vines, gardens, vegetables or any other
vegetation;
      (2)   Eliminating wasteful sprinkling of impervious surfaces, such as
streets and sidewalks;
      (3)   Limiting water use while washing trucks, trailers, mobile homes,
railroad cars or any other type of mobile equipment;
      (4)   Limiting water use while cleaning sidewalks, driveways, paved areas
or other outdoor surfaces;
      (5)   Repairing or replacing leaking water figures and service lines;
      (6)   Using appliances such as clothes washers and dishwashers only when
they are full;
      (7)   Turning off the water while brushing teeth or shaving;
      (8)   Using a higher lawnmower setting to provide natural ground shade
and promote the soil’s water retention;
      (9)   Washing cars with a bucket of soapy water and using a nozzle to
stop the flow of water from the hose between rinsing; and
      (10)   Covering swimming pools when not in use to reduce evaporation.
(Ord. 2007-04, passed 10-15-2007)
§ 51.43  VOLUNTARY CONSERVATION.
   During moderate water shortages, users shall be requested to reduce water
consumption by practicing voluntary conservation. The Town Council shall
identify reasonable and meaningful conservation techniques and provide such
information to users. The Town Council may also implement conservation pricing
and prohibitions to encourage water conservation.
(Ord. 2007-04, passed 10-15-2007)
§ 51.44  MANDATORY CONSERVATION.
   During severe water shortages, users shall be prohibited from selected water
uses subject to reasonable terms, times and conditions as the Town Council
shall adopt and append to this document.
(Ord. 2007-04, passed 10-15-2007)
§ 51.45  RATIONING.
   In addition to mandatory conservation measures, users shall be limited
during extreme water shortage to water use by the following schedule.
   (A)   Residential use shall be limited to the number of gallons pel-
residential unit per day as established by and published by the Town Council.
   (B)   Business, commercial, agricultural and industrial users shall be
limited to the volume of water deemed to be essential.
(Ord. 2007-04, passed 10-15-2007)
§ 51.46  EXCEPTIONS.
   The Town Council shall establish rationing exemptions necessary to provide
for the maintenance of adequate health, safety and sanitary conditions.
(Ord. 2007-04, passed 10-15-2007)
§ 51.47  NOTICE.
   (A)   Notice of the need for voluntary conservation measures shall be issued
in a local newspaper of general circulation or other means such as radio and
television as deemed appropriate by the Town Council. Notice shall be effective
upon issuance.
   (B)   Notice of mandatory conservation or rationing shall be by first class
United States mail, or by other door to door distribution to each current user,
and by electronic and print media. Notice shall be deemed effective at the
conclusion of door to door distribution or at noon of the third day after
depositing notice in the United States mail.
(Ord. 2007-04, passed 10-15-2007)
§ 51.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any user who violates §§
51.44 and
51.45 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine in an amount of $50 for the
first violation, payable at the Town Hall. Each day thereafter that the
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense and each separate
offense may be punishable by a fine not more than $2,500. In addition to, or in
the alternative to, a fine, water service may be terminated for any user who
violates §§
51.43 and
51.44 of this chapter. In addition to the imposition and payment of any fines
and/or court costs, violators shall be responsible for the payment of the
town’s attorney fees in prosecuting §§
51.40 through
51.47 of this chapter as well as shall reimburse the town for the cost of
responding emergency services, if any.
(Ord. 2007-04, passed 10-15-2007)
CHAPTER 52:  SEWERS
Section
Sewer Utility
   
52.01   Authority of town to own and operate sewage works
   
52.02   Description of the sewage works
   
52.03   Income and revenues
   
52.04   Records
   
52.05   Fixing rates
   
52.06   Schedule of rates
   
52.07   Determination of rates, charges and usage
   
52.08   Definitions
   
52.09   Rates; due dates of payments; delinquent accounts; power
   
52.10   Prohibiting dumping of certain waste into the sewer system
Public and Private Sewer Use
   
52.25   Definitions
   
52.26   Discharges; prohibited discharges
   
52.27   Connection; permits
   
52.28   Building sewer permits
   
52.29   Pretreatment
   
52.30   Information; samples
   
52.31   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
52.32   Compliance
   
52.33   Breaking equipment and the like
   
52.34   Inspections; entrance onto property
   
52.35   Appeal procedure
 
   
52.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority for the enactment of sewer chapter, see I.C. 36-9-23-1 through 36-
9-23-36
SEWER UTILITY
§ 52.01  AUTHORITY OF TOWN TO OWN AND OPERATE SEWAGE WORKS.
   The town is authorized to establish, construct, equip, own, operate and
maintain sewage works, together with such equipment and appurtenances as may be
necessary or useful and convenient for the collection, treatment, purification
and disposal in a sanitary manner of the sewage and industrial wastes of the
town, including the necessary lands, rights-of-way or other property within or
without the corporate limits of the town, under and pursuant to Ch. 284 of the
Acts of the Indiana General Assembly for the year 1967, being I.C. 36.923 and
all acts amendatory or supplemental thereto. The terms “sewage treatment
works”, “works” and other like terms, where used in this subchapter, shall be
construed to mean and include all such structures and property.
(Prior Code, § 8:3:01)  (Ord. S-1, passed 4-4-1968)
§ 52.02  DESCRIPTION OF THE SEWAGE WORKS.
   The sewage works shall consist of lands, easements, rights-of-way,
interceptors, laterals and all other types and sizes of sewer lines, and a
240,000-gpd high-rate trickling filter-type sewage treatment plant with
effluent chlorination, a seven-day detention terminal lagoon, and all other
lands, lines, structures, easement, rights-of-way, equipment, accessories and
appurtenances, which may be acquired and/or constructed in the future.
(Prior Code, § 8:3:02)  (Ord. S-1, passed 4-4-1968)
§ 52.03  INCOME AND REVENUES.
   The income and revenues of the existing sewage system, together with income
and revenue of all extensions, additions, improvements or replacements to the
system shall be set aside into separate and special accounts which are to be
used and applied as follows.
   (A)   There is created a fund to be known as the Operation and Maintenance
Fund, to which Fund there shall be credited as of the last day of each calendar
month a sufficient amount of the revenues of the sewage works so that the
balance in said fund shall be sufficient to pay the expenses of operation,
repair and maintenance for the then next succeeding two calendar months. The
moneys credited to this Fund shall be used for the payment of the reasonable
and proper operation, repair and maintenance expenses of the sewage works on a
day-to-day basis, but none of the moneys in such Fund shall be used for
depreciation, replacements, improvements, extensions or additions. Any balance
in said Fund in excess of the expected expenses of operation, repair and
maintenance for the next succeeding month may be transferred to the Sewage
Works Sinking Fund if necessary to prevent a default in the payment of
principal or interest on the outstanding bonds.
   (B)   There is created a Sinking Fund for the payment of the principal of
and interest on revenue bonds which by their terms are payable from the
revenues of the sewage works, and the payment of any fiscal agency charges in
connection with the payment of bonds and interest coupons, which fund shall be
designated the Sewage Works Sinking Fund. There shall be set aside and
deposited in said Sinking Fund, as available, and as hereinafter provided, a
sufficient amount of the net revenues of said sewage works (defined as gross
revenues of the sewage works after deduction only for the payment of the
reasonable expenses of operation, repair and maintenance) to meet the
requirements of the Bond and Interest Account and of the Debt Service Reserve
Account hereby created in said Sewage Works Sinking Fund. Such payments shall
continue until the balance in the Bond and Interest Account, plus the balance
in the Debt Service Reserve Account hereinafter created, equal the principal of
and interest on all of the then outstanding bonds to the final maturity
thereof.
   (C)   As soon as the sewage works becomes revenue producing, there shall be
credited on the first day of each calendar month to the Bond and Interest
Account an amount equal to the sum of one-fifth of the interest on all then
outstanding bonds payable on the then next succeeding interest payment date,
and one-tenth of the amount of principal payable on the then-outstanding bonds
which will be payable on the then-next succeeding principal payment date, until
the amount of interest and principal payable on the then-next succeeding
respective principal and interest payment dates shall have been so credited.
There shall similarly be credited to the account the amount necessary to pay
the bank fiscal agency charges for paying principal and interest on the bonds
as the same become payable. The town shall, from the sums deposited in the
Sewage Works Sinking Fund and credited to the Bond and Interest Account, remit
promptly to the bank fiscal agency sufficient moneys to pay the principal and
interest on the due dates thereof together with the amount of bank fiscal
agency charges.
   (D)   On the first day of each calendar month, after making the credits to
the Bond and Interest Account, there shall be credited from available net
revenues to the Debt Service Account the sum of $410, or such higher amount as
may be fixed from time to time by the Town Council. Said credits to the Debt
Service Reserve Account shall continue until the balance therein shall equal
not less than the maximum annual principal and interest requirements of the
then outstanding bonds payable from the Sewage Works Sinking Fund. The Debt
Service Reserve Account shall constitute the margin for safety and as a
protection against default in the payment of principal of and interest on the
bonds, and the moneys in the Debt Service Reserve Account shall be used to pay
current principal and interest on the bonds to the extent that moneys in the
Bond and Interest Account are insufficient for that purpose. Any deficiencies
in credits to the Debt Service Reserve Account shall be promptly made up from
the next available net revenues remaining after credits into the Bond and
Interest Account. In the event moneys in the Debt Service Reserve Account are
transferred to the Bond and Interest Account to pay principal and interest on
bonds, then such depletion of the balance in the Debt Service Reserve Account
shall be made up from the next available net revenues after the credits into
the Bond and Interest Account hereinbefore provided for. Any moneys in the Debt
Service Reserve Account in excess of the maximum annual principal and interest
requirements of the then outstanding bonds may be used for the redemption of
bonds which are then callable, or for the purpose of outstanding bonds at a
price not exceeding the then applicable redemption price or the first
redemption price if the bonds are not callable, or may be transferred to the
Sewage Works Improvement Fund.
   (E)   After meeting the requirements of the Operation and Maintenance Fund
and the Sewage Works Sinking Fund, any excess revenues may be transferred or
credited to a fund designated the Sewage Works Improvement Fund, and said Fund
shall be used for improvements, replacements, additions and extensions of the
sewage works. Moneys in the Sewage Works Improvement Fund shall be transferred
to the Sewage Works Sinking Fund if necessary to prevent a default in the
payment of principal and interest on the then outstanding bonds or if necessary
to eliminate any deficiencies in credits to or minimum balance in the Debt
Service Reserve Account of the Sewage Works Sinking Fund.
(Prior Code, § 8:3:03)  (Ord. S-1, passed 4-4-1968)
§ 52.04  RECORDS.
   The town shall keep proper books of records and accounts, separate from all
of its other records and accounts, in which complete and correct entries shall
be made showing all revenues collected from the sewage works and all
disbursements made on account of the system, also all transactions relating to
the system. All revenues derived from the operation of the sewage works system
and from the collection of sewage rates and charges shall be segregated and
kept separate and apart from all other funds and bank accounts of the town,
except as provided in this subchapter. No monies derived from the revenues of
the sewage works shall be transferred to the General Fund of the town or be
used for any purpose not connected with the system, except as provided in this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8:3:04)  (Ord. S-1, passed 4-4-1968)
§ 52.05  FIXING RATES.
   The town shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, establish and
maintain just and equitable rates or charges for the use of and the service
rendered by said works, to be paid by the owner of each and every lot, parcel
of real estate or building that is connected with and uses said sewage works by
or through any part of the sewerage system of the town, or that in any way uses
or is served by such works; that such rates or charges shall be sufficient in
each year for the payment of the proper and reasonable expenses of operation,
repair, replacement and maintenance of the works, and for the payment of the
sums required to be paid into the Sewage Works Sinking Fund by this subchapter
and by Ch. 284 of the Acts of 1967, being I.C. 36.923 and all amendments or
supplements or supplements thereto. Such rates or charges shall, if necessary,
be changed and readjusted from time to time so that the revenues therefrom
shall always be sufficient to meet the expenses of operation, repair and
maintenance, and said requirements of the Sewage Works Sinking Fund. The rates
or charges so established shall apply to any and all use of such works by and
service rendered to any person, firm, corporation, residence, business or to
the town and all departments thereof as the charges accrue. The town shall take
all action or proceedings necessary and proper to require connection of all
property where liquid and solid waste, sewage, night soil or industrial waste
is produced with available sanitary sewers. The town shall, as far as possible,
cause all such sanitary sewers to be connected with the sewage works.
(Prior Code, § 8:3:05)  (Ord. S-1, passed 4-4-1968)
§ 52.06  SCHEDULE OF RATES.
   For the use of and the service rendered by said sewage works, rates and
charges shall be collected from the owners of each and every lot, parcel of
real estate or building that is connected with the town’s sanitary sewer system
or otherwise discharges sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other
liquids, either directly or indirectly, into the sanitary sewer system of the
town, which rates and charges shall be payable as provided in this subchapter
and shall be in an amount as determined by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 8:3:06)  (Ord. S-2, passed 5-1-1969; Ord. 88-3, passed 7-20-
1988; Ord. 88-6, passed 8-17-1988; Ord. 2005-08, passed 8-15-2005; Ord. 2010-
02, passed 2-1-2010; Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010; Ord. 2018-06, passed 12-3-
2018)
§ 52.07  DETERMINATION OF RATES, CHARGES AND USAGE.
   (A)   The quantity of water obtained from sources other than the municipal
waterworks and discharged into the public sanitary sewer system may be
determined by the town in such manner as the Town shall elect, and the sewage
treatment service may be billed at the rates set forth in §
52.06 of this chapter.
   (B)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial waste, water or other liquids into the town’s
sanitary sewer system, either directly or indirectly, is not a user of the
water supplied by the town’s waterworks and the water used thereon or therein
is not measured by a meter, or is measured by a meter not acceptable to the
town, then the amount of water used shall be Otherwise measured or determined
by the town, in order to ascertain the rates of charge, or the owner or other
interested party, at his or her expense, may install and maintain meters,
weirs, volumetric measuring devices or any adequate and approved method of
measurement acceptable to the town for the determination of the sewage
discharge.
   (C)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial waste, water or other liquids into the town’s
sanitary sewer system, either directly or indirectly, is a user of water
supplied by the town’s waterworks, and in addition uses water from another
source which is not measured by a water meter, or is measured by a water meter
not acceptable to the town, then the amount of water used shall be otherwise
measured or determined by the town in order to ascertain the rates of charge,
or the owner or other interested party, at his expense, may install and
maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring devices or any adequate and
approved method of measurement acceptable to the town for the determination of
sewage discharge.
   (D)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharges
sanitary sewage, industrial waste, water or other liquids into the town’s
sanitary sewer system, either directly or indirectly, and uses water in excess
of 15,000 gallons per month, and it can be shown to the satisfaction of the
town that a portion of water as measured by the water meter or meters does not
and cannot enter the sanitary sewer system, then the owner or other interested
party shall install and maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring devices or
any adequate and approved method of measurement acceptable to the town for the
determination of sewage discharge or, at the discretion of the Town Council,
the town may base the sewage rates and charges on the average monthly usage for
the preceding three months ending April 30.
   (E)   In the event two or more residential lots, parcels of real estate or
buildings discharging sanitary sewage, water or other liquids into the town’s
sanitary sewer system, either directly or indirectly, are users of water and
the quantity of water is measured by a single water meter, then in each such
case, for billing purposes, the quantity of water used shall be averaged for
each user and the minimum charge and the sewage rates and charges shall apply
to each of the number of residential lots, parcels of real estate or buildings
served through the single water meter.
   (F)   In the event two or more dwelling units such as trailers, apartments
or housekeeping rooms discharging sanitary sewage, water or other liquids into
the town’s sanitary sewer system, either directly or indirectly, are users of
water and the quantity of water is measured by a single water meter, then in
such case billing shall be for a single service in the manner set out elsewhere
herein; except that, an additional charge shall be added thereto in the amount
of one-half of the minimum charge per month for each dwelling unit over one
served through the single water meter. In the case of trailer parks, the number
of dwelling units shall be computed and interpreted as the total number of
trailers located and installed in said park plus any other dwelling units
served through the meter. A dwelling unit shall be interpreted as a room or
rooms or any other space or spaces in which cooking facilities are provided.
   (G)   Where a metered water supply is used for fire protection as well as
for other uses, the town may, in its discretion, make adjustments in the
minimum charge and in the use charge as may be equitable.
   (H)   For the service rendered to the town, the town shall be subject to the
same rates and charges hereinabove provided or to rates and charges established
in harmony therewith.
   (I)   (1)   In order that the rates and charges may be justly and equitably
adjusted to the services rendered, the town shall have the right to base its
charges not only on volume but also on the strength and character of the sewage
and waste which it is required to dispose of. The town shall have the right to
measure and determine the strength and content of all sewage and waste
discharged, either directly or indirectly, into the town’s sanitary sewer
system in such manner and by such method as may be deemed practical in the
light of the conditions and attending circumstances of the case in order to
determine the proper charge. Any and all commercial and industrial
installations shall be so controlled and/or treated as to the sewage strength
that their effluent discharge to the town’s sewers shall have a B.O.D.
(biochemical oxygen demand) not to exceed 300 parts per million and suspended
solids not to exceed 350 parts per million at any time.
      (2)   The Town Council is authorized to prohibit the dumping of wastes
into the town’s sewer system which, in its discretion, are deemed harmful.
(Prior Code, § 8:3:07)  (Ord. S-2, passed 5-1-1969; Ord. 88-3, passed 7-20-
1988; Ord. 88-6, passed 8-17-1988)
§ 52.08  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid waste or liquid-borne waste resulting from any
commercial, manufacturing or industrial operation or process.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. The waste from water closets, urinals, lavatories, sinks,
bathtubs, showers, household laundries, basement drains, garage floor drains,
bars, soda fountains, cuspidors, refrigerator drips, drinking fountains, stable
floor drains and all other water-carried wastes, except industrial wastes.
(Prior Code, § 8:3:08)  (Ord. S-2, passed 5-1-1969; Ord. 88-3, passed 7-20-
1988; Ord. 88-6, passed 8-17-1988)
§ 52.09  RATES; DUE DATES OF PAYMENTS; DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS; POWER.
   (A)   The rates and charges shall be prepared and billed by the town
monthly, as the town may deem appropriate and as determined by the by-laws and
regulations of the town, and shall be collected in the manner provided by law
and ordinance. Said rates and charges will be billed to the tenant or tenants
occupying the property served unless otherwise requested in writing by the
owners, but such billing shall in no wise relieve the owner from liability in
the event payment is not made as herein required. The owners of the properties
served, which are occupied by tenants, shall have the right to examine the
collection records of the town for the purpose of determining whether such
rates and charges have been paid by such tenants; provided that, such
examination shall be made in the office in which said records are kept and
during the hours that such office is open for business.
   (B)   The rates and charges as heretofore adopted shall become effective no
later than 4-1-1969, in order that the first billing for sewage service shall
be rendered no later than 5-5-1969 and, thereafter, all such billings shall be
made no later than the fifth day of each month.
   (C)   All of such bills so rendered shall be due and payable on or before
the fifteenth day following such billing and if not paid on or before the
fifteenth day following such billing shall be delinquent. If the fifteenth day
falls on a Sunday, Wednesday or on a legal holiday, then the bill shall be
delinquent on the next following day that the utility office is open for
business.
   (D)   On the date that a bill or any part thereof becomes delinquent as set
forth in division (C) above, a penalty shall be added to the bill in the amount
of 10% of the unpaid and delinquent bill charges or rates and, if the
delinquent bill charges or rates and the penalty are not paid by the eighteenth
day following such billing, the Utility Clerk shall give written notice on the
eighteenth day following such billing to such customer that if the delinquent
bill charges or rates and the 10% penalty are not paid by the twenty-fifth day
following such billing, the Town Council may institute legal action against the
customer to collect the same. The amount of the fee (bill), the penalty and a
reasonable attorney’s fee may be recovered by the Town Council in a civil
action in the name of the municipality. In addition, the town may file a lien
against the property assessed pursuant to I.C. 36-9-23-32, 36-9-23-33 and 36-9-
23-34.
   (E)   The rates and charges for sanitary sewer service shall become
effective on the date that sanitary sewers of the sewer system are made
available for connection to any lot, parcel of real estate or structures in
accordance with the provisions of this title.
   (F)   The town shall make and enforce such bylaws and regulations as may be
deemed necessary for the safe, economic and efficient management of the town’s
sewer system and for the construction and use of house sewers and connections
to the sewer system, and for the regulation, collection, rebating and refunding
of rates and charges.
(Prior Code, § 8:3:09)  (Ord. S-2, passed 5-1-1969; Ord. S-4, passed 5-1-1969;
Ord. 1982-2, passed 1-20-1982; Ord. 88-3, passed 7-20-1988; Ord. 88-6, passed
8-17-1988)
§ 52.10  PROHIBITING DUMPING OF CERTAIN WASTE INTO THE SEWER SYSTEM.
   The town is hereby authorized to prohibit dumping of wastes into the town’s
sewer system which, in its discretion, are harmful to the operation of the
sewage works, or to require methods effecting pretreatment of said wastes to
reduce the characteristics of the waste satisfactory to the town.
(Prior Code, § 8:3:10)
PUBLIC AND PRIVATE SEWER USE
§ 52.25  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen expressed in mg/
l utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedures with nitrification inhibition in five days at 20°C.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of a building and conveys it to the building sewer beginning
three feet outside the building wall.
      (1)   BUILDING DRAIN, SANITARY. A building drain which conveys sanitary
or industrial sewage only.
      (2)   BUILDING DRAIN, STORM. A building drain which conveys storm water
or other clear water drainage, but no wastewater.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal. (Also called HOUSE CONNECTION.)
      (1)   BUILDING SEWER, SANITARY. A building sewer which conveys sanitary
or industrial sewage only.
      (2)   BUILDING SEWER, STORM. A building sewer which conveys storm waste
or other clear water drainage, but no sanitary or industrial sewage.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH and
fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES
permit if the treatment works was designed to treat such pollutants, and in
fact does remove such pollutants to a substantial degree. The term “substantial
degree” is not subject to precise definition, but generally contemplates
removals in the order of 80% or greater. Minor incidental removals in the order
of 10% to 30% are not considered substantial. Examples of the additional
pollutants which may be considered compatible include:
      (1)   Chemical oxygen demand;
      (2)   Total organic carbon;
      (3)   Phosphorus and phosphorus compounds;
      (4)   Nitrogen and nitrogen compounds; and
      (5)   Fats, oils and greases of animal or vegetable origin (except as
prohibited where these materials would interfere with the operation of the
treatment works).
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FECAL COLIFORM. Any of a number of organisms common to the intestinal tract
of humans and animals, whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of
pollution.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state, such that will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in a pretreatment facility
approved by the town.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not defined as a compatible
pollutant, including non-biodegradable dissolved solids.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade or business as distinct from employee wastes or wastes from
sanitary conveniences.
   INFILTRATION. The water entering a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from the ground, through such means as, but not limited to,
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections or manhole walls. (INFILTRATION does
not include and is distinguished from inflow.)
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow without distinguishing the source.
   INFLOW. The water discharge into a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from such sources as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar,
yard and area drains, foundation drains, unpolluted cooling water discharges,
drains from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross- connections from
storm sewers, and combined sewers, catch basins, storm waters, surface runoff,
street wash waters or drainage. (INFLOW does not include, and is distinguished
from, infiltration.)
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the town, through its
Town Council, to inspect and approve the installation of building sewers and
their connection to the public sewer system.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industry that:
      (1)   Has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work day;
      (2)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow carried by the municipal
system receiving the waste;
      (3)   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under § 307(a) of Pub. Law No. 92-500, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317
(a); or
      (4)   Has a significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on a treatment works or on the quality of
effluent from that treatment works.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   NH3N. The same as ammonia nitrogen measured as nitrogen. The laboratory
determinations shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in
Standard Methods.
   NPDES PERMIT. A permit issued under the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System for discharge of wastewaters to the navigable waters of the
United States pursuant to § 402 of Pub. Law No. 92-500, being 33 U.S.C. § 1342.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or
ground water.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. The same meaning as defined in §§
52.01 through
52.10 of this chapter.
   P or PHOSPHORUS. The chemical element phosphorus.
   pH. The reciprocal of the logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams per liter of solution.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation,
group or other entity.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of industrial sewage from privately owned
industrial sources prior to introduction into a public treatment works.
   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned by a public authority.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer which is owned and controlled by the public authority
and will consist of the following increments.
      (1)   COLLECTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewaters from individual point source discharges.
      (2)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collector sewers to a treatment facility.
      (3)   FORCE MAIN. A pipe in which wastewater is carried under pressure.
   PUMPING STATION. A station positioned in the public sewer system at which
wastewater is pumped to a higher level.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sanitary and industrial wastes, and to
which storm, surface and ground water are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. The combination of liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions (including polluted
cooling water). The three most common types of SEWAGE are:
      (1)   COMBINED SEWAGE. Wastes including sanitary sewage, industrial
sewage, storm water, infiltration and inflow carried to the wastewater
treatment facilities by a combined sewer.
      (2)   INDUSTRIAL SEWAGE. A combination of liquid and water-carried
wastes, discharged from any industrial establishment, and resulting from any
trade or process carried on in that establishment. (This shall include the
wastes from pretreatment facilities and polluted cooling water.)
      (3)   SANITARY SEWAGE. The combination of liquid and water-carried wastes
discharged from toilet and other sanitary plumbing facilities.
   SEWAGE WORKS. The structures, equipment and processes to collect, transport
and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the effluent and
accumulated residual solids.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than ten minutes more than three times the average 24-hour concentration
of flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection
system.
   STANDARD METHODS. The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition,
at the time of analysis, of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water
Wastewater prepared and published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution
Control Federation.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer for conveying water, ground water or unpolluted water
from any source and to which sanitary and/or industrial wastes are not
intentionally admitted.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the municipal sewage works of the town
or his or her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, sewage or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering under standard laboratory procedure.
   TOTAL SOLIDS. The sum of suspended and dissolved solids.
   TOXIC AMOUNT. Concentrations of any pollutant or combination of pollutants,
which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause adverse
effects, such as cancer, genetic mutations and physiological manifestations, as
defined in standards issued pursuant to § 307(a) of Pub. Law No. 92-500.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   VOLATILE ORGANIC MATTER. The material in the sewage solids transformed to
gases or vapors when heated at 55°C for 15 to 20 minutes.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. 90-3, passed 3-21-1990)
§ 52.26  DISCHARGES; PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit
to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property with the
town or in any area under the jurisdiction of said town any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
      (2)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any sanitary
sewer, either directly or indirectly, storm waters, surface water, ground
water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water or
unpolluted industrial process water. The town shall require the removal of
unpolluted waters from any wastewater collection or treatment facility.
      (3)   Storm water, surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface
drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water or unpolluted industrial process
water may be admitted to storm sewers which have adequate capacity for their
accommodation. No person shall use such sewers, however, without the specific
permission of the town. No new connection shall be made to any sanitary or
storm sewer unless there is capacity available in all downstream sewers, lift
stations, force mains and the sewage treatment plant including capacity for BOD
and suspended solids.
      (4)   No person shall place, deposit or permit to be deposited in any
unsanitary manner on public or private property within the jurisdiction of the
town any wastewater or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provisions of this subchapter and the
NPDES permit.
      (5)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any natural
outlet any wastewater or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provisions of this subchapter and the
NPDES permit.
      (6)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct
or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
      (7)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the town
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located
a public sanitary sewer of the town is hereby required at his or her expense to
install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such facilities
directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter, within 60 days after date of official notice to do so; provided
that, said public sewer is within 300 feet of the property line.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
         (a)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
         (b)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic (as described in § 307A of
the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a) or poisonous solids, liquids, or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
         (c)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment and personnel of the sewage works or interfere with any treatment
process;
         (d)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size
capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference
with the proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to,
ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails, paper, dishes, cups, milk containers and the like, either
whole or ground by garbage grinders;
         (e)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other
public agencies of jurisdiction of such discharge to the receiving waters;
         (f)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such halflife or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
         (g)   Any waters or wastes having pH in excess of 9.5;
         (h)   Materials which exert or cause:
            1.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate);
            2.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye
wastes and vegetable tanning solutions);
            3.   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements
in such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and
            4.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs”, as defined herein.
         (i)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amendable
to treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amendable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment effluent
cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
      (2)   (a)   For the installation of new sewers, the construction of any
storm sewer shall be separate and distinct from any sanitary sewers or combined
sewers.
         (b)   For any new building, the storm water drainage connection to a
combined source shall be constructed separate and distinct from the sanitary
waste connection in order to facilitate disconnection of the storm water pipe
if a separate storm sewer subsequently becomes available.
         (c)   For any construction tributary to the combined sewer system, the
additional inflow contribution to the existing combined sewer system shall be
minimized or delayed to reduce the impact of the additional inflow on the
existing combined sewer system.
      (3)   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are
provided for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
      (4)   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense, and shall be maintained so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
Agents of the town, the state’s Water Pollution Control Agencies and the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency shall be permitted to enter all properties for
the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing.
      (5)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of
waters and wastes to which reference is made in this subchapter shall be
determined in accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health
Association, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon
suitable samples taken at said control manhole, except for applications for
NPDES permits and report thereof which shall be conducted in accordance with
rules and regulations adopted by the USEPA (40 C.F.R. part 136). In the event
that no special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be
considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the
point at which the building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out
by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the
sewage works and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb and
property. The particular analyses involved will determine whether a 24-hour
composite of all outfalls of a premise is appropriate or whether a grab sample
or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids
analyses are obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pHs are
determined from periodic grab samples.
      (6)   No statement contained in this division (B) shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the town and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the town for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the
industrial concern, at such rates as are compatible with the rate ordinance.
   (C)   Unpolluted water from air conditioners, cooling, condensing systems or
swimming pools shall be discharged to a storm sewer, where it is available, or
to a combined sewer approved by the town. Where a storm sewer is not available,
discharge may be to a natural outlet approved by the town and by the state.
Where a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural sewer is not available, such
unpolluted water may be discharged to a sanitary sewer pending written approval
by the town.
   (D)   Industrial cooling water, which may be polluted with insoluble oils or
grease or suspended solids, shall be pretreated for removal of pollutants and
the resultant clear water shall be discharged in accordance with §
52.31 of this chapter.
   (E)   Users of the treatment works shall immediately notify the town of any
unusual flows or wastes that are discharged accidentally or otherwise to the
sewer system.
(Ord. 90-3, passed 3-21-1990; Ord. 92-02, passed 8-5-1992)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.27  CONNECTION; PERMITS.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
§
52.26(A)(7) of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the
Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee of $15 shall be paid to the town at
the time the application is filed.
   (C)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent. He or she shall be allowed to inspect the works at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 24 hours
of the receipt of notice by the Superintendent.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the state’s Board of Health. No
permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system employing
subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is less than
20,000 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge
to any natural outlet.
   (E)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system as provided in division (D) above, a direct
connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this
subchapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage disposal
facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
   (F)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the town.
   (G)   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to said sewer within 90 days and the private sewage disposal system
shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank-run gravel or dirt.
   (H)   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to
interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Health
Officer.
(Ord. 90-3, passed 3-21-1990)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.28  BUILDING SEWER PERMITS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   For residential and commercial service; and
         (b)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes. In
either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make application on a special
form furnished by the said town. The permit application shall be supplemented
by any plans, specifications or other information considered pertinent in the
judgement of the inspector.
      (2)   A permit and inspection fees of $15 for residential or commercial
building sewer permit and $25 for an industrial building sewer permit shall be
paid to the Clerk-Treasurer at the time the application is filed.
   (C)   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
town from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer.
   (D)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
   (E)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the said inspector, to meet all
requirements of this subchapter.
   (F)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the Building and Plumbing Codes or other applicable rules and regulations of
the town. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C. Manual of Practice No. FD-5 shall apply.
   (G)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (H)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or ground
water to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly
or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (I)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Codes or other
applicable rules and regulations of the town or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice
in No. FD-5. All such connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight. Any
deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
Superintendent before installations.
   (J)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the said
inspector when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the
public sewer. The connection and testing shall be made under the supervision of
the said Inspector or his or her representative. The applicant shall provide
access to all structures (and areas of structures) to the Inspector for the
purpose of establishing compliance with division (H) above.
   (K)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the said town.
(Ord. 90-3, passed 3-21-1990)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.29  PRETREATMENT.
   (A)   Pretreatment of industrial wastes from major contributing industries
prior to discharge to the treatment works is required and is subject to the
rules and regulations adopted by the United States Environmental Protection
Agency (USEPA) (40 C.F.R. part 403), and Guidelines Establishing Test
Procedures for Analysis of Pollutants (40 C.F.R. part 136), in addition to any
more stringent requirements established by the town and any subsequent state or
federal guidelines and rules and regulations.
   (B)   Plans, specifications and any other pertinent information relating to
pretreatment or control facilities shall be submitted for approval of the town
and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced until approval in
writing is granted. Where such facilities are provided, they shall be
maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operating order by the
owner at his expense and shall be subject to periodic inspection by the town to
determine that such facilities are being operated in conformance with
applicable federal, state and local laws and permits. The owner shall maintain
operating records and shall submit to the town a monthly summary report of the
character of the influent and effluent to show the performance of the treatment
facilities and for comparison against town monitoring records.
(Ord. 90-3, passed 3-21-1990)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.30  INFORMATION; SAMPLES.
   (A)   The town may require users of the treatment works, other than
residential users, to supply pertinent information on waste-water flows and
characteristics. Such measurements, tests and analysis shall be made at the
users’ expense. If made by the town, an appropriate charge may be assessed to
the user at the option of the town.
   (B)   The strength of wastewaters shall be determined, for periodic
establishment of charges provided for in this subchapter, from samples taken at
the aforementioned structure at any period of time and of such duration and in
such manner as the town may elect, or, at any place mutually agreed upon
between the user and the town. Appropriate charges for sampling and analysis
may be assessed to the user at the option of the town. The results of routine
sampling and analysis by the user may also be used, for determination of
charges after verification by the town.
(Ord. 90-3, passed 3-21-1990)
§ 52.31  GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors or traps shall be provided when, in
the opinion of the town they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand
and other harmful ingredients; except that, such interceptors or traps will not
be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors or
traps shall be of a type and capacity approved by the town and shall be located
so as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   (B)   They shall be constructed of impervious materials capable of
withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperatures and shall be of
substantial construction, be gas-tight, water-tight and equipped with easily
removable covers. Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors or
traps shall be maintained by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously
efficient operation at all times.
(Ord. 90-3, passed 3-21-1990)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.32  COMPLIANCE.
   All provisions of this subchapter and limits set herein shall comply with
any applicable state and/or federal requirements now, or projected to be, in
effect.
(Ord. 90-3, passed 3-21-1990)
§ 52.33  BREAKING EQUIPMENT AND THE LIKE.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment
which is a part of the municipal sewage works. Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct.
(Ord. 90-3, passed 3-21-1990)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.34  INSPECTIONS; ENTRANCE ONTO PROPERTY.
   (A)   The Superintendent, Inspector and other duly authorized employees of
the town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter. The
Superintendent or his or her representative shall have no authority to inquire
into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic,
paper or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind
and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the
town shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by
the company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
town employees and the town shall indemnify the company against loss or damage
to its property by town employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out
of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in
§
52.26(B)(5) of this chapter.
   (C)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the town
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the town holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purpose of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 90-3, passed 3-21-1990)
§ 52.35  APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   The rules and regulations promulgated by the town, after approved by the
Town Council shall, among other things, provide for an appeal procedure whereby
a user shall have the right to appeal a decision of the administrator of the
sewage system to the Town Council and that any decision concerning sewage
system of the Town Council may be appealed to a court of competent jurisdiction
under the appeal procedures provided for in the state’s Administrative
Adjudication Act.
(Ord. 90-3, passed 3-21-1990)
§ 52.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person found to be violating any provisions of §§
52.25 through
52.35 of this chapter, except §
52.33 of this chapter, shall be served by the town with written notice stating
the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
      (2)   Any person who shall continue any violation (other than a violation
of § 52.26(A)(2) of this chapter) beyond the time limit provided for in
division (B)(1) above shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, on conviction
thereof, shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $2,500 for each violation.
Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate
offense.
      (3)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
52.25 through
52.35 of this chapter shall become liable to the town for any expense, loss or
damage occasioned the town by reason of such violation.
      (4)   (a)   Any person violating or suspected of violating §
52.26(A)(2) of this chapter, shall be subjected to a penalty of $50 per month
(or fraction thereof in which the violation occurs).
         (b)   A person may avoid payment of said penalty by consenting to an
inspection described in §
52.28 of this chapter, for the purpose of establishing compliance with §
52.26(A)(2) of this chapter.
         (c)   A person consenting to such an inspection and found in violation
shall be given 90 days to comply with §
52.26(A)(2) of this chapter without being subject penalty.
(Ord. 90-3, passed 3-21-1990)
TITLE VII:  TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
72.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
73.   PARKING RULES
      
74.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
75.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
76.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Traffic Provisions
   
70.01   Scope of traffic code
   
70.02   Publicly-owned roadworks and authorized emergency vehicles
   
70.03   Riding or driving animal
   
70.04   Private property
   
70.05   Standing or parking of vehicles
   
70.06   Non-conflicting or non-duplicating ordinances
   
70.07   Definitions
   
70.08   Sight-impaired crosswalk
   
70.09   Signs
Traffic Engineer
   
70.20   Office established
   
70.21   General duties
   
70.22   Review by the Town Council
   
70.23   Emergency and experimental regulations
   
70.24   Traffic-control devices; installation; manual; specifications
   
70.25   Speed; regulation by traffic signals
   
70.26   Play street designation
   
70.27   Crosswalk and safety zone designation
   
70.28   Traffic lanes; marking
   
70.29   Turning markers; placement; restricted turn signs
   
70.30   One-way streets and alleys
   
70.31   Restricting direction of movement on street during certain periods
   
70.32   Stop and yield signs; erection; specifications
   
70.33   Parking signs; placement
   
70.34   Angle parking; signs or markings
   
70.35   Loading or unloading at angle to curb; permit
   
70.36   Parking adjacent to schools prohibited; sign placement
   
70.37   Parking on narrow streets prohibited; sign placement
   
70.38   Standing or parking on one-way streets prohibited; sign placement
   
70.39   Stopping, standing or parking near hazardous or congested places; sign
placement
   
70.40   Curb loading zone designation; permit
Prosecution of Traffic Laws; Payment of Fines
   
70.55   Definitions
   
70.56   Prosecution of case
   
70.57   Clerk of county
   
70.58   Payment of fines and costs
   
70.59   Payment of other fees
   
70.60   Execution of agreements
   
70.61   Payment of parking fines to office of town’s Clerk-Treasurer
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions; fines and payment, see I.C. Titles 33, 34 and 36
   Related provisions; Traffic Engineer, see I.C. Titles 9 and 36 and 36-9-7
   Related provisions; traffic generally, see I.C. 9-21-1-2, 36-1-3-8(9) and
36-1-3-8(10)
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
§ 70.01  SCOPE OF TRAFFIC CODE.
   (A)   This traffic code shall be known and cited as and hereinafter referred
to as the “Traffic Code of Arcadia” or as “this title” or as the “traffic
code”.
   (B)   The provisions of the traffic code are intended to apply to all
traffic and to all operators not specifically excepted.
   (C)   All provisions relative to the operation, parking or movement of
vehicles or animals, and to the movement of pedestrians, apply upon all the
public ways of the town, except as specifically limited.
   (D)   The provisions of the traffic code shall in no way limit, alter or
otherwise affect the civil or criminal responsibility of any person under the
laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 4:1:01)  (Ord. 82-22, passed 12-31-1982)
§ 70.02  PUBLICLY-OWNED ROADWORKS AND AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The provisions of this title applicable to the drivers of vehicles on
a highway, street, alley or other public ways shall apply to the drivers of all
vehicles owned or operated by the United States, the state or any county, city,
town, district or any other political subdivision of the state, subject to such
specific exceptions contained in the traffic code or the laws of the state or
of the United States.
   (B)   Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of the traffic
code shall not apply to persons, motor vehicles and other equipment while
actually engaged in work on the surface of a highway, street or alley, but
shall apply to such persons and vehicles when traveling to or from work.
(Prior Code, § 4:1:02)  (Ord. 82-22, passed 12-31-1982)
§ 70.03  RIDING OR DRIVING ANIMAL.
   Every person riding an animal or driving any animal drawing a vehicle of any
type upon a roadway shall be subject to the provisions of this traffic code
applicable to the drivers of a motorized vehicle, except those provisions of
this traffic code which, by their nature, can have no application.
(Prior Code, § 4:1:03)  (Ord. 82-22, passed 12-31-1982)
§ 70.04  PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   Nothing in the traffic code shall be construed to prevent the owner of real
property used by the public for vehicular travel, by permission of the owner
and not as a matter of right or law, from:
   (A)   Prohibiting such use;
   (B)   Requiring other or different or additional conditions than those
specified in the traffic code; or
   (C)   Otherwise regulating such use as may seem best to such owner.
(Prior Code, § 4:1:04)  (Ord. 82-22, passed 12-31-1982)
§ 70.05  STANDING OR PARKING OF VEHICLES.
   The provisions of the traffic code prohibiting the standing or parking of a
vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs, except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid a conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control device.
(Prior Code, § 4:1:05)  (Ord. 82-22, passed 12-31-1982)
§ 70.06  NON-CONFLICTING OR NON-DUPLICATING ORDINANCES.
   Pursuant to I.C. 9-4-1-27, local authorities may adopt by ordinance
additional traffic regulations with respect to streets and highways under their
jurisdiction so long as they do not conflict with or duplicate the provisions
of a statute. If any section or provision of the traffic code duplicates or is
in conflict with state statutes, then the state statutes shall prevail and the
Marshal and his or her deputies shall enforce the state statute and not the
provision or section of the traffic code which may duplicate or be in conflict
with the statute. If any term, section or provision of the traffic code in
adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction to be in conflict with or a
duplication of state statute and in violation of I.C. 9-4-1-27, then the
Council shall take corrective action to amend, modify or delete the offending
section or provision and to do all things necessary to bring the offending
section or provision of the traffic code into compliance with state law (I.C.
9-4-1-27). Any section or provision of the traffic code which has been ruled by
a court of competent jurisdiction to be in conflict with or a duplication of
state statute and in violation of I.C. 9-4-1-27 shall not affect the remaining
terms, provisions, conditions, sections and penalties of the traffic code which
shall remain in full force and effect.
(Prior Code, § 4:1:06)  (Ord. 82-22, passed 12-31-1982)
§ 70.07  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this traffic code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A public thoroughfare which affords only secondary means of vehicular
access to abutting property and not over 20 feet in width.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the Fire Department, Police
Vehicles and such ambulances as are operated by or for health and hospital
corporations pursuant to state law. However, ambulances and other vehicles,
which are owned by persons, firms or corporations other than hospitals, and are
used in emergency service, may be designated as EMERGENCY VEHICLES if such
vehicles are authorized to operate as such by the Public Service Commission of
the state.
   BICYCLE. Any foot-propelled vehicle, irrespective of the number of wheels in
contact with the ground.
   BUREAU. The Bureau of Motor Vehicles of the state acting directly or through
its duly authorized officers and agents.
   BUS. Every motor vehicle designed for carrying passengers for hire and used
for the transportation of persons; and every motor vehicle, other than a
taxicab, designed and used for the transportation of persons for compensation.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway when
50% or more of the frontage thereon for a distance of 500 feet or more is
occupied by buildings in use for business.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Every vehicle designed, maintained or used primarily for
the transportation of property.
   COMMISSION. The state’s Highway Commission, acting directly or through its
duly authorized officers and agents.
   COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of the Bureau of Motor Vehicles of the state.
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every highway, street or roadway in respect to
which owners or occupants of abutting property or lands and other persons have
no legal right of access, except at such points only and in such manner as may
be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over such highway,
street or roadway.
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   The part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway; and
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface.
   CURB LOADING ZONE. A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use
of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
   DEPARTMENT. A Police Department of the state acting directly or through its
duly authorized agents.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of Traffic Safety of the state.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   DAY. A period of time consisting of 24 consecutive hours and measured from
12:01 a.m. to 12:01 a.m. of the next succeeding day.
   EXPLOSIVES. Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is commonly
used or intended for the purpose of producing an explosion and which contains
any oxidizing and combustive units or other ingredients in such proportions,
quantities or packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by
percussion or by detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause
such a sudden generation of highly heated gases that the resultant gaseous
pressures are capable of producing destructible effects on contiguous objects
or of destroying life or limb.
   FARM TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm
implement for drawing plows, moving machines and other implements of husbandry.
   FLAMMABLE LIQUID. Any liquid which has a flash point of 70° F., or less, as
determined by a Tagliabue or equivalent closed-cup test device.
   FREIGHT CURB LOADING ZONE. A space adjacent to a curb for the exclusive use
of vehicles during the loading or unloading of freight or passengers.
   GROSS WEIGHT. The weight of a vehicle without load, plus the weight of any
load thereon.
   INDIVIDUAL PARKING SPACE. A portion of the paved surface of the street of
sufficient length and depth from the sidewalk, curb or edge of the roadway to
accommodate a vehicle of standard size.
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The areas embraced, within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways
of two highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right angles,
or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways joining at
any other angle may come in conflict; and
      (2)   Where a highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate INTERSECTION. In the event such
intersecting highway also includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of two roadways of such highway shall be regarded as a separate
INTERSECTION.
   LANED HIGHWAY. A highway the roadway of which is divided into three or more
clearly marked lanes for vehicular traffic.
   LOCAL AUTHORITIES. Every county, municipal and other local board or body
having authority to adopt local police regulations under the constitution and
laws of the state.
   MARSHAL. The chief law enforcement officer of the town. Also, the Chief of
the town’s Police Force.
   METAL TIRE. Every tire the surface of which in contact with the highway is
wholly or partly of metal or other hard non-resilient material.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle, except a motorized bicycle, which is self-
propelled and every vehicle which is propelled by electric power obtained from
overhead trolley wires, but not operated upon rails.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider and
designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the ground,
but excluding a tractor or a therapeutic bicycle.
   MOTORIZED BICYCLE. A bicycle with operable pedals which may be propelled by
human power or by an internal combustion engine or battery powered motor, or by
both, and when powered by an internal combustion engine having a rating of no
more than one and five-tenths brake horsepower and a cylinder capacity not
exceeding 50 cubic centimeters, an automatic transmission and a maximum design
speed of no more than 25 mph on a flat surface.
   OFFICE OF TRAFFIC SAFETY. The Office of Traffic Safety of the state acting
directly or through its duly authorized officers and agents.
   OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Standard time or daylight saving time, as may be in
current use in the town.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings and devices,
not inconsistent with this traffic code, placed or erected for the purpose of
regulating, warning or guiding traffic by authority of a public body or
official having jurisdiction.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL. Any device not inconsistent with this
traffic code, whether manually, electronically or mechanically operated, by
which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to proceed.
   OWNER. A person who holds the legal title of a vehicle, in the event a
vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease
thereof with the right of purchase upon performance of the conditions stated in
the agreement and with an immediate right of possession vested in the
conditional vendee or lessee, or in the event a mortgagor of a vehicle is
entitled to possession, then such conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagor
shall be deemed the OWNER for the purpose of this title.
   PARK. The standing of a vehicle, whether or occupied or not.
   PASSENGER CURB LOADING ZONE. A place adjacent to a curb reserved for the
exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PERSONS. Every natural person, firm, co-partnership, association or
corporation.
   PNEUMATIC TIRE. Every tire in which compressed air is designed to support
the load.
   POLE TRAILER. Every vehicle without motor power designed to be drawn by
another vehicle and attached to the towing vehicle by means of a reach, or
pole, or by being boomed or otherwise secured to the towing vehicle. Ordinarily
used for transporting long or irregular shaped loads such as poles, pipes or
structural members, capable, generally, of sustaining themselves as beams
between the supporting connections.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to
make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
   PRIVATE BUS. Every motor vehicle designed and constructed for the
accommodation of passengers, which is used for transportation of passengers by
a religious organization, fraternal, charitable, benevolent or youth
association. The term PRIVATE BUS shall include either the chassis or the body
of the vehicle, or shall include both the body and the chassis of any such
vehicle; provided that, any vehicle having the seating capacity of ten persons
or less shall not be deemed to be a PRIVATE BUS, nor shall any school bus or
any bus used to carry passengers for hire be considered a PRIVATE BUS.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership used for
vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied permission
from the owner, but not by other persons.
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property upon cars other than streetcars
operating upon stationary rails.
   RAILROAD SIGN OR SIGNAL. Any sign, signal or device, erected by authority of
a public body or official or by a railroad, intended to give notice of the
presence of railroad tracks or the approach of a railroad train.
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine electric or other motor, with or without cars
coupled thereto, operated upon rails, except street cars.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway not
comprising a business district, when the property on such highway for a
distance of 500 feet or more is in the main improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the highway.
   ROAD TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed for drawing other vehicles and
not constructed to carry any load independently or any part of the weight of a
vehicle or load drawn.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel.
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a safety zone.
   SCHOOL BUS. Every motor vehicle owned by a public or governmental agency and
operated for the transportation of children to or from school, or privately
owned and operated for compensation for the transportation of children to and
from school.
   SEMI-TRAILER. Every vehicle with or without motive power, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle and so constructed that some part of its weight and that of its
load rests upon or is carried by another vehicle.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   SOLID TIRE. Every tire of rubber or other resilient material which does not
depend upon compressed air for the support of the load.
   STOP. Complete cessation of movement.
   STOP, STOPPING or STANDING. Any stopping or standing of a vehicle, whether
occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or
in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic control sign
or signal.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every highway or portion thereof at the entrance to which
vehicular traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to yield right-
of-way to vehicles on such through highway in obedience to either a stop sign
or a yield sign, when such signs are erected as provided in this title.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, streetcars, vehicles and
other conveyances either singly or together while using any highway for a
purposes of travel.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle with or without motive power other then a pole
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle and so constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the
towing vehicle.
   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle designed, used or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property.
   TRUCK TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing
other vehicles and not constructed to carry a load other than a part of the
weight of the vehicle and load drawn.
   URBAN DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including any street which
is built up with structures devoted to business, industry or dwelling houses
situated at intervals of less than 100 feet for a distance of one-fourth of a
mile or more.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Prior Code, § 4:1:07)  (Ord. 82-22, passed 12-31-1982)
§ 70.08  SIGHT-IMPAIRED CROSSWALK.
   There is hereby created a sight-impaired crosswalk on the north side of the
intersection of Dora Avenue and Main Street in the town. The said sight-
impaired crosswalk shall be four feet in width. The southern boundary line of
the sight-impaired crosswalk shall abut the northern boundary line of Main
Street, and the northern and the southern boundary lines of the sight-impaired
crosswalk shall run parallel with and to the northern boundary line of Main
Street. The sight-impaired crosswalk shall begin on the eastern boundary line
of the Dora Avenue right-of-way and shall extend west across Dora Avenue to its
western boundary line.
(Prior Code, § 4:4:07)  (Ord. 82-18, passed 12-31-1983; Ord. 82-20, passed 12-
31-1982; Ord. 82-22, passed 12-31-1982; Ord. 82-51, passed 11-2-1983; Ord. 84-
2, passed 11-7-1984; Ord. 88-1, passed 1-20-1988; Ord. 88-2, passed 2-17-1988;
Ord. 91-2, passed 4-3-1991; Ord. 93-2, passed 5-5-1993; Ord. 94-1, passed 3-2-
1994; Ord. 95-03, passed 8-2-1995)
§ 70.09  SIGNS.
   For purposes of
Ch. 75, Schd. I,
II and
IV,
Ch. 76, Schd. I and
II, and §
70.08 of this chapter, the Traffic Engineer shall cause signs to be posted in
appropriate places on the streets, alleys and public ways affected by the
traffic and parking schedules of this traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 4:4:08)  (Ord. 82-18, passed 12-31-1983; Ord. 82-20, passed 12-
31-1982; Ord. 82-22, passed 12-31-1982; Ord. 82-51, passed 11-2-1983; Ord. 84-
2, passed 11-7-1984; Ord. 88-1, passed 1-20-1988; Ord. 88-2, passed 2-17-1988;
Ord. 91-2, passed 4-3-1991; Ord. 93-2, passed 5-5-1993; Ord. 94-1, passed 3-2-
1994; Ord. 95-03, passed 8-2-1995)
TRAFFIC ENGINEER
§ 70.20  OFFICE ESTABLISHED.
   The Marshal shall serve as Traffic Engineer, in addition to his or her other
functions. The Marshal’s First Deputy shall serve as the Assistant Traffic
Engineer. Neither the Marshal, nor the First Deputy, shall receive additional
compensation in connection with serving as the Traffic Engineer and the
assistant Traffic Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 4:2:01)  (Ord. 82-16, passed 12-31-1982)
§ 70.21  GENERAL DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Traffic Engineer and the assistant Traffic
Engineer to do the following:
   (A)   To determine the installation and maintenance of traffic-control
devices;
   (B)   To conduct engineering analysis of traffic accidents and to devise
remedial measures;
   (C)   To conduct engineering investigations of traffic conditions;
   (D)   To plan the operation of traffic on the streets, alleys and highways
of the town;
   (E)   To cooperate with other town officials in the developments of ways and
means to improve traffic conditions; and
   (F)   To carry out the additional powers and duties imposed by ordinances of
the town.
(Prior Code, § 4:2:02)  (Ord. 82-16, passed 12-31-1982)
§ 70.22  REVIEW BY THE TOWN COUNCIL.
   Whenever in the administration of the traffic ordinances of the town, the
Traffic Engineer or the Assistant Traffic Engineer takes action as provided
herein, his or her acts shall be subject to review by the Town Council at any
time within 90 days; however, such acts shall remain in full force and effect
unless remanded, modified or nullified upon such review.
(Prior Code, § 4:2:03)  (Ord. 82-16, passed 12-31-1982)
§ 70.23  EMERGENCY AND EXPERIMENTAL REGULATIONS.
   Subject to the consent of the Town Council, the Traffic Engineer and the
Assistant Traffic Engineer is empowered to make regulations necessary to make
effective the provisions of the traffic ordinances and to make and enforce
temporary or experimental regulations to cover emergencies or special
conditions. No such temporary or experimental regulations shall remain in
effect for more than 90 days. The Traffic Engineer may test traffic-control
devices under actual conditions of traffic.
(Prior Code, § 4:2:04)  (Ord. 82-16, passed 12-31-1982)
§ 70.24  TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES; INSTALLATION; MANUAL; SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Installation of traffic-control devices. Subject to the consent of the
Town Council, the Traffic Engineer shall place and maintain traffic-control
signs, signals and devices when and as required under the traffic ordinances to
make effective the provisions of the ordinances, and may place and maintain
such additional traffic-control devices as may be necessary to regulate traffic
under the traffic ordinances of the town or under state law, or to guide or
warn traffic.
(Prior Code, § 4:2:05)
   (B)   Manual and specifications for traffic-control devices. All traffic-
control signs, signals and devices shall conform to the manual and
specifications approved by the state’s Highway Department. All signs and
signals required hereunder for a particular purpose shall so far as practicable
be uniform as to type and location throughout the town. All traffic-control
devices so erected and not inconsistent with the provisions of state law or the
traffic ordinance shall be official traffic-control devices. The construction,
design and placement of traffic signs set forth in the Indiana Manual On
Traffic-Control Devices and published by the Department of Highways is
incorporated into this subchapter as required, by I.C. 9-21-2-1.
(Prior Code, § 4:2:06)
(Ord. 82-16, passed 12-31-1982)
§ 70.25  SPEED; REGULATION BY TRAFFIC SIGNALS.
   Subject to the consent of the Council, the Traffic Engineer may regulate the
placement of traffic signals, signs and devices so as to permit the movement of
traffic in an orderly and safe manner at speeds slightly at variance from the
speeds otherwise applicable within the district or at intersections, and may
erect appropriate signs giving notice thereof.
(Prior Code, § 4:2:07)  (Ord. 82-16, passed 12-31-1982)
§ 70.26  PLAY STREET DESIGNATION.
   Subject to the consent of the Town Council, the Traffic Engineer may declare
any street or part thereof, a play street and to place appropriate signs or
devices in the roadway indicating and helping to protect the same.
(Prior Code, § 4:2:08)  (Ord. 82-16, passed 12-31-1982)
§ 70.27  CROSSWALK AND SAFETY ZONE DESIGNATION.
   Subject to the consent of the Town Council, the Traffic Engineer is
authorized:
   (A)   To designate and maintain, by appropriate devices, marks or lines upon
the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersection where, in his or her
opinion, there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway, and at
such other places as he or she may deem necessary; and
   (B)   To establish safety zones of such kind and character and at such
places as he or she may deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 4:2:09)  (Ord. 82-16, passed 12-31-1982)
§ 70.28  TRAFFIC LANES; MARKING.
   The Traffic Engineer is authorized to mark traffic lanes upon the roadway of
any street or highway where a regular alignment of traffic is necessary.
(Prior Code, § 4:2:10)  (Ord. 82-16, passed 12-31-1982)
§ 70.29  TURNING MARKERS; PLACEMENT; RESTRICTED TURN SIGNS.
   (A)   Placing of turning markers. The Traffic Engineer is authorized to
place markers, buttons or signs within or adjacent to intersections indicating
the course to be traveled by vehicles at such intersections.
(Prior Code, § 4:2:11)
   (B)   Placing of restricted turn signs. The Traffic Engineer is authorized
to determine those intersections at which drivers of vehicles shall not make a
right, left or U-turn, and shall place proper signs at such intersections. The
making of such turns may be prohibited between certain hours of any day and
permitted at other hours, in which event the same shall be plainly indicated on
the signs or such signs may be removed when such turns are permitted.
(Prior Code, § 4:2:12)
(Ord. 82-16, passed 12-31-1982)
§ 70.30  ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   Whenever any ordinance of the town designates any one-way street or alley,
the Traffic Engineer shall place and maintain signs giving notice thereof, and
no such regulation shall be effective unless such signs are in place. Signs
indicating the direction of lawful traffic movement shall be placed in every
intersection where movement of traffic in the opposite direction is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 4:2:13)  (Ord. 82-16, passed 12-31-1982)
§ 70.31  RESTRICTING DIRECTION OF MOVEMENT ON STREET DURING CERTAIN PERIODS.
   The Traffic Engineer is authorized to determine and designate streets, parts
of streets or specific lanes upon which vehicular traffic shall proceed in one
direction during one period and the opposite direction during another period of
the day, and shall place and maintain appropriate markings, sign, barriers or
other devices to give notice thereof. The Traffic Engineer may erect signs
temporarily designating lanes to be used by traffic moving in a particular
direction, regardless of the centerline of the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 4:2:14)  (Ord. 82-16, passed 12-31-1982)
§ 70.32  STOP AND YIELD SIGNS; ERECTION; SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever the traffic ordinances or any other ordinance of the town
designates and describes a through street, it shall be the duty of the Traffic
Engineer to place and maintain a stop sign on each and every street
intersecting such through street or intersecting that portion thereof described
and designated as such by any ordinance of the town unless traffic at any such
intersection is controlled at all times by traffic-control signals. However, at
the intersection of two such through streets or at the intersection of a
through street and a heavy traffic street not so designated, stop signs shall
be erected at the approaches of either or both of the streets as may be
determined by the Traffic Engineer upon the basis of an engineering and traffic
study.
   (B)   The Traffic Engineer is authorized to determine and designate
intersections where particular hazards exist upon other than through streets
and may designate any such intersection as a stop intersection or a yield
intersection and erect stop signs or yield signs at one or more entrances to
such intersections.
   (C)   Every stop sign erected pursuant to this section shall bear the word
“stop” in letters not less than eight inches in height, and every yield sign
shall bear the word “yield” in letters not less than seven inches in height.
Such signs shall at nighttime be rendered luminous by steady or flashing
internal illumination, by a fixed floodlight projected on the face of the sign,
or by efficient reflecting elements on the face of the sign. Every stop sign
and every yield sign shall be located as near as practicable at the nearest
line of the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if none, at the
nearest line of the roadway, in residence and business districts, and at any
place where parked vehicles may frequently obscure the stop or yield signs, the
signs shall be mounted so that their lower edge will be seven feet above the
top of the curb. The left edge of the sign shall be not less than one foot, nor
more than three feet, back from the face of the curb. Where there is a marked
crosswalk on the pavement, the sign shall be erected four feet in advance of
the crosswalk line nearest to approaching traffic.
(Prior Code, § 4:2:15)  (Ord. 82-16, passed 12-31-1982)
§ 70.33  PARKING SIGNS; PLACEMENT.
   Whenever, by the traffic ordinances or any other ordinance of the town, any
parking time limit is imposed or parking is prohibited on designated streets,
it shall be the duty of the Traffic Engineer to erect appropriate signs giving
notice thereof. No such regulations shall be effective unless the signs are
erected and in place at time of any alleged offense.
(Prior Code, § 4:2:16)  (Ord. 82-16, passed 12-31-1982)
§ 70.34  ANGLE PARKING; SIGNS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   The Traffic Engineer shall determine upon what streets angle parking
shall be permitted and shall mark or sign such streets. Angle parking shall not
be indicated upon any federal aid or state highway within the town unless the
state’s Highway Department has determined by resolution or order entered in its
minutes that the roadway is of sufficient width to permit angle parking without
interfering with the free movement of traffic.
   (B)   Angle parking shall not be indicated or permitted at any place where
traffic would thereby be caused or required to drive upon the left side of the
street.
(Prior Code, § 4:2:17)  (Ord. 82-16, passed 12-31-1982)
§ 70.35  LOADING OR UNLOADING AT ANGLE TO CURB; PERMIT.
   (A)   Subject to the terms and conditions of ordinances, or the chapters of
this traffic code, the Traffic Engineer is authorized to issue special permits
to permit the backing of a vehicle to the curb for the purpose of loading or
unloading merchandise or materials subject to the terms and conditions of such
permit.
   (B)   Such permits maybe be issued either to the owner or lessee of real
property or to the owner of the vehicle and shall grant to such person the
privilege as therein stated and authorized herein.
(Prior Code, § 4:2:18)  (Ord. 82-16, passed 12-31-1982)
§ 70.36  PARKING ADJACENT TO SCHOOLS PROHIBITED; SIGN PLACEMENT.
   The Traffic Engineer is authorized to erect signs indicating no parking upon
either or both sides of any street adjacent to any school property when such
parking would, in his or her opinion, interfere with traffic or create a
hazardous situation.
(Prior Code, § 4:2:19)  (Ord. 82-16, passed 12-31-1982)
§ 70.37  PARKING ON NARROW STREETS PROHIBITED; SIGN PLACEMENT.
   The Traffic Engineer is authorized to erect signs indicating no parking upon
any street when the width of the roadway does not permit parking or travel in
safety.
(Prior Code, § 4:2:20)  (Ord. 82-16, passed 12-31-1982)
§ 70.38  STANDING OR PARKING ON ONE-WAY STREETS PROHIBITED; SIGN PLACEMENT.
   The Traffic Engineer is authorized to erect signs upon either or both sides
of any one-way street to prohibit the standing or parking of vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 4:2:21)  (Ord. 82-16, passed 12-31-1982)
§ 70.39  STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING NEAR HAZARDOUS OR CONGESTED PLACES; SIGN
PLACEMENT.
   The Traffic Engineer is authorized to determine and designate by proper
signs, places not exceeding 150 feet in length in which the stopping, standing
or parking of vehicles would create an especially hazardous condition or would
cause unusual delay to traffic.
(Prior Code, § 4:2:22)  (Ord. 82-16, passed 12-31-1982)
§ 70.40  CURB LOADING ZONE DESIGNATION; PERMIT.
   (A)   The Traffic Engineer is authorized to determine the location of
passenger and freight curb loading zones, subject to the Town Council, and
shall place and maintain appropriate signs indicating the same and stating the
hours during which the provisions of this section are applicable.
(Prior Code, § 4:2:23)
   (B)   (1)   Subject to the approval of the Town Council, the Traffic
Engineer shall not hereafter designate or sign any curb loading zone upon
special request of any person, unless such person makes application for a
permit for such zone and for two signs to indicate the ends of each such zone.
      (2)   The Traffic Engineer upon granting a permit and issuing such signs
shall collect from the applicant and deposit in the town treasury a minimum
service fee of $50 per year or fraction thereof, and may be general regulations
impose conditions for use of such signs, for reimbursement to the town for the
value thereof on the event of their loss or damage, and for their return in the
event of misuse or upon expiration of permit. Every such permit shall expire at
the end of one year.
(Prior Code, § 4:2:24)
(Ord. 82-16, passed 12-31-1982)
PROSECUTION OF TRAFFIC LAWS; PAYMENT OF FINES
§ 70.55  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CASE. A traffic ordinance violation referred for filing by a member of the
Town Marshal’s office.
   TRAFFIC ORDINANCE. An ordinance establishing a speed limit, a one-way
street, the location of a stop or yield sign, the location of other traffic-
control devices, parking, no parking areas or zones, loading and unloading
zones, and snow emergency routes.
(Prior Code, § 4:3:01)  (Ord. 82-17, passed 12-31-1982; Ord. 95-04, passed 10-
18-1995)
§ 70.56  PROSECUTION OF CASE.
   The attorney for the town or the Prosecuting Attorney for the county shall
prosecute alleged violations of traffic ordinances on behalf of the town.
(Prior Code, § 4:3:02)  (Ord. 82-17, passed 12-31-1982; Ord. 95-04, passed 10-
18-1995)
§ 70.57  CLERK OF COUNTY.
   The Clerk of the county or the person designated by the court with the
appropriate jurisdiction over the case shall collect all costs and fines
assessed which arises out of a judgment of a violation of traffic ordinances of
the town.
(Prior Code, § 4:3:03)  (Ord. 82-17, passed 12-31-1982; Ord. 95-04, passed 10-
18-1995)
§ 70.58  PAYMENT OF FINES AND COSTS.
   The Clerk of the county or the person designated by the court with the
appropriate jurisdiction over the case shall pay into the General Fund of the
town the municipal prosecutor’s fee, which fee is set by state statute, plus
the fine for every judgment which is collected in the case. The Clerk of the
county or the person designated by the courts with the appropriate jurisdiction
over the case shall make such payment to the town as soon as is possible
following the collection of any such judgments.
(Prior Code, § 4:3:04)  (Ord. 82-17, passed 12-31-1982; Ord. 95-04, passed 10-
18-1995)
§ 70.59  PAYMENT OF OTHER FEES.
   In addition to the fine and municipal prosecutor’s fee, the violator must
pay a state docket fee, county docket fee, motor vehicle fee and judicial fee
which shall not be paid to the town.
(Prior Code, § 4:3:05)  (Ord. 82-17, passed 12-31-1982; Ord. 95-04, passed 10-
18-1995)
§ 70.60  EXECUTION OF AGREEMENTS.
   In lieu of the attorney for the town prosecuting alleged violations of
traffic ordinances on behalf of the town, the town may enter into a written
agreement with the Prosecutor of the county, which agreement shall provide,
among other things, that the County Prosecutor’s office shall prosecute
violations of town traffic ordinances in return for a reasonable fee to be paid
by the town.
(Prior Code, § 4:3:06)  (Ord. 82-17, passed 12-31-1982; Ord. 95-04, passed 10-
18-1995)
§ 70.61  PAYMENT OF PARKING FINES TO OFFICE OF TOWN’S CLERK-TREASURER.
   Whoever receives a fine for violating any provision of
Ch. 76, Schd. II, of this traffic code may, within 72 hours from the date of
receiving said fine, pay the same at the office of the Clerk-Treasurer of the
town who shall cause a receipt to be issued showing payment of the fine. If
payment is made within the aforementioned 72-hour period, then the fine to be
imposed hereunder shall be $10. If the said sum of $10 is not paid as set forth
within the preceding sentence within the 72-hour period, then the Marshal or
Deputy Marshal shall cause the matter to be filed and docketed in a court of
law and shall proceed with the prosecution thereof as set forth in §§
70.55 through
70.60 of this chapter, and the violator shall upon conviction, be punished with
a minimum fine of $10 and a maximum fine of $1,000 and cost, with each day that
the violation continues being a separate offense which shall subject the
violator to a separate fine as set forth in §
70.99(B) of this chapter and in §
73.99 of this traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 4:3:07)  (Ord. 82-17, passed 12-31-1982; Ord. 95-04, passed 10-
18-1995)
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-3-8(9) and (10), the maximum fine which may be
imposed under the traffic code is $2,500. Specific fines have been provided
throughout the traffic code, and reference must be made to the specific fine
imposed for a particular violation of a section or provision of the traffic
code.
(Prior Code, § 4:1:08)
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of
Ch. 75 and
76 of this traffic code or of any resolution passed pursuant hereto when
promulgated by the posting of an appropriate traffic sign, upon conviction of
any and for each such violation, shall be punished with a minimum fine of $10
and a maximum penalty of $1,000.
(Prior Code, § 4:4:09)
(Ord. 82-18, passed 12-31-1983; Ord. 82-20, passed 12-31-1982; Ord. 82-22,
passed 12-31-1982; Ord. 82-51, passed 11-2-1983; Ord. 84-2, passed 11-7-1984;
Ord. 88-1, passed 1-20-1988; Ord. 88-2, passed 2-17-1988; Ord. 91-2, passed 4-
3-1991; Ord. 93-2, passed 5-5-1993; Ord. 94-1, passed 3-2-1994; Ord. 95-03,
passed 8-2-1995)
CHAPTER 71:  RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Golf Carts
   
71.01   Definitions
   
71.02   Registration required
   
71.03   Operator; driver’s license
   
71.04   Financial responsibility
   
71.05   Equipment
   
71.06   Operation regulations
   
71.07   Occupants
Skateboards and Other Wheeled Toy Vehicles and Devices
   
71.20   Regulation of skateboards
   
71.21   Public nuisance
   
71.22   Temporarily holding skateboards
   
71.23   Exception for special events
Snowmobiles
   
71.35   Authority
   
71.36   Definitions
   
71.37   Snowmobile routes
   
71.38   Operation on designated routes within the town
   
71.39   Application of state statutes
   
71.40   Liability and duty of operators
   
71.41   Authorized use by a police officer
 
   
71.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Public nuisances, see §§
92.01 through
92.12
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions; snowmobiles, see I.C. 14-16-1-1 et seq.
GOLF CARTS
§ 71.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVER’S LICENSE. A valid license to operate a motor vehicle issued by
Indiana or any other state.
   FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Liability insurance coverage on a golf cart in an
amount not less than required by state law for motor vehicles operated on
public highways in the state.
   GOLF CART. A vehicle with three or four wheels originally designed for
operation on a golf course and powered by a battery or internal combustion
motor.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 7-15-2013)
§ 71.02  REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   The owners or lessees of golf carts shall obtain a permit for the golf cart
from the town before operation on any public right-of-way. The registration
process shall include payment of an annual registration fee of $25 and a
temporary ten-day registration fee of $10 and an inspection by the Police
Department to verify the golf cart is insured and is properly equipped as
required by §§
71.04 and
71.05 of this chapter. Decals reflecting a valid registration permit must be
visibly affixed to each registered golf cart in accordance with requirements of
the Police Department.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 7-15-2013)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03  OPERATOR; DRIVER’S LICENSE.
   Only persons holding a valid state driver’s license may operate a golf cart
on any public right-of- way.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 7-15-2013)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04  FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   The financial ability of the owner, lessee or operator notwithstanding, the
golf cart must be covered by liability insurance in an amount not less that
that provided by state statues for motor vehicles operated on public
thoroughfares in the state. Written proof of financial responsibility must be
available either on the golf cart or carried by the operator at all times.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 7-15-2013)
§ 71.05  EQUIPMENT.
   All golf carts must be equipped with efficient brakes, reliable steering and
safe tires; and operational head lamps and tail lamps are only required after
sunset and before sunrise. All golf carts must be equipped with a slow moving
vehicle placard, prominently displayed on the rear of the golf cart. Placards
shall remain unobstructed at all times during golf cart operation. All required
equipment is subject to inspection and approval by the Police Department at any
time.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 7-15-2013)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06  OPERATION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Golf carts may only be driven on the roadway or alley ways. Golf cart
operation is prohibited on sidewalks, walking paths, grass rights-of-way, any
private property without the owners consent and on town park property, except
areas designated for vehicular parking.
   (B)   Golf carts may not be operated at a speed greater than 20 mph.
   (C)   The operator of the golf cart shall comply with all traffic rules and
regulations adopted by the state and the town which govern the operation of
motor vehicles.
   (D)   The operator of any golf cart shall pull over in a safe area whenever
possible to allow any overtaking motor vehicle to pass so as not to impede the
normal flow of traffic.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 7-15-2013)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.07  OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   The number of occupants in a golf cart shall be limited to the number
of persons for whom factory seating is installed and provided on the golf cart.
   (B)   The operator and all occupants shall be seated in the golf cart and no
part of the body of the operator or occupant(s) shall extend outside the
perimeter of the golf cart while the golf cart is being operated.
   (C)   No occupant of a golf cart shall sit upon another during operation.
   (D)   Operators of any golf cart may not carry child passengers less than
four years of age unless accompanied by the child’s parent.
   (E)   The operator of the golf cart is responsible for the safety of its
occupant(s).
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 7-15-2013)  Penalty, see §
71.99
SKATEBOARDS AND OTHER WHEELED TOY VEHICLES AND DEVICES
§ 71.20  REGULATION OF SKATEBOARDS.
   No person riding on or by means of a skateboard, coaster, scooter or similar
wheeled toy vehicle or device shall park, stand or use the same upon the
streets, roads, sidewalks, grassy areas and public parking areas located within
the following public right-of-way in the town:
   (A)   All of the area within the public right-of-way commonly known as Main
Street where the same is located in the town (from Scherer Avenue to S.R. 19);
   (B)   All of the area within the public right-of-way commonly known as
Shaffer Street from the intersection of Main Street and Shaffer Street to the
south side of the intersection of Shaffer Street and Franklin Avenue;
   (C)   All of the area within the public right-of-way commonly known as
Hamilton Avenue from the intersection of Shaffer Street and Hamilton Avenue to
the intersection of Hamilton Avenue and S.R. 19;
   (D)   All of the area within the public right-of-way commonly known as
Madison Avenue from the intersection of Shaffer Street and Madison Avenue to
the intersection of Madison Avenue and S.R. 19;
   (E)   All of the area within the public right-of-way commonly known as
Marion Avenue from the intersection of Shaffer Street and Marion Avenue to the
intersection of Marion Avenue and S.R. 19;
   (F)   All of the area within the public right-of-way commonly known as
Howard Avenue from the intersection of Shaffer Street and Howard Avenue to the
intersection of Howard Avenue and S.R. 19;
   (G)   All of the area within the public right-of-way commonly known as
Broadway Avenue from the Intersection of Shaffer Street and Broadway Avenue to
the intersection of Broadway Avenue and S.R. 19; and
   (H)   All of the area within the public right-of-way commonly known as
Franklin Avenue from the intersection of Shaffer Street and Franklin Avenue to
the intersection of Franklin Avenue and S.R. 19.
(Prior Code, § 5:8:01)  (Ord. 2005-14, passed 11-21-2005)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.21  PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   It is hereby declared a public nuisance and, therefore, a violation of this
section to ride or operate a skateboard, coaster, scooter or any similar
wheeled toy vehicle or device on the streets, sidewalks, grassy areas, ramps
and public parking areas within the rights-of-way, roads, streets and highways
set forth hereinabove.
(Prior Code, § 5:8:02)  (Ord. 2005-14, passed 11-21-2005)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.22  TEMPORARILY HOLDING SKATEBOARDS.
   Any skateboard, coaster, scooter or other similar wheeled toy vehicle or
device operated in violation of this section may be temporarily held by the
town to abate the nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 5:8:03)  (Ord. 2005-14, passed 11-21-2005)
§ 71.23  EXCEPTION FOR SPECIAL EVENTS.
   An exception to this subchapter exists for special events, parades or
similar activities where a right-of-way use or other applicable permit from the
town is in effect for the activity.
(Prior Code, § 5:8:06)  (Ord. 2005-14, passed 11-21-2005)
SNOWMOBILES
§ 71.35  AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is made by the Council pursuant to the authority granted it
by I.C. 14-16-1-1 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 4:9:01)  (Ord. 82-42, passed 2-2-1985)
§ 71.36  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HIGHWAY, STREET, ALLEY or RIGHT-OF-WAY. The entire width between the
boundary lines of every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open
to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
   OFF-ROAD VEHICLE. A motor driven vehicle capable of cross county travel,
without benefit of a road or trail, on or immediately over land, water, snow,
ice, marsh, swampland or other natural terrain. It includes, but is not limited
to, a multi-wheel drive or low pressure tire vehicle, amphibious machine,
ground-effect air cushion vehicle or other means of transportation deriving
motive power from a source other than muscle of wind. It does not include a
farm vehicle being used for farming, a vehicle used for military or law
enforcement purposes, construction, mining or other industrial related vehicles
used in performance of its common function or a registered aircraft and does
not include for registration any other vehicle properly registered by the
Bureau of Motor Vehicles, and any water craft which is registered pursuant to
state statutes.
   OPERATE. To ride in or on and to be in actual physical control of the
operation of a snowmobile or an off-road vehicle.
   OPERATOR. Any person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile or an off-road vehicle.
   OWNER. Any person, other than a lien-holder, having the property in or title
to a snowmobile or an off-road vehicle entitled to the use or possession
thereof.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, corporation, the state and any of its
agencies or subdivisions, and any body of person whether incorporated or not.
   SNOWMOBILE. Any motor driven vehicle designed for travel primarily on snow
or ice of a type which utilizes sled type runners or skis, or an endless belt
tread or any combination of these or other similar means of contact with the
surface upon which it is operated.
   VEHICLE. A snowmobile or an off-road vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 4:9:02)  (Ord. 82-42, passed 2-2-1985)
§ 71.37  SNOWMOBILE ROUTES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a snowmobile or other off-road vehicles on any
streets, alleys or other public right-of-way in the town, except on those
streets and during those hours specifically identified and set forth in
divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   After signs have been posted by the Traffic Engineer along the
following streets identifying them as a snowmobile route, the same may be used
by operators of snowmobiles for the purpose of reaching a road, street, highway
or other real property located outside of the municipal boundaries of the town
during those hours stated herein.
Street Between Hours of Permitted Travel
Street          Between                              Hours of Permitted Travel
East Street     Franklin Avenue and Howard Avenue    At all times
Franklin Avenue S.R. 19 and East Street              At all times
Hamilton Avenue S.R. 19 and Shaffer Street           7:00 a.m. to 10:00 pm
Howard Avenue   East Street and Olive Street         At all times
                Scherer Avenue and western most
Main Street     boundary line of Main Street located At all times
                in the town
Olive Street    Southern most boundary of Olive      At all times
                Street and South Street
                South Street and southern most
Scherer Avenue  boundary line of Scherer Avenue      At all times
                located in the town
SchererAvenue   South Street and Main Street         At all times
Shaffer Street  Hamilton Avenue and South Street     7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
South Street    Shaffer Street and Scherer Avenue    7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
 
   (C)   Operators of snowmobiles shall be given limited access during the
hours stated herein, to the following name streets for parking privileges only
while shopping and/or frequenting businesses along Main Street in the town.
 
Street            Between                      Hours of Permitted Travel
Washington Street Main Street and South Street 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
West Street       Main Street and South Street 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
 
(Prior Code, § 4:9:03)  (Ord. 82-42, passed 2-2-1985)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.38  OPERATION ON DESIGNATED ROUTES WITHIN THE TOWN.
   (A)   A person shall not operate a snowmobile or an off-road vehicle on the
designated routes within the town: at a rate of speed greater than is
reasonable and proper having due regard for conditions then existing; provided,
however, in no event shall a person operate a snowmobile or an off-road vehicle
in excess of 20 mph.
   (B)   A person operating a snowmobile or an off-road vehicle shall be
subject to and shall obey all traffic and parking laws of the town and shall
obey all traffic devices, markings and signs, including stop and yield signs,
posted by the town.
   (C)   A person operating a snowmobile or an off-road vehicle shall yield the
right-of-way to pedestrians and to all other traffic using the streets,
sidewalks, alleys and rights-of-way located within the town.
   (D)   A person shall not operate a snowmobile or an off-road vehicle on any
street, road, alley or other public way in the town, except on the streets
specifically designated and during those hours listed in §
71.37 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4:9:04)  (Ord. 82-42, passed 2-2-1985)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.39  APPLICATION OF STATE STATUTES.
   Except to the extent modified by specific terms and provisions of this
subchapter, the provisions of I.C. 14-1-3-1 et seq. and of 14-1.5-3-1 et seq.
that are permitted to be incorporated into this subchapter are hereby fully
incorporated herein by reference. The Marshal and his or her deputies shall
enforce this subchapter and the state statutes which regulate and govern the
use and operation of snowmobiles or off-road vehicles. This subchapter is not
intended to duplicate or replace I.C. 14-16-1-1 et seq., but is intended to
supplement the laws of the state and to impose certain minimum requirements to
protect the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the town. However,
the penalties contained in I.C. 14-16-1-1 et seq. are not incorporated into
this subchapter and shall not be considered a part hereof.
(Prior Code, § 4:9:05)  (Ord. 82-42, passed 2-2-1985)
§ 71.40  LIABILITY AND DUTY OF OPERATORS.
   The town shall owe no duty of care to keep the roads, streets, alleys and
other public ways safe for entry or use by persons operating, using or riding
in snowmobiles or other off-road vehicles, or to give any warning of a
dangerous condition, use, structure or activity on such roads, streets, alleys,
sidewalks or other public ways to such persons. Nothing in this subchapter
shall be construed to create or increase a duty of care or ground of liability
for injury to persons or property, or relieve any person using a snowmobile or
an off-road vehicle from any obligation which he or she may have to exercise
care in the use of the streets authorized in §
71.37 of this chapter, or from the legal consequences of failure to employ such
care.
(Prior Code, § 4:9:06)  (Ord. 82-42, passed 2-2-1985)
§ 71.41  AUTHORIZED USE BY A POLICE OFFICER.
   Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, a duly
constituted law enforcement officer of the town, county or the state may
authorize use of a vehicle on the public highways, streets and right-of-way
within the town during emergencies when conventional motor vehicles cannot be
used for transportation due to snow or other extreme highway conditions.
(Prior Code, § 4:9:07)  (Ord. 82-42, passed 2-2-1985)
§ 71.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Operators of golf carts are subject to citations for violations
of any provision of §§
71.01 through
71.07 of this chapter.
      (2)   Violations by the owner or operator of any provision of §§
71.01 through
71.07 of this chapter may be cause for revocation or suspension of the owner’s
permit for the golf cart. It shall be the sole determination of the town’s
Police Department whether any violation or a series of violations constitutes a
revocation or suspension and the duration of said action.
      (3)   In addition to the penalty provided in division (B)(1) above, any
person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of §§
71.01 through
71.07 of this chapter may be prosecuted in court and shall, upon conviction, be
punished with a minimum fine of $50 and a maximum fine not exceeding $2,500. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during which a
violation occurs or continues.
      (4)   In addition to the penalties provided in divisions (B)(1) and (B)
(2) above, the town is empowered to obtain a restraining order and/or a
permanent injunction against any person, firm, corporation or any other entity
that show to be in violation of §§
71.01 through
71.07 of this chapter. A person against whom the town recovers a judgment shall
pay costs of the court action and the town’s attorney’s fees.
   (C)   (1)   Any person, upon conviction for a first or second violation of
§§
71.20 through
71.23 of this chapter, shall be liable for a fine up to $100 for each such
violation.
(Prior Code, § 5:8:04)
      (2)   Any person, upon conviction for a third or subsequent violation of
§§
71.20 through
71.23 of this chapter, may be liable for a fine up to $500.
(Prior Code, § 5:8:05)
   (D)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
71.35 through
71.41 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished with a minimum fine
of $10 and a maximum fine of $200, in addition to costs. Each incident shall
constitute a separate violation under §§
71.35 through
71.41 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4:9:01)
(Ord. 82-42, passed 2-2-1985; Ord. 2005-14, passed 11-21-2005; Ord. 2013-03,
passed 7-15-2013)
CHAPTER 72:  TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   U-turns
   
72.02   Through streets
   
72.03   Unusual noises
   
72.04   Processions
   
72.05   Driving on sidewalks
   
72.06   Driving on play streets
   
72.07   Operation on streets where movement restricted
   
72.08   Bicycles
   
72.09   Roller skates
Snow Emergency Routes
   
72.20   Snow emergency routes
   
72.21   No parking along route
   
72.22   Purpose of subchapter
   
72.23   Duty of owner or lessee to remove vehicle from a snow emergency route
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 9-21-1-2 through 9-21-1-5
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01  U-TURNS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not make a U-turn on any street, alley or
public way in the town where signs giving notice have been posted prohibiting
U-turns, and not vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite
direction upon said streets, alleys and public ways.
(Prior Code, § 4:6:01)  (Ord. 82-21, passed 12-31-1982)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02  THROUGH STREETS.
   When signs are erected giving notice that a street has been designated a
through street, drivers of vehicles shall stop or yield at every intersection
or entrance thereto. Every driver of a vehicle shall stop or yield in obedience
to any such sign before entering such intersection, except when directed to
proceed by a police officer or traffic-control signal.
(Prior Code, § 4:6:02)  (Ord. 82-21, passed 12-31-1982)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03  UNUSUAL NOISES.
   (A)   No person shall sound any horn, signal device or other attachment on a
vehicle, except as a necessary warning of danger to persons or property.
   (B)   No person shall cause and/or create any grating, screeching, grinding
or squealing noise, or any loud reports, shots or other loud and/or unusual
noises in the use of, or in the operation of motor vehicles or appurtenances
attached thereto.
(Prior Code, § 4:6:03)  (Ord. 82-21, passed 12-31-1982)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04  PROCESSIONS.
   No procession or parade composed of persons and/or vehicles or animals,
excepting the forces of the United States army or navy, the military forces of
the state, the forces of the Police and Fire Departments and a funeral
procession, shall occupy, march or proceed along the street, except in
accordance with a permit issued by the Marshal’s office along with the consent
of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 4:6:04)  (Ord. 82-21, passed 12-31-1982)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05  DRIVING ON SIDEWALKS.
   Drivers of vehicles shall not drive within or upon any sidewalk area, except
where it is necessary to enter a permanent or temporary driveway.
(Prior Code, § 4:6:05)  (Ord. 82-21, passed 12-31-1982)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06  DRIVING ON PLAY STREETS.
   Whenever signs are erected giving notice that a street or alley or part
thereof has been designated as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle
upon any such street, alley or portion thereof, except drivers of vehicles
having business thereon or whose residence are within such closed area, and
then any driver shall exercise the greatest care in driving upon any such
street, alley or portion thereof.
(Prior Code, § 4:6:06)  (Ord. 82-21, passed 12-31-1982)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.07  OPERATION ON STREETS WHERE MOVEMENT RESTRICTED.
   No person shall operate any vehicle in violation of markings, signs,
barriers or other devices placed in accordance with this traffic code
indicating that traffic is to proceed in only one direction during certain
periods.
(Prior Code, § 4:6:07)  (Ord. 82-21, passed 12-31-1982)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.08  BICYCLES.
   In addition to the provision set forth in I.C. 9-21-11-1 et seq., as the
same applies to bicycles, the following shall also be applicable.
   (A)   All persons located in the town engaged in the business of buying and
selling new or used bicycles shall make a monthly report to the Marshal giving
the name and address of the person from or to whom each bicycle is purchased or
sold, and a description and frame number of the bicycle.
   (B)   A rental agency located in the town shall not rent or offer any
bicycle for rent unless the same is equipped by such agency with lights,
audible warning devices and other safety equipment required by I.C. 9-21-11-
8 et seq.
   (C)   Whenever a usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a
street or roadway, bicycle riders shall use such path and shall not use the
street or roadway.
   (D)   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is
reasonable and prudent under the conditions then existing.
   (E)   The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway or building
shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway, driveway and path or walkway, yield the right-of-way to all
pedestrians approaching on the sidewalk or sidewalk area and, upon entering the
street or roadway, shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on
the street or roadway.
   (F)   No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the
roadway against the curb, upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle,
against a building or at the curb in such a manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
   (G)   The Marshal and/or his or her deputies shall have the authority to
inspect bicycles for the purpose of ascertaining whether the same are in safe
mechanical condition and whether said bicycles have lights audible warning
devices, and other safety equipment required by the laws of the state.
Furthermore, the Marshal and his or her deputies are authorized to conduct
bicycle safety classes for riders.
(Prior Code, § 4:6:08)  (Ord. 82-21, passed 12-31-1982)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.09  ROLLER SKATES.
   No person upon roller skates, or riding in or by means of any coaster, toy
vehicle, go-cart or similar device, shall go upon any roadway or street, except
while crossing a street on a crosswalk. When so crossing, such person shall be
granted all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable
to pedestrians. This section shall not apply upon any street which has been set
aside as a play street.
(Prior Code, § 4:6:09)  (Ord. 82-21, passed 12-31-1982)  Penalty, see §
72.99
SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES
§ 72.20  SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The Traffic Engineer shall post signs along the following named street(s)
located in the town which declares the same to be a snow emergency route, and
said snow emergency route shall be effective at the time specified herein and
when signs are erected giving notice thereof.
 
Street      Between                    Side
Main Street S.R. 19 and Scherer Avenue North and south sides
 
(Prior Code, § 4:8:01)  (Ord. 82-19, passed 12-31-1982)
§ 72.21  NO PARKING ALONG ROUTE.
   (A)   When two or more inches of snow or other forms of freezing
precipitation accumulates on the street(s) described in §
72.20 of this chapter, there shall be no parking on either side of said street
(s) until the snow or other forms of freezing precipitation has been removed by
the town.
   (B)   REMOVAL or REMOVED, as used herein, means the plowing of said street
(s) from curb to curb by the town.
(Prior Code, § 4:8:02)  (Ord. 82-19, passed 12-31-1982)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.22  PURPOSE OF SUBCHAPTER.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to expedite snow removal on said street(s)
and to facilitate the movement of traffic thereon.
(Prior Code, § 4:8:03)  (Ord. 82-19, passed 12-31-1982)
§ 72.23  DUTY OF OWNER OR LESSEE TO REMOVE VEHICLE FROM A SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE.
   Whenever two or more inches of snow or other forms of freezing precipitation
accumulates on the street(s) described in §
72.20 of this chapter, all vehicles shall be immediately removed from said
street(s) by the owner or lessee of said vehicle and/or by the person who has
control or possession of said vehicle. The word VEHICLE, used herein, refers to
an automobile, motorcycle, truck, trailer, semi- trailer, tractor, bus, school
bus, recreational vehicle or motorized bicycle.
(Prior Code, § 4:8:04)  (Ord. 82-19, passed 12-31-1982)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §§
72.01 through
72.07 of this chapter, and upon conviction of any and for each such violation,
shall be punished with a minimum fine of $10 and a maximum fine of $1,000. Each
day the act (violation) continues shall constitute a separate violation.
      (2)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §§
72.08 and
72.09 of this chapter shall be punished by a fine of not more than $25 or by
the impounding of the offender’s bicycle, roller skates, coaster, toy vehicle,
go-cart or similar device for a period not to exceed 30 days, or both.
(Prior Code, § 4:6:10)
   (C)   (1)   Any person who owns, leases or controls a vehicle and who fails
and/or refuses to remove the vehicle as prescribed in §
72.23 of this chapter, commits a violation of §§
72.20 through
72.23 of this chapter, and upon conviction of any and for each such violation,
shall be punished with a minimum fine of $10 and a maximum fine of $1,000. Each
day the act (violation) continues shall constitute a separate violation.
      (2)   In addition to the foregoing penalty, the Town Marshal and his or
her deputies are empowered to remove any vehicle found in violation of §§
72.20 through
72.23 of this chapter. For the purpose of enforcing §§
72.20 through
72.23 of this chapter, the town may enter into a towing contract for the
purpose of removing a vehicle found parked on the street(s) listed in §
72.20 of this chapter and found to be in violation of the terms and conditions
of §§
72.20 through
72.23 of this chapter. Any and all costs incurred by the town in removing a
vehicle pursuant to §§
72.20 through
72.23 of this chapter shall be added to the fine imposed in division (C)(1)
above, and said costs shall not be waived or suspended.
      (3)   In the event the Marshal, his or her deputies, a towing service,
the town or an employee or an agent of the town removes a vehicle pursuant to
division (C)(2) above, they shall not be liable for loss or damage to the
vehicle or parts occurring during its removal.
(Prior Code, § 4:8:05)
(Ord. 82-19, passed 12-31-1982; Ord. 82-21, passed 12-31-1982)
CHAPTER 73:  PARKING RULES
Section
   
73.01   Application
   
73.02   Angle parking
   
73.03   Individual parking spaces
   
73.04   Stopping, standing or parking of vehicles within street or alley
prohibited
   
73.05   Repairing and the like of vehicle on street prohibited
   
73.06   Loading and unloading passengers
   
73.07   Loading and unloading freight
   
73.08   Conditions of loading permit
   
73.09   Parking during parades and the like
   
73.10   Restricted parking and the like during certain hours
   
73.11   Stopping, standing and parking restrictions currently in force
   
73.12   Amending, modifying and the like of this chapter
 
   
73.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 9-21-16-1 et seq.
§ 73.01  APPLICATION.
   In addition to the provisions set forth in I.C. 9-21-16-1 regulating
stopping, standing and parking of vehicles on streets, highways, alleys and
other public ways, this chapter shall apply to the stopping, standing and
parking of vehicles on streets, highway, alleys and other public ways located
within the town as indicated herein.
(Prior Code, § 4:5:01)  (Ord. 82-20, passed 12-31-1982; Ord. 82-51, passed 11-
2-1983)
§ 73.02  ANGLE PARKING.
   (A)   Upon those streets which have been signed or marked by the Traffic
Engineer for angle parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than
at the angle to the curb or edge of the roadway indicated by such signs or
makings. The vehicle must enter the parking space with a forward movement.
   (B)   Wherever angle parking is permitted, no person shall park or stand a
vehicle with a total length in excess of 20 feet.
(Prior Code, § 4:5:02)  (Ord. 82-20, passed 12-31-1982; Ord. 82-51, passed 11-
2-1983)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03  INDIVIDUAL PARKING SPACES.
   Where individual parking spaces are designated and marked off in accordance
with the title, vehicles shall be parked entirely within the area designated by
such marking, and it shall be unlawful to park any standard size vehicle across
any such marking.
(Prior Code, § 4:5:03)  (Ord. 82-20, passed 12-31-1982; Ord. 82-51, passed 11-
2-1983)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04  STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING OF VEHICLE WITHIN STREET OR ALLEY
PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park a vehicle within a street or alley in such a manner or
under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the width of
the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person shall
stop, stand or park a vehicle within a street or alley in such position as to
block the driveway entrance to any abutting property.
(Prior Code, § 4:5:04)  (Ord. 82-20, passed 12-31-1982; Ord. 82-51, passed 11-
2-1983)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.05  REPAIRING AND THE LIKE OF VEHICLE ON STREET PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park a vehicle upon any such street or highway for the
principal purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying such vehicle for sale; and
   (B)   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle, except repairs
necessitated by an emergency.
(Prior Code, § 4:5:05)  (Ord. 82-20, passed 12-31-1982; Ord. 82-51, passed 11-
2-1983)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.06  LOADING AND UNLOADING PASSENGERS.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or period of
time other than for the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers in any
place marked as a passenger curb loading zone during hours when the regulations
applicable to such curb loading zone are effective, and then only for a period
not to exceed five minutes.
(Prior Code, § 4:5:06)  (Ord. 82-20, passed 12-31-1982; Ord. 82-51, passed 11-
2-1983)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.07  LOADING AND UNLOADING FREIGHT.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or
length of time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pickup
and loading of materials in any place marked as a freight curb loading zone
during house when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect, except
for the loading or unloading of passengers with a five-minute time limit.
   (B)   In no case shall the stop for loading and unlading of materials exceed
30 minutes.
(Prior Code, § 4:5:07)  (Ord. 82-20, passed 12-31-1982; Ord. 82-51, passed 11-
2-1983)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.08  CONDITIONS OF LOADING PERMIT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who has been granted a permit to load or
unload at an angle to the curb to violate any of the special terms of
conditions of any such permit.
(Prior Code, § 4:5:08)  (Ord. 82-20, passed 12-31-1982; Ord. 82-51, passed 11-
2-1983)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.09  PARKING DURING PARADES AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   During any public parade, assembly or demonstration upon the streets,
or during an emergency, officers of the Marshal’s office may prohibit parking
upon any street to expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians.
   (B)   Any owner, driver or operator of any vehicle, when called upon by a
police officer at any such time to remove the same, shall do so immediately.
   (C)   If such owner driver or operator cannot be found, any police officer
may himself or herself remove such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 4:5:09)  (Ord. 82-20, passed 12-31-1982; Ord. 82-51, passed 11-
2-1983)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.10  RESTRICTED PARKING AND THE LIKE DURING CERTAIN HOURS.
   When appropriate signs are erected upon a street or alley indicating that
stopping, standing or parking of a vehicle is prohibited during certain hours,
no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in violation of the regulations
indicated on such signs on any day, except Sundays and holidays.
(Prior Code, § 4:5:10)  (Ord. 82-20, passed 12-31-1982; Ord. 82-51, passed 11-
2-1983)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.11  STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING RESTRICTIONS CURRENTLY IN FORCE.
   Any and all stopping, standing and parking restrictions, rules and
regulations currently in force in the town and which are duly posted by signs
or duly marked shall remain in full force and effect from and after the passage
of this chapter, and said stopping, standing and parking restriction, rules and
regulations currently in force in the town on those streets, roadways, alleys
and public ways which are duly posted by signs or other marking are fully
incorporated into this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4:5:11)  (Ord. 82-20, passed 12-31-1982; Ord. 82-51, passed 11-
2-1983)
§ 73.12  AMENDING, MODIFYING AND THE LIKE OF THIS CHAPTER.
   From and after the date of the passage of this chapter, any request to
amend, add to, modify or delete passenger curb loading zones, freight curb
loading zones, angle parking and/or parking in streets and alleys shall require
the consent of the Council, except in those circumstances and cases set forth
in
Ch. 76 of this traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 4:5:12)  (Ord. 82-20, passed 12-31-1982; Ord. 82-51, passed 11-
2-1983)
§ 73.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter, and upon conviction
of any and for each such violation, shall be punished with a minimum fine of
$10 and a maximum fine of $1,000. Each day the act (violation) continues shall
constitute a separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 4:5:13)  (Ord. 82-20, passed 12-31-1982; Ord. 82-51, passed 11-
2-1983)
CHAPTER 74:  ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
74.01   Purpose
   
74.02   Definitions
   
74.03   Exceptions
   
74.04   Responsibility of owner
   
74.05   Vehicles in possession of person other than owner
   
74.06   Removal of abandoned vehicles
   
74.07   Disposal of abandoned vehicles
   
74.08   [Reserved]
   
74.09   Towing contracts
   
74.10   Liability for loss or damage
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 9-22-1-1 et seq., 9-18-12 and 9-22-1 et seq.
§ 74.01  PURPOSE.
   The Town Council finds that abandoned vehicles are a public nuisance and a
safety and health hazard.  The Marshals’ office is given the responsibility for
removal, storage and disposal of abandoned vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 4:7:01)  (Ord. 82-15, passed 12-31-1982)
§ 74.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.
      (1)   A vehicle located on public property illegally;
      (2)   A vehicle left on public property continuously without being moved
for 72 hours;
      (3)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without the consent
of the owner or person in control of that property for more than 72 hours;
      (4)   A vehicle from which there has been moved removed the engine,
transmission or differential or that is otherwise partially dismantled or
inoperable and left of public property;
      (5)   A vehicle that has been removed by an authorized towing service
upon request of an officer enforcing a statue or ordinance other than this
chapter if the vehicle once impounded is not claimed or redeemed by the owner
or his or her agent within 15 days of its removal; and/or
      (6)   A vehicle that is six or more years old and mechanically
inoperable, and is left on private property continuously in a location visible
from public property for more than 30 days.
   AUTHORIZED TOWING SERVICE. A business that engages in moving or removing
disabled vehicles and, once removed, to store or impound vehicles, and that has
been requested by the Town Marshal or his or her deputies to tow vehicles.
   AUTOMOBILE SCRAPYARD. A business organized for the purpose of scrap metal
processing, automobile wrecking or operating a junkyard.
   BUREAU. The Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
   OFFICER. The Town Marshal or one of his or her deputies.
   OWNER. The last known record titleholder of a vehicle according to the
records of the Bureau under I.C. 9-14.
   PARTS. All components of a vehicle that as assembled do not constitute a
complete vehicle.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. All property other than public property.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. A public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park or
other state, county or municipal property.
   VEHICLE. An automobile, motorcycle, truck, trailer, semi-trailer, tractor,
bus, school bus, recreational vehicle or motorized bicycle.
(Prior Code, § 4:7:02)  (Ord. 82-15, passed 12-31-1982; Ord. 2017-02, passed 6-
5-2017)
§ 74.03  EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter does not apply to:
   (A)   A vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or constructed
for operation on privately- owned raceways;
   (B)   A vehicle stored as the property of a member of the armed forces of
the United States who is on active duty assignment;
   (C)   A vehicle located on a vehicle sale lot or at a commercial vehicle
servicing facility; provided, however, that, no mechanically inoperable vehicle
shall be left on a vehicle sale lot or at a commercial vehicle servicing
facility in a location visible form private or public property for more than 30
days;
   (D)   A vehicle located upon property licensed or zoned as an automobile
scrapyard; or
   (E)   A vehicle registered and licensed under I.C. 9-18-12 as an antique
vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 4:7:03)  (Ord. 82-15, passed 12-31-1982)
§ 74.04  RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER.
   The owner of an abandoned vehicle is responsible for the abandonment and is
liable, to the extent of the market value of the vehicle, for all of the costs
incidental to the removal, storage and disposal of the vehicle or its parts.
(Prior Code, § 4:7:04)  (Ord. 82-15, passed 12-31-1982)
§ 74.05  VEHICLES IN POSSESSION OF PERSON OTHER THAN OWNER.
   (A)   (1)   When an officer discovers a vehicle in the possession of a
person other than the owner and the person cannot establish his or her right to
the possession of that vehicle, the vehicle shall be taken to and stored in a
suitable place.
      (2)   The Bureau shall be notified within 72 hours of the location and
description of the vehicle. Upon receipt of notification, the Bureau shall
cause a search to be made to determine and notify the owner.
   (B)   If the owner of the vehicle cannot be determined, the Bureau shall
declare the vehicle abandoned and provide for its disposal in accordance with
this chapter.
   (C)   If the proper identified owner or lienholder appears at the site of
storage before disposal of the vehicle or parts and pays all proper costs
incurred against it at that time, when the vehicle or parts shall be released.
A copy of the release of all vehicle or parts shall be sent to the Bureau. The
release must contain the owner or lienholder’s signature, name, address,
vehicle or parts description, costs and date of release.
   (D)   If the vehicle is not released to the owner or lienholder, the Bureau
shall declare the vehicle abandoned and provide for disposal in accordance with
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4:7:05)  (Ord. 82-15, passed 12-31-1982; Ord. 2017-02, passed 6-
5-2017)
§ 74.06  REMOVAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   An officer who finds a vehicle or parts believed to be abandoned shall
attach in a prominent place a notice tag containing the following information:
      (1)   The date, time, officer’s name, Town Police Department and address
and telephone number to contact for information;
      (2)   The vehicle or parts are considered abandoned;
      (3)   The vehicle or parts will be removed after 72 hours;
      (4)   The owner will be held responsible for all costs incidental to the
removal, storage and disposal and, if not paid, the owner’s registration
privileges will be suspended on that car; and
      (5)   The owner may avoid costs by removal of the vehicle or parts within
72 hours.
   (B)   If the tagged vehicle or parts are not removed within that 72-hour
period, the officer shall prepare a written abandoned vehicle report of the
vehicle or parts, including information on the condition, missing parts and
other pertinent facts describing the condition of the vehicle. Photographs
shall be taken to describe the condition of the vehicle or parts.
   (C)   If, in the opinion of the officer, the market value of the abandoned
vehicle or parts is $100 or more, the officer, before placing a notice tag on
the vehicle or parts, shall make a reasonable effort to ascertain the owner or
person who may be in control of the vehicle or parts. After 72 hours, the
officer shall require the vehicle or parts to be towed to a storage area.
(Prior Code, § 4:7:06)  (Ord. 82-15, passed 12-31-1982; Ord. 2017-02, passed 6-
5-2017)
§ 74.07  DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Within 72 hours after removal of an abandoned vehicle to a storage
area under this chapter, the Marshal’s office shall prepare and forward to the
Bureau an abandoned vehicle report containing a description of the vehicle
including the make, model, engine number, if any, identification number and the
number of the license plate, and request that the Bureau advise the Marshal’s
office of the name and most recent mailing address of the owner and any
lienholder.
   (B)   The Bureau shall dispose of the vehicle in accordance with I.C. 9-22-
1-13.
(Prior Code, § 4:7:07)  (Ord. 82-15, passed 12-31-1982)
§ 74.08  [RESERVED].
§ 74.09  TOWING CONTRACTS.
   The Marshal’s office may utilize reputable towing companies to facilitate
the removal of abandoned vehicles, parts, or vehicles declared public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 4:7:09)  (Ord. 82-15, passed 12-31-1982; Ord. 2017-02, passed 6-
5-2017)
§ 74.10  LIABILITY FOR LOSS OR DAMAGE.
   Neither the owner, lessee or occupant of the property from which an
abandoned vehicle or parts are removed, nor the Marshal’s office or authorized
towing service is liable for loss or damage to the vehicle or parts occupying
during its removal, storage or disposition.
(Prior Code, § 4:7:10)  (Ord. 82-15, passed 12-31-1982; Ord. 2017-02, passed 6-
5-2017)
CHAPTER 75:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits
   
II.   Stop signs
   
III.   Yield signs
   
IV.   One-way streets
   
V.   Truck traffic
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   The speed limit for vehicles on public streets, alleys and public ways
located in the town and identified herein shall be 20 mph.
Street or Portion Thereof Prima Facie Speed Limit (Posted) Hours
Street or Portion Thereof         Prima Facie Speed Limit (Posted) Hours
All alleys                        10                               At all times
Broadway Avenue (from S.R. 19 to  20                               At all times
East Street)
Cherrie Lane (entire length)      20                               At all times
Church Street (entire length)     20                               At all times
Dora Avenue (entire length)       20                               At all times
East Street (entire length)       20                               At all times
Franklin Avenue (from S.R. 19 to  20                               At all times
East Street)
Grey Fox (entire length)          20                               At all times
Grey Fox Run (entire length)      20                               At all times
Hamilton Avenue (from S.R. 19 to  20                               At all times
Illinois Street)
Home Avenue (entire length)       20                               At all times
Howard Avenue (from S.R. 19 to    20                               At all times
Olive Street)
Illinois Street (entire length)   20                               At all times
Knause Street (from Church Street 20                               At all times
to Washington Street)
Knause Street (from West Street   20                               At all times
to Magnolia Street)
Madison Avenue (from S.R. 19 to   20                               At all times
Illinois Street)
Magnolia Street (entire length)   20                               At all times
Main Street (from East Street to  20                               At all times
Olive Street)
Main Street (from Illinois Street 20                               At all times
to Magnolia Street)
Maple Street (entire length)      20                               At all times
Marion Avenue (from S.R. 19 to    20                               At all times
Illinois Street)
Martz Avenue (entire length)      20                               At all times
North John Street (entire length) 20                               At all times
North Street (entire length)      20                               At all times
Olive Street (entire length)      20                               At all times
Red Fox (entire length)           20                               At all times
Red Fox Run (entire length)       20                               At all times
Shaffer Street (entire length)    20                               At all times
South John Street (entire length) 20                               At all times
South Street (from Shaffer Street 20                               At all times
to Scherer Avenue)
Washington Street (entire length) 20                               At all times
West Street (entire length)       20                               At all times
 
(Prior Code, § 4:4:01)  (Ord. 82-18, passed 12-31-1983; Ord. 82-20, passed 12-
31-1982; Ord. 82-22, passed 12-31-1982; Ord. 82-51, passed 11-2-1983; Ord. 84-
2, passed 11-7-1984; Ord. 88-1, passed 1-20-1988; Ord. 88-2, passed 2-17-1988;
Ord. 91-2, passed 4-3-1991; Ord. 93-2, passed 5-5-1993; Ord. 94-1, passed 3-2-
1994; Ord. 95-03, passed 8-2-1995; Ord. 2017-02, passed 6-5-2017; Ord. 2020-03,
passed 8-17-2020)
SCHEDULE II. STOP SIGNS.
   The Traffic Engineer shall post “stop” signs at the following named
intersections of the streets, alleys and public ways located within the town,
and no person shall drive a motor vehicle into any such intersection from a
street upon which such sign is posted without first having come to a complete
stop.
Intersection Street That Stops
Intersection                            Street That Stops
Broadway Avenue and S. Illinois Street  Broadway Avenue stops on west side
Broadway Avenue and S. Illinois Street  S. Illinois Street stops on north side
Broadway Avenue and S. Illinois Street  S. Illinois Street stops on the south
                                        side
Broadway Avenue and S. Illinois Street  Broadway Avenue stops on east side
Cherrie Lane and East Street            Cherrie Lane
E. Knause Street and N. East Street     E. Knause Street stops on west side
E. Knause Street and N. East Street     E. Knause Street stops on east side
E. North Street and N. Church Street    E North Street stops on west side
E. North Street and N. Church Street    N. Church Street stops on north side
E. North Street and N. East Street      N. East Street stops on north side
E. North Street and N. Church Street    E. North Street stops on east side
E. North Street and N. Church Street    N. Church Street stops on south side
E. North Street and N. East Street      N. East Street stops on south side
E. South Street and S. East Street      S. East Street stops on south side
E. South Street and S. East Street      S. East Street stops on north side
E. South Street and S. East Street      E South Street stops on west side
E. South Street and S. East Street      E. South Street stops on east side
E. South Street and S. Illinois Street  All directions
Franklin Avenue and S. John Street      S. John Street stops on north side
Franklin Avenue and S. John Street      Franklin Avenue stops on east side
Franklin Avenue and S. John Street      Franklin Avenue stops on west side
Grey Fox and N. John Street             Grey Fox
Grey Fox Run and Red Fox Run            Red Fox
Hamilton Avenue and S. John Street      S. John Street stops on north side
Hamilton Avenue and S. John Street      Hamilton Avenue stops on west side
Hamilton Avenue and S. John Street      S. John Street stops on south side
Hamilton Avenue and S. John Street      Hamilton Avenue stops on east side
Hamilton Avenue and Shaffer Street      Hamilton Avenue stops on west side
Hamilton Avenue and Shaffer Street      Hamilton Avenue stops on east side
Howard Avenue and S. Illinois Street    S. Illinois stops on south side
Howard Avenue and S. Johns Street       S. John Street stops on south side
Howard Avenue and S. John Street        S. John Street stops on north side
Howard Avenue and S. Illinois Street    S. Illinois stops on north side
Howard Avenue and S. Illinois Street    Howard Avenue stops on west side
Howard Avenue and S. Illinois Street    Howard Avenue stops on east side
Illinois Street and Franklin Avenue     Illinois Street stops on north side
Illinois Street and Franklin Avenue     Illinois Street stops on south side
Madison Avenue and S. Illinois Street   Madison Avenue stops on east side
Marion Avenue and S. John Street        S. John Street stops on south side
Marion Avenue and S. John Street        S. John Street stops on north side
Marion Avenue and S. John Street        Marion Avenue stops on west side
Marion Avenue and S. John Street        Marion Avenue stops on east side
N. Dora Street and W. Main Street       N. Dora Street
N. East Street and E. Main Street       N. East Street
N. John Street and E. North Street      E. North Street stops on west side
N. John Street and E. North Street      N. John Street stops on north side
N. John Street and E. North Street      N. John Street stops on south side
N. John Street and E. Bailey Lane       Bailey Lane
N. Magnolia Street and W. Main Street   N. Magnolia Street
N. Martz Avenue and W. Main Street      N. Martz Avenue
N. Olive Street and W. Main Street      N. Olive Street
N. Olive Street and W. North Street     N. Olive Street stops on south side
N. Olive Street and W. North Street     N. Olive Street stops on north side
N. Washington Street and E. Main Street N. Washington Street
N. West Street and W. Main Street       N. West Street
North Church Street and E. Main Street  North Church Street
North John Street and E. Main Street    North John Street
Red Fox Court and Grey Fox Run          Red Fox stops on south side
S. Church Street and E. Main Street     S. Church Street
S. Dora Street and W. Main Street       S. Dora Street
S. East Street and Howard Avenue        S. East Street stops on north side
S. East Street and E. Main Street       S. East Street
S. East Street and Howard Avenue        Howard Avenue stops on west side
S. East Street and Howard Avenue        S. East Street stops on south side
S. East Street and Howard Avenue        Howard Avenue stops on east side
S. Illinois Street and E. Main Street   S. Illinois Street
S. John Street and E. South Street      S. John Street stops on north side
S. John Street and E. South Street      S. John Street stops on south side
S. John Street and Broadway Avenue      All directions
S. Magnolia Street and W. Main Street   S. Magnolia Street
S. Martz Street and W. South Street     S. Martz Street stops on north side
S. Martz Avenue and W. Main Street      S. Martz Avenue
S. Olive Street and W. South Street     S. Olive stops on north side
S. Olive Street and W. Main Street      S. Olive Street
S. Olive Street and W. South Street     W. South Street stops on east side
S. Olive Street and W. South Street     W. South Street stops on west side
S. Olive Street and W. South Street     S. Olive stops on south side
S. Washington Street and E. Main Street S. Washington Street
S. West Street and W. Main Street       S. West Street
S. West Street and W. South Street      S. West Street stops on north side
S. West Street and W. South Street      S. West Street stops on south side
Scherer Avenue and W. Main Street       Scherer Avenue
Shaffer Street and E. Main Street       Shaffer Street
Shaffer Street and Howard Avenue        Shaffer Street stops on north side
Shaffer Street and Howard Avenue        Madison Avenue stops on east side
Shaffer Street and Howard Avenue        Shaffer Street stops on south side
Shaffer Street and Howard Avenue        Madison Avenue stops on west side
Shaffer Street and Madison Avenue       Madison Avenue stops on east side
Shaffer Street and Madison Avenue       Madison Avenue stops on west side
Shaffer Street and Madison Avenue       Shaffer Street stops on south side
Shaffer Street and Madison Avenue       Shaffer Street stops on north side
South John Street and E. Main Street    South John Street
W. North Street and N. West Street      N. West Street stops on south side
W. North Street and N. Dora Avenue      W. North Street stops on east side
W. North Street and N. Dora Avenue      N. Dora Street stops on north side
W. North Street and N. Dora Avenue      N. Dora Street stops on south side
W. North Street and N. West Street      W. North Street stops on west side
W. North Street and N. West Street      W. North Street stops on east side
W. North Street and N. Olive Street     W. North Street stops on west side
W. North Street and N. West Street      N. West Street stops on north side
W. North Street and Magnolia Street     W. North Street stops on west side
W. North Street and Magnolia Street     W. North Street stops on east side
W. North Street and N. Olive Street     W. North Street stops on east side
W. South Street and Scherer Avenue      W. South Street
 
(Prior Code, § 4:4:02)  (Ord. 82-18, passed 12-31-1983; Ord. 82-20, passed 12-
31-1982; Ord. 82-22, passed 12-31-1982; Ord. 82-51, passed 11-2-1983; Ord. 84-
2, passed 11-7-1984; Ord. 88-1, passed 1-20-1988; Ord. 88-2, passed 2-17-1988;
Ord. 91-2, passed 4-3-1991; Ord. 93-2, passed 5-5-1993; Ord. 94-1, passed 3-2-
1994; Ord. 95-03, passed 8-2-1995; Ord. 2017-02, passed 6-5-2017)
SCHEDULE III. YIELD SIGNS.
   The Traffic Engineer shall post “yield” signs at the following named
intersections of the streets, alleys and public ways located within the town,
and no person shall drive a motor vehicle into any such intersection from a
street upon which such sign is posted without yielding the right-of-way to any
person or vehicle approaching such intersection from a different direction.
Intersection Street That Yields
Intersection                           Street That Yields
E. North Street and N. Washington      N. Washington Street yields on south
Street                                 side
E. North Street and N. Washington      N. Washington Street yields on north
Street                                 side
E. South Street and Shaffer Street     E. South Street yields on west side
E. South Street and Shaffer Street     E. South Street yields on east side
Hamilton Avenue and S. Illinois Street Hamilton Avenue yields on east side
Home Avenue and S. West Street         Home Avenue yields on west side
Home Avenue and S. Olive Street        Home Avenue yields on east side
Knause Avenue and N. Olive Street      Knause Avenue yields on west side
Knause Avenue and N. Olive Street      Knause Avenue yields on east side
Knause Street and N. Washington Street Knause Street yields on east side
Knause Street and N. West Street       Knause Street yields on west side
Knause Street and N. Church Street     Knause Street yields on west side
Madison Avenue and S. John Street      Madison Avenue yields on west side
Madison Avenue and S. John Street      Madison Avenue yields on east side
Maple Street and N. Olive Street       Maple Street yields on east side
Marion Avenue and S. Illinois Street   Marion Avenue yields on east side
Marion Avenue and Shaffer Street       Marion Avenue yields on east side
Marion Avenue and Shaffer Street       Shaffer Street yields on west side
N. Church Street and Crabtree Court    Crabtree Court yields on N. Church
                                       Street
S. Church Street and E. South Street   S. Church Street yields on north side
S. Dora Avenue and W. South Street     S. Dora Avenue yields on north side
S. East Street and Broadway Avenue     Broadway Avenue yields on east side
S. Magnolia Street and W. South Street S. Magnolia Street yields on north side
S. Olive Avenue and Howard Street      S. Olive Street yields on south side
S. Washington Street and E. South      S. Washington Street yields on north
Street                                 side
S. West Street and Howard Avenue       S. West Street yields on north side
Shaffer Street and Broadway Avenue     Shaffer Street yields on south side
Shaffer Street and Broadway Avenue     Shaffer Street yields on north side
Shaffer Street and Franklin Avenue     Shaffer Street yields on north side
W. South Street and Dora Avenue        Dora Avenue yields on north side
 
(Prior Code, § 4:4:03)  (Ord. 82-18, passed 12-31-1983; Ord. 82-20, passed 12-
31-1982; Ord. 82-22, passed 12-31-1982; Ord. 82-51, passed 11-2-1983; Ord. 84-
2, passed 11-7-1984; Ord. 88-1, passed 1-20-1988; Ord. 88-2, passed 2-17-1988;
Ord. 91-2, passed 4-3-1991; Ord. 93-2, passed 5-5-1993; Ord. 94-1, passed 3-2-
1994; Ord. 95-03, passed 8-2-1995)
SCHEDULE IV. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   The Traffic Engineer shall post “one-way” street signs on the following
named streets, alleys and public ways located within the town, and all vehicles
traveling said street, alleys and public ways posted “one-way” shall travel in
the direction indicated on the signs, and no vehicle shall travel in the
opposite direction.
 
Street       Between                            Direction of Permitted Movement
Alley        West of Washington Avenue between  West
             Main Street and North Street
Alley        South of North Street on east side North
             of railroad tracks
Alley        North of Main Street 1/2 block on  South
             east side of railroad tracks
North Street Magnolia Street and Dora Avenue    West
 
(Prior Code, § 4:4:04)  (Ord. 82-18, passed 12-31-1983; Ord. 82-20, passed 12-
31-1982; Ord. 82-22, passed 12-31-1982; Ord. 82-51, passed 11-2-1983; Ord. 84-
2, passed 11-7-1984; Ord. 88-1, passed 1-20-1988; Ord. 88-2, passed 2-17-1988;
Ord. 91-2, passed 4-3-1991; Ord. 93-2, passed 5-5-1993; Ord. 94-1, passed 3-2-
1994; Ord. 95-03, passed 8-2-1995)
SCHEDULE V. TRUCK TRAFFIC.
   No person, party, corporation, partnership, sole proprietor or entity of any
kind or any type shall operate a motor vehicle which has a registered gross
vehicle weight of 26,000 pounds or more on that portion of Howard Avenue, which
runs from East Street to Olive Street, and on that portion of Olive Street,
which runs from 307 South Olive Street to Howard Avenue. Any person violating
any provision of this schedule shall be subject to the penalties set forth in §
70.99(B) of this traffic code and said §
70.99(B) of this traffic code provides that any person violating any provision
of the traffic or parking schedules of this traffic code or of any resolution
past pursuant hereto when promulgated by the posting of an appropriate traffic
sign, upon conviction of any and for each such violation, shall be punished
with a minimum fine of $10 and a maximum fine of $1,000.
(Ord. 98-02, passed 4-20-1998)
CHAPTER 76:  PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   No parking areas
   
II.   [Reserved]
   
III.   Restricted parking
SCHEDULE I. NO PARKING AREAS.
   The Traffic Engineer shall post “no parking” signs on the following named
streets, alleys and public ways located within the town, and no person shall
park on the street or on the side of a street upon which such sign is posted.
Street Restricted Zone Side Hours
Street       Restricted Zone                                                              Side      Hours
Alley which
runs east to
west from
S.R. 19 and
which lies                                                                                North/    At
between and  The entire length of the alley from S.R. 19 to Shaffer Avenue                south     all
parallel to                                                                                         times
Broadway
Avenue and
Franklin
Avenue
At the
corner of                                                                                           At
intersection Between the “no parking” signs located thereon                           Southeast all
of N. John                                                                                          times
Street and
Red Fox Run
Broadway                                                                                  North/    At
Avenue       No parking on pavement between S.R. 19 and Shaffer Street                    south     all
                                                                                                    times
Church                                                                                              At
Street       North Street to Main Street                                                  West      all
                                                                                                    times
                                                                                                    At
East Street  Main Street to South Street                                                  East      all
                                                                                                    times
                                                                                                    At
Grey Fox Run The entire length of Grey Fox Run                                            South     all
                                                                                                    times
Howard                                                                                              At
Avenue       Olive Street to West Street                                                  South     all
                                                                                                    times
Illinois                                                                                            At
Street       Main Street to South Street                                                  West      all
                                                                                                    times
                                                                                                    At
Main Street  From Olive Street west to Scherer Avenue                                     South     all
                                                                                                    times
                                                                                                    At
Main Street  From East Street east to Shaffer Street                                      South     all
                                                                                                    times
                                                                                                    9:00
                                                                                          North/    p.m.
Main Street  No parking of semi-trucks and trailers between S.R. 19 to Scherer Avenue     south     to 6:
                                                                                                    00
                                                                                                    a.m.
                                                                                                    At
Olive Street From Main Street to 269th Street                                             East      all
                                                                                                    times
                                                                                                    At
Olive Street Home Street to Howard Avenue                                                 West      all
                                                                                                    times
                                                                                                    At
Red Fox Run  The entire length of Red Fox Run                                             North     all
                                                                                                    times
             From the “no parking” sign located on West Street to the intersection of           At
West Street  West Street and North Street                                                 East      all
                                                                                                    times
 
(Prior Code, § 4:4:05)  (Ord. 82-18, passed 12-31-1983; Ord. 82-20, passed 12-
31-1982; Ord. 82-22, passed 12-31-1982; Ord. 82-51, passed 11-2-1983; Ord. 84-
2, passed 11-7-1984; Ord. 88-1, passed 1-20-1988; Ord. 88-2, passed 2-17-1988;
Ord. 91-2, passed 4-3-1991; Ord. 93-2, passed 5-5-1993; Ord. 94-1, passed 3-2-
1994; Ord. 95-03, passed 8-2-1995; Ord. 2017-02, passed 6-5-2017)
SCHEDULE II. [RESERVED].
SCHEDULE III. RESTRICTED PARKING.
   The Traffic Engineer shall post signs designating parking restrictions on
the following streets, alleys and public ways located within the town, and no
person shall park thereon, except in conformity with the posted restrictions.
The Traffic Engineer shall post “Parking for School Business Only from 7:00
a.m. - 8:00 p.m. Mon - Fri” signs in the parking area on the north side of West
Main Street directly adjacent to the Hamilton Heights Schools Corporation
Administration building located at 406 West Main Arcadia, IN 46030.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 3-19-2012)
TITLE IX:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FAIR HOUSING
      
92.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
93.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
94.   PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90:  ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Policy and procedure
   
90.02   Permitting animals to run at large
   
90.03   Annoying animals
   
90.04   Vicious animals
   
90.05   Damage to property
   
90.06   Enticing animals
   
90.07   Animal bites, duty of owner
   
90.08   Impounding and/or destroying animals
   
90.09   Livestock
   
90.10   Chickens; chicken coops
   
90.11   Enforcement
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01  POLICY AND PROCEDURE.
   (A)   It will be the policy of the town to pick up stray animals that are
found to be a nuisance, running unattended or in an unhealthy state that would
be a danger to the health and welfare of the community, to be caught, trapped
or otherwise held in a secure place designated by the town as a place to house
animals.
   (B)   Animal housing units will be constructed in a manner that will allow
for ventilation for cooling such animals in hot weather and allows for shelter
in cold weather when temperatures could cause harm to such animals. The housing
units will be constructed in a manner that will allow for cleaning and
inspection of the area. The floor of the living area will be constructed of
concrete and wire chainlink fence to prevent the escape of a confined animal.
   (C)   (1)   Any animal that is picked up by the town’s Police Department or
any town employee shall be placed at the kennel located at the town’s
wastewater treatment plant. The animal shall be kept for a period of seven days
with appropriate food and water. Diseased or seriously injured animals may be
destroyed earlier.
      (2)   A notice shall be placed on the bulletin board located in the Town
Hall, stating a brief description of the animal and the date it was confined.
If the animal is not claimed within seven days, it shall be disposed of by
adoption or euthanasia by a licensed doctor of animal medicine and disposed of.
      (3)   If the person owning, keeping or harboring the animal is located,
there shall be a kennel fee of $10 for the first 24-hour period and $10 for
each 24-hour period thereafter. This shall be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer and
shall be in addition to any fines levied as a result of a citation being issued
by the town’s Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 5:7:01)  (Ord. 81-2, passed 3-23-1981; Ord. 86-4, passed 11-5-
1986; Ord. 2001-02, passed 4-2-2001)
§ 90.02  PERMITTING ANIMALS TO RUN AT LARGE.
   No person owning, keeping or harboring a dog, cat or other animal shall
permit such animal to run at large within the town. The term AT LARGE means off
the premises of the person owning, keeping or harboring such animal and, while
off such premises, not under the control of such person or a member of such
person’s family either by lease, cord, chain or otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 5:7:02)  (Ord. 81-2, passed 3-23-1981; Ord. 86-4, passed 11-5-
1986; Ord. 2001-02, passed 4-2-2001)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03  ANNOYING ANIMALS.
   No person shall own, keep or harbor any dog, cat or other animal, which, by
frequent or habitual howling, yelping, barking or otherwise, shall cause
annoyance or disturbance in the neighborhood.
(Prior Code, § 5:7:03)  (Ord. 81-2, passed 3-23-1981; Ord. 86-4, passed 11-5-
1986; Ord. 2001-02, passed 4-2-2001)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04  VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who may own, keep or harbor a vicious
animal, including dogs and cats, to suffer or permit the same to go unconfined
and unrestrained on such person’s premises or to run at large.
(Prior Code, § 5:7:04)  (Ord. 81-2, passed 3-23-1981; Ord. 86-4, passed 11-5-
1986; Ord. 2001-02, passed 4-2-2001)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05  DAMAGE TO PROPERTY.
   No person shall, without the consent of the owner of the property concerned,
permit any animal, including dogs and cats, in his or her custody and control
to enter upon the premises of another within the town, or permit any animal in
his or her custody of control to injure, destroy or carry away any property
belonging to another person or entity.
(Prior Code, § 5:7:05)  (Ord. 81-2, passed 3-23-1981; Ord. 86-4, passed 11-5-
1986; Ord. 2001-02, passed 4-2-2001)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06  ENTICING ANIMALS.
   No person shall entice any animal away from the person owning, keeping or
harboring the same, nor shall any person enter or invade the private premises
of another to capture, entice or take any animal with the intention of
depriving the owner, keeper or person harboring the same of the possession
thereof, except as authorized by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5:7:06)  (Ord. 81-2, passed 3-23-1981; Ord. 86-4, passed 11-5-
1986; Ord. 2001-02, passed 4-2-2001)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07  ANIMAL BITES, DUTY OF OWNER.
   All animal bites shall be reported to the town’s Police Department by the
person bitten and by the owner, keeper or person harboring the animal which has
bitten someone. The person owning, keeping or harboring any animal reported to
have bitten any person shall keep such animal penned up for not less than ten
days, as instructed by the town’s Police Department. The guidelines for home
quarantine from the county’s Health Department shall be followed.
(Prior Code, § 5:7:07)  (Ord. 81-2, passed 3-23-1981; Ord. 86-4, passed 11-5-
1986; Ord. 2001-02, passed 4-2-2001)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08  IMPOUNDING AND/OR DESTROYING ANIMALS.
   Any animal may be impounded and/or destroyed if such animal:
   (A)   Is found running at large within the town;
   (B)   Is a menace to persons or other animals;
   (C)   Is suffering or reasonably suspected to be suffering from an
infectious or contagious disease;
   (D)   Causes annoyance or disturbance to persons in the neighborhood by
habitual howling, yelping, barking or otherwise;
   (E)   Is vicious and is permitted to go unconfined and unrestrained on the
premises of the person owning, keeping or harboring the same; and/or
   (F)   As otherwise provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5:7:08)  (Ord. 81-2, passed 3-23-1981; Ord. 86-4, passed 11-5-
1986; Ord. 2001-02, passed 4-2-2001)
§ 90.09  LIVESTOCK.
   (A)   LIVESTOCK includes horses, cows, goats, pigs and other four-legged
animals. However, dogs and cats, for the purposes of this code of ordinances,
shall not be deemed to be LIVESTOCK.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, permit, ride, accompany
or be responsible for the presence of horses on sidewalks and on other public
places of the town, except on the streets and alleys. Furthermore, it shall be
unlawful for any person to cause, permit, ride, accompany or be responsible for
the presence of horses on the premises of another, including private property,
at any time without the express written consent of the owner of the premises.
   (C)   In the event a person causes, permits, accompanies or is responsible
for the presence of horses on public property or on private property of others,
the owners of the horse shall be responsible for the immediate removal of any
feces deposited by the horse thereon.
(Prior Code, § 5:7:09)  (Ord. 81-2, passed 3-23-1981; Ord. 86-4, passed 11-5-
1986; Ord. 2001-02, passed 4-2-2001)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10  CHICKENS; CHICKEN COOPS.
   (A)   Permissible use. It shall be permissible for a property owner to
maintain up to 12 female chickens for his or her private, personal use;
provided that, the property owner remains in strict compliance with the terms
of this section at all times.
   (B)   Standards for keeping chickens in town limits. All individuals keeping
chickens shall:
      (1)   Not keep any male chickens or roosters;
      (2)   Operate in such a manner so as to not constitute a public nuisance
or disturb neighboring residents due to noise, odor or damage;
      (3)   Comply with any and all federal, state and local laws governing the
proper treatment of animals;
      (4)   Operate in a manner so as to not pose a threat to public health.
Individuals shall isolate chickens which are sick or diseased so as to not
endanger the health and well-being of other animals and humans. When necessary
for the protection of the public health and safety, the Town Marshal may
require the specified animal be kept or confined in a secured enclosure. This
provision is subordinate to any local, state or federal code governing the
treatment of chickens in the event of a threat to human health;
      (5)   Comply with any and all federal, state and local laws governing the
proper treatment of animals;
      (6)   Keep all chickens completely and securely enclosed and under the
control of the individual on the individual’s property at all times;
      (7)   Provide a chicken coop and attached chicken run that are clean, dry
and odor-free;
      (8)   Provide a chicken coop that affords shelter from the elements;
      (9)   Provide a chicken coop and attached chicken run that, combined,
provide adequate ventilation and adequate sun and shade and that are both
impermeable to rodents, wild birds and predators, including dogs;
      (10)   Provide chickens with access to feed and clean water at all times,
such feed and water shall be unavailable to rodents, wild birds and predators;
      (11)   Provide adequate safeguards to prevent unauthorized access to the
chickens by members of the public; and
      (12)   Keep the chicken coop, chicken run and surrounding area free from
trash and accumulated droppings. The individual shall dispose of chicken waste
and uneaten feed in a timely manner and in accordance with this code of
ordinances.
   (C)   Standards for chicken runs and coops. The chicken coop and chicken run
shall:
      (1)   Provide a sight fence or shrub screening of at least four feet in
height around both coop and run if visible to occupants of neighboring lots;
      (2)   Be located at least 20 feet from any building not owned or occupied
by the individual, that is used or capable of being used for human habitation;
      (3)   Be located at least 12 feet from the property line of any
neighboring lot;
      (4)   Provide at least four square feet per chicken in the coop and 12
square foot per chicken in the run; and
      (5)   All chicken coops and chicken runs shall comply with the
requirements for accessory structures outlined in
Ch. 156 of this code of ordinances, as the same may be hereafter amended or
replaced.
(Ord. 2014-08, passed 12-15-2014)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11  ENFORCEMENT.
   It is the duty of the members of the town’s Police Department (Town Marshal,
Deputy Marshal and Reserves) to assist in the enforcement of all provisions of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5:7:10)  (Ord. 81-2, passed 3-23-1981; Ord. 86-4, passed 11-5-
1986; Ord. 2001-02, passed 4-2-2001)
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Fine. Whoever violates any section of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be punished with a minimum fine of $10 for the first violation, $25
for the second violation within a three-month period and $100 for the third
violation within a six-month period, and a maximum fine of $250 and costs, with
each day that the violation continues being a separate offense which shall
subject the violator to a separate fine.
   (B)   Prosecution. Whoever received a citation for violating any provision
of this chapter may, within 72 hours of the citation being written, shall pay
the same at the office of the Clerk-Treasurer of the town, who shall cause a
receipt to be issued showing payment of the fine. If payment is made within the
aforementioned period of time, then the fine shall be as shown in division (A)
above. If the fine is not paid as set forth in the preceding sentence within
the time period as shown on the citation, then the Marshal or Deputy Marshal
shall cause the matter to be filed and docketed in a court of law and shall
proceed with the prosecution thereof and the violator shall, upon conviction,
be punished with a minimum fine of $10 for the first offense, $25 for the
second offense within a three-month period and $100 for the third offense
within a six-month period, and a maximum fine of $250 and costs, with each day
that the violation continues being a separate offense, which shall subject the
violator to a separate fine as set forth in division (A) above.
   (C)   Restraining order and/or injunction. In addition to the foregoing, the
town is empowered to obtain a restraining order and/or permanent injunction
against any person, firm, corporation or any other entity that shall be in
violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5:7:11)  (Ord. 81-2, passed 3-23-1981; Ord. 86-4, passed 11-5-
1986; Ord. 2001-02, passed 4-2-2001; Ord. 2017-02, passed 6-5-2017)
CHAPTER 91:  FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
91.01   Policy statement
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   Unlawful practice
   
91.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
91.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
91.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage service
   
91.07   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
91.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
91.09   Exemptions
   
91.10   Administrative enforcement
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01  POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the Federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 1404a et seq.,
as amended, the Federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq., as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2008-03, passed 7-21-2008)
§ 91.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-2)
   COMMISSION. The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9-1-4 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISABILITY.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the Federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 1201 et seq.; and/
or
         (e)   Any other impairment defined under I.C. 22-9-5-6.
      (2)   The term DISABILITY shall not include current illegal use of or
addictions to a controlled substance as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802 (I.C. 22-9-
5-6); nor does the term DISABILITY include an individual solely because that
individual is a transvestite (I.C. 22-1-5-6(e)(3)).
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
91.04,
91.05,
91.06,
91.07 or
91.08 of this chapter or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or part of a building or structure that is
occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families (I.C. 8-23-17-6).
   FAMILIAL STATUS.  Discrimination on the basis of familial status means
discrimination because the person is (1) pregnant; (2) domiciled with an
individual under the age of 18 years of age in regard to whom the person is (a)
the parent or legal custodian or (b) has the written permission of the parent
or legal custodian for domicile with that person; or (3) in the process of
obtaining legal custody of an individual younger than 18 years of age.
   FAMILY. Family includes, but is not limited to, the following, regardless of
actual or perceived sexual orientation, gender identity, or marital status:
      (1)   A single person, who may be an elderly person, displaced person,
disabled person, near-elderly person, or any other single person; or
      (2)   A group of persons residing together, and such group includes, but
is not limited to:
         (a)   A family with or without children (a child who is temporarily
away from the home because of placement in foster care is considered a member
of the family);
         (b)   An elderly family;
         (c)   A near-elderly family;
         (d)   A disabled family;
         (e)   A displaced family; and
         (f)   The remaining member of a tenant family.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under 11 U.S.C., receivers and fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. To lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the rights to occupy the premises not owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 2008-03, passed 7-21-2008; Ord. 2015-05, passed 10-19-2015)
§ 91.03  UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of division (A)(2) below, §
91.09 of this chapter and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against
discrimination in the sale or rental of housing set forth I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and
in §
91.04 of this chapter shall apply to:
      (1)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (A)(2) below and I.C.
22-9.5-3; and
      (2)   Other than the provisions of division (B) below, nothing in §
91.04 of this chapter shall apply to:
         (a)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at anyone time; provided that, in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his or her behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
excepted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
            1.   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental
facilities or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson, or any
person in the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or
agent of any such broker, agent or salesperson; and
            2.   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
91.04(C) of this chapter, but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use
of attorneys, escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title.
         (b)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied
or intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently
of each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (B)   For the purposes of division (A)(2) above, a person shall be deemed to
be in the BUSINESS OF SELLING OR RENTING DWELLINGS if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended
for occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 2008-03, passed 7-21-2008)
§ 91.04  DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
91.03 of this chapter and except as exempted by §§
91.03(A)(2) and
91.09 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin;
   (C)   To make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or published,
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin, or
an intention to make any such preference, limitation or discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so
available; and/or
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induct any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, disability, familial status or national origin.
      (1)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a disability
of:
         (a)   The buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a disability of:
         (a)   The person; or
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (3)   For purposes of this division (E), DISCRIMINATION includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the disabled person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises; except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after 9-
13-1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a manner
that:
            1.   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by disabled persons;
            2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
disabled persons in wheelchairs; and
            3.   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               a.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               b.   Light, switches, electrical outlets, thermostats and other
environmental controls in accessible locations; and
               c.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
      (4)   Compliance with the appropriate requirement Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 and of the American National Standard for Buildings
and Facilities providing accessibility an usability for physically disabled
people (commonly cited as ANSI AH 7.1) suffices to satisfy the requirements of
division (E)(3)(c) above.
      (5)   Nothing in this division (E) requires that a dwelling be made
available to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to
the health of safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in
substantial physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 2008-03, passed 7-21-2008)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05  DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, disability or familial
status.
(Ord. 2008-03, passed 7-21-2008)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06  DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers organization
or other service, organization or facility relating to the business of selling
or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her in the terms or
conditions of such access, membership or participation, on account of race,
color, religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin.
(Ord. 2008-03, passed 7-21-2008)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07  INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
91.03,
91.04,
91.05 or
91.06 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-03, passed 7-21-2008)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08  PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempt to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin and because he or she is or has
been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in Title VIII of
the Civil Rights Act of 1968 (P.L. 90-284), amended by the Housing and
Community Development Acts of 1974 and 1977, and the Fair Housing Amendment Act
of 1988; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
(Ord. 2008-03, passed 7-21-2008)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.09  EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society, or any non-profit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin; nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   (1)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply
with respect to housing for older persons.
      (2)   As used in this section, HOUSING FOR OLDER PERSONS means housing:
         (a)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary
of the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the state’s Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly person (as defined in the state or federal program);
         (b)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, person 62 years of age or
older; or
         (c)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55
years of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 2008-03, passed 7-21-2008)
§ 91.10  ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) below shall be vested in the chief elected official of the
town.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the town, because
of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of this chapter by
complainants to the state’s Civil Rights Commission for administrative
enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the chief elected official of
the town shall refer all said complaints to the Commission as provided for
under division (A) above to said Commission for purposes of investigation,
resolution and appropriate relief as provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the town shall administer
their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the chief elected official and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The chief elected official of the town, or the chief elected
official’s designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any
aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 2008-03, passed 7-21-2008)
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to discourage such
citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other persons
to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color, religion,
sex, disability, familial status or national origin, in any of the activities,
services, organizations or facilities described in §
91.08(A) of this chapter, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful
assembly opposing any denial of the opportunity to participate shall be fined
according to local, state and federal law; and, if bodily injury results, shall
be fined not more than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both;
and, if death results, shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years
or for life.
(Ord. 2008-03, passed 7-21-2008)
CHAPTER 92:  HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Authority
   
92.02   Maintaining nuisances prohibited
   
92.03   Certain nuisances designated
   
92.04   Litter; receptacles to prevent scattering
   
92.05   Trees; trimming; harming; posting handbills
   
92.06   Shrubbery; obstructions prohibited; exceptions
   
92.07   Enforcement and remedies
   
92.08   Notice to abate nuisance
   
92.09   Contents of notice to abate
   
92.10   Request for hearing
   
92.11   Failure to abate
   
92.12   Collection of cost of abatement
Junk Vehicles
   
92.25   Authority
   
92.26   Definitions
   
92.27   Nuisance
   
92.28   Procedure and notice
   
92.29   Damage to property by town employees upon removal of junk vehicle
   
92.30   Temporary permit in connection with sale of vehicle on private property
Weed Control
   
92.45   Authority
   
92.46   Unlawful growth
   
92.47   Notice to remove
   
92.48   Removal; costs
   
92.49   Nuisance
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Animals, see
Ch. 90
   Abandoned Vehicles, see
Ch. 74
Statutory reference:
   Nuisances generally, see I.C. 36-1-6-2, 36-1-6-4, 36-5-2-9, 36-5-4-11, 36-8-
2-8 and 36-8-2-10
   Weeds generally, see I.C. 36-5-6-2 and 36-7-10.1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01  AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is made by the Town Council pursuant to the authority
granted it by I.C. 36-1-6-2, 36-1-6-4, 36-8-2-4, 36-8-2-10, 36-5-2-9, 36-5-4-11
and 36-8-2-8.
(Prior Code, § 5:1:01)  (Ord. 82-28, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 82-52, passed 11-2-
1983; Ord. 89-4, passed 9-20-1989)
§ 92.02  MAINTAINING NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall erect, construct, cause, permit, keep or maintain within the
town limits anything whatsoever which is injurious to the public health or
safety, or offensive to the senses of inhabitants, or an obstacle to the free
use of property by such inhabitants. The existence of any of the above is
declared to be a nuisance and shall be regulated as set forth in this chapter.
However, if other sections and/or chapters found in this code or ordinance
regulates specific conduct that may also be regulated under this subchapter,
the town may regulate the conduct under any or all of the applicable chapters
of this code of ordinances, and the remedies provided in this chapter, shall
not be to the exclusion of any other applicable remedy contained in the code of
ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 5:1:02)  (Ord. 82-28, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 82-52, passed 11-2-
1983; Ord. 89-4, passed 9-20-1989)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03  CERTAIN NUISANCES DESIGNATED.
   The following are declared to be nuisances, but shall not be construed to
prevent any other thing from being declared a nuisance pursuant to the
standards of §
92.02 of this chapter:
   (A)   The erecting or using of any building or other place for the exercise
of any trade, employment or manufacture, which, by occasioning noxious
exhalations, fumes, dense smoke or ask, or other annoyances, becomes harmful to
the health, safety or property of individuals or the public;
   (B)   Causing or suffering any offal, filth or waste to be collected or to
remain in any place to the prejudice of others;
   (C)   The obstructing or encumbering by any means whatsoever the private
ways and the public streets, alleys and places so as to create a physical
threat to the public;
   (D)   Billboards, signboards and advertising signs whether erected and
constructed on public or private property, or overhanging branches or
vegetation, which so obstruct and impair the view of any portion of a public
street or alley of the town as to render dangerous the use thereof;
   (E)   The dumping and/or accumulation upon public or private property of
trash, junk, debris, litter, rubbish, garbage, rags, paper, boxes, empty
barrels, crates, packing cases, tin cans, lumber not neatly piled, metal of all
kinds and in all forms and all other types of material, substances and/or
personalty of all kinds which is not securely protected and which is not stored
in an enclosed structure or area to prevent it being seen from public and/or
private property. Also, any substance or material that may lead to the
attraction, breeding or multiplying of insects, vermin or rodents;
   (F)   Any condition existing on public or private property which is
unsecured and which poses an attraction to young children who are unable to
comprehend the dangers of the same;
   (G)   Any condition which has the effect or causes the real estate of
abutting and/or adjoining owners to depreciate in value or which endangers or
poses a threat to the occupants and/or owners of real estate in the area;
   (H)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream, river, lake,
canal or body of water by sewage, creamery or industrial wastes or other
substances;
   (I)   All buildings erected, repaired or altered within the town in
violation of the provisions of the ordinances of the town relating to materials
and manner of construction of buildings and structures;
   (J)   All buildings or structures of any kind which are out of repair, or
dilapidated, or are so old as to be dangerous, unsafe, unsanitary or otherwise
unfit or unsafe for human use; or shall be an invitation to children and
endanger the lives of such children, or which, because of its condition has
become a fire hazard;
   (K)   All loud and discordant noises or vibrations of any kind, except as
may be permitted under a zoning ordinance; and
   (L)   All public and/or private activities, endeavors, enterprises and/or
conduct undertaken or persisting in violation of any ordinance of the town, or
in violation of any statute of the state.
(Prior Code, § 5:1:03)  (Ord. 82-28, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 82-52, passed 11-2-
1983; Ord. 89-4, passed 9-20-1989)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04  LITTER; RECEPTACLES TO PREVENT SCATTERING.
   (A)   Persons placing litter in public receptacles or in authorized private
receptacles shall do so in such a manner as to prevent it from being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public place, or
upon private property.
   (B)   No person shall place a container in or in proximity to a public right
of way or public area except for collection as provided herein. Receptacles
shall be placed so as to be readily accessible for collection. Receptacles
shall not be placed for collection earlier than 5:00 p.m. the day before
collection and shall be removed from the proximity of the public right of way
or public area by 8:00 p.m. the day of collection. At all other times any
receptacles that are kept outside of structures on a property shall comply with
one of the following: (1) be kept a minimum of 25 feet from the edge of the
pavement of the nearest public street, or (2) be kept within two feet of the
residence or garage located on the property. No person shall allow trash,
debris, refuse or yard waste to accumulate on his or her property.
   (C)   No person shall open burn any material, except wood products. WOOD
PRODUCTS means materials derived from or consisting of wood or vegetation such
as paper, cardboard, rags, boards, branches, brush, grass, leaves and other
similar materials. All open burning shall occur during daylight hours, and said
burning shall be attended at all times until completely extinguished by a
responsible person. All of the burning materials must be consumed by sunset. No
burning shall be conducted during unfavorable meteorological conditions such as
temperature inversions, high winds, air stagnation and the like. If the fire
creates an air pollution problem, a nuisance or a fire hazard, it shall be
extinguished immediately. Any burning of material of all types shall be done in
adequate containers, which will prevent the materials and ashes from scattering
upon public and private property, including the property upon which the burning
is taking place.
(Prior Code, § 5:1:04)  (Ord. 82-28, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 82-52, passed 11-2-
1983; Ord. 89-4, passed 9-20-1989; Ord. 93-06, passed 8-18-1993; Ord. 2017-02,
passed 6-5-2017; Ord. 2018-01, passed 8- -2018; Ord. 2019-03, passed 2-4-2019) 
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05  TREES; TRIMMING; HARMING; POSTING HANDBILLS.
   (A)   Trimming of trees to prevent obstructions: order to trim.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to plant, grow or maintain any
shall tree or trees, which will obstruct the proper distribution of light from
the street lamps now in use and hereinafter to be erected.
      (2)   All trees shall be trimmed so as to have a clear height of ten feet
above the surface of sidewalks and 12 feet above the surface of the street or
roadway, and the branches of all trees in front of and along lots or lands near
which street lights are placed shall be trimmed so as not to obstruct the free
passage of light from the street lights to the street and sidewalks.
      (3)   The Marshal is authorized to give written notice by mail to
property owners ordering them to trim trees so that said trees shall conform to
the provisions of division (A)(2) above. The Marshal shall also give copies of
the notice to the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (4)   If the property owner fails to trim said trees as ordered, the
Marshal may cause the trees to be trimmed as ordered, and the cost thereof
shall be a lien on such real estate and collectible as hereinafter set forth.
(Prior Code, § 5:1:05)
   (B)   Harming trees; posting of handbills. No person shall cut, break or
injure the roots, body, limbs or branches of a tree planted or growing in and
upon the streets, alleys, avenues, public places or parks within the town, or
tack or post a notice of handbill or advertisement of any kind upon said trees,
guards around the same or do any other thing whereby the beauty or life of any
tree or shrub may be marred, disfigured or injured.
(Prior Code, § 5:1:06)
(Ord. 82-28, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 82-52, passed 11-2-1983; Ord. 89-4, passed
9-20-1989)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06  SHRUBBERY; OBSTRUCTIONS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Shrubbery; obstructions prohibited.
      (1)   On property at any corner formed by intersecting streets, it shall
be unlawful to install, set out or maintain, or to allow the installation,
setting out or maintenance of any sign, hedge, shrubbery, natural growth or
other obstruction to the view, higher than three feet above the level of the
center of the adjacent intersection, within that triangular area between the
property line and diagonal line joining points on the property lines 25 feet
from the point of their intersection; or, in the case of rounded corners, the
triangular area between the tangents to the curve and a diagonal line joining
points of said tangent 25 feet from the point of their intersection.
      (2)   The tangents referred to are those at the beginning and at the end
of the curve at the corner.
(Prior Code, § 5:1:07)
   (B)   Exceptions. Division (A) above shall not apply to: a permanent
building; public utility poles; trees trimmed to the trunk to a line at least
12 feet above the level of the intersection; saplings, or plant species of open
growth habits and not planted in the form of a hedge, which are so planted and
trimmed as to leave at all seasons, a clear and unobstructed cross view;
supporting members of appurtenances to permanent buildings existing on the date
this section became effective; official warning signs or signals; to places
where the contour of the ground is such that there can be no cross-visibility
at the intersection; or to signs mounted ten feet or more above the ground and
whose supports do not constitute an obstruction as defined in division (A)
above.
(Prior Code, § 5:1:08)
(Ord. 82-28, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 82-52, passed 11-2-1983; Ord. 89-4, passed
9-20-1989)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07  ENFORCEMENT AND REMEDIES.
   (A)   Any obstruction maintained in violation of §
92.06(A) of this chapter shall be deemed a nuisance, and the Marshal is
authorized to give written notice by mail to property owners ordering them to
abate said nuisance.
   (B)   If the property owner fails to abate said nuisance as ordered, the
Marshal may cause the nuisance to be abated as ordered, and the cost thereof
shall be a lien on such real estate and collectible in the manner as
hereinafter set forth.
(Prior Code, § 5:1:09)  (Ord. 82-28, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 82-52, passed 11-2-
1983; Ord. 89-4, passed 9-20-1989)
§ 92.08  NOTICE TO ABATE NUISANCE.
   Whenever the Town Marshal finds that a nuisance exists, he or she shall
cause to be served upon the property owner, as shown by the records of the
County Auditor, a written notice to abate the nuisance within a reasonable time
after such notice. Such notice shall be sent to the property owner by certified
mail with a copy given to the Clerk-Treasurer. Also, a notice shall be sent by
certified mail to the occupant of the premises if the owner and the occupant
are not the same person.
(Prior Code, § 5:1:10)  (Ord. 82-28, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 82-52, passed 11-2-
1983; Ord. 89-4, passed 9-20-1989)
§ 92.09  CONTENTS OF NOTICE TO ABATE.
   The notice to abate shall contain:
   (A)   A description of what constitutes the nuisance;
   (B)   The location of the nuisance;
   (C)   A statement of the act or acts necessary to abate the nuisance;
   (D)   A reasonable time within which to complete the abatement; and
   (E)   A statement that if the nuisance is not abated as directed and no
request for hearing is made within the time prescribed in the notice, the town
will abate it and assess the costs against the property owner.
(Prior Code, § 5:1:11)  (Ord. 82-28, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 82-52, passed 11-2-
1983; Ord. 89-4, passed 9-20-1989)
§ 92.10  REQUEST FOR HEARING.
   (A)   Any person ordered to abate a nuisance may have a hearing with the
officer ordering the abatement to determine whether a nuisance does exist. A
request for a hearing must be made in writing and delivered to the officer
ordering the abatement within the time stated in the notice, or it will be
conclusively presumed that a nuisance exists that must be abated as ordered.
   (B)   (1)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the hearing officer shall
render a written decision as to whether a nuisance exists. If he or she finds
that a nuisance exists, he or she must order it abated within an additional
time which must be reasonable under the circumstances.
      (2)   An appeal from this decision may be had by immediately filing a
written notice with the hearing officer. This appeal will be heard before the
Town Council at a time and placed fixed by the Town Council.
      (3)   The findings of the Town Council shall be conclusive and, if a
nuisance is found to exist, it shall be ordered abated within a time reasonable
under the circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 5:1:12)  (Ord. 82-28, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 82-52, passed 11-2-
1983; Ord. 89-4, passed 9-20-1989)
§ 92.11  FAILURE TO ABATE.
   (A)   If the person notified to abate the nuisance neglects or fails to
abate as directed, the town may perform the action required to abate, keeping
an accurate account of the expenses incurred.
   (B)   An itemized expense account shall be certified and filed with the
fiscal officer (Clerk- Treasurer).
(Prior Code, § 5:1:13)  (Ord. 82-28, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 82-52, passed 11-2-
1983; Ord. 89-4, passed 9-20-1989)
§ 92.12  COLLECTION OF COST OF ABATEMENT.
   (A)   The fiscal officer shall send a statement by certified mail of the
total expense incurred to the property owner who has failed to abide by the
notice to abate, and if the amount shown by the statement has not been paid
within one month, he or she shall certify the costs to the County Auditor.
   (B)   The amount due shall then be collected with, and in the same manner,
as general property taxes and disbursed into the General Fund of the town.
(Prior Code, § 5:1:14)  (Ord. 82-28, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 82-52, passed 11-2-
1983; Ord. 89-4, passed 9-20-1989)
JUNK VEHICLES
§ 92.25  AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is made by the Town Council pursuant to the authority
granted it by I.C. 36-1-6-2, 36-1-6-4, 36-5-2-9, 36-8-2-4 and 36-8-2-10.
(Prior Code, § 5:2:01)  (Ord. 82-23, passed 12-31-1982; Ord. 84-1, passed 6-20-
1984)
§ 92.26  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNK VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle which is either disassembled, or non-
operative, or does not bear a currently valid license plate, or junked, or
wrecked, and is not in a garage or other building but is kept in the open upon
public or private property within the town.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Includes cars, trucks, buses, tractors, semi-trailers,
trailers, recreational vehicles and motorcycles.
(Prior Code, § 5:2:02)  (Ord. 82-23, passed 12-31-1982; Ord. 84-1, passed 6-20-
1984)
§ 92.27  NUISANCE.
   Because of the danger to health from vermin and insects and/or because of
the danger to the safety of children attracted by such vehicles, and/or because
of it rendering the public insecure in life or in the use of property or
endangers the comfort, health, repose or safety of the public, junked vehicles
are hereby declared to be nuisances, except in lawfully operated junkyards or
yards lawfully operated for vehicles awaiting permission for junking from the
Bureau of Motor Vehicles and which have been properly zoned and licensed for
this purpose by the state and the town.
(Prior Code, § 5:2:03)  (Ord. 82-23, passed 12-31-1982; Ord. 84-1, passed 6-20-
1984)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.28  PROCEDURE AND NOTICE.
   (A)   Public property.
      (1)   Whenever a member of the Town Marshal’s office shall find any such
vehicles placed, parked or stored in the open upon public property within the
corporate limits of the town, he or she shall issue an order to the owner of
the vehicle to remove the vehicle within 72-hours. Notice of such order shall
be placed upon the vehicle and upon the owner of the junk vehicle, if known.
      (2)   If no owner of the junk vehicle can be found, then the notice
affixed to the vehicle shall be sufficient. If the vehicle is not moved within
five days pursuant to the order and notice, any member of the Marshal’s office
shall cause the vehicle to be removed by a licensed junk or salvage yard or
wrecker service or by employees of the town. The cost and expense of such
removal shall be paid by the owner of the vehicle, which expense shall
constitute a lien on said junk vehicle.
   (B)   Private property. Whenever a member of the Town Marshal’s office shall
find any such vehicle placed, parked or stored in the open upon private
property within the corporate limits of the town, he or she shall issue an
order to the owner of the vehicle and/or to the owner, occupant or lessee of
the real estate to remove the vehicle within ten days. Notice of such order
shall be placed upon the vehicle. Copies of the notice shall be served upon any
adult occupying the real estate on which the junk vehicle is located and upon
the owner of the junk vehicle, if known. If no occupant of the real estate or
owner of the vehicle can be found, a notice affixed to any building on the real
estate shall constitute notice to the owner and occupant of the real estate and
to the owner of the vehicle. If there is no building on the real estate, said
notice may be affixed elsewhere on the real estate. If the vehicle is not
removed within ten days pursuant to the order and notice, any member of the
Marshal’s office shall cause the vehicle to be removed by a licensed junk or
salvage yard or wrecker service or by employees of the town. The cost and
expense of such removal shall be paid by the owner of the vehicle or by the
owner and/or occupant of the real estate, which expense shall constitute a lien
on said junk vehicle and/or against the real estate.
   (C)   Removal of vehicle. Upon removal of a junk vehicle as provided in
divisions (A) and (B) above, the same shall be placed in an impounding yard or
yards where it shall beheld for a period of at least 30 days during which time
the owner or owners of such junk vehicle may repossess the same by paying all
expenses of towing and impounding storage. In the event that said junk vehicle
is not repossessed within a period of 30 days from the date of impounding, the
Town Marshal’s office shall be and is hereby authorized to offer said junk
vehicle for sale to the highest and best bidder at public auction to be held
not later than ten days after one publication and notice of such sale to be
published in a newspaper of general circulation in the county and after notice
of such sale is posted in one public place in each district in the town. The
proceeds from such sale shall be used to pay towing expenses if such junk
vehicle is privately towed and to pay rental in any impounding yard where said
junk vehicle is held as well as the cost of the sale and publication and/or
posting of notice of sale.
(Prior Code, § 5:2:04)  (Ord. 82-23, passed 12-31-1982; Ord. 84-1, passed 6-20-
1984; Ord. 2017-02, passed 6-5-2017)
§ 92.29  DAMAGE TO PROPERTY BY TOWN EMPLOYEES UPON REMOVAL OF JUNK VEHICLE.
   In the event the Marshal, his or her deputies, a private towing service,
employees of the town or an agent of the town removes a vehicle from public or
private property pursuant to this subchapter, they shall not be liable for loss
or damage to the vehicle or to the real estate occurring during the removal of
said vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5:2:06)  (Ord. 82-23, passed 12-31-1982; Ord. 84-1, passed 6-20-
1984)
§ 92.30  TEMPORARY PERMIT IN CONNECTION WITH SALE OF VEHICLE ON PRIVATE
PROPERTY.
   In the event an owner of a vehicle which does not bear a currently valid
license plate desires to offer the same for sale to members of the general
public, then the following shall apply.
   (A)   A vehicle which does not bear a currently valid license plate may be
offered for sale to the general public upon the owner of the vehicle acquiring
a permit from the office of the Clerk-Treasurer. The owner of the vehicle shall
make an application in writing to the Clerk-Treasurer along with payment of the
permit fee in the amount of $5. A permit issued under this section shall be
valid for a period of 60 consecutive calendar days from the date of the
issuance of the permit, and the permit shall not be renewable upon its
expiration.
   (B)   Upon obtaining a permit, the owner of the vehicle, which vehicle may
be classified as a junk vehicle under §
92.26 of this chapter, shall be authorized to display the same on private real
estate during the 60-day period for the sole purpose of selling the vehicle. If
the vehicle is not sold and removed during the 60-day period, then the
procedures set forth in §
92.28 of this chapter shall be invoked; and the vehicle shall be disposed of in
accordance with the terms and provisions of §
92.28 of this chapter.
   (C)   The permit shall be issued in the name of the owner of the vehicle and
shall set forth the address and the name of the owner of the real estate where
the vehicle will be displayed for the purposes of sale. Not more than one
vehicle intended for sale shall be displayed on the property at the same time.
The permit shall at all times be displayed in a prominent place on the vehicle,
and the vehicle, subject to the consent of the Clerk-Treasurer and the approval
of the Town Council, may, for purposes of sale, be transferred from one
location to another within the town during the 60-day period without the
payment of another permit fee.
   (D)   A person who violates any provision or condition of this section shall
be subject to the penalties set out in §
92.99 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5:2:07)  (Ord. 82-23, passed 12-31-1982; Ord. 84-1, passed 6-20-
1984)  Penalty, see §
92.99
WEED CONTROL
§ 92.45  AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is made by the Town Council pursuant to the authority
granted it by I.C. 36-5-6-2 and 36-7-10.1.
(Prior Code, § 5:3:01)  (Ord. 82-29, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 89-5, passed 9-20-
1989)
§ 92.46  UNLAWFUL GROWTH.
   All property owners within the corporate limits of the town shall be
required and be financially responsible for the removal, cutting, or disposal
and elimination of weeds, grasses, and rank vegetation or other uncontrolled
plant growth on their property, which, at the time of notice, is in excess of
six inches in average height on at least 20% of the surface area of the
property.
(Prior Code, § 5:3:02)  (Ord. 82-29, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 89-5, passed 9-20-
1989; Ord. 2015-03, passed 8-3-2015)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.47  NOTICE TO REMOVE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-10.1, the Town Council shall require the owners
of real property in the town to cut and remove weeds, grasses or other rank
vegetation growing on that property. The Town Police Department shall be
responsible for identifying and issuing citations and other notices to
properties determined to be in violation of these provisions.
   (B)   From the date the notice of violation is mailed, the property owner
has ten days to abate the violation. After ten days, the town will perform a
site inspection. If the property owner has abated the violation (mowed the
property), the town will note in its file that the property owner has come into
compliance, and the violation is closed. If the property owner fails to abate
the violation, the town will document the violation via photography and
immediately mow the property. The town shall maintain before and after
photographs.
   (C)   If the initial notice of violation of this subchapter was provided by
first class mail or any other manner permitted by I.C. 36-7-10.1-3, a
continuous abatement notice may be posted at the property by the Police
Department at the time of abatement instead of by first class mail or
equivalent service as required under this subchapter. A continuous abatement
notice serves as notice to the landowner that each subsequent violation during
the same year for which the initial notice of the violation was provided may be
abated by the town or its contractors.
(Prior Code, § 5:3:03)  (Ord. 82-29, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 89-5, passed 9-20-
1989; Ord. 2013-02, passed 5-20-2013; Ord. 2019-04, passed 6-3-2019)
§ 92.48  REMOVAL; COSTS.
   (A)   In the event that the landowner fails to remove the vegetation within
the time prescribed, the town may, through its own workforce or through a
private contractor hired by the Superintendent of the Street Department, enter
onto the landowner's property and remove the vegetation, weeds and grass.
   (B)   The imposition of charges for the costs of abatement by the town and
the imposition of fines as set forth herein below by this section shall be
administered by the Clerk-Treasurer:
      (1)   Fines.  If the property owner fails to abate the violation within
the ten day period referenced in §
92.47, the property owner shall be liable for a fine up to $250.00 subject to
the following:
         (a)   If the property owner has not previously violated this
subchapter, the fine shall be $100.00;
         (b)   If the property owner has previously committed one violation of
this subchapter, the fine shall be at least $150.00; and
         (c)   If the property owner has previously committed two or more
violations of this subchapter, the fine shall be at least $200.00.
      (2)   Costs. The town shall mail, via certified mail, an invoice to the
property owner reflecting the total cost incurred by the town in mowing the
property, administrative costs associated with abating the violation, and an
invoice for the appropriate minimum fine as outlined in division (B)(1).
      (3)   Within ten days of the date the invoice in division (B)(2) is
mailed, the property owner shall:
         (a)   Pay to the town all amounts owed as reflected in the invoice; or
         (b)   File a written appeal as set forth in division (C).
   (C)   Appeals.  A party wishing to appeal a notice of violation or a bill
issued under this section shall file a written appeal with the Hamilton County
Superior or Circuit Court setting forth the address of the property; the name
of the property owner; the basis for the appeal and any documentation
supporting the appeal. Upon appeal, the Court shall set the matter for
contested hearing and determine whether the property owner is liable for the
violation and, if appropriate, assess fines. In any proceeding before the Court
regarding the violation, the town shall be entitled to recover reasonable
attorney fees and costs if it is the prevailing party.
(Prior Code, § 5:3:04)  (Ord. 82-29, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 89-5, passed 9-20-
1989; Ord. 2019-04, passed 6-3-2019)
§ 92.49  NUISANCE.
   Any person, including the owner or occupant of real estate, who fails and/or
refuses to keep weeds, vegetation and grasses on real estate under his or her
possession mowed and cut as hereinabove provided, shall be guilty of keeping
and maintaining a common nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 5:3:05)  (Ord. 82-29, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 89-5, passed 9-20-
1989)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   In addition to the remedies provided in §§
92.05(A),
92.07,
92.08,
92.09,
92.11 and
92.12 of this chapter, whoever violates any term, condition or provision of §§
92.01 through
92.12 of this chapter shall be subject to the following penalties: whoever
shall violate or fail to comply with any of the provisions of §§
92.01 through
92.12 of this chapter, or shall violate or fail to comply with any order or
regulation made thereunder, shall be fined not less than $5, nor more than
$2,500.
      (2)   The payment of a penalty shall not excuse the violation or permit
it to continue, nor shall such payment be held to prevent the enforced
correction of the prohibited conditions by legal and injunctive remedies in a
court of law or equity.
      (3)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during
or on which such violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 5:1:15)
   (C)   (1)   If any order for removal of a junk vehicle is not obeyed within
the time period fixed in §§
92.25 through
92.30 of this chapter, the owner of the junk vehicle and the occupant and the
owner of the real estate upon which said junk vehicle is located shall each,
upon conviction, be punished with a minimum fine of $50 and a maximum fine of
$500 for each violation. A separate violation of §§
92.25 through
92.30 of this chapter shall be deemed committed on each day during which the
junk vehicle is permitted to remain on the real estate after the time fixed in
said order.
      (2)   In addition to the penalties provided in division (C)(1) above, the
town is empowered to bring a civil action to enjoin any person from violating
any section, provision or condition of §§
92.25 through
92.30 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5:2:05)
   (D)   Whoever shall be found to be keeping and/or maintaining a common
nuisance pursuant to §
92.49 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $5, nor more than $500, plus
costs. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or on
which such violation occurs or continues. In addition, the town may seek
injunctive relief in a court of law and/or equity to enforce the terms and
provisions of §§
92.45 through
92.49 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5:3:06)
(Ord. 82-23, passed 12-31-1982; Ord. 82-28, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 82-29, passed
2-2-1983; Ord. 82-52, passed 11-2-1983; Ord. 84-1, passed 6-20-1984; Ord. 89-4,
passed 9-20-1989; Ord. 89-5, passed 9-20-1989; Ord. 2015-03, passed 8-3-2015;
Ord. 2019-04, passed 6-3-2019)
CHAPTER 93:  FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
   
93.01   Authority
   
93.02   Maintenance of fire station, vehicles and equipment
   
93.03   National fire codes adopted by reference
   
93.04   Storage of combustibles
   
93.05   Controlled burning
   
93.06   Fire inspections
   
93.07   Abatement of fire hazards
   
93.08   Service of orders
   
93.09   Compliance with orders; appeals
   
93.10   Permit required
   
93.11   Compliance required
   
93.12   Registration and inspection
   
93.13   Location of emergency lanes
   
93.14   Signs
   
93.15   Obstructing fire lanes
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-1-6-2, 36-1-6-4 and 36-8-2-3
§ 93.01  AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is made by the Town Council pursuant to the authority granted
it by I.C. 36-8-2-3, as well as other relevant state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 5:4:01)  (Ord. 82-27, passed 1-19-1983)
§ 93.02  MAINTENANCE OF FIRE STATION, VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The town’s Volunteer Fire Department shall be responsible for the
maintenance, care, repairs and cleaning of the fire station, equipment and fire
vehicles. Furthermore, the fire station shall be locked at all times and all
equipment and vehicles shall be secured therein, except when a member of the
town’s Volunteer Fire Department is on duty and is present at the fire station
or unless there is a fire or other emergency which necessitates the removal of
said equipment and vehicles from the station. Said equipment and/or vehicles
may also be removed from the station in connection with training exercises,
parades or repairs, or such other activities authorized by the Chief.
   (B)   The town may contract with other providers to provide all fire
services provided for in the previous section.
(Prior Code, § 5:4:02)  (Ord. 82-27, passed 1-19-1983; Ord. 2017-02, passed 6-
5-2017)
§ 93.03  NATIONAL FIRE CODES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   We hereby adopt Title 675 of the Indiana Administrative Code as it may be
amended from time to time.
§ 93.04  STORAGE OF COMBUSTIBLES.
   No person shall keep, place or permit to be kept or placed in any cellar or
any other portion of a building or on any premises any ashes, waste paper, oily
rags, excelsior or any other matter liable to ignite spontaneously unless the
same be placed in an iron, earthen, stone or other non-combustible vessel. Such
vessels shall be kept at least ten feet away from any combustible materials and
at least two feet away from any combustible wall or partition and shall be
placed on a non-combustible stand, a non- combustible floor or on the ground
outside the building.
(Prior Code, § 5:4:04)  (Ord. 82-27, passed 1-19-1983)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05  CONTROLLED BURNING.
   (A)   Responsibilities.  No person within the town shall burn any rubbish,
trash, garbage, yard waste, leaves, construction materials, tree limbs,
shrubbery trimmings, or dangerous materials at any time within the town limits.
   (B)   Exceptions - fires permitted.
      (1)   The following types of fires are permitted with prior approval of
the Fire Chief, or his or her designee:
         (a)   Fires used for celebrating Twelfth Night ceremonies.
         (b)   Fires used for celebrating school pep rallies.
         (c)   Fires used for celebrating scouting activities.
         (d)   Fires used for recreational or cooking purposes.
      (2)   All exempted fires, including fires for cooking or recreational
purposes, shall be subject to the following:
         (a)   Only wood products shall be burned.
         (b)   Fires shall be attended at all times, until completely
extinguished.
         (c)   If fires create an air pollution problem, a nuisance, or a fire
hazard, they shall be extinguished.
         (d)   No burning shall be conducted during unfavorable meteorological
conditions such as temperature inversions, high winds, air stagnation, and the
like.
         (e)   Burning shall be a minimum of 25 feet from any combustible
material or any structure.
         (f)   No fire or fire pit shall be greater than three feet in
diameter.
         (g)   No fire shall extend more than three feet in height above the
adjoining ground.
      (3)   Burning with prior approval of the Fire Chief, or his or her
designee, may be authorized for the following:
         (a)   Burning of refuse consisting of material resulting from a
natural disaster.
         (b)   Burning for purposes of fire training.
         (c)   Emergency burning of spilled petroleum products when all
reasonable efforts to recover the spilled material have been made and failure
to burn would result in an imminent fire hazard or water pollution problems.
         (d)   Burning of highly explosive or other dangerous materials for
which no alternative method exists or where transportation of such materials is
impossible.
         (e)   Prescribed burning of native vegetation, e.g. prairie grass, in
accordance with the requirements of the Indiana Department of Environmental
Management (IDEM) and in accordance with 326 IAC 4.
         (f)   Agricultural burning on agricultural properties for maintenance
purposes in accordance with 326 IAC 4-1-3.
         (g)   Old or tattered American flags, which are not in a condition to
provide a fitting emblem for display, shall be destroyed in a dignified manner.
Cotton flags may be burned in an appropriate manner by an approved organization
in a flag burning ceremony. Approved organizations include Veterans of Foreign
Wars (VFW), the American Legion, the Knights of Columbus, the Elk's Lodge, the
Boy Scouts of America, and the Girl Scouts of America. The Indiana Department
of Environmental Management (IDEM) does not allow the burning of nylon flags in
the State of Indiana. The Town of Arcadia Fire Department encourages the
recycling of all nylon flags.
         (h)   Due to the unique hazards associated with the methods of burning
described in this division (B), the Fire Chief, or his or her designee, may
require additional measures to ensure the public safety including but not
limited to:
            1.   Standby fire personnel.
            2.   Standby fire apparatus and equipment.
            3.   Increased minimum separation distances and/or specific burning
containers.
            4.   The financial costs associated with these additional
requirements shall be the responsibility of the petitioner.
         (i)   Notwithstanding this exception, no outdoor fire is permitted in
any type of burn barrel.
   (C)   Non-residential burning. All burning taking place which is non-
residential in nature must comply with the following conditions:
      (1)   All burning must meet the guidelines and restrictions of the
Indiana Department of Environmental Management on incinerator limitations.
      (2)   All such burning must utilize a stationary incinerator and shall
not take place in any portable incinerator or homemade incinerators unless
approved by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management.
      (3)   All burning shall take place between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:
00 p.m.
      (4)   All incinerators in which burning takes place shall be maintained
properly as specified by the manufacturer and shall be operated only according
to the manufacturer's recommendations.
   (D)   Open burning permits.  Prior approval from the Fire Chief, or his or
her designee, is required for recreational open burning in the Town of Arcadia.
Prior approval is further defined in this section as requiring an open burn
permit issued by the Town of Arcadia Fire Department. The required burn permit
shall be kept at the site of the fire during burning operations.
   (E)   Special events with open flames. Any community or civic special events
that include any type of open flame shall be approved only by the Fire Chief,
or his or her designee. The Fire Chief, or his or her designee, has the
authority to disallow open flames if the Fire Chief, or his or her designee,
finds that the open flame may be detrimental to the safety of bystanders, the
community, or emergency responders.
   (F)   As used herein, all references to Fire Chief or the Fire Department
shall be defined as referring to the agency or entity providing fire protection
services to the Town of Arcadia on the date of the planned open burn.
(Prior Code, § 5:4:05)  (Ord. 82-27, passed 1-19-1983; Ord. 2019-02, passed 2-
4-2019)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06  FIRE INSPECTIONS.
   The Chief of the town’s Volunteer Department or any member of the Volunteer
Fire Department designated by him or her as an inspector may, at all reasonable
hours, enter any building or premises, except the interior of occupied private
dwellings, to inspect any such premises, building or structure with regard to
the presence, arrangement or deposit of inflammable or combustible materials or
matter which may constitute a fire hazard or create danger in case of fire, and
further to inspect the condition of all heat-producing or electrical units or
equipment in such premises.
(Prior Code, § 5:4:06)  (Ord. 82-27, passed 1-19-1983)
§ 93.07  ABATEMENT OF FIRE HAZARDS.
   Whenever the Chief of the town’s Volunteer Fire Department or an inspector
shall find, in any building or upon any premises or other place, combustible or
explosive matter or dangerous accumulation of rubbish or unnecessary
accumulation of waste paper, boxes, shavings or any highly flammable materials,
and so situated as to endanger property, or shall find obstructions to or on
fire escapes, stairs, passage ways, doors or windows, liable to interfere with
the operation of the Fire Department or egress of occupants in case of fire, or
shall find any other fire hazard, he or she shall order the same to be removed
or remedied.
(Prior Code, § 5:4:07)  (Ord. 82-27, passed 1-19-1983)
§ 93.08  SERVICE OF ORDERS.
   (A)   The service of any order rendered pursuant to this chapter shall be
made upon the owner, lessee or occupant of the premises occupied, by either
delivering a true copy of such order to the owner, lessee or occupant
personally, or by delivering the same to and leaving it with any person in
charge of the premises, or in case no such person is found upon the premises,
by affixing a copy thereof in a conspicuous place on the door to the entrance
of the premises.
   (B)   Whenever it may be necessary to serve such an order upon the owner of
the premises, the order may be served either by delivering to and leaving with
the owner a true copy of the order or, if the owner is absent from the
jurisdiction of the officer making the order, by mailing such copy to the
owner’s last known post office address.
(Prior Code, § 5:4:08)  (Ord. 82-27, passed 1-19-1983)
§ 93.09  COMPLIANCE WITH ORDERS; APPEALS.
   Orders rendered pursuant to this chapter shall be complied with by the
person against whom the order is directed, within the time specified in said
order; provided that, such person may, within 24 hours of the service of such
order, appeal to the President of the Town Council, who shall, within ten days,
review such order and file his or her decision thereon. Unless the order is
revoked or modified by the President of the Town Council, it shall remain in
full force and shall be obeyed by the person against whom the order is
directed. If the order is not fully complied with, the Chief of the town’s
Volunteer Fire Department may cause the order to be executed by the Fire
Department, may otherwise remove or abate the fire hazard or may certify non-
compliance to the Town Attorney or his or her representative for proper court
action. Proceedings under this section shall not relieve any party from
prosecution, punishment or the imposition of a fine under this chapter or any
other ordinance or chapter or section of the code in force within the town or
any penalties prescribed under state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 5:4:09)  (Ord. 82-27, passed 1-19-1983)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.10  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Within the town limits, no underground storage tanks used for the
storage of gasoline, diesel fuel, gasohol, alcohol or any other type of liquid
which is flammable or which may be used for internal combustion engines may be
installed or used within a residential district within the town as they are not
designated, or as they may be designated in the future, unless the storage
tanks are for home heating oil only and are connected only to a furnace or
heating device with no outside dispenser, or unless the owner of the property
on which the tank is placed first receives a permit from the town’s Volunteer
Fire Department and the state’s Fire Marshal.
   (B)   Permits for the installation of underground storage tanks may be
obtained from the Fire Chief and shall be accompanied by a fee to cover the
actual cost of inspections as the fee may be set from time to time by
resolution of the Town Council. The fee is hereby set at $100 for the initial
installation of equipment and at $25 for an annual inspection thereafter.
   (C)   Any permit for underground storage tanks shall be issued only on the
approval of the Fire Chief and on his or her determination that the applicant
has complied with all necessary regulations and fee requirement.
(Prior Code, § 5:4:10)  (Ord. 82-27, passed 1-19-1983)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.11  COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   The tanks referred to in §§
93.10 through
93.12 of this chapter shall comply with and be subject to all provisions of all
National and State Fire Codes and regulations, and the Fire Chief shall have
the power to develop any and all regulations, subject to approval of the
Council, which he or she shall deem advisable for the installation and
maintenance of underground storage tanks. The regulations developed by the Fire
Chief shall be in printed form and available on request by any appliance
desiring to see them.
(Prior Code, § 5:4:11)  (Ord. 82-27, passed 1-19-1983)
§ 93.12  REGISTRATION AND INSPECTION.
   All owners of property within, or residents of the town, shall immediately
register with the Fire Chief if, on their property or on the property on which
they reside, there is an underground storage tank for storage of any liquid
described in §
93.10 of this chapter. The Fire Chief shall inspect each underground storage
tank currently existing or which may be installed in the future on a yearly
basis and each person or entity owning property within the town or residing
therein shall pay a yearly inspection fee to the city in an amount as stated in
§
93.10(B) of this chapter, or to be determined by a later resolution of the Town
Council.
(Prior Code, § 5:4:12)  (Ord. 82-27, passed 1-19-1983)
§ 93.13  LOCATION OF EMERGENCY LANES.
   The Fire Chief shall determine the location of emergency vehicle lanes
established pursuant to this chapter and he or she shall notify the property
owners affected thereby in writing, together with a notation as to the number
of signs deemed necessary by the town in order to properly notify vehicle
drivers of the existence and location of emergency vehicle lanes. The emergency
vehicle and fire lanes shall be, when possible, easily accessible to all
buildings.
(Prior Code, § 5:4:13)  (Ord. 82-27, passed 1-19-1983)
§ 93.14  SIGNS.
   (A)   The erection and maintenance of emergency vehicle lane signs shall be
the responsibility of each property owner.
   (B)   All marking of signs and identification for fire lanes shall remain in
good visible condition, and where such signs are in disrepair, the Fire Chief
may require owners to repair and he or she shall have the power to institute
suit to require their repair.
(Prior Code, § 5:4:14)  (Ord. 82-27, passed 1-19-1983)
§ 93.15  OBSTRUCTING FIRE LANES.
   (A)   The parking, stopping or standing of any object or personal property,
including motor vehicles, or any other obstruction in established fire lanes on
private and public property is and shall be prohibited.
   (B)   Any vehicle or other personal property found to be obstructing a fire
lane shall, with the consent of the owner, lessee or other person in possession
or control of the real estate where the fire lane has been established, be
towed away or removed on the request of Fire Chief or police enforcement
officer.
   (C)   The owner of such personal property shall be responsible for all tow-
in charges and resulting storage charges, if any, from such violation.
   (D)   To aid in the enforcement of this section, the Fire Chief shall obtain
from each property owner, lessee, or person in possession of property covered
by this section, an affidavit granting permission and their consent to the
towing away of any obstruction or personal property which is obstructing
emergency vehicle lanes.
   (E)   The original affidavit from each property owner shall be filed in the
Clerk-Treasurer’s office with copies on file in the Fire Chief’s and the
Marshal’s offices.
(Prior Code, § 5:4:15)  (Ord. 82-27, passed 1-19-1983)
§ 93.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever shall violate or fail to comply with any of the provisions of
§§
93.03 through
93.09 of this chapter, or shall violate or fail to comply with any order or
regulation made thereunder shall be fined not less than $5 or more than $200.
The payment of a penalty shall not excuse the violation or permit it to
continue nor shall such payment be held to prevent the enforced correction of
the prohibited conditions by legal and injunctive remedies in a court of
competent jurisdiction. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each
day during or on which such violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   Sections
93.10 through
93.12 of this chapter shall be enforceable by all legal and injunctive remedies
available at law and a violation of these sections shall subject the owner of
the property and the person residing at the property where the tank exists, if
the resident is a different person other than the owner, to a fine not to
exceed $500.
   (C)   The owner of any personal property or motor vehicle found in violation
of §
93.15 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine not less than $15, nor more
than $100.
   (D)   In addition to the other penalties and remedies provided herein and
pursuant to the authority granted in the town under I.C. 36-1-6-2 and I.C. 36-
1-6-4, the Fire Chief and other officers and employees of the town may enter
onto real property where a condition violating any term or condition of this
chapter exists and take appropriate action to bring the property into
compliance with this chapter; provided, however, before action to bring
compliance may be taken, all persons holding a substantial interest in the
property must be given a reasonable opportunity to bring the property into
compliance in accordance with §
93.08 of this chapter. If action to bring compliance is taken by the town, the
expenses involved may be a lien made against the property.
(Prior Code, § 5:4:16)  (Ord. 82-27, passed 1-19-1983)
CHAPTER 94:  PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
94.01   Parks; rules and regulations
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01  PARKS; RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby adopts the following rules and regulations
which will apply to its parks.
      (1)   No drugs will be tolerated.
      (2)   Alcoholic beverages are not permitted.
      (3)   Please use provided receptacles, and littering is subject to a
fine.
      (4)   Fires are permitted only in provided grills.
      (5)   Overnight camping is not permitted.
      (6)   All plants and structures within the park are protected by law and
any persons damaging the same will be prosecuted and subject to a fine.
      (7)   All pets must be on a leash and attended at all times.
      (8)   All motorized vehicles must remain in parking areas.
      (9)   Soliciting without written consent and/or a written license (if
required) is not permitted.
   (B)   The park will be open from 5:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m., and no person
shall use the park premises or be located thereon between the hours of 11:00
p.m. and 5:00 a.m.
(Ord. 98-01, passed 3-16-1998)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of §
94.01 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished with a minimum fine
of $10 and a maximum fine of $2,500, in addition to costs. A separate violation
shall be deemed committed upon each day during or on which a violation occurs
or continues. In addition to the foregoing, the town is empowered to obtain a
restraining order and/or a permanent injunction against any person, firm,
corporation of any other entity who shall be in violation of §
94.01 of this chapter.
(Ord. 98-01, passed 3-16-1998)
TITLE XI:  BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICES
      
111.   SOLICITATIONS
      
112.   EXHIBITIONS AND DISPLAYS
      
113.   PAWNBROKERS, SECONDHAND DEALERS AND JUNK DEALERS
      
114.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
115.   HANDBILLS
      
116.   GARBAGE PICKUP AND DISPOSAL
CHAPTER 110:  COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICES
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Authority
   
110.02   Definitions
   
110.03   Certain devices prohibited; exempted
   
110.04   Tampering with a machine’s license
   
110.05   Authority of Town Council
   
110.06   Application of chapter
Licenses and Conditions
   
110.20   License required
   
110.21   License application
   
110.22   License fees
   
110.23   Investigation of applicant
   
110.24   License issuance or denial
   
110.25   Individual license stickers
   
110.26   Exhibitor’s license; display
   
110.27   License transfer prohibited
   
110.28   Removal of place of business
   
110.29   License renewal
   
110.30   Inspections
   
110.31   License terms and conditions
   
110.32   License suspension or revocation
   
110.33   License denial; notice
   
110.34   Hearing
   
110.35   Violations
   
110.36   Limitations
 
   
110.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-1-2-15, 36-1-4-11, 36-1-6-2, 36-1-6-4, 36-4-
5-5, 36-5-2-9, 36-5-4-11, 36-8-2-4, 36-8-2-8, 36-8-2-9, 36-8-2-10, 36-8-2-11
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01  AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is made by the Town Council pursuant to the authority granted
it by I.C. 36-1-2-15, 36-1-4-11, 36-1-6-2, 36-1-6-4, 36-4-5-5, 36-5-2-9, 36-5-
4-11, 36-8-2-4, 36-8-2-8, 36-8-2-9, 36-8-2-10 and 36-8-2-11.
(Prior Code, § 6:1:01)  (Ord. 82-41, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 91-3, passed 6-19-
1991)
§ 110.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMUSEMENT DEVICE. Any electrical or mechanical apparatus or device which,
upon insertion of a coin, slug or token in any slot or receptacle attached to
or connected with said device or machine, or for which a charge is made,
operates or may be operated, for use as a game, contest or amusement, exclusive
of vending machines, machines used solely for music and games of chance or
gambling devices.
   EXHIBITOR. Any person owning or conducting a place of business in the town
and operating or exhibiting at such place of business one or more amusement
machines which are designed to register a score.
   OWNER. Any person, firm or corporation engaged in the business of renting
out or placing amusement devices, and who rents or places such devices in any
location within the town.
(Prior Code, § 6:1:02)  (Ord. 82-41, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 91-3, passed 6-19-
1991)
§ 110.03  CERTAIN DEVICES PROHIBITED; EXEMPTED.
   (A)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be deemed to permit the
licensing, maintenance or operation of any amusement device which is contrary
to any of the laws of the state or the United States government or the town,
nor to permit the operation of any amusement device licensed under this chapter
in such a manner as to be contrary to any of said laws.
(Prior Code, § 6:1:21)
   (B)   (1)   Shuffle boards, pool tables, bumper pool and pinball machines
are exempt from those provisions of this chapter requiring an amusement machine
license.
      (2)   However, all of the remaining terms and provisions of this chapter,
including those sections requiring an exhibitor’s license, shall apply to
shuffle boards, pool tables, bumper pool and pinball machines.
(Prior Code, § 6:1:22)
(Ord. 82-41, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 91-3, passed 6-19-1991)
§ 110.04  TAMPERING WITH A MACHINE’S LICENSE.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter to tamper, remove, alter or deface
any license or sticker placed on a machine or device pursuant to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6:1:23)  (Ord. 82-41, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 91-3, passed 6-19-
1991)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05  AUTHORITY OF TOWN COUNCIL.
   All persons, firms or corporations licensed under this chapter shall be
subject to the regulations of the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 6:1:24)  (Ord. 82-41, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 91-3, passed 6-19-
1991)
§ 110.06  APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   Any person, firm, corporation or other entity currently operating a business
covered by this chapter on the date of the passage of this chapter shall,
within 60 days from the date of passage, comply with each and every term,
provision and condition, including the licensing provision contained herein,
and the Clerk-Treasurer shall send a copy of this chapter along with an
application for a license by first class mail to those persons, firms,
corporations or other entities which are currently engaged in the business
activity or operation covered by this chapter. Any person, firm or corporation
currently operating an amusement location and who do not comply with each and
every term of this chapter within 60 days from the date of its passage shall be
subject to the penalties set forth in §
110.99 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6:1:26)  (Ord. 82-41, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 91-3, passed 6-19-
1991)
LICENSES AND CONDITIONS
§ 110.20  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Exhibitor’s license. No exhibitor shall display or use amusement
devices at locations within the town without first obtaining an exhibitor’s
license from the town for each such business location, which license shall bear
on its face the date of issuance, the date of expiration, the exhibitor’s full
name and business address and the number of amusement devices being placed for
exhibition in that business location.
   (B)   Amusement machine license. No amusement machine shall be operated or
placed in any public place or in a business of any kind, either on public or
private property, where a charge is made to use or play the machine or device,
without an amusement machine license issued by the town, which license shall
bear on its face the date of issuance, the serial number of the machine and its
model, the expiration date of the license, the exhibitor’s full name and
business address and the full name and business address of the owner of the
machine.
(Prior Code, § 6:1:03)  (Ord. 82-41, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 91-3, passed 6-19-
1991)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.21  LICENSE APPLICATION.
   In addition to any other information deemed necessary by the town, the
application for an “exhibitor’s license” or an “amusement machine license”
shall contain the following information:
   (A)   The name and address of any person other than the applicant who holds
any right, title or interest in or to each amusement device for which a license
is sought; in those instances where such person is other than an individual,
there shall be filed with the Clerk-Treasurer and kept available for public
inspection a statement showing, in the case of a partnership, the names and
addresses of the stockholders and directors and, in the case of a business
trust, the names of the trustee or trustees and beneficiary or beneficiaries;
   (B)   In the case of owners, the number of amusement devices being placed
for exhibition or exhibited in the town;
   (C)   In the case of exhibitors, the numbers of amusement devices and the
place where the amusement devices are to be located, and whether such machines
are being maintained and operated in connection with any other business or
calling and, if so, the character of said business or calling;
   (D)   In case of an amusement machine license, the type of machine, its
model and serial numbers, the machine’s approximate age, the name and address
of the owner of the machine (the term “owner” is defined in §
110.02 of this chapter) and the applicant shall also furnish the information
required by divisions (A), (B) and (C) above; and
   (E)   The name, address and telephone numbers of the operator(s) who will
manage and be on duty during those hours the business is open to customers.
(Prior Code, § 6:1:04)  (Ord. 82-41, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 91-3, passed 6-19-
1991)
§ 110.22  LICENSE FEES.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall collect the license fee prescribed below at the
time the application for a license is made. The term of each license shall be
for the calendar year.
   (A)   If an exhibitor’s license is denied, no part of the $5 fee shall be
returned to the applicant and the full $5 fee shall be kept by the town to
cover its expenses of investigation. If the amusement machine license is
denied, the fee, less $12 for the cost to the town of the license investigation
and inspections, shall be returned to the applicant.
   (B)   All licenses issued under this chapter, unless specified otherwise on
the license, shall be issued for the duration of the calendar year for which
they were issued, and all licenses shall expire on December 31 of such calendar
year. In the event of an application for an amusement machine license to go
into effect at any time after January 1 of any calendar year, the applicant
shall be required to pay for the license a pro rata part for the portion of the
year remaining up to December 31 of that year; provided, however, that, any
portion of a calendar month shall be counted as one month in the computations
of time for such remaining portion of the year. However, the $5 fee for an
exhibitor’s license shall be for a calendar year, or any part thereof, and no
part of the same shall be pro rated.
   (C)   If a licensed amusement device or machine is removed from the premises
prior to the expiration of the license and replaced by an unlicensed machine or
device, the unexpired term remaining under the license for the removed machine
may be transferred to the unlicensed machine upon the payment of a $12 transfer
fee by the application, and the Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a license for the
replacement machine. A license issued hereunder for a replacement machine shall
expire on December 31 of such calendar year. In lieu of paying a transfer fee,
the applicant may obtain a new license for the replacement machine upon the
payment of the appropriate license fee as required under this chapter.
   (D)   If a licensed amusement device or machine is removed from the premises
prior to the expiration of the license and not replaced by another machine or
device, no part of the license fee for the unexpired term of the license shall
be returned to the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 6:1:05)  (Ord. 82-41, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 91-3, passed 6-19-
1991)
§ 110.23  INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT.
   (A)   Upon the receipt of an applicant for a license, the Clerk-Treasurer
shall forward it to the Town Marshal who shall conduct an investigation
concerning the truth of the facts stated in the application, the character of
the applicant and the condition of the premises upon which the proposed
licensed activity is to take place.
   (B)   The Marshal shall give, in writing, the results of his or her
investigation to the Clerk-Treasurer who shall review the same.
 
Type of License           License Fee
Amusement machine license $24 per year per device or machine
Exhibitor’s license     $5 per year
 
(Prior Code, § 6:1:06)  (Ord. 82-41, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 91-3, passed 6-19-
1991)
§ 110.24  LICENSE ISSUANCE OR DENIAL.
   Within 15 calendar days of his or her receipt of the application for a
license, the Clerk-Treasurer shall approve the application for a license unless
he or she finds that:
   (A)   The applicant has been convicted of a crime, if the crime is
substantially related to the qualifications, functions or duties of the
business, profession or occupation for which the license is to be issued;
   (B)   The applicant has committed any act involving dishonesty, fraud or
deceit with intent to substantially benefit himself, herself or another, or
substantially injure another;
   (C)   The applicant knowingly made a false statement of fact required to be
revealed in the application for the license or in any amendment or report to be
made thereunder;
   (D)   The premises and the amusement devices are located within 300 feet of
a public playground, or public or private school of elementary, junior high or
high school grades;
   (E)   No attendant will be on duty and present on the premises at all times
when it is open for business and has customers using the machines or devices;
   (F)   The applicant refuses to abide by each and every term of this chapter;
or
   (G)   Issuance of the license would be inconsistent with the public health,
safety and general welfare of the town and its citizens.
(Prior Code, § 6:1:07)  (Ord. 82-41, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 91-3, passed 6-19-
1991)
§ 110.25  INDIVIDUAL LICENSE STICKERS.
   (A)   Issuance of individual license stickers. Upon approval of an
exhibitor’s license application, the Clerk-Treasurer shall issue, in addition
to the exhibitor’s license, individual license stickers for each amusement
device included within the exhibitor’s license, which stickers shall contain
the name of the exhibitor, the exhibitor’s license number and the serial number
of the amusement device. Each sticker shall be permanently affixed to the
amusement device for which it was assigned on a conspicuous place.
(Prior Code, § 6:1:08)
   (B)   Individual license sticker requirement. No owner shall rent or place
and no exhibitor shall display or operate any amusement device which does not
have an individual license sticker as provided in division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 6:1:09)
(Ord. 82-41, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 91-3, passed 6-19-1991)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.26  EXHIBITOR’S LICENSE; DISPLAY.
   An exhibitor’s license issued under this chapter shall be kept and posted at
all times in a visible and conspicuous place on the premises where the licensed
activity is conducted.
(Prior Code, § 6:1:10)  (Ord. 82-41, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 91-3, passed 6-19-
1991)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.27  LICENSE TRANSFER PROHIBITED.
   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferred or assigned to
another person, place or machine, except as provided in §
110.22(C) of this chapter, or be used for a purpose other than that for which
it was issued.
(Prior Code, § 6:1:11)  (Ord. 82-41, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 91-3, passed 6-19-
1991)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.28  REMOVAL OF PLACE OF BUSINESS.
   Any and all licenses issued under this chapter shall be valid only for the
location indicated on the license certificate. Whenever the licensee shall
change his or her place of business to another location within the town or
moves a machine to another location, he or she shall apply to the Clerk-
Treasurer for issuance of a new license certificate indicating the changed
location. The new license may be approved, after an investigation by the
Marshal, by the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 6:1:12)  (Ord. 82-41, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 91-3, passed 6-19-
1991)
§ 110.29  LICENSE RENEWAL.
   Every person desiring to continue business after the expiration of the
license period shall file an application for renewal not less than 30 days
prior to the expiration of the license period. The Clerk- Treasurer may accept
an application for renewal after the time specified above if the application is
filed before the expiration of the former license; provided, however, that, the
license fee in such case shall be the renewal fee, plus 10% thereof. The Clerk-
Treasurer may accept an application for renewal filed after the expiration of
the former license; provided, however, that, the license fee in such case shall
be the renewal fee, plus 25%. All renewal fees due hereunder shall be identical
to the fees for the original licenses which are set out in §
110.23 of this chapter, plus late fees, if any.
(Prior Code, § 6:1:13)  (Ord. 82-41, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 91-3, passed 6-19-
1991)
§ 110.30  INSPECTIONS.
   The Marshal and his or her Deputies or Police Reserves shall be authorized
to make periodic inspections of the premises and of the amusement machines or
devices for the purpose of ascertaining whether the applicant is abiding by
each and every term of the licenses of this chapter as well as other ordinances
or chapters of the code of the town and the laws of the state. The applicant as
well as his or her employees and agents shall cooperate with the Marshal and
shall provide him or her access to the premises and the machines or devices.
(Prior Code, § 6:1:14)  (Ord. 82-41, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 91-3, passed 6-19-
1991)
§ 110.31  LICENSE TERMS AND CONDITIONS.
   In addition to the other terms and conditions contained in this chapter, any
licenses issued hereunder shall be conditioned on and subject to the following.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for an exhibitor or his or her
employee to allow a child under 16 years of age who is subject to compulsory
school attendance laws of the state and who is not accompanied by a parent,
custodian or legal guardian to be present in an amusement location between the
hours of 7:30 a.m. and 3:30 p.m. on a day when such child’s school is in
session.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for an exhibitor or his or her
employee to allow a person who has not reached the age of 18 years to be
present in an amusement location after the hours established by state statute
or town ordinance for juvenile curfew, unless accompanied by a parent, legal
guardian, custodian or an adult specified by the child’s parent, legal guardian
or custodian.
   (C)   It shall be a violation of this chapter to operate an amusement
location unless a sign is conspicuously posted inside the location which
provides that:
      (1)   No child under 16 may be present in an amusement location from 7:30
a.m. to 3:30 p.m. on a day when the child’s school is in session unless
accompanied by a parent or legal guardian or custodian; and
      (2)   No child under 18 may be present in an amusement location in
violation of the curfew established by state or local law.
   (D)   It shall be a violation of this chapter to operate an amusement
location without having a full-time adult operator and/or attendant on duty at
all times when the same is open to the public and/or when customers are present
on the premises.
   (E)   It shall be a violation of this chapter to own or operate any
amusement location without an amusement location license issued by the town.
   (F)   It shall be a violation of this chapter to allow to be operated in any
public place any amusement machine or device without an amusement machine
license issued by the town.
   (G)   It shall be a violation of this chapter to allow a patron to be
present in or operate an amusement machine unless he or she is totally visible.
   (H)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for an exhibitor or his or her
employee to operate an amusement location without providing adequate protection
and security to persons visiting the premises or to property of persons located
on the premises.
   (I)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for an exhibitor or his or her
employee to permit persons to congregate in a disturbing manner on the premises
of his or her place of business.
   (J)   No exhibitor or his or her employee shall violate any state statute or
this code of ordinances of the town, including this chapter, or allow any other
person to commit such violation on the premises of the exhibitor’s place of
business.
   (K)   No holder of any license issued under this chapter shall cause or
allow any amusement device to be located, operated or maintained within 300
feet of the nearest street entrance to, or exit from, any public playground or
public or private school of elementary, junior high or high school.
   (L)   No holder of any license issued under this chapter or his or her
employee shall allow or permit any award, payoff or delivery of anything of
value, or representing or exchangeable or redeemable for anything of value, in
any play, contest, tournament or individual operation of an amusement device;
and it shall be a violation of this chapter for any exhibitor or his or her
employee to cause or permit or allow the same.
(Prior Code, § 6:1:15)  (Ord. 82-41, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 91-3, passed 6-19-
1991)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.32  LICENSE SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   Licenses issued under this chapter may be suspended or revoked by the
President of the Town Council pursuant to the notice and hearing procedures set
forth in I.C. 36-4-5-5 if there is a finding that the person or party
complained of has:
   (A)   Willfully violated a term or condition of his or her licenses or the
terms and provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   The exhibitor or his or her employee permitted any act or conduct
prohibited and/or regulated by §
110.31 of this chapter;
   (C)   Willfully done or permitted an act in violation of a statute of the
state or an ordinance or a section of the code of the town relating to the
business, profession or occupation licensed;
   (D)   Made misrepresentation or failed to make correct and fully disclosures
and statements on the application for a license or in responding to any
question posed to him or her by an officer of the town; and
   (E)   Conducted the licensed business, profession or occupation in such a
manner as to constitute a threat to the public health, safety and general
welfare.
(Prior Code, § 6:1:16)  (Ord. 82-41, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 91-3, passed 6-19-
1991)
§ 110.33  LICENSE DENIAL; NOTICE.
   Upon denial of a license under §
110.24 of this chapter, the Clerk-Treasurer shall give written notice of such
action to the applicant by first class or certified mail, which notice shall
state the reasons for the denial. Any applicant whose application is denied
may, within ten days after the mailing of the above notice, request a hearing
on such action before the Town Council. A hearing shall be scheduled within 30
days after the receipt of a request for a hearing. If no request for a hearing
is made within the ten-day period, the decision of the Clerk-Treasurer shall be
final.
(Prior Code, § 6:1:17)  (Ord. 82-41, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 91-3, passed 6-19-
1991)
§ 110.34  HEARING.
   The hearing shall be held before the Town Council, which may reverse, modify
or affirm the action of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 6:1:18)  (Ord. 82-41, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 91-3, passed 6-19-
1991)
§ 110.35  VIOLATIONS.
   In addition to revocation and/or suspension of licenses provided by §
110.32 of this chapter, the penalties of §
110.99 of this chapter shall apply to a violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6:1:19)  (Ord. 82-41, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 91-3, passed 6-19-
1991)
§ 110.36  LIMITATIONS.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the town reserves the
right to place a limit on the number of amusement devices which may be placed
pursuant to an owner’s or exhibitor’s license application if the number of
amusement devices within the town becomes unmanageable, unreasonable or
detrimental to the public welfare.
(Prior Code, § 6:1:20)  (Ord. 82-41, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 91-3, passed 6-19-
1991)
§ 110.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter, or who undertakes, permits or allows an act or conduct prohibited
herein, shall, upon conviction, be punished with a minimum fine of $25 and a
maximum fine of $2,500, in addition to costs. A separate violation shall be
deemed committed upon each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues.
   (B)   In addition to the foregoing, the Town Council is empowered to obtain
a restraining order and/or a permanent injunction against any person, firm,
corporation or any other entity who shall be in violation of this chapter. A
person against whom the town recovers a judgment shall pay all costs of the
court action and the town’s attorney fees.
(Prior Code, § 6:1:25)  (Ord. 82-41, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 91-3, passed 6-19-
1991)
CHAPTER 111:  SOLICITATIONS
Section
Charitable Solicitations
   
111.01   Authority
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   Certificate of registration; investigations; exemptions; applications
   
111.04   Identification cards
   
111.05   License transfer prohibited
   
111.06   Endorsement disclaimer
   
111.07   Hours
   
111.08   Prohibited solicitation methods
   
111.09   “No soliciting” signs
   
111.10   Authority of Town Council
Commercial Peddlers, Solicitors and Transient Merchants
   
111.25   Authority
   
111.26   Definitions
   
111.27   License required; exemptions; investigations; applications; fees
   
111.28   Required disclosures
   
111.29   Identification cards
   
111.30   License transfer prohibited
   
111.31   Endorsement disclaimer
   
111.32   False, deceptive or misleading statements
   
111.33   Hours
   
111.34   Obstructing public places prohibited
   
111.35   Selling foodstuffs; physical exam
   
111.36   “No peddling” signs
   
111.37   Authority of Town Council
 
   
111.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Charitable solicitation; related provisions, see I.C. 36-4-5-5 and 36-8-2-11
   Commercial solicitations; related provisions, see I.C. 25-25-2-1, 36-1-4-11,
36-1-6-2, 36-1-6-3, 36-1-6-4, 36-4-5-5, 36-5-2-9, 36-8-2-11, 36-8-2-4, 36-8-2-
8, 36-8-2-10, 36-8-29
CHARITABLE SOLICITATIONS
§ 111.01  AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is made by the Town Council pursuant to the authority
granted it by I.C. 36-8-2-11.
(Prior Code, § 6:2:01)  (Ord. 82-35, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 82-53, passed 11-2-
1983)
§ 111.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHARITABLE. Any activity or pursuit which has as its object, or which
purports to have, as its object, a benevolent, educational, patriotic,
religious, philanthropic, civic, fraternal or social welfare purpose.
   CONTRIBUTION. Any donation of food, clothing, money, property, subscription
or pledge, or any other thing of tangible value.
   PROFESSIONAL PROMOTER. A person who, for compensation, plans, promotes,
conducts, manages or carries on, or attempts to plan, promote, conduct, manage
or carry on any drive or campaign for the purpose of soliciting contributions
for or on behalf of any charitable purpose. A bona fide officer or regular
employee of a charitable organization shall not be deemed a PROFESSIONAL
PROMOTER by reason of his or her participation in charitable solicitations made
by or on behalf of his or her employer.
   PROFESSIONAL SOLICITOR. Any person employed for compensation by any person
or charitable organization to make solicitations on behalf of any charitable
purpose. A bona fide officer or regular employee of a charitable organization
shall not be deemed a PROFESSIONAL SOLICITOR by reason of his or her
participation in charitable solicitations made by or on behalf of his or her
employer.
   SOLICIT and SOLICITATION.
      (1)   The request, directly or indirectly, for money, credit, property,
financial assistance or other things of value on the representation that such
money, credit, property, financial assistance or other things of value will be
used for a charitable purpose.
      (2)   These words shall also mean and include the following methods of
securing such money, credit, property, financial assistance or other things of
value:
         (a)   Any oral or written request;
         (b)   The making of any announcement to the local press, or on the
radio or television, or by telephone or telegraph concerning a local appeal or
campaign to which the public is requested to make a contribution for any
charitable purpose connected therewith;
         (c)   The distribution, circulation, posting or publishing of any
handbill, written advertisement or other local publication which directly or by
implication seeks to obtain public support; and
         (d)   The sale, or offer or attempt to sell, any advertisement,
advertising space, book, card, tag, coupon, device, magazine, membership,
merchandise, subscription, flower, ticket, candy, cookies or other tangible
item in connection with which any appeal is made for charitable purpose, or
where the name of any charitable agency is used or referred to in any such
appeal as an inducement or reason for making any such sale, or when or where,
in connection with any such sale, any statement is made that the whole or any
part of the proceeds from any such sale will be donated to any charitable
purpose.
(Prior Code, § 6:2:02)  (Ord. 82-35, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 82-53, passed 11-2-
1983)
§ 111.03  CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION; INVESTIGATIONS; EXEMPTIONS;
APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Certificate of registration required and investigation of the
applicant. Every person, firm or corporation desiring to engage in soliciting,
as herein defined, from persons within residences within the town is hereby
required to make written application for a certificate of registration, as
hereinafter provided. Such certificate shall be carried by the solicitor at all
times. Every person desiring a certificate of registration shall, prior to the
issuance of the same, reimburse the town for any and all expenses incurred by
it in connection with any investigations conducted by the town of the
applicant, as well as all other expenses incurred by the town in connection
with the issuance of a certificate of registration. Upon receipt of an
application for a certificate of registration, the fiscal officer shall forward
it to the Town Marshal who shall conduct an investigation concerning the truth
of the facts stated in the application and the character of the applicant.
After making an investigation, the Marshal shall, in writing, forward to the
fiscal officer of the results of the investigation.
(Prior Code, § 6:2:03)
   (B)   Exemptions. The provisions of this subchapter, as it applies to a
license fee, shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   Solicitations made upon premises owned or occupied by the
organization on whose behalf such solicitation is made; and
      (2)   Any religious organization or corporation or association soliciting
contributions solely from persons who are members thereof at the time of such
solicitation.
(Prior Code, § 6:2:04)
   (C)   Application for certificate of registration. Application for a
certificate of registration to solicit under this subchapter shall be sworn to
by or on behalf of the applicant, made to the fiscal officer and shall contain
such information as the fiscal officer may prescribe, including the following
information, or a statement of the reasons why such information cannot be
furnished:
      (1)   Name, telephone number and address of the organization applying for
a certificate of registration, and the name, address and telephone numbers of
the person or persons who will actually conduct and be making the door-to-door
soliciting;
      (2)   Names and address of its principal officers;
      (3)   Such information as may be necessary to describe the character of
the organization under whose auspices the solicitation will be conducted. This
should include such information as will be necessary to indicate the nature and
type of the organization from a corporate, financial, organization and civic
standpoint;
      (4)   The names and addresses of any other organizations or associations
with which the applicant may be affiliated;
      (5)   The purpose for which such solicitation is to be made;
      (6)   The total amount of funds proposed to be raised;
      (7)   The use or disposition to be made of any receipts therefrom;
      (8)   The name, telephone number and address of the person or persons who
will be connected with, or in charge of organization, conducting, managing,
supervising or promoting the solicitation;
      (9)   The name of the person or persons by whom the receipts or funds of
such solicitation will be handled or disbursed;
      (10)   A full and complete description of the method or methods to be
used in conducting the solicitation;
      (11)   The time when such solicitations will be made, giving the proposed
dates for the beginning and ending of such solicitation and the hours of
soliciting;
      (12)   The total amount of any wages, fees, commissions, expenses, costs
or emoluments proposed to be expended or paid to or for all persons in
connection with such solicitation; together with the manner in which the same
are to be expended or paid, and the names of the several persons who are to be
so paid, and the amount to be paid each such person;
      (13)   A financial statement for the last preceding fiscal year, or any
lesser period if not existing that long, showing all funds solicited for any
purpose by the organization or persons seeking a license; the statement shall
give the amount of money raised, together with the cost of raising it and final
distribution of it;
      (14)   A statement to the effect that if a certificate of registration is
granted it will not be used or represented in any way as an endorsement by the
town, or by any department or officer thereof; and
      (15)   If a promoter or business agent is used by the organization and
the promoter or business agent is to receive payment or benefit for such
services out of the solicitations collected, then such facts must be so stated
in the application for a certificate of registration, and a copy of the
contract between the organization and the promoter or business agent must be
filed along with the application for a certificate of registration.
(Prior Code, § 6:2:05)
   (D)   Issuance of certificate of registration. Within 15 calendar days of
his or her receipt of the application for a certificate of registration, the
fiscal officer shall either grant or deny the application for a certificate of
registration. A certificate of registration shall be issued by the fiscal
officer to the applicant if the fiscal officer finds that all of the following
to be true:
      (1)   The application is complete, and that all of the statements made in
the application are true;
      (2)   All of the proceeds of the solicitations will be used for the
charitable purpose stated in the application, except for the costs of raising
the funds;
      (3)   The applicant organization is conducted in an honest, businesslike
manner; that it has not engaged in any fraudulent or unlawful transaction; and
that neither the charitable organization, nor any of its officers, trustees,
directors or principals, have, within the past five years, been convicted of
any crime involving solicitations for or on behalf of a charitable organization
or charitable purpose, or been convicted of any crime involving
misrepresentation, deceit or fraud, or been found in any civil or
administrative proceeding to have committed any act of misrepresentation,
deceit or fraud;
      (4)   The applicant will maintain an accepted system of accounting and
will maintain accurate records of all funds received and disbursed which will
be made available to the fiscal officer;
      (5)   None of the funds of the applicant are on loan to any of its
members, agents or employees; and
      (6)   The solicitation will not use a charitable appeal for any purpose
other than that which it has expressed and that the conduct of the solicitation
will not be deceptive or misleading in any way.
(Prior Code, § 6:2:06)
   (E)   Notice of denial; hearing. If the certificate of registration is
denied, written notice thereof shall be sent by the fiscal officer to the
applicant by certified mail, which notice shall state the reasons for the
denial. The applicant may, within ten days of the mailing of the notice,
request a hearing on the denial before the Town Council. The hearing shall be
held as soon as possible, but in no case later than 30 days after the receipt
of the request for hearing. If no request for hearing is made within the ten-
day period, the fiscal officer’s original decision shall be final. On an appeal
made pursuant to this section, the Town Council’s review shall be limited only
to those items required by divisions (C) and (D) above.
(Prior Code, § 6:2:07)
   (F)   Suspension or revocation. Certificate of registrations issued under
this subchapter may be suspended or revoked by the Town Council pursuant to the
notice and hearing procedures set forth in I.C. 36-4-5-5. A certificate of
registration shall be revoked or suspended if there is a finding that the
person complained of has:
      (1)   Willfully violated a term or condition of the certificate of
registration;
      (2)   Willfully done or permitted to be done an act in violation of a
statute or town ordinance relating to charitable solicitations; or
      (3)   Been convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude or an intent to
defraud.
(Prior Code, § 6:2:08)
   (G)   Certificate of registration duration and renewal. The term of all
certificate of registrations issued under this subchapter shall not exceed
three months and may be renewed for an additional term not to exceed three
months.
(Prior Code, § 6:2:14)
(Ord. 82-35, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 82-53, passed 11-2-1983)
§ 111.04  IDENTIFICATION CARDS.
   (A)   All charitable organizations to whom charitable solicitation
certificates of registration have been issued shall furnish an identification
card to each of their agents and solicitors, which card is required to be in
the possession of the agents and solicitors when soliciting. Such
identification cards shall include the name of the charitable organization, its
charitable solicitation certificate of registration number, date of expiration
of the certificate of registration, the name and signature of the agent or
solicitor and the signature of an appropriate official of the organization.
   (B)   It is a violation of this subchapter for any person soliciting
contributions for any charitable purpose to fail to have in his or her
possession the identification card required in this section or, alternatively,
the certificate of registration issued under this subchapter, or to refuse to
display such card or certificate upon the request of any town official or
person solicited.
(Prior Code, § 6:2:09)  (Ord. 82-35, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 82-53, passed 11-2-
1983)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.05  LICENSE TRANSFER PROHIBITED.
   No certificate of registration identification card issued under this
subchapter shall be transferable or assignable.
(Prior Code, § 6:2:10)  (Ord. 82-35, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 82-53, passed 11-2-
1983)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06  ENDORSEMENT DISCLAIMER.
   Issuance of a charitable solicitation certificate of registration does not
constitute endorsement or approval by the town of any charitable organization.
It is a violation of this subchapter for any person or charitable organization
to claim, or imply, directly or indirectly, any such endorsement or approval by
reason of having obtained a charitable solicitation certificate of registration
from the town.
(Prior Code, § 6:2:11)  (Ord. 82-35, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 82-53, passed 11-2-
1983)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07  HOURS.
   No person shall solicit contributions for any charitable purpose from
residences by phone or door-to-door between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 9:00
a.m.
(Prior Code, § 6:2:12)  (Ord. 82-35, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 82-53, passed 11-2-
1983)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.08  PROHIBITED SOLICITATION METHODS.
   (A)   No person soliciting contributions for any charitable purpose shall
use advertising that contains false, misleading or deceptive statements; or
make or perpetrate any other misstatement, misrepresentation, deception or
fraud in connection with such solicitation.
   (B)   No charitable organization or professional promoter soliciting
contributions shall use a name, symbol or statement so closely related or
similar to that used by another charitable organization or governmental agency
that its use would tend to confuse or mislead the public.
   (C)   No person shall solicit contributions by the use of statements or
materials that would indicate that such funds were being raised for an
organization, agency or person, in the absence of proper and valid
authorization from that organization, agency or person.
(Prior Code, § 6:2:13)  (Ord. 82-35, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 82-53, passed 11-2-
1983)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.09  “NO SOLICITING” SIGNS.
   It is a violation of this subchapter for any solicitor to ring the bell, or
knock on the door, or otherwise attempt to gain admittance for the purpose of
soliciting at any residence, dwelling or apartment at which a sign bearing the
words “no peddlers or solicitors” or words of similar import indicating that
solicitors are not wanted on the premises is painted, affixed or otherwise
exposed to public view; provided that, this section shall not apply to any
solicitor who rings the bell, knocks on the door or otherwise attempts to gain
admittance to such residence, dwelling or apartment at the invitation or with
the consent of the occupant thereof.
(Prior Code, § 6:2:15)  (Ord. 82-35, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 82-53, passed 11-2-
1983)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.10  AUTHORITY OF TOWN COUNCIL.
   All persons, firms or corporations issued a certificate of registration
under this subchapter shall be subject to the regulation of the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 6:2:16)  (Ord. 82-35, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 82-53, passed 11-2-
1983)
COMMERCIAL PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
§ 111.25  AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is made by the Town Council pursuant to the authority
granted it by I.C. 25-25-2-1, 36-1-4-11, 36-1-6-2, 36-1-6-3, 36-1-6-4, 36-4-5-
5, 36-5-2-9, 36-8-2-11, 36-8-2-4, 36-8-2-8, 36-8-2-10 and 36-8-2-9.
(Prior Code, § 6:3:01)  (Ord. 82-33, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 82-54, passed 11-2-
1983)
§ 111.26  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. Any person who on foot or by vehicle sells or offers for sale any
goods, wares, merchandise or services directly to a consumer for immediate
delivery or performance, either by going from house-to-house for the purpose of
selling such goods or services or by selling such goods and services in any
public place.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who solicits or attempts to solicit from house-to-
house or upon the public street an order for goods, subscriptions, merchandise
or services to be delivered or performed at a future date.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT.
      (1)   Any person, firm or corporation, both as principals and agents, who
engage in a temporary or itinerant merchandising business and in the course of
such business hires, leases or occupies any building or structure whatsoever.
Temporary association with a local merchant, dealer or trader, or conduct of
such transient business in connection with, as a part of, or in the name of any
local merchant, dealer or trader shall not exempt any person, firm or
corporation from being considered a TRANSIENT MERCHANT.
      (2)   This section shall not be construed to include persons who conduct
home “garage sales”.
(Prior Code, § 6:3:02)  (Ord. 82-33, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 82-54, passed 11-2-
1983)
§ 111.27  LICENSE REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS; INVESTIGATIONS; APPLICATIONS; FEES.
   (A)   License required. No person, firm or corporation shall be engaged as a
peddler, solicitor or transient merchant within the municipal limits without
first obtaining a license pursuant to this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6:3:03)
   (B)   Exemptions.
      (1)   Any armed forces veteran, as defined by I.C. 25-25-2-1, upon proof
of possessing the license described in I.C. 25-25-2-1, shall be permitted to
vend, hawk and peddle goods, wares, fruits and merchandise within the town and
is exempt from the requirement of any license, license fee or tax for doing so;
provided, however, that, such armed forces veteran shall be subject to all
other regulatory provisions of this subchapter.
      (2)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to sales to
dealers by commercial travelers, nor to sales by producers of farm or dairy
products; however, any person who shall sell or offer to sell any farm or dairy
products which were not actually raised or produced by him or her or by members
of his or her immediate family or who shall not have an established place of
business in the town shall be classed as an itinerant merchant.
      (3)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to charitable
solicitations covered under §§
111.01 through
111.10 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6:3:04)
   (C)   Application for license.
      (1)   Application for any license required by this subchapter shall be
made in writing on forms furnished by the Clerk-Treasurer. No person shall make
a known misrepresentation or false statement on an application. The application
shall be filed with the Clerk-Treasurer and shall include:
         (a)   The applicant’s full name and present address, the length of
residence at such address, the address of his or her business establishment and
the exact nature of his or her business;
         (b)   Address of place of residence during the past three years if
other than present address;
         (c)   The name or title of the proposed business, profession or
occupation, if applicable;
         (d)   Age of applicant and physical description of the applicant;
         (e)   If the applicant is not the owner of the place in which the
business is to be conducted, the name and address of the owner (this applies to
transient merchant only);
         (f)   If the applicant is a partnership, corporation or other
association, the names and addresses of all partners or principal officers;
         (g)   Name and address of the person, firm or corporation or
association whom the applicant is employed by or represents; and the length of
time of such employment or representation;
         (h)   Name and address of employer during the past three years if
other than the present employer;
         (i)   Description sufficient for identification of the subject matter
of the soliciting in which the applicant will engage;
         (j)   Period of time for which the license is desired;
         (k)   Has the applicant ever been convicted of a violation of a felony
under the laws of Indiana or any other state or federal law of the United
States;
         (l)   Names of magazines, journals or books published and/or offered
for sale by applicant;
         (m)   Names of the three most recent communities where the applicant
has solicited from house to house;
         (n)   Proposed method of operation;
         (o)   If the applicant is acting as an agent or employee, the name and
address of the principal or employer;
         (p)   The attachment of a receipt from the Clerk-Treasurer showing the
payment of the license fee;
         (q)   The kind of goods to be sold;
         (r)   Social Security number of applicant; and
         (s)   Signature of applicant.
      (2)   All statements made by the applicant upon the application or in
connection therewith shall be under oath.
(Prior Code, § 6:3:05)
   (D)   Investigation of applicant. Upon receipt of an application for a
license, the Clerk-Treasurer shall forward it to the Town Marshal who shall
conduct an investigation concerning the truth of the facts stated in the
application, the character of the applicant and the condition of the premises,
if applicable, upon which the proposed licensed activity is to take place.
(Prior Code, § 6:3:06)
   (E)   Issuance of license; denial. Within 15 calendar days of his or her
receipt of the application for a license, the Clerk-Treasurer shall approve the
application for a license unless he or she finds that:
      (1)   The applicant has been convicted of a crime, if the crime is
substantially related to the qualifications, functions or duties of the
business, profession or occupation for which the license is to be issued;
      (2)   The applicant has committed any act involving dishonesty, fraud or
deceit with intent to substantially benefit himself, herself or another, or
substantially injure another;
      (3)   The applicant knowingly made a false statement of fact required to
be revealed in the application for the license or in any amendment or report to
be made thereunder; or
      (4)   Issuance of the license would be inconsistent with public health,
safety or general welfare of the citizens.
(Prior Code, § 6:3:07)
   (F)   Duration of licenses. All licenses granted under this subchapter shall
not exceed three months and may be renewed for an additional term not to exceed
three months.
(Prior Code, § 6:3:08)
   (G)   Bond and license fees.
      (1)   The application shall be accompanied by a bond in the sum of $1,000
executed by a surety company or two responsible freeholders residing within the
town (or in lieu thereof, a cash bond of equal amount) conditioned that all
goods, wares, merchandise or articles sold by the applicant will be as
represented by him or her and that he or she will refund the purchase price of
any goods, wares or merchandise, or articles sold by him or her which are not
as represented. Any person aggrieved may bring an action on the bond for the
recovery of money or damages or both. In the event a cash bond is deposited,
the same shall be retained by the town for 90 days after the expiration of any
such license.
      (2)   (a)   Upon the filing of such application and bond, the approval of
such application and bond by the Clerk-Treasurer, a license shall be issued by
the Clerk-Treasurer to the applicant to begin business and/or soliciting not
less than seven days after the date of the filing of the application and bond,
upon the payment of the following fees:
            1.   One day: $10;
            2.   One week: $20;
            3.   One month: $35; and
            4.   Three months: $60.
         (b)   All such license fees must be paid in advance and if any such
licensee desires to continue in business after the expiration of such license,
a renewal license must be secured in the same manner and upon the same terms as
the original license.
      (3)   Any person exempted by the laws of the state from the payment of
the license fees shall, before beginning the business, present to the Clerk-
Treasurer his or her credentials, showing that he or she is entitled to the
exemption, and shall execute and file a bond as above required, and upon
approval of the bond by the Clerk-Treasurer, he or she shall then receive a
certificate from the Clerk-Treasurer authorizing him or her to engage in the
business of solicitor or itinerant merchant within the town for any period not
longer than one year. If, at the end of such period, the person desires to
continue in the business, another certificate must be procured from the Clerk-
Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 6:3:09)
   (H)   Suspension or revocation of license; notice; hearing. Licenses issued
under this subchapter may be suspended or revoked by the President of the Town
Council pursuant to the notice and hearing procedure set forth at I.C. 36-4-5-
5. A license shall be revoked or suspended if there is finding that the person
complained of has:
      (1)   Willfully violated a term or condition of his or her license;
      (2)   Committed fraud, misrepresentation or made false statements
contained in the application for license;
      (3)   Willfully done or permitted to be done an act in violation of a
statute or town ordinance relating to the business, profession or occupation
licensed;
      (4)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made in connection
with the selling or soliciting of orders for goods, wares, merchandise,
magazines or services; or
      (5)   Conducted the licensed business, profession or occupation in such a
manner as to constitute a threat to the public health, safety or general
welfare.
(Prior Code, § 6:3:19)
   (I)   Denial of license; notice; hearing.
      (1)   Upon denial of a license under division (E) above, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall give written notice of such action to the applicant by first
class or certified mail, which notice shall state the reasons for the denial.
Any applicant whose application is denied may, within ten days after the
mailing of the above notice, request a hearing on such action before the Town
Council. A hearing shall be scheduled within 30 days after the receipt of a
request for a hearing, if no request for a hearing is made within the ten-day
period, the decision of the Clerk-Treasurer shall be final.
      (2)   The hearing shall be held before the Town Council which may
reverse, modify or affirm the action of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 6:3:20)
(Ord. 82-33, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 82-54, passed 11-2-1983)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.28  REQUIRED DISCLOSURES.
   (A)   Each person engaged in peddling or soliciting for the sale of goods or
services at the residence of a prospective buyer shall, at the outset, disclose
to the prospective buyer his or her name and the company or product he or she
represents and, if requested to do so, shall immediately leave the premises.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any peddler or solicitor to misrepresent the
purpose of his or her call or to use any plan, scheme or ruse which
misrepresents such purpose.
(Prior Code, § 6:3:10)  (Ord. 82-33, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 82-54, passed 11-2-
1983)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.29  IDENTIFICATION CARDS.
   (A)   All persons to whom solicitation or peddler licenses have been issued
shall furnish an identification card to each of their agents and solicitors,
which card is required to be in the possession of the agents and solicitors
when soliciting. Such identification cards shall include the name of the
person, business or organization, its solicitation license number, date of
expiration of the license, the name and signature of the agent or solicitor and
the signature of an appropriate official of the organization or business.
   (B)   It is a violation of this subchapter for any person soliciting for any
purpose to fail to have in his or her possession the identification card
required in this section, or alternatively the license issued under this
subchapter, or to refuse to display such card or license upon the request of
any town official or person solicited.
(Prior Code, § 6:3:11)  (Ord. 82-33, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 82-54, passed 11-2-
1983)
§ 111.30  LICENSE TRANSFER PROHIBITED.
   No license identification card issued under this subchapter shall be
transferable or assignable.
(Prior Code, § 6:3:12)  (Ord. 82-33, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 82-54, passed 11-2-
1983)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.31  ENDORSEMENT DISCLAIMER.
   (A)   Issuance of a license does not constitute endorsement or approval by
the town.
   (B)   It is a violation of this subchapter for any person, business or
organization to claim, or imply, directly or indirectly, any such endorsement
or approval by reason of having obtained a license from the town.
(Prior Code, § 6:3:13)  (Ord. 82-33, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 82-54, passed 11-2-
1983)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.32  FALSE, DECEPTIVE OR MISLEADING STATEMENTS.
   It is unlawful for any peddler, solicitor or transient merchant to make or
cause to be made, directly or indirectly, for the purpose of selling or
procuring an order for the sale of any goods, wares, merchandise or services,
any assertion, representation or statement of fact which is untrue, deceptive
or misleading.
(Prior Code, § 6:3:14)  (Ord. 82-33, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 82-54, passed 11-2-
1983)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.33  HOURS.
   It is a violation of this subchapter for any person, firm or corporation to
peddle or solicit before the hour of 9:00 a.m. of any day or after the hour of
9:00 p.m. of any day without specific prior consent of the prospective buyer.
(Prior Code, § 6:3:15)  (Ord. 82-33, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 82-54, passed 11-2-
1983)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.34  OBSTRUCTING PUBLIC PLACES PROHIBITED.
   It is a violation of this subchapter for any person, either selling or
offering for sale, any article or service by peddling or soliciting in any
place, to obstruct or cause to be obstructed, the passage of any sidewalk,
street, avenue, alley or any other public place, by causing people to
congregate at or near the place where any article or service is being sold or
offered for sale. In addition to other penalties provided herein, violation of
this section shall also constitute a nuisance under §§
92.01 through
92.12 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 6:3:16)  (Ord. 82-33, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 82-54, passed 11-2-
1983)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.35  SELLING FOODSTUFFS; PHYSICAL EXAM.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to engage in the business of
solicitor or itinerant merchant who sells fruit, vegetables, bread, pastries or
other foodstuffs, which have not been canned shall, before receiving his, her
or their license or certificate as provided in this subchapter, present to the
Clerk-Treasurer the certificate of a reputable doctor of medicine certifying
that the persons handling the same are free from all venereal or transmittable
diseases and showing that such examination has been made within 30 days from
the date of receiving license, and a new certificate shall be placed on file
with the Clerk-Treasurer within 30 days from the date of the first certificate
so long as the party shall continue to do business under the license.
   (B)   No such person shall transact any business of selling such foodstuffs
in the town under a solicitor’s or itinerant merchant’s license unless he or
she shall have such physical examination certificate which is dated not more
than 30 days therebefore.
(Prior Code, § 6:3:17)  (Ord. 82-33, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 82-54, passed 11-2-
1983)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.36  “NO PEDDLING” SIGNS.
   It is a violation of this subchapter for any peddler or solicitor to ring
the bell, knock on the door or otherwise attempt to gain admittance for the
purpose of peddling or soliciting at any residence, dwelling or apartment at
which a sign bearing the words “no peddlers or solicitors” or words of similar
import indicating that peddlers or solicitors are not wanted on the premises is
painted, affixed or otherwise exposed to public view; provided that, this
section shall not apply to any peddler or solicitor who rings the bell, knocks
on the door or otherwise attempts to gain admittance to such residence,
dwelling or apartment at the invitation or with the consent of the occupant
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 6:3:18)  (Ord. 82-33, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 82-54, passed 11-2-
1983)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.37  AUTHORITY OF TOWN COUNCIL.
   All persons, firms or corporations licensed under this subchapter shall be
subject to the regulation of the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 6:3:21)  (Ord. 82-33, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 82-54, passed 11-2-
1983)
§ 111.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of §§
111.01 through
111.10 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished with a minimum fine
of $25 and a maximum fine of $1,000, in addition to costs. A separate violation
shall be deemed committed upon each day during or on which a violation occurs
or continues.
      (2)   In addition to division (B)(1) above, the town is empowered to
obtain a restraining order and/or a permanent injunction against any person,
firm, corporation or any other entity who shall be in violation of §§
111.01 through
111.10 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6:2:17)
   (C)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of §§
111.25 through
111.37 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished with a minimum fine
of $25 and a maximum fine of $1,000, in addition to costs. A separate violation
shall be deemed committed upon each day during or on which a violation occurs
or continues.
      (2)   In addition to the foregoing, the town is empowered to obtain a
restraining order and/or a permanent injunction against any person, firm,
corporation or any other entity that shall be in violation of §§
111.25 through
111.37 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6:3:22)
(Ord. 82-33, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 82-35, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 82-53, passed
11-2-1983; Ord. 82-54, passed 11-2-1983)
CHAPTER 112:  EXHIBITIONS AND DISPLAYS
Section
Exhibitions
   
112.01   Authority
   
112.02   License required
   
112.03   License application; issuance
   
112.04   License fee and deposit
   
112.05   Insurance; terms of certificate
   
112.06   Exemption
Fireworks Displays
   
112.20   Authority
   
112.21   License required
   
112.22   Certificate of insurance required; terms
 
   
112.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fireworks, see §
130.06
Statutory reference:
   Display of fireworks; related provisions, see I.C. 36-1-6-2, 36-1-6-4, 36-8-
2-4, 36-8-2-9 and 36-8-2-10
   Exhibitions; related provisions, see I.C. 36-1-4-11, 36-1-6-2, 36-1-6-3, 36-
1-6-4, 36-5-2-9, 36-8-2-4, 36-8-2-8, 36-8-2-9, 36-8-2-10 and 36-8-2-11
EXHIBITIONS
§ 112.01  AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is made by the Town Council pursuant to the authority
granted it by I.C. 36-1-4-11, 36-1-6-2, 36-1-6-3, 36-1-6-4, 36-5-2-9, 36-8-2-4,
36-8-2-8, 36-8-2-9, 36-8-2-10 and 36-8-2-11.
(Prior Code, § 6:4:01)  (Ord. 82-32, passed 2-2-1983)
§ 112.02  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall sponsor, present or give any
exhibition, theatrical performance, show, circus, fair, conventions, sporting
events, menagerie, carnival or sideshow without first obtaining a license to do
so as required in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6:4:02)  (Ord. 82-32, passed 2-2-1983)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03  LICENSE APPLICATION; ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation desiring a license to engage in an
activity specified in §
112.02 of this chapter shall file a written application, together with the fee
and deposit prescribed in §
112.04 of this chapter with the Clerk-Treasurer, listing the name and address
of the applicant and that of each officer, partner or business associate and
the nature of and intended location of the activity to be licensed. The Clerk-
Treasurer shall forward the license application to the Town Council for its
review.
   (B)   If the Town Council is satisfied that the location is suitable for the
purpose of the intended activity, that it will safely accommodate the patrons,
that the nature of the performance or exhibition will not be in violation of
any law or ordinance and that the use of the location will not put a burden
upon the Police and Fire Department, the Town Council may authorize the Clerk-
Treasurer to issue the license.
   (C)   The Town Council may impose conditions and restrictions to ensure the
safety of the public in connection with the issuance of the license.
(Prior Code, § 6:4:03)  (Ord. 82-32, passed 2-2-1983)
§ 112.04  LICENSE FEE AND DEPOSIT.
   The fee for performing any activity specified in §
112.02 of this chapter shall be $25 for each day or part thereof. In addition,
the town may order the deposit of a cash bond of not more than $1,000,
conditioned upon the restoration and cleaning up of the location of the
activity in a manner satisfactory to the Town Council. In the event the
location is so restored and cleaned up, the deposit shall be returned;
otherwise, the deposit shall be forfeited to the town.
(Prior Code, § 6:4:04)  (Ord. 82-32, passed 2-2-1983)
§ 112.05  INSURANCE; TERMS OF CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall conduct, hold, present or sponsor
any exhibition, theatrical performance, show, circus, fair, convention,
sporting event, menagerie, carnival or sideshow without first obtaining a
certificate of insurance as set forth in division (B) below and filing the same
with the town’s Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 6:4:05)
   (B)   The certificate of insurance shall be issued by a responsible
insurance company licensed to do an insurance business in the state, and shall
be conditioned for the payment of all damages which may be caused either to a
person or persons and to property, in an amount approved by the Town Council
and its President, by reason of the licensed display, and arising from any acts
of the licensee, his or her agents, employees or independent contractors
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 6:4:06)
(Ord. 82-32, passed 2-2-1983)
§ 112.06  EXEMPTION.
   No license under this subchapter shall be required for public school
entertainment, lecture courses or any other exhibition for the benefit of any
benevolent, religious or non-profit society which are established and located
in the town.
(Prior Code, § 6:4:07)  (Ord. 82-32, passed 2-2-1983)
FIREWORKS DISPLAYS
§ 112.20  AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is made by the Town Council pursuant to the authority
granted it by I.C. 36-1-6-2, 36-1-6-4, 36-8-2-4, 36-8-2-9 and 36-8-2-10.
(Prior Code, § 6:8:01)  (Ord. 82-30, passed 2-2-1983)
§ 112.21  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall undertake, hold or conduct a fireworks
display without first obtaining a license from the town.
   (A)   The license shall be acquired from the office of the Clerk-Treasurer
after the Town Council and its President have reviewed and have authorized the
issuance of the same.
   (B)   The license fee shall be $25 and the license shall be valid only on
the day or evening that the display is held.
   (C)   The Town Council and its President may approve the license and may
impose conditions and restrictions to ensure the safety of the public in
connection with the issuance of the license.
(Prior Code, § 6:8:02)  (Ord. 82-30, passed 2-2-1983)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.22  CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE REQUIRED; TERMS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall conduct a public display of
fireworks within the town without first obtaining a certificate of insurance as
set forth in division (B) below and filing the certificate with the town’s
Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 6:8:03)
   (B)   The certificate of insurance shall be issued by a responsible
insurance company licensed to do an insurance business in the state and shall
be conditioned for the payment of all damages which may be caused either to a
person or persons in an amount of $100,000 and to property in an amount of
$100,000, by reason of the licensed display, and arising from any acts of the
licensee, his or her agents, employees or subcontractors.
(Prior Code, § 6:8:04)
(Ord. 82-30, passed 2-2-1983)
§ 112.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever shall violate or fail to comply with any of the
provisions of §§
112.01 through
112.06 of this chapter or shall violate or fail to comply with any order or
regulation made hereunder shall be fined not less than $5, nor more than
$1,000. The payment of such a penalty shall not excuse the violation or permit
it to continue, nor shall such payment be held to prevent the enforced
correction of the prohibited conditions by legal and injunctive remedies. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or on which
such violation occurs or continues.
      (2)   In addition to the other penalties and remedies provided herein and
pursuant to the authority granted the town under I.C. 36-1-6-2 and 36-1-6-4,
the Marshal and other officers and employees of the town may enter onto real
property where a condition violating any term or condition of §§
112.01 through
112.06 of this chapter exists and take appropriate action to bring the property
into compliance with §§
112.01 through
112.06 of this chapter; provided, however, before action to bring compliance
may be taken, all persons holding a substantial interest in the property must
be given a reasonable opportunity to bring the property into compliance with §§
112.01 through
112.06 of this chapter. If action to bring compliance is taken by the town, the
expenses involved shall be made a lien against the property.
(Prior Code, § 6:4:08)
   (C)   (1)   Whoever shall violate or fail to comply with any of the
provisions of §§
112.20 through
112.22 of this chapter, or shall violate or fail to comply with any order or
regulation made hereunder, shall be fined not less than $5, nor more than
$1,000. The payment of a fine shall not excuse the violation or permit it to
continue, nor shall such payment be held to prevent the enforced correction of
the prohibited conditions by legal and injunctive remedies. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed upon each day during or on which such violation
occurs or continues.
      (2)   In addition to the other penalties and remedies provided herein and
pursuant to the authority granted the town under I.C. 36-1-6-2 and 36-1-6-4,
the Marshal and other officers and employees of the town may enter onto real
property where a condition violating any term or condition of §§
112.20 through
112.22 of this chapter exists and take appropriate action to bring the property
into compliance with §§
112.20 through
112.22 of this chapter; provided, however, before action to bring compliance
may be taken, all persons holding a substantial interest in the property must
be given a reasonable opportunity to bring the property into compliance with §§
112.20 through
112.22 of this chapter. If action to bring compliance is taken by the town, the
expenses involved may be made a lien against the property.
(Prior Code, § 6:8:05)
(Ord. 82-30, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 82-32, passed 2-2-1983)
CHAPTER 113:  PAWNBROKERS, SECONDHAND DEALERS AND JUNK DEALERS
Section
Pawnbrokers and Secondhand Dealers
   
113.01   Authority
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   License required; application; fee; duration; issuance
   
113.04   Renewal of license; late renewal fees; hearings
   
113.05   License transfer prohibited
   
113.06   Display of license
   
113.07   Removal of place of business; fee
   
113.08   Records required
   
113.09   Inspection
   
113.10   Authority of Town Council
Junk Dealers, Automobile Graveyards
   
113.25   Authority
   
113.26   Definitions
   
113.27   License required; application; fee; suspension or revocation
   
113.28   Stolen property
   
113.29   Records required
   
113.30   Application to present businesses
 
   
113.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned Vehicles, see
Ch. 74
   Junk Vehicles, see §§
92.25 through
92.30
Statutory reference:
   Junk dealers, automobile graveyards; related provisions, see I.C. 9-22, 36-
1-2-15, 36-1-4-11, 36-1-6-2, 36-1-6-4, 36-8-2-4, 36-8-2-8 and 36-8-2-10
   Pawnbrokers, secondhand dealers; related provisions, see I.C. 36-1-4-11, 36-
1-6-2, 36-1-6-4, 36-5-2-9, 36-5-4-11, 36-8-2-4, 36-8-2-8, 36-8-2-9, 36-8-2-10
and 36-8-2-11
   State Pawnbroking Law, see I.C. 28-7-5-1 et seq.
PAWNBROKERS AND SECONDHAND DEALERS
§ 113.01  AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is made by the town pursuant to the authority granted it by
I.C. 28-7-5-1 et seq., 36-1-4-11, 36-1-6-2, 36-1-6-4, 36-5-2-9, 36-5-4-11, 36-
8-2-4, 36-8-2-8, 36-8-2-9, 36-8-2-10 and 36-8-2-11.
(Prior Code, § 6:5:01)  (Ord. 82-34, passed 2-2-1983)
§ 113.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PAWNBROKERS. Any person lending money on the deposit or pledge of personal
property, other than choses in action, securities or printed evidence of
indebtedness. (I.C. 28-7-5-2)
   SECONDHAND DEALER. Any person who loans money on deposit or pledge, or who
purchases secondhand property of any description.
(Prior Code, § 6:5:02)  (Ord. 82-34, passed 2-2-1983)
§ 113.03  LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION; FEE; DURATION; ISSUANCE.
   (A)   License required. No person shall own, operate or engage in the
business as a pawnbroker or secondhand dealer within the town without first
obtaining a license and complying with the provisions of this subchapter and
other relevant chapters of the code.
(Prior Code, § 6:5:03)
   (B)   Separate license for each place of business. Every person engaging in
an activity required to be licensed under this subchapter shall obtain a
license for each and every separate office or place of business conducted by
such person.
(Prior Code, § 6:5:04)
   (C)   Application for license. Application for a license required by this
subchapter shall be made in writing on forms furnished by the Clerk-Treasurer.
No person shall make a known misrepresentation or false statement on an
application. The application shall be filed with the Clerk-Treasurer and shall
include:
      (1)   The applicant’s full name and address, the address of his or her
local business establishment, the exact nature of his or her business;
      (2)   The name or title of the proposed business, profession or
occupation;
      (3)   If the applicant is not the owner of the place in which the
business is to be conducted, the name and address of the owner;
      (4)   If the applicant is a partnership, corporation or other
association, the names and addresses of all partners or principal officers;
      (5)   If the applicant is acting as an agent or employee, the name and
address of the principal or employer; and
      (6)   The attachment of a receipt from the Clerk-Treasurer showing the
payment of the license fee.
(Prior Code, § 6:5:05)
   (D)   License fees. The license fee for licenses issued under this
subchapter shall be $100 for the term of one calendar year. The license fee is
payable to the Clerk-Treasurer at the time that the application for a license
is made. If the license is denied, the fee, less $25 for the cost of the
license investigation and inspection procedure, shall be returned to the
applicant.
(Prior Code, § 6:5:06)
   (E)   Duration of license; prorated fee. All licenses issued under this
subchapter, unless specified otherwise on the license, shall be issued for the
duration of the calendar year for which they were issued, and all licenses
shall expire on December 31 of such calendar year. In the event an application
for a license goes into effect at any time after January 1 of any calendar
year, the applicant shall be required to pay for the license a pro rata part
for the portion of the year remaining up to December 31 of that year; provided,
however, that, any portion of a calendar month, except as to daily or weekly
licenses as may be provided for by the town, shall be counted as one month in
the computations of time for such remaining portion of the year.
(Prior Code, § 6:5:07)
   (F)   Investigation of applicant. Upon receipt of an application for a
license, the Clerk-Treasurer shall forward it to the Town Marshal who shall
conduct an investigation concerning the truth of the facts stated in the
application, the character of the applicant and the condition of the premises
upon which the proposed licensed activity is to take place.
(Prior Code, § 6:5:08)
   (G)   Issuance of license; denial. Within 15 calendar days of his or her
receipt of the application for a license, the Clerk-Treasurer shall approve the
application for a license unless he or she finds that:
      (1)   The applicant has been convicted of a crime, if the crime is
substantially related to the qualifications, functions or duties of the
business, profession or occupation for which the license is to be issued;
      (2)   The applicant has committed any act involving dishonesty, fraud or
deceit with intent to substantially benefit himself, herself or another, or
substantially injure another;
      (3)   The applicant knowingly made a false statement of fact required to
be revealed in the application for the license, or in any amendment or report
to be made thereunder; or
      (4)   Issuance of the license would be inconsistent with public health,
safety or general welfare.
(Prior Code, § 6:5:09)
   (H)   Notice of denial.
      (1)   Upon denial of a license, the Clerk-Treasurer shall give written
notice of such action to the applicant by first class or certified mail, which
notice shall state the reasons for the denial. Any applicant whose application
is denied may, within ten days after the mailing of the above notice, request a
hearing on such action. A hearing shall be scheduled within 30 days after the
receipt of a request for hearing.
      (2)   If no request for hearing is made within the ten-day period, the
decision of the Town Council shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 6:5:10)
   (I)   Hearing. The hearing shall be held before the Town Council, which may
reverse, modify or affirm the decision of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 6:5:11)
   (J)   Contents of license. Every license shall state by name the person to
whom it is issued, the business, profession or occupation licensed, the address
of the place where the business, profession or occupation shall be conducted,
if applicable, and the date of issuance and date of expiration of the license.
(Prior Code, § 6:5:12)
   (K)   Revocation of license.
      (1)   A license issued under this subchapter shall be suspended or
revoked by the Town Council if the licensee is convicted of larceny or
receiving stolen goods, or if the license issued to such licensee under the
state’s Pawnbroking Law (I.C. 28-7-5-1 et seq.) has been revoked.
      (2)   A license shall be revoked or suspended if there is a finding that
the person complained of has:
         (a)   Willfully violated a term or condition of his or her license;
         (b)   Willfully done or permitted to be done an act in violation of a
statute or town ordinance relating to the business, profession or occupation
licensed; or
         (c)   Conducted the licensed business, profession or occupation in
such a manner as to constitute a threat to the public health, safety or general
welfare.
(Prior Code, § 6:5:19)
(Ord. 82-34, passed 2-2-1983)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04  RENEWAL OF LICENSE; LATE RENEWAL FEES; HEARINGS.
   (A)   Every person desiring to continue in business after the expiration of
the license period shall file an application for renewal not less than 30 days
prior to the expiration of the license period. The Clerk-Treasurer may accept
an application for renewal after the time specified above if the application is
filed before the expiration of the former license; provided, however, that, the
license fee in such case shall be the renewal fee, plus 10% thereof. The Clerk-
Treasurer may accept an application for renewal filed not more than 60 days
after expiration of the former license; provided, however, that, the license
fee in such case shall be the renewal fee, plus 25%. The renewal fee shall be
$50, plus late fees.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by this section, the Clerk-Treasurer
shall not accept an application for a renewal of a license which has expired or
which for any other reason is not in full force and effect. If a licensee fails
to renew his or her license within the time limits set by this section, he or
she may apply for a new license; in which case, he or she shall pay the license
fee required of first-year licensees.
   (C)   If, on any renewal application, the Clerk-Treasurer has received
notice of a change of ownership or a significant change in operation of the
business, he or she may set the matter for public hearing. If such matter is
set for hearing, the applicant shall be notified by certified mail of the time
and date of the hearing, which notification shall be mailed at least ten days
prior to the hearing date. In all other cases involving license renewals, such
license shall automatically be renewed by the Clerk-Treasurer effective upon
expiration of the old license, unless a department or officer of the town
recommends denial of, or the imposition of conditions, upon such license, in
which case the matter shall be set for public hearing as provided in this
section.
(Prior Code, § 6:5:13)  (Ord. 82-34, passed 2-2-1983)
§ 113.05  LICENSE TRANSFER PROHIBITED.
   No license issued under this subchapter shall be transferred or assigned to
another person or be used for a purpose other than that for which it was
issued.
(Prior Code, § 6:5:14)  (Ord. 82-34, passed 2-2-1983)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.06  DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every person who is issued a license under the provisions of this subchapter
shall display the license in a conspicuous place on the premises in which the
licensed activity is being conducted; or, if there are no premises, shall carry
the license while engaged in the activity for which he or she has been
licensed, and moreover shall exhibit the same to any official of the town upon
request.
(Prior Code, § 6:5:15)  (Ord. 82-34, passed 2-2-1983)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.07  REMOVAL OF PLACE OF BUSINESS; FEE.
   The license issued under this subchapter shall be valid only for the
location indicated on the license certificate. Whenever the licensee shall
change his or her place of business to another location within the town, he or
she shall apply to the Clerk-Treasurer for issuance of a new license
certificate indicating the changed location of the place of business and shall
surrender his or her old certificate. The fee for issuance of a new license
certificate shall be $10.
(Prior Code, § 6:5:16)  (Ord. 82-34, passed 2-2-1983)
§ 113.08  RECORDS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker and secondhand dealer shall keep a book, in which
shall be recorded at the time each loan, an accurate account and description,
in the English language, of the goods or article pawned, pledged or purchased,
the amount of money loaned thereon, the time of pledging the same and the name
and residence of the person pawning, pledging or selling the goods or article.
   (B)   If the goods or article is sold by weight, a true and accurate account
of the weight thereof shall also be recorded.
   (C)   No entry in such book shall be erased, obliterated or defaced.
(Prior Code, § 6:5:17)  (Ord. 82-34, passed 2-2-1983)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.09  INSPECTION.
   The records prescribed in §
113.08 of this chapter, as well as the goods or article pledged, pawned or
sold, shall, at all reasonable times, be open to inspection by the Marshal or a
member of the Police Department designated by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 6:5:18)  (Ord. 82-34, passed 2-2-1983)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.10  AUTHORITY OF TOWN COUNCIL.
   All persons, firms or corporations licensed under this subchapter shall be
subject to the regulation of the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 6:5:20)  (Ord. 82-34, passed 2-2-1983)
JUNK DEALERS, AUTOMOBILE GRAVEYARDS
§ 113.25  AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is made by the town pursuant to the authority granted it by
I.C. 36-1-2-15, 36-1-4-11, 36-1-6-2, 36-1-6-4, 36-8-2-4, 36-8-2-8 and 36-8-2-
10.
(Prior Code, § 6:10:01)  (Ord. 82-40, passed 2-2-1983)
§ 113.26  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMOBILE GRAVEYARD. Any establishment or place of business which is
maintained, used, or operated for storing, keeping, buying or selling wrecked,
scrapped, ruined or dismantled motor vehicles or motor vehicle parts.
   JUNK. Old or scrap copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash,
rubber debris, waste or junked, dismantled or wrecked automobile, or parts
thereof, iron, steel and other old or scrap ferrous or non-ferrous material.
   JUNKYARD. An establishment or place of business which is maintained,
operated, or used for storing, keeping, buying or selling junk, or for the
maintenance or operation of an automobile graveyard, and the term shall include
garbage dumps and sanitary fills, but shall not include a scrap metal
processing facility.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, group or
association.
   SCRAP METAL PROCESSING FACILITY. An establishment having facilities for
processing iron, steel or non-ferrous metal and whose principal product is
scrap iron, steel or scrap for sale for remelting purposes only.
   VISIBLE. Capable of being seen by a person of normal visual activity
(acuity) using the streets or alleys or from private and/or public property.
(Prior Code, § 6:10:02)  (Ord. 82-40, passed 2-2-1983)
§ 113.27  LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION; FEE; SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   License required.
      (1)   No person shall conduct, maintain, operate, carry on or engage in
the business of junk dealer, junkyard and/or automobile graveyard without
having obtained a license thereof from the town.
      (2)   A state license is also required per I.C. 9-22.
(Prior Code, § 6:10:03)
   (B)   Application for license, requirements, fee. Any person desiring to
obtain a license to operate as a junk dealer, a junk yard and/or a automobile
graveyard shall applying writing to the Clerk-Treasurer listing his or her full
name and address and that of each officer, partner or business associate, and
the address where such person intends to carry on such business.
      (1)   The application shall also contain the following information:
         (a)   Proof that the applicant is at least 18 years of age;
         (b)   Applicant’s height, weight, color of eyes and hair;
         (c)   Business, occupation or employment of the applicant for the
three years immediately preceding the date of the application;
         (d)   All criminal convictions, except minor traffic violations;
         (e)   Is the location of the junkyard and/or automobile graveyard in
compliance with the zoning ordinance;
         (f)   Is the site adequately screened or fenced so that it is not
visible from the streets or alleys or from other public property and from
private property;
         (g)   Is the site reasonably situated and screened in such a manner so
that its attraction to young children will be minimized;
         (h)   Identify the steps applicant plans to undertake to prevent the
site from being a breeding place for vermin, insects or rodents; and
         (i)   The number and location of entrances and exists to and from the
premises.
      (2)   Upon receipt of an application for a license, the Clerk-Treasurer
shall forward it to the Town Marshal who shall conduct an investigation
concerning the truth of the facts stated in the application, the character of
the applicant and the condition of the premises upon which the proposed
licensed activity is to take place.
      (3)   Upon receiving the written results of the Marshal’s investigation,
the Clerk-Treasurer shall forward the same along with the application to the
Town Council and its President for review. If it appears that the location of
the junkyard and/or automobile graveyard is in compliance with the zoning
ordinance, has adequate screening and/or fencing, and if all other is in the
best interest of the citizens of the town, then the Board of Trustees and its
president may authorize the Clerk-Treasurer to issue a license hereunder to the
applicant upon payment of the $25 annual license fee.
      (4)   (a)   The license fee shall be $25 for each calendar year or part
thereof.
         (b)   A separate license must be acquired for each site operated by
the applicant.
         (c)   All licenses issued hereunder shall expire as of December 31.
The applicant may renew his or her license upon the payment of $25 to the
Clerk-Treasurer who shall renew the license upon the application’s affirming
that the information contained in the original application is still valid.
         (d)   Any changes in the applicant’s status or in the information
contained in the original application must be reported immediately to the
Clerk-Treasurer who shall promptly transmit the same to the Town Council and
its President.
      (5)   No person shall operate, maintain or conduct a junkyard or
automobile graveyard without a current, valid license.
(Prior Code, § 6:10:04)
   (C)   Suspension or revocation of license. Licenses issued under this
subchapter may be suspended or revoked by the president of the Town Council
pursuant to the notice and hearing procedure set forth at I.C. 36-4-5-5. A
license shall be revoked or suspended of there is a finding that the person
complained of has:
      (1)   Willfully violated a term or condition of his or her license;
      (2)   Willfully done or permitted to be done an act in violation of a
statute ordinance or code of ordinances, relating to the business, profession
or occupation licensed; or
      (3)   Conducted the licensed business, profession or occupation in such a
manner as to constitute a threat to the public health, safety or general
welfare.
(Prior Code, § 6:10:07)
(Ord. 82-40, passed 2-2-1983)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.28  STOLEN PROPERTY.
   Every applicant who shall receive or be in possession of any goods, articles
or things of value which may have been lost or stolen shall, upon demand,
produce such article or property to any member of the town’s Police Department
for examination.
(Prior Code, § 6:10:05)  (Ord. 82-40, passed 2-2-1983)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.29  RECORDS REQUIRED.
   Every person licensed under this subchapter shall keep a book in which shall
be legibly written in ink, at the time of the purchase, taking or receiving of
any goods, an accurate account and description in the English language of the
goods, articles or things purchased, taken or received; the amount of money
paid; the time of purchasing, taking or receiving the same; and the name,
residence, age, race, height and approximate weight of the person or persons
selling or delivering the goods, articles or things.
(Prior Code, § 6:10:06)  (Ord. 82-40, passed 2-2-1983)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.30  APPLICATION TO PRESENT BUSINESSES.
   Any person, firm, corporation or other entity currently in the business of
maintaining junk yards, junk dealers and vehicle graveyards in the town on the
date of the passage of this subchapter shall, within 60 days from the date of
passage, comply with each and every term, provision and condition, including
the licensing provision, contained herein, and the Clerk-Treasurer shall send a
copy of this subchapter along with an application for a license, by first class
mail, to those persons, firms, corporations or other entities which are
currently engaged in the business activity or operation covered by this
subchapter. Any person, firm or corporation currently engaged in the businesses
described herein, and who do not comply with each and every term of this
subchapter within 60 days from the date of its passage shall be subject to the
penalties set forth in §
113.99 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6:10:09)  (Ord. 82-40, passed 2-2-1983)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of
§§
113.01 through
113.10 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished with a minimum fine
of $25 and a maximum fine of $1,000, in addition to costs. A separate violation
shall be deemed committed upon each day during or on which a violation occurs
or continues.
      (2)   In addition to the foregoing, the town is empowered to obtain a
restraining order and/or a permanent injunction against any person, firm,
corporation or any other entity who shall be in violation of §§
113.01 through
113.10 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6:5:21)
   (C)   (1)   Whoever shall violate or fail to comply with any of the
provisions of §§
113.25 through
113.30 of this chapter, or shall violate or fail to comply with any order or
regulation made hereunder, shall be fined not less than $5, nor more than
$2,500. The payment of a penalty shall not excuse the violation or permit it to
continue, nor shall such payment be held to prevent the enforced correction of
the prohibited conditions by legal and injunctive remedies. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed upon each day during or on which such violation
occurs or continues.
      (2)   In addition to the penalty provided in division (C)(1) above, any
person, including the owner or occupant of real estate, who maintain, operate,
permit or conduct a junkyard or a vehicle graveyard without a valid license, as
required by §
113.27(A) of this chapter, shall be guilty of keeping and maintaining a
nuisance, in violation of §§
92.01 through
92.12 of this code of ordinances, and if found guilty of keeping and
maintaining a nuisance under §§
92.01 through
92.12 of this code of ordinances, the person or party shall be subject to all
of the penalties contained in §
92.99 of this code of ordinances, in addition to any penalty which may be
imposed by §§
113.25 through
113.30 of this chapter for a violation of its terms and conditions.
(Prior Code, § 6:10:08)
(Ord. 82-34, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 82-40, passed 2-2-1983)
CHAPTER 114:  ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
Liquor Retailer’s Permit
   
114.01   Authority
   
114.02   Consent to issue permits
   
114.03   Limitations on amendment or repeal
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 7.1-3-9-3 and 7.1-3-9-4
LIQUOR RETAILER’S PERMIT
§ 114.01  AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is made by the town pursuant to the authority granted it by
I.C. 7.1-3-9-3 and 7.1-3-9-4.
(Prior Code, § 6:6:01)  (Ord. 82-37, passed 2-2-1983)
§ 114.02  CONSENT TO ISSUE PERMITS.
   The town hereby consents to the issuance by the state’s Alcoholic Beverage
Commission of liquor retailer’s permits to applicants in respect to premises
located within the town.
(Prior Code, § 6:6:02)  (Ord. 82-37, passed 2-2-1983)
§ 114.03  LIMITATIONS ON AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   This subchapter may not be altered, amended or repealed for a period of two
years and 60 days after the date of its enactment, and no other chapters of the
code on the subject may be enacted during that period.
(Prior Code, § 6:6:03)  (Ord. 82-37, passed 2-2-1983)
CHAPTER 115:  HANDBILLS
Section
   
115.01   Authority
   
115.02   Definitions
   
115.03   Distribution; license or a certificate of registration required
   
115.04   Exemption
   
115.05   Application for license; issuance
   
115.06   License fee
   
115.07   Discarding or throwing in public places
   
115.08   Depositing on uninhabited or vacant private premises
   
115.09   Distributing prohibited where signs posted
   
115.10   Distributing at inhabited private premises
   
115.11   Revocation of license or certificate of registration
   
115.12   Denial of license or certificate of registration; notice; hearing
   
115.13   Information
   
115.14   Authority of Town Council
 
   
115.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-4-5-5, 36-8-2-4 and 36-8-2-10
§ 115.01  AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is made by the Town Council pursuant to the authority granted
by I.C. 36-8-2-4, 36-8-2-10 and 36-8-2-11.
(Prior Code, § 6:7:01)  (Ord. 82-31, passed 2-2-1983)
§ 115.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL HANDBILL. Any printed or written matter, any sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet or any other printed matter
which:
      (1)   Advertises for sale any merchandise, product, commodity or thing;
      (2)   Directs attention to any business or mercantile or commercial
establishment, or other activity, for the purpose of either directly or
indirectly promoting the interest thereof by sales; or
      (3)   While containing reading matter other than advertising matter is
predominantly and essentially an advertisement, and is distributed or
circulated for advertising purposes or for the private benefit and gain of any
person so engaged as advertiser or distributor.
   NON-COMMERCIAL HANDBILL. Any printed or written matter, any sample or
device, dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet or any other
printed matter not included in the definition of a commercial handbill, as set
out in this section.
   PRIVATE PREMISES. Any dwelling, house, building or other structure, designed
or used either wholly or in part for private residential purposes, whether
inhabited or temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant, and includes
any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps, vestibule or mailbox belonging
or appurtenant to such dwelling house, building or other structure.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or other
public ways and any and all public parks, squares, spaces, grounds and
buildings.
(Prior Code, § 6:7:02)  (Ord. 82-31, passed 2-2-1983)
§ 115.03  DISTRIBUTION; LICENSE OR A CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   Except as provided in §
115.04 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the
business of distributing handbills or to distribute handbills without first
obtaining a license or a certificate of registration (if applicable) to do so
as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 6:7:03)  (Ord. 82-31, passed 2-2-1983)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.04  EXEMPTION.
   This chapter shall have the following exceptions.
   (A)   This chapter shall not apply to persons engaged in the delivery of
daily newspapers, or any person operating a regular route, or insurance route
to solicit additional customers on a route when solicitation is incidental to
his or her regular duties, or to the producers of farm products within the
pursuit of the sale of the products raised by them.
   (B)   Additionally, this chapter shall not apply to any person authorized to
peddle or solicit without a license in the state by virtue of a state statute
providing for an exemption. The person shall be granted a certificate of
registration upon satisfactory proof being made to the Town Council that the
applicant is so exempt.
   (C)   Additionally, this chapter shall not apply to any person engaged in
the exercise of his or her right of free speech as it pertains to religion and/
or political conviction as long as the person or persons are only speaking or
promoting their cause without the solicitation of funds or sale of materials or
products.
(Prior Code, § 6:7:04)  (Ord. 82-31, passed 2-2-1983)
§ 115.05  APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Any person desiring to obtain a license to distribute handbills or to
engage in the business of distributing handbills shall apply in person to the
Clerk-Treasurer and complete an application in writing listing his or her full
name and address and that of each officer, partner or business associate.
   (B)   The applicant shall also list the full names and addresses of all
persons by and on behalf of whom the handbills are to be distributed, if
satisfied that the information furnished by the applicant is true and that no
fraud or misrepresentation will be perpetrated upon the residents of the town,
the Clerk-Treasurer shall, within 15 days from the date of the receipt of the
application, issue the license upon payment of the fees prescribed in §
115.06 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6:7:05)  (Ord. 82-31, passed 2-2-1983)
§ 115.06  LICENSE FEE.
   The license fee for distribution of handbills or engaging in the business of
distributing handbills shall be $2 for a period of one day and $5 for a period
of seven consecutive days.
(Prior Code, § 6:7:06)  (Ord. 82-31, passed 2-2-1983)
§ 115.07  DISCARDING OR THROWING IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall discard or throw any commercial or non-commercial handbill
in or upon any sidewalk, street or other public place within the town.
(Prior Code, § 6:7:07)  (Ord. 82-31, passed 2-2-1983)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.08  DEPOSITING ON UNINHABITED OR VACANT PRIVATE PREMISES.
   No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any commercial or non-
commercial handbill in or upon any private premises which are temporarily or
continuously uninhabited or vacant.
(Prior Code, § 6:7:08)  (Ord. 82-31, passed 2-2-1983)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.09  DISTRIBUTING PROHIBITED WHERE SIGNS POSTED.
   No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any commercial or non-
commercial handbill upon any private premises, if requested by anyone thereon
not to do so, or if there is placed on said premises in a conspicuous position
near the entrance thereof, a sign bearing the words, “no trespassing”, “no
peddlers or agents”, “no advertisement” or any similar notice, indicating in
any manner that the occupants of said premises do not desire to be molested or
have their right of privacy disturbed, or to have any such handbills left upon
such premises.
(Prior Code, § 6:7:09)  (Ord. 82-31, passed 2-2-1983)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.10  DISTRIBUTING AT INHABITED PRIVATE PREMISES.
   No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any commercial or non-
commercial handbill in or upon private premises which are inhabited, except by
handing or transmitting any such handbill directly to the owner, occupant or
other person then present in or upon such private premises; provided, however,
that, in case of inhabited private premises which are not posted, as provided
in this chapter, such person, unless requested by anyone upon such premises not
to do so, may place or deposit any such handbill in or upon such inhabited
private premises, if such handbill is so placed or deposited as to secure or
prevent such handbill from being blown or drifted about such premises or
sidewalks, streets or other public places; and, except that, mailboxes may not
be so used when so prohibited by federal postal law or regulations. The
provisions of this section shall not apply to the distribution of mail by the
United States, nor to newspapers; except that, newspapers shall be placed on
private property in such a manner as to prevent their being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public place or
upon private property.
(Prior Code, § 6:7:10)  (Ord. 82-31, passed 2-2-1983)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.11  REVOCATION OF LICENSE OR CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   A license or certificate of registration issued under this chapter may be
revoked by the President of the Town Council for violation of any provision of
this chapter or any law of the state, or ordinance or code of ordinances of the
town, for giving any false information on the application for a certificate of
registration or a license, or for any other conduct which threatens the peace
and security of the citizens of the town. Revocation under this section shall
be in accordance with the notice and hearing procedures se forth in I.C. 36-4-
5-5.
(Prior Code, § 6:7:11)  (Ord. 82-31, passed 2-2-1983)
§ 115.12  DENIAL OF LICENSE OR CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION; NOTICE; HEARING.
   (A)   Upon denial of a license under §
115.05 of this chapter, the Clerk-Treasurer shall give written notice of such
action to the applicant by first class or certified mail, which notice shall
state the reasons for the denial. Any applicant whose application is denied
may, within ten days after the mailing of the above, request a hearing on such
action before the Town Council. A hearing shall be scheduled within 30 days
after the receipt of a request for a hearing.
   (B)   If no request for a hearing is made within the ten-day period, the
decision of the Clerk-Treasurer shall be final.
   (C)   The hearing shall be held before the Town Council which may reverse,
modify or affirm the action of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 6:7:12)  (Ord. 82-31, passed 2-2-1983)
§ 115.13  INFORMATION.
   Upon request, any person distributing handbills shall provide the following
information and evidence of identification to the Marshal or to any officer,
employer or agent of the town: drivers license; name and address; date of
birth; Social Security number; name and address of person, firm or corporation
which is causing and/or paying for the distribution of the handbills; and any
other information requested.
(Prior Code, § 6:7:13)  (Ord. 82-31, passed 2-2-1983)
§ 115.14  AUTHORITY OF TOWN COUNCIL.
   All persons, firms or corporations receiving a certificate of registration
under §§
111.01 through
111.10 of this code of ordinances or licensed under this chapter shall be
subject to the regulation of the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 6:7:15)  (Ord. 82-31, passed 2-2-1983)
§ 115.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished with a minimum fine of $25 and a
maximum fine of $300, in addition to costs. A separate violation shall be
deemed committed upon each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues.
   (B)   In addition to the foregoing, the town is empowered to obtain a
restraining order and/or a permanent injunction against any person, firm,
corporation or any other entity who shall be in violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6:7:14)  (Ord. 82-31, passed 2-2-1983)
CHAPTER 116:  GARBAGE PICKUP AND DISPOSAL
Section
   
116.01   Authority
   
116.02   License required
   
116.03   Hours of operation
   
116.04   Disposal
   
116.05   Authority of Town Council
   
116.06   License revocation
   
116.07   Application to present collectors, haulers
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01  AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is made by the town pursuant to the authority granted it by
I.C. 36-1-6-2, 36-1-6-4, 36-5-2-9, 36-5-4-11, 36-8-2-4 and 36-8-2-10.
(Prior Code, § 6:9:01)  (Ord. 82-25, passed 1-19-1983)
§ 116.02  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall engage in the business of hauling trash,
garbage, rubbish, refuse, ashes or debris over or along any of the streets or
alleys of the town without first having applied for and obtained a license to
do so from the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
      (2)   The fee for such license shall be $25 payable at the time of the
filing of the application.
      (3)   The license shall be for a one-year period commencing on the date
that the license is issued.
   (B)   In applying for a license, the applicant shall indicate the following:
      (1)   The frequency of said pickup;
      (2)   The number of people working on the truck;
      (3)   The location and address of the disposal of the trash, garbage,
rubbish and refuse;
      (4)   The type and size of vehicle used in the operation;
      (5)   Name, address, telephone number, Social Security number and age of
the applicant; and
      (6)   Types and amounts of insurance coverage for damage to property and
for death and/or injuries to persons.
(Prior Code, § 6:9:02)  (Ord. 82-25, passed 1-19-1983)  Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.03  HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   Every person, firm, corporation, partnership or sole proprietorship
engaged in the business of hauling, carrying and/or collecting trash, debris,
garbage or rubbish over or along any of the streets or alleys of the town shall
conduct said business within the town’s corporate boundaries between the hours
of 7:00 a.m. and 5:30 p.m. of the same day.
   (B)   Said business shall not be conducted after 5:30 p.m. or before 7:00
a.m.
(Prior Code, § 6:9:03)  (Ord. 82-25, passed 1-19-1983)  Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.04  DISPOSAL.
   (A)   No person, firm, corporation, partnership or sole proprietorship
engaged in the business of hauling, carrying and/or collecting trash, debris,
garbage, refuse or rubbish over or along any of the streets or alleys of the
town shall either temporarily or permanently, dispose of the same within the
municipal boundaries of the town, except in a licensed landfill and/or dump,
and a collector shall not cause said trash, debris, garbage, refuse or rubbish
to be burned within the corporate boundaries of the town.
   (B)   A collector shall not permit trash, debris, garbage, refuse or rubbish
to remain on or stored in a parked vehicle for a period in excess of 18 hours.
(Prior Code, § 6:9:04)  (Ord. 82-25, passed 1-19-1983)  Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.05  AUTHORITY OF TOWN COUNCIL.
   All persons, firms or corporations licensed under this chapter shall be
subject to the regulation of the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 6:9:05)  (Ord. 82-25, passed 1-19-1983)
§ 116.06  LICENSE REVOCATION.
   Pursuant to the notice and procedure requirements of I.C. 36-4-5-5, the
President of the Town Council may revoke or suspend the license issued
hereunder to any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6:9:06)  (Ord. 82-25, passed 1-19-1983)
§ 116.07  APPLICATION TO PRESENT COLLECTORS, HAULERS.
   Any person, firm, corporation or other entity currently in the business of
collecting, picking-up, disposing and/or hauling trash, garbage, rubbish,
refuse and/or ashes over and along any of the streets or alleys of the town on
the date of the passage of this chapter shall, within 60 days from the date of
passage, comply with each and every term, provision and condition, including
the licensing provision, contained herein, and the Clerk-Treasurer shall send a
copy of this chapter along with an application for a license, by first class
mail, to those persons, firms, corporations or other entities which are
currently engaged in the business activity or operation covered by this
chapter. Any person, firm or corporation currently in the business of picking
up and/or disposing of trash, garbage, rubbish, refuse and ashes and ashes and
who do not comply with each and every term of this chapter within 60 days from
the date of its passage shall be subject to the penalties set forth in §
116.99 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6:9:08)  (Ord. 82-25, passed 1-19-1983)  Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished with a minimum fine of $25 and a
maximum fine of $300 in addition to costs. A separate violation shall be deemed
committed upon each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   In addition to the foregoing, the town is empowered to obtain a
restraining order and/or a permanent injunction against any person, firm,
corporation or any other entity who shall be in violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6:9:07)  (Ord. 82-25, passed 1-19-1983)
TITLE XIII:  GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130:  GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Synthetic cannabinoids
   
130.02   Property; damaging, destroying or defacing
   
130.03   Firearms and dangerous knives
   
130.04   [Reserved]
   
130.05   [Reserved]
   
130.06   Fireworks
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01  SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS.
   (A)   Products containing synthetic cannabinoids (“products”) such as K2/
Spice, or similar products which contain an analogue or a derivative of any of
the chemical compounds specified in the state statutes, shall not be sold,
marketed or offered for sale the town; and products containing synthetic
cannabinoids (“products”) may not be burned, incinerated or ignited in any
public place or on any property owned, leased or controlled by the town.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, an ANALOGUE or a DERIVATIVE is defined
as a new or novel chemical entity, independent of synthetic route or natural
origin, having substantially the same carbon backbone structure as any of the
substances defined in the state statutes and having substantially the same
pharmacological mechanism of action.
(Ord. 2012-03, passed 1-26-2012)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02  PROPERTY; DAMAGING, DESTROYING OR DEFACING.
   (A)   Intentional acts causing damage to property of the town. No person
shall maliciously, willfully or intentionally break, damage, destroy, remove,
take, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, equipment,
vehicles, traffic-control devices including traffic signs or with any other
property, either real or personal property, which belongs to, or is a part of,
or which is in the possession of the town.
(Prior Code, § 7:1:01)
   (B)   Negligent or unintentional acts causing damage to property of the
town. Any person, firm or corporation whose negligent or unintentional conduct,
omission or act causes a structure, appurtenance, equipment, vehicle, traffic-
control device including traffic signs, or any other property, either real or
personal property, belonging to or is a part of, or which is in the possession
of the town to be broken, damaged, destroyed, removed, taken, uncovered,
defaced or tampered with shall be liable to the town for all expenses, losses
or damages, including attorney fees and costs, sustained or caused the town in
connection with the said negligent or unintentional conduct, act or omission.
(Prior Code, § 7:1:03)
(Ord. 82-46, passed 5-4-1983)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-4-3, 36-1-4-6 and 36-5-2-9
§ 130.03  FIREARMS AND DANGEROUS KNIVES.
   (A)   Authority. This section is made by the town pursuant to the authority
granted it by I.C. 36-1-6-2, 36-1-6-4, 36-5-2-2-9, 36-5-4-11, 36-8-2-4 and 36-
8-2-10.
(Prior Code, § 7:2:01)
   (B)   Firearms.
      (1)   Definition of “firearm”. The term FIREARM means any weapon which is
capable of or designed to or which may readily be converted to expel a
projectile with deadly force by means of an explosion.
(Prior Code, § 7:2:02)
      (2)   Shooting of firearms prohibited. No person shall fire or discharge,
or cause to be fired or discharged, within the boundaries of the town any
firearm.
(Prior Code, § 7:2:03)
      (3)   Exceptions. This section, as it pertains to firearms, shall not
apply to peace officers or soldiers in the discharge of their official duties
and while in the exercise of reasonable care; nor to a person using firearms in
necessary self-defense.
(Prior Code, § 7:2:04)
   (C)   Dangerous knives.
      (1)   Definition of “dangerous knife”.DANGEROUS KNIFE means any knife
having a blade more than three and one-half inches in length, any dagger,
sword, bayonet, bolo knife, hatchet, straight-edge razor or razor blade not in
a package, dispenser or shaving appliance.
(Prior Code, § 7:2:05)
      (2)   Possession and sale of dangerous knives. It is unlawful for anyone
to knowingly carry concealed on his or her person or in any vehicle any
dangerous knife, or to sell or give away to any person under 18 years of age a
dangerous knife, or for any person under 18 years of age to purchase or possess
a dangerous knife.
(Prior Code, § 7:2:06)
      (3)   Exemptions. Division (C)(2) above shall not apply to:
         (a)   Individual licensed hunters or fishermen while on hunting,
camping or fishing trips;
         (b)   Any person over 18 years of age carrying such knife in a secure
wrapper from or to the place of purchase, to or from a place of repair or to
his or her home or place of business;
         (c)   Any person while in his or her place of abode or fixed place of
business.
(Prior Code, § 7:2:07)
(Ord. 82-26, passed 1-19-1983)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-1-6-2, 36-1-6-4, 36-5-2-9, 36-5-4-11, 36-8-
2-4 and 36-8-2-10
§ 130.04  [RESERVED].
§ 130.05  [RESERVED].
§ 130.06  FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Definition of “consumer fireworks”. For purposes of this section,
CONSUMER FIREWORKS shall mean consumer fireworks as defined by I.C. 22-11-14-1.
(Prior Code, § 7:5:01)
   (B)   Days and hours of use. Consumer fireworks may not be used, ignited or
discharged within the corporate limits of the town, except during the following
times:
      (1)   Between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and two hours after sunset on June
29, June 30, July 1, July 2, July 3, July 5, July 6, July 7, July 8 and July 9;
      (2)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m. on July 4; and
      (3)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. on December 31 and 1:00 a.m. on
January 1.
(Prior Code, § 7:5:02)
   (C)   Nuisance. Use or discharge of fireworks which causes serious annoyance
or disturbance to a neighborhood or the residents therein by loud, frequent or
habitual noise is declared to be a nuisance, it is unlawful for any person to
conduct such activities, and the town may seek injunctive relief in a court of
law to prevent such activities in addition to seeking a monetary penalty as set
forth hereinbelow.
(Prior Code, § 7:5:03)
   (D)   Control of a minor. It shall be unlawful for the parent, guardian or
other adult person having the care, custody and control of a minor under the
age of 18 years to knowingly permit such minor to fire, shoot off or discharge
any fireworks within the limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 7:5:04)
   (E)   Liability for cost of fire services. Any person shall be liable for
damage to person or property caused by the use or discharge of fireworks, and
shall also be liable for costs of fire service by a responding fire department,
as defined in I.C. 22-11-14-1, or other emergency services necessitated by the
use or discharge of fireworks.
(Prior Code, § 7:5:05)
(Ord. 2007-3, passed 8-20-2007)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Cross-reference:
   Fireworks Displays, see §§
112.20 through
112.22
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 22-11-14-1
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Whoever violates §
130.01 of this chapter shall be fined as follows:
      (1)   First violation: $250, plus costs, which shall be paid and
processed through the town’s Ordinance Violation Bureau;
      (2)   Second violation: in the event a second violation occurs within 90
consecutive days of the issuance of the first violation, the fine shall be
$750, plus costs, which shall be paid through the County Prosecutor’s office
and/or county courts in accordance with I.C. 33-36-2-3; and
      (3)   Additional violations: in the event there are any additional
violation(s) within one year from the date of the issuance of the second
violation, then the violator will be subject to a fine of $2,500, plus costs,
with each day thereafter constituting a separate offense shall subject the
violator to a separate fine of $2,500, plus costs, per day. Payment shall be
paid through the County Prosecutor’s office and/or county courts in accordance
with I.C. 33-36-2-3. If, after multiple violations by the same person or
entity, the Town Attorney and/or the County Prosecutor’s office, and the town’s
Police Department have reasons to believe that the imposition of fines will not
be effective in enforcing this chapter, the Town Attorney and/or the County
Prosecutor’s office shall be empowered to seek any other remedies provided by
law.
   (C)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of §
130.02(A) of this chapter, or who undertakes, permits or allows an act or
conduct prohibited herein, shall, upon conviction, be punished with a minimum
fine of $25 and a maximum fine of $2,500, in addition to costs.
      (2)   In addition to the fine imposed by division (C)(1) above, a person,
firm or corporation violating any provision of §
130.02(A) of this chapter shall be liable to the town for all expenses, losses
or damages, including attorney fees and costs, sustained or caused by town in
connection with the violation.
(Prior Code, § 7:1:02)
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of §
130.03 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished with a minimum fine
of $25 and a maximum fine of $2,500, in addition to costs. Each incident shall
constitute a separate violation under §
130.03 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7:2:08)
   (E)   Any child, parent, guardian or custodian who violates any provision of
§
130.04 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished with a minimum fine
of $25 and the maximum fine of $250, in addition to costs. Each incident shall
constitute a separate violation hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 7:3:01)
   (F)   Any person who violates any provision of §
130.05 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished with a minimum fine
of $10 and a maximum fine of $200, in addition to costs. Each incident shall
constitute a separate violation under §
130.05 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7:4:03)
   (G)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
130.06 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine in an amount of $50 for the
first violation, payable at the Town Hall. Any subsequent violation shall
subject the violator to a fine of up to $2,500 per violation. In addition to
any fine and court costs, violators shall reimburse the town for the cost of
responding emergency services, if any.
(Prior Code, § 7:5:06)
(Ord. 82-26, passed 1-19-1983; Ord. 82-36, passed 2-2-1983; Ord. 82-46, passed
5-4-1983; Ord. 82-49, passed 9-7-1983; Ord. 2000-3, passed 10-2-2000; Ord.
2007-3, passed 8-20-2007; Ord. 2012-03, passed 1-26-2012)
TITLE XV:  LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   STREETS
      
152.   STORM WATER
      
153.   MANUFACTURED HOUSING
      
154.   FLOODPLAINS
      
155.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
156.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150:  BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Plan Commission fees; permits
Building Code
   
150.15   Title
   
150.16   Purpose
   
150.17   Authority
   
150.18   Scope
   
150.19   Adoption of rules by reference
   
150.20   Fence construction permits and inspections
   
150.21   Permits; application; records; fees
   
150.22   Inspections
   
150.23   Stop orders
   
150.24   Certificate of occupancy
   
150.25   Work must commence
   
150.26   Workmanship
   
150.27   Violations; right to appeal
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.40   Establishment of Unsafe Building Law
   
150.41   Incorporation of state statutes
   
150.42   Declaration of public nuisance
   
150.43   Building Commissioner
   
150.44   Definitions
   
150.45   Reconstruction, repair or demolition of buildings and the like
   
150.46   Unsafe Building Fund
   
150.47   Hearing Authority
 
   
150.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Local Planning Team, see §§
32.20 through
32.23
   Plan Commission, see §§
32.35 through
32.38
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01  PLAN COMMISSION FEES; PERMITS.
   (A)   The following schedule of fees, charges and expenses are hereby
adopted for the jurisdictional area of the Advisory Plan Commission of the
town.
      (1)   Application for building permit.
         (a)   Residential.
Addition to existing building porch or deck
   144 sq. ft. or less               $50 (fee and inspection)
   Larger than 144 sq. ft.           $50 + 0.05/sq. ft. + 50 I
Certificate of occupancy
   Accessory structure               $25
   Principle structure               $50
Demolition
   Principle structure               $200 + 50 I
   Accessory structure               $50 + 25 I
Detached garage/accessory buildings     $100 + 0.05/sq. ft. + 120 I
Fence construction permit and           $50 + 0.05/l. ft. + 50 I
inspection
Moving/changing location of building
   Accessory structure               $50 + 0.03/sq. ft. + 50 I
   Principle structure               $275 + 0.05/sq. ft. + 50 I
Multi-family residences: apartment      $350 + 100 each unit + 125 each unit
buildings, condominiums, co-operatives, +25 c of o/unit
mobile homes in park
Remodeling interior/exterior alteration $100 + 0.05/sq. ft. + 100 I
Room additions                          $100 + 0.05/sq. ft. + $120 I
Single-family residence                 $400 + 0.08/sq. ft. + $200 I*
Single-family residence/manufactured    $300 + 0.05/sq. ft. + 100 I
Two-family residence                    $450 + 0.08/sq. ft. + 300 I
NOTES TO TABLE:
I - Inspection fees
* - Included in fee, except multi-family residence
 
         (b)   Industrial and commercial buildings.
Accessory buildings (under 400 sq. ft.)  $200 + 0.05/sq. ft. + 50 I
Addition to existing structure           $200 + 0.10/sq. ft. + 150 I
Certificate of occupancy * Included in fee
   Accessory structure                $40
   Principle structure                $75
Demolition                               $250 + 0.05/sq. ft. + 50 I
Each structure                           $400 + 0.15/sq. ft. + 200 I
Fence construction permit and inspection $50 + 0.05/l. ft. + 50 I
Moving/changing location of building
   Accessory structure                $175 + 0.05/sq. ft. + 50 I
   Principle structure                $375 + 0.10/sq. ft. + 150 I
Remodeling: interior/exterior alteration $150 + 0.05/sq. ft. + 100 I
NOTES TO TABLE:
I - Inspection fees
 
         (c)   Miscellaneous.
Contingent/special exception use (government owned $15/1,000
not to exceed $500)
Government, church, education                      $300 + 0.05/sq. ft. + 200 I
Multi-purpose/under 144 sq. ft. (mini-barns)       No permit required
Penalty for occupancy without occupancy certificate
   Commercial/industrial, including accessory   $500
   Residential, including accessory             $350
Renewal
   Accessory structures/additions/others        $50
   Commercial/industrial                        $250
   Dwellings (one/two/multiple)                 $100
Signs
   Under 10 sq. ft.                             $30
   10 sq. ft. to 50 sq. ft.                     $40
   50 sq. ft. to 75 sq. ft.                     $60
   75 sq. ft. to 100 sq. ft.                    $80
   100 sq. ft. to 128 sq. ft.                   $100
   Portable/tow-in signs (limited to 14 days)   $5
Site inspections
   Regular scheduled (included in fee for permit)
   Failed (second and each subsequent inspection)
      Residential, including accessory       $50
      Commercial/industrial, including access$75
Special inspections (electric/plumbing/misc.)      $50
Swimming pools (18 in. deep or less are exempt)
   Inground                                     $150 + 0.05/sq. ft. + 75 I
   Above ground                                 $75 + 0.05/sq. ft. + 40 I
Temporary use                                      $50
 
      (2)   Application for appeals, special exceptions and amendments.
Appeal                                           $250
Change of zone classification                    $400+ 15/acre
Change in development plan (previously approved) $500
Developmental standards variance                 $400 + 100 for each addition
Land use variance/special exceptions             $400 + 100 each additional
Provisional and record plats
   Overall provisional plat                   $500 + 25 per lot
   Record plat                                $400 + 25 per lot
   Re-submitted overall provision             $500 + 25 per lot
Replat
   2 lots                                     $200 + 25 per lot
   3 or more lots                             $400 + 25 per lot
Unit development plan
   Final planned development plan             $500+ 10/acre
      Any number of acres                  $200 + 3/acre
      Maximum fee                          $1,000
   Preliminary planned development plan       $1,000 + 20/acre
 
   (B)   The Building Commissioner shall, in the name of the town, bring
actions in the Circuit or Superior Courts of the county for mandatory and
injunctive relief in the enforcement of and to secure compliance with any order
or orders made by the Building Commissioner, and any such action for mandatory
or injunctive relief may be joined with an action to recover the penalties
provided for in this section.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed 3-6-2006; Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-23-2012; Ord. 2020-06,
passed 11-2-2020)  Penalty, see §
150.99
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.15  TITLE.
   This subchapter, and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto, shall
be known as the “Building Code of the Town of Arcadia, Indiana”, may be cited
as such and will be referred to herein as “this code” or “this subchapter”.
(Ord. 89-1, passed 3-1-1989)
§ 150.16  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide minimum standards for the
protection of the, health, environment, public safety and general welfare, and
for the conservation of energy in the design and construction of buildings and
structures.
(Ord. 89-1, passed 3-1-1989)
§ 150.17  AUTHORITY.
   The Building Commissioner is hereby authorized and directed to administer
and enforce all of the provisions of this subchapter. Whenever, in this
subchapter, it is provided that anything must be done to the approval of or
subject to the direction of the Building Commissioner or any other officer of
the town’s Plan Commission, this shall be construed to give such officer only
the discretion of determining whether this subchapter has been complied with;
and no such provision shall be construed as giving any officer discretionary
powers as to what this subchapter shall be, or power to require conditions not
prescribed by ordinances or to enforce this subchapter in an arbitrary or
discriminatory manner. Any variance from adopted “building rules”, as defined
in I.C. 22-13-1-2, is subject to review by the state’s Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission (“Commission”), pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-7(b), and
said variance is not effective until approved by the Commission.
(Ord. 89-1, passed 3-1-1989)
§ 150.18  SCOPE.
   The provisions of this subchapter apply to the construction, alterations,
repair, use, occupancy, maintenance and additions to all buildings and
structures, other than “industrialized building systems”, as defined in the
state statutes, and “mobile structures”, as defined in I.C. 22-12-1-17, which
are certified pursuant to I.C. 22-15-4, in the jurisdictional area of the
town’s Plan Commission.
(Ord. 89-1, passed 3-1-1989)
§ 150.19  ADOPTION OF RULES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Building rules of the state’s Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission as set out in the following articles of I.A.C. Title 675 are hereby
incorporated by reference in this subchapter and shall include later amendments
to those articles aa the same are published in the Indiana Register or the
Indiana Administrative Code with effective dates as fixed therein:
      (1)   Article 13 - Building Codes:
         (a)   Fire and Building Safety Standards;
         (b)   Indiana Building Code;
         (c)   Indiana Building Code Standards; and
         (d)   Indiana Handicapped Accessibility Code.
      (2)   Article 14 - One- and Two-Family Dwelling Codes:
         (a)   Council of American Building Officials One- and Two-Family
Dwelling Code;
         (b)   CABO One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code; Amendments; and
         (c)   Standard for Permanent Installation of Manufactured Homes.
      (3)   Article 16 - Plumbing Codes: Indiana Plumbing Code;
      (4)   Article 17 - Electrical Codes:
         (a)   Indiana Electrical Code; and
         (b)   Safety Code for Health Care Facilities.
      (5)   Article 18 - Mechanical Codes: Indiana Mechanical Code;
      (6)   Article 19 - Energy Conservation Codes:
         (a)   Indiana Energy Conservation Code; and
         (b)   Modifications to the Model Energy Code.
      (7)   Article 20 - Swimming Pool Codes: Indiana Swimming Pool Code.
   (B)   Copies of adopted building rules, codes and standards are on file in
the office of Clerk- Treasurer.
(Ord. 89-1, passed 3-1-1989)
§ 150.20  FENCE CONSTRUCTION PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Application. Application for a permit shall be filed with the Zoning
Administrator and shall be accompanied by information as may be required by the
Plan Commission to assure compliance with the laws and regulations of the town,
including:
      (1)   Name and location of the property owner of the premises on which
the fence is located or is to be located.
      (2)   Name and address of the owner of the fence.
      (3)   Clear and legible drawings with description detailing the materials
to be utilized and showing the exact location of the fence which is the subject
of the permit.
   (B)   Permit fees. The permit fee as specified by the Official Fee Schedule
shall be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer. If any fence is hereafter erected, placed
installed, or otherwise established on any property before obtaining a permit
as required herein, the fees specified shall be doubled. Payment of such double
fee shall not relieve any person from compliance with other provisions of this
code and penalties prescribed herein.
   (C)   Effect of fence permit issuance. A fence permit issued under the
provisions of this section shall not be deemed to constitute permission or
authorization to maintain an unlawful fence nor shall it be deemed as a defense
in an action to remove an unlawful fence.
   (D)   Nullification. A fence permit shall become null and void if work has
not been started within 12 months of the date of the permit or completed within
18 months of the date of the permit.
   (E)   Inspection. the Building Inspector shall inspect the completed fence
to ensure compliance with all applicable rules, regulations, and laws
including, but not limited to, the town's zoning and building codes.
(Ord. 2020-06, passed 11-2-2020)
§ 150.21  PERMITS; APPLICATION; RECORDS; FEES.
   (A)   Application for permits.
      (1)   No building permit shall be issued for the foregoing purposes,
unless the application for a permit is accompanied by a plat or sketch of the
proposed location showing lot boundaries, and by two sets of plans and
specifications showing the work to be done.
      (2)   In addition, a copy of a design release, issued by the state’s
Building Commissioner and the state’s Fire Marshal, pursuant to I.C. 22-15-3-1,
shall be provided to the Building Commissioner before issuance of a permit for
construction covered by such design release.
   (B)   Permit required.
      (1)   No persons, firms or corporations shall erect, construct, enlarge,
alter, remove, move, improve, convert or demolish any building or structure
within the jurisdiction of the town’s Plan Commission, or cause the same to be
done until first having obtained a separate building permit for each such
building or structure from the Building Commissioner, who may require plans
thereof, together with a statement of materials to be used.
      (2)   To obtain a permit, the applicant must first file an application
therefor, on forms to be furnished by the Building Commissioner and every
applicant shall complete all information requested on said form.
   (C)   Other ordinances. All work done under any permit shall be in full
compliance with all other ordinances pertaining thereto and, in addition to the
fees for permits, there shall be paid the fees prescribed in such ordinances.
   (D)   Records. All applications, descriptions, permits, certificates and
other supporting documents pertaining to building permits or certificates of
occupancy shall be filed by the Building Commissioner and become a permanent
record of the town.
   (E)   Fees. Before a building permit is issued, a fee therefore shall be
paid to the town in the amount set forth in Ord. 88-4, which was adopted by the
Council on 6-1-1988, and the said fee schedule contained in Ord. 88-4 is hereby
adopted in its entirety by reference into this subchapter.
   (F)   Review of application. Prior to the issuance of any building permit, 
the Building Commissioner shall:
      (1)   Review all building permit applications to determine full
compliance with the provisions of this subchapter;
      (2)   Review all building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements to determine whether proposed building sites will be
reasonably safe from flooding;
      (3)   Review building permit applications for major repairs within the
floodplain area having special flood hazards to determine that the proposed
repair:
         (a)   Uses construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage; and
         (b)   Uses construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
      (4)   Review building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements within the floodplain area having special flood
hazards to assure that the proposed construction (including prefabricated and
mobile homes):
         (a)   Is protected against flood damage;
         (b)   Is designed (or modified) and anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse or lateral movement of the structure, flood damage; and
         (c)   Uses construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
(Ord. 89-1, passed 3-1-1989; Ord. 2020-06, passed 11-2-2020)
§ 150.22  INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   After the issuance of any building permit, the Building Commissioner
shall make, or shall cause to be made, inspections of the work being done as
are necessary to insure full compliance with the provisions of this subchapter
and the terms of the permit. Reinspections of work found to be incomplete or
not ready for inspection are subject to assessment of reinspection fees as
prescribed in this subchapter.
   (B)   If requested by the Building Commissioner or the Chief of the Fire
Department, or his or her designated representative, shall assist the Building
Commissioner in the inspection of fire suppression, detection and alarm systems
and shall provide reports of such inspection to the Building Commissioner.
   (C)   Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Building Commissioner or
his or her duly authorized representatives may enter at reasonable times any
building, structure or premises in the jurisdictional area of the town’s Plan
Commission to perform any duty imposed upon him or her by this subchapter.
(Ord. 89-1, passed 3-1-1989; Ord. 2020-06, passed 11-2-2020)
§ 150.23  STOP ORDERS.
   Whenever any work is being done contrary to the provisions of this
subchapter, the Building Commissioner may order the work stopped by notice in
writing served on any persons engaged in the doing or causing such work to be
done, and any such persons shall forthwith stop such work until authorized by
the Building Commissioner to proceed with the work.
(Ord. 89-1, passed 3-1-1989; Ord. 2020-06, passed 11-2-2020)
§ 150.24  CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No certificate of occupancy of occupancy for any building or structure
constructed after the adoption of this subchapter shall be issued unless such
building or structure was constructed in compliance with the provisions of this
subchapter. It shall be unlawful to occupy any such building or structure
unless a full, partial or temporary certificate of occupancy has been issued by
the Building Commissioner.
(Ord. 89-1, passed 3-1-1989; Ord. 2020-06, passed 11-2-2020)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.25  WORK MUST COMMENCE.
   (A)   The work or use authorized by a building permit shall commence within
six months of the date of issuance of such permit.
   (B)   Otherwise, the same shall lapse and become null and void. All work so
authorized shall be completed within 24 months from the date of issuance of the
permit unless good cause for extending the completion time is shown the
Building Commissioner.
   (C)   Upon issuance of the certificate of occupancy the applicant shall have
or cause to be occupied within 30 days, the structure so certified.
(Ord. 89-1, passed 3-1-1989; Ord. 2020-06, passed 11-2-2020)
§ 150.26  WORKMANSHIP.
   All work on the construction, alteration and repair of buildings and other
structures shall be performed in a good and workmanlike manner according to
accepted standards and practices in the trade.
(Ord. 89-1, passed 3-1-1989; Ord. 2020-06, passed 11-2-2020)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.27  VIOLATIONS; RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, whether as
owner, lessee, sub-lessee, or occupant,  to erect, construct, enlarge, alter,
repair, improve, remove, convert, demolish, equips use, occupy or maintain any
building or structure, in the jurisdictional area of the town’s Plan Commission
or cause or permit the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   All persons shall have the right to appeal any order of the Building
Commissioner first through the Board of Zoning Appeals for the town.
(Ord. 89-1, passed 3-1-1989; Ord. 2020-06, passed 11-2-2020)  Penalty, see §
150.99
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.40  ESTABLISHMENT OF UNSAFE BUILDING LAW.
   Under the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9, there is hereby established the “Town
of Arcadia Unsafe Building Law”.
(Prior Code, § 5:9:01)  (Ord. 2006-02, passed 3-20-2006)
§ 150.41  INCORPORATION OF STATE STATUTES.
   (A)   I.C. 36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28 is hereby incorporated by reference in
the town’s Unsafe Building Law.
   (B)   All proceedings within the jurisdiction of the town for the
inspection, repair and removal of unsafe buildings shall be governed by said
law and the provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   In the event the provisions of this subchapter conflict with the
provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28, then the provisions of the state
statute shall control.
(Prior Code, § 5:9:02)  (Ord. 2006-02, passed 3-20-2006)
§ 150.42  DECLARATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   All buildings or portions thereof within the municipal boundaries of the
town which are determined after inspection by the town’s Building Commissioner,
or his or her designee, to be unsafe, as defined in this subchapter or in I.C.
36-7-9-1 et seq., are hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be
abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition or removal.
(Prior Code, § 5:9:03)  (Ord. 2006-02, passed 3-20-2006)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.43  BUILDING COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   The town’s Building Commissioner, or his or her designee, shall be
considered the “enforcement authority” for the implementation of this
subchapter and shall be authorized to administer and to proceed under the
provisions of said law in ordering the repair or removal of any buildings found
to be unsafe as specified therein or as specified thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 5:9:04)
   (B)   Whenever in the town’s Unsafe Building Law it is provided that
anything must be done to the approval of or subject to the direction of the
town’s Building Commissioner, or any other officer of the town, this shall be
construed to give such officer only the discretion of determining whether the
rules and standards established by this section of the code have been complied
with; and no such provisions shall be construed as giving any officer
discretionary powers as to what such regulations or standards shall be, power
to require conditions not prescribed by this subchapter, or to enforce code
provisions in an arbitrary or discretionary manner.
(Prior Code, § 5:9:05)
(Ord. 2006-02, passed 3-20-2006)
§ 150.44  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The description of an unsafe building contained in I.C. 36-7-9-4 is
hereby supplemented to provide minimum standards for building condition or
maintenance in the jurisdiction of the town, by adding the following
definition: UNSAFE BUILDING means any building or structure which has any or
all of the conditions or defects hereinafter described; provided that, such
conditions or defects exist to the extent that life, health, property or safety
of the public or its occupants are endangered:
      (1)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway or other means of exit is not
of sufficient width or size or is not so arranged as to provide safe and
adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
      (2)   Whenever the walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway or
other means of exit is so warped, worn, loose, torn or otherwise unsafe as to
not provide safe and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
      (3)   Whenever the stress in any materials, member, or portion thereof,
due to all dead and live loads, is more than one and one-half times the working
stress or stresses allowed for new buildings of similar structure, purpose or
location;
      (4)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire, earthquake,
wind, flood or by any other cause, to such an extent that the structural
strength or stability thereof is materially less than it was before such
catastrophe and is less than the minimum requirements for new buildings of
similar structure, purpose or location;
      (5)   Whenever any portion, member or appurtenance thereof is likely to
fail, to become detached or dislodged or to collapse and thereby injure persons
or damage property;
      (6)   Whenever any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance or
ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or
stability or is not so anchored, attached or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting a wind pressure of one-half of that specified for new
buildings of similar structure, purpose or location without exceeding the
working stresses permitted for such buildings;
      (7)   Whenever any portion thereof has wracked, warped, buckled or
settled to such an extent that walls or other structural portions have
materially less resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case
of similar new construction;
      (8)   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion thereof, because
of:
         (a)   Dilapidation, deterioration or decay;
         (b)   Faulty construction;
         (c)   The removal, movement or instability of any portion of the
ground necessary for the purpose of supporting such building;
         (d)   The deterioration, decay or inadequacy of its foundation; or
         (e)   Any other cause is likely to partially or completely collapse.
      (9)   Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure, or any portion
thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being used;
      (10)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members
list, lean or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the
center of gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third of the base;
      (11)   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundations,
shows 33% or more damage or deterioration of its supporting member or members,
or 50% damage or deterioration of its non-supporting members, enclosing or
outside walls or coverings;
      (12)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire,
wind, earthquake or flood or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated so as to
become:
         (a)   An attractive nuisance to children; or
         (b)   Freely accessible to persons for the purpose of committing
unlawful acts.
      (13)   Whenever any building or structure has been constructed, exists or
is maintained in violation of any building or structure provided by the
building regulations of the town, or of any law or ordinance of the state of
the town relating to the condition, location or structure of buildings;
      (14)   Whenever any building or structure which, whether or not erected
in accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances has in any non-supporting
part, member or portion less than 50%, or in any supporting part, member or
portion less than 66% of the:
         (a)   Strength;
         (b)   Fire resisting qualities or characteristics; or
         (c)   Weather-resisting qualities or characteristics required by law
in the case of a newly constructed building of like area, height and occupancy
in the same location.
      (15)   Whenever a building or structure, used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangement, inadequate light, air or sanitation
facilities, or otherwise, is determined by the County Sanitarian to be
unsanitary, unfit for human habitation or in such a condition that is likely to
cause sickness or disease;
      (16)   Whenever any building or structure, because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, lack of
sufficient fire-resistive construction is determined by the local Fire Chief or
State Fire Marshal to be a fire hazard; and/or
      (17)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a site
after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or whenever
any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six months so
as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive nuisance or
hazard to the public.
(Prior Code, § 5:9:06)
   (B)   The definition of SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST set forth in I.C. 36-
7-9-2 is hereby incorporated by reference herein as if copied in full.
(Prior Code, § 5:9:07)
(Ord. 2006-02, passed 3-20-2006)
§ 150.45  RECONSTRUCTION, REPAIR OR DEMOLITION OF BUILDINGS AND THE LIKE.
   All work for the reconstruction, repair or demolition of buildings and other
structures shall be performed in a good workmanlike manner according to the
accepted standards and practices in the trade. The provisions of the building
laws, as defined in I.C. 22-12-1-3, and as amended from time to time, adopted
as rules of the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission, shall be
considered standard and acceptable practice for all matters covered by this
section of the code or orders issued pursuant to this subchapter by the town’s
Building Commissioner, or his or her designee.
(Prior Code, § 5:9:08)  (Ord. 2006-02, passed 3-20-2006)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.46  UNSAFE BUILDING FUND.
   An Unsafe Building Fund is hereby established in the operating budget of the
town in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-14.
(Prior Code, § 5:9:09)  (Ord. 2006-02, passed 3-20-2006)
§ 150.47  HEARING AUTHORITY.
   The Town council shall be and is hereby designated as the “hearing
authority” in connection with the terms and provisions of this subchapter and
I.C. 36-7-9-1 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 5:9:11)  (Ord. 2006-02, passed 3-20-2006)
§ 150.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   If any person, firm or corporation shall violate any of the provisions
of §
150.01 of this chapter, or shall do any act prohibited herein, or shall fail to
pay any fee or charge or to perform any duty lawfully enjoined, within the time
prescribed by the Building Commissioner, or shall fail, neglect or refuse to
pay any fee or charge or to obey any lawful order given by the Building
Commissioner in connection with the provisions of §
150.01 of this chapter for each violation, failure or refusal, such person,
firm or corporation shall be fined in any sum not less than $50, nor more than
$2,500.
   (C)   (1)   The Building Commissioner shall, in the name of the town, bring
actions in the Circuit or Superior Courts of the county for mandatory and
injunctive relief in the enforcement of and to secure compliance with any order
or orders made by the Building Commissioner, and any such action for mandatory
or injunctive relief may be joined with an action to recover the penalties
provided for in §§
150.15 through
150.27 of this chapter.
      (2)   If any person, firm or corporation shall violate any of the
provisions of §§
150.15 through
150.27 of this chapter, or shall do any act prohibited herein, or shall fail to
perform any duty lawfully enjoined, within the time prescribed by the Building
Commissioner, or shall fail, neglect or refuse to obey any lawful order given
by the Building Commissioner in connection with the provisions of §§
150.15 through
150.27 of this chapter for each such violation, failure or refusal, such
person, firm or corporation shall be fined in any sum not less than $50, nor
more than $2,500. Each day of such unlawful activity as is prohibited by the
first sentence of this division (C)(2) shall constitute a separate offense.
   (D)   No person, firm or corporation, whether as owner, lessee, sub-lessee
or occupancy, shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve,
remove, demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or premises, or
cause or permit the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of any of the
provisions of §§
150.40 through
150.47 of this chapter or any order issued by the town’s Building Commissioner.
Any person violating the provisions of §§
150.40 through
150.47 of this chapter or I.C. 36-7-9-28 shall commit a Class C infraction for
each day such violation continues.
(Prior Code, § 5:9:10)
(Ord. 89-1, passed 3-1-1989; Ord. 2006-01, passed 3-6-2006; Ord. 2006-02,
passed 3-20-2006; Ord. 2020- 06, passed 11-2-2020)
CHAPTER 151:  STREETS
Section
   
151.01   Road cuts; opening public ways
   
151.02   Private drives; cutting curbs
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01  ROAD CUTS; OPENING PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)   Permit required. Any person, firm or corporation desiring to open or
cut into any street, alley or other public way, paved or unpaved, within the
limits of the town shall be required to obtain a specific permit for such
purposes.
   (B)   Application. The application (town form) for a permit to open any
street, alley or other public way shall be made to the Street Commissioner and
the Clerk-Treasurer of the town, who shall have the right and power, subject to
the rules of the Town Council, to determine whether or not the opening is
necessary or desirable. In the event the opening shall be deemed necessary or
desirable, the applicant shall be advised of the manner and size of the opening
which may be made and the replacement of both fill and paving shall be made and
shall be required to follow such directions. Furthermore, the applicant must
satisfy the town that all safety precautions such as the placement of
barricades and flashing warning lights will be installed to protect the
residents.
   (C)   Deposit.
      (1)   A deposit of the higher amount of $25 (minimum) or $5 per square
foot of the area of a paved street, alley or other public way or of $2.50 per
square foot of any unpaved street, alley or public way shall be paid to the
Clerk-Treasurer before the issuance or allowance of such permit.
      (2)   For public and private utilities and contractors contemplating
numerous cuts during a year, an annual permit may be obtained for a fee of $25
together with a performance bond in the amount of $1,000 made payable to the
town.
   (D)   Issuance of a receipt.
      (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town shall issue a receipt for such
deposit with a specially prepared receipt which shall show:
         (a)   The location of such proposed opening;
         (b)   The estimated size of the opening;
         (c)   The condition of the street prior to the opening;
         (d)   The amount of the deposit or if performance bond is on file;
         (e)   The approximate length of time it will take the applicant to
make the cut, do the repairs and/or construction and to close the cut with
materials that are approved by the town; and
         (f)   The number and location of barricades and warning lights.
      (2)   Possession of such receipt, properly endorsed by the Street
Commissioner and the Clerk- Treasurer of the town, shall constitute a permit to
open the street, alley or other public way.
   (E)   When repair is completed. When repair or replacement is completed to
the satisfaction of the Street Department of the town and if the same has been
replaced in at least as good condition as before the entering of such way and
without undue inconvenience or cost to the town, the deposit shall be placed in
the General Fund of the town.
   (F)   When repair is not completed. If the applicant does not complete the
job within the time period stated in the application and on the receipt, then
the town may, at its option, have its employees or a competent contractor
complete the job and any and all expenses incurred by the town shall be born
and paid by the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 5:5:01)  (Ord. 1981-1, passed 2-4-1981)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.02  PRIVATE DRIVES; CUTTING CURBS.
   (A)   Permit required. No person may construct any private entrance,
driveway or approach connecting with any street, alley or public way in the
town, nor may a curb along such a street, alley or other public way be cut or
removed without obtaining a written permit for such purposes. The term CURB
CUT, as used in this section, means the opening of a private entrance, driveway
or approach upon a public right-of-way regardless of whether it requires the
cutting and/or removal of a concrete curb or a curb made of other materials,
and this section applies to any and all construction of private entrances,
driveways or approaches connecting with a public right-of-way.
   (B)   Application. The application (town form) for a permit to construct a
private entrance, driveway or approach connecting with any street, alley or
other public way in the town or for a curb cut along such street, alley or
other public way shall be made to the Street Commissioner and the Clerk-
Treasurer of the town, who shall have the right and power, subject to the
rulings of the Town Council, to determine whether or not the curb cut or
private entrance, driveway or approach is necessary or desirable. In
determining whether the same is necessary or desirable, the town shall consider
the following which are to be furnished by the applicant:
      (1)   A drawing to scale of the proposed improvement and curb-cut showing
the location of the improvement and curb cut to the public street, alley or
other public way, boundary lines of abutting property owners, buildings,
sidewalks and draining ditches or drains;
      (2)   Drainage of the area including the street, alley or other public
way as well as the preservation of drainage ditches, swales and culverts or
tile;
      (3)   Interference with and/or maintenance of public sidewalks, if any;
      (4)   Preservation of the street, alley or other public way and
convenience of traffic on the same;
      (5)   The number and distances of other private driveways, entrances or
approaches in the immediate vicinity of the proposed road cut ( IMMEDIATE
VICINITY, for the purposes of this section, shall mean a one block area in both
directions from the site of the proposed improvement and road cut);
      (6)   The distance of the proposed improvement and/or road cut to the
boundary lines of adjacent and abutting property owners, to buildings,
residences or other structures; and
      (7)   The type of material to be used on the private driveway, entrance
or approach and the elevation of the same in regard to the public street, alley
or other public way.
   (C)   Supervision of the Street Commissioner. In the event a private
entrance, driveway or approach and/or a curb cut from a public street, alley or
other public way shall be deemed necessary or desirable, the same shall be done
under the supervision of and to the satisfaction of the Street Commissioner,
and the entire expense of constructing such private entrances, driveways and
approaches shall be borne by the person to whom a permit is given. Furthermore,
the applicant must satisfy the town that all safety precautions such as the
placement of barricades and flashing warning lights, if required, will be
installed to protect the residents and other users who travel the public roads,
streets, alleys or other public ways located within the town.
   (D)   Posting of a bond. The Street Commissioner may require before granting
a permit that a sufficient bond be given or cash deposit be made with the
Clerk-Treasurer’s office to insure the carrying out of terms of the permit,
which bond or deposit shall be returned when the requirements of the permit
have been met.
   (E)   Permit fee. In addition to the posting of a sufficient bond or cash
deposit as required in division (D) above, the applicant shall pay a non-
refundable permit fee of $25 to the Clerk-Treasurer, and said permit fee shall
be paid before the issuance or allowance of such permit. The permit fee shall
be placed in the General Fund of the town.
   (F)   Issuance of a permit.
      (1)   If the proposed improvement and/or curb cut has been approved and
providing all other terms and conditions of this section have been met by the
applicant, the Clerk-Treasurer of the town shall issue a permit which shall,
among other things, contain the following:
         (a)   The location of such proposed improvement and/or curb cut;
         (b)   The estimated width of the curb cut and/or entrance onto a
public street, alley or other public way;
         (c)   The condition of the curb and/or public right-of-way prior to
the opening;
         (d)   The amount of the cash deposit or performance bond on file;
         (e)   Payment of the non-refundable $25 permit fee;
         (f)   The approximate length of time it will take the applicant to
make and complete the improvement and curb cut, do the construction and/or
repairs and to complete the curb cut with materials that are approved by the
town;
         (g)   The number and location of barricades and warning lights, if
required;
         (h)   The installation, construction, placement or repair of draining
ditches, drains, culverts, tile or swales;
         (i)   Repair or replacement of the sidewalk, if any, which may go upon
or over the proposed improvement;
         (j)   The dates or times when the applicant must contact the town for
the purpose of having the Street Commissioner conduct periodic inspections; and
         (k)   Any other conditions.
      (2)   Possession of such permit, properly endorsed by the Street
Commissioner and the Clerk- Treasurer of the town, shall constitute a permit to
make the proposed improvement and curb cut.
   (G)   Completion of work and refund of cash deposit. When the proposed
improvement and curb cut is completed to the satisfaction of the Street
Department of the town and if the same has been made in accordance with this
section, and with the terms and provisions of the permit, the bond or cash
deposit which may have been required pursuant to division (D) above shall be
released and/or returned by the town to the applicant.
   (H)   Failure to complete work.
      (1)   If the applicant does not complete the work in the manner and
within the time period stated in the application and on the permit, as the same
applies to the public right-of-way, sidewalk, draining ditch, drain, swale,
culvert or tile, then the town may, as its option, have its employees or a
competent contractor complete and/or modify the work and any and all expenses
incurred by the town shall be borne and paid by the applicant and/or the
occupant and/or owner of the real estate upon which the proposed improvement is
located. Any and all expenses incurred by the town hereunder may be made a lien
against the real estate upon which the proposed improvement is located.
      (2)   Prior to doing and/or modifying the work and prior to filing a lien
against the real estate, the town shall, by certified mail, inform the
applicant and/or owner and/or occupant of the real estate of the defective
conditions of the work, set out the corrective measures to be taken and the
time period in which said corrective actions must be completed. Furthermore,
the notice shall state that in the event the corrective measures have not been
completed to the satisfaction of the town upon the expiration of the time
period contained in the notice, the town may, as its option, make the necessary
corrective improvement and that any and all expenses incurred by the town will
be borne and paid by the applicant and/or occupant and/or the owner of the real
estate, and that upon their failure to pay the said expenses within 30 days
after being billed for the same by the town, the town will file a lien against
the real estate and will foreclose on the same. The remedy provided herein
shall be in addition to any other penalties and remedies provided in this
section.
   (I)   Duty to keep private entrances and the like in repair.
      (1)   The owners or occupants of the real estate shall maintain and keep
in repair all private entrances, driveways and approaches thereto, but no
private entrances, driveways and approaches may be constructed or maintained in
such a manner as to obstruct or interfere with the street, alley and other
public way or the traffic thereon, or with any drain, ditch or culvert which
has been constructed or on which serves the street, alley or other public way.
      (2)   An owner or occupant of the real estate shall remove or relocate
the private entrances, driveways and approaches, at his or her own expense,
when requested to do so by the town.
   (J)   Inspection and enforcement. For the purpose of enforcing the terms and
provisions of this section, the Street Commissioner or his or her designated
agent or a contractor employed by the town may enter upon private property for
the purpose of inspecting proposed improvements and/or to bring the improvement
into compliance with this section, and/or to remove, at the owner’s or
occupant’s expense, all authorized private driveways, entrances or approaches
or those which do not comply with the terms and provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 5:6:01)  (Ord. 82-24, passed 12-31-1982)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Fines. Any person, firm, corporation or any other entity, who
shall be in violation of §
151.01 of this chapter, or any amendment thereto, shall be subject to a fine of
not more than $100 and costs and further, each day an entry or cut made into,
or onto, any street, alley or other public way within the town without the
issuance of a proper permit under §
151.01 of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense and each separate
offense shall subject the violator to a separate fine, as provided herein.
      (2)   Restraining order and/or injunctive relief. In addition to the
fines provided in division (B)(1) above, the town is empowered to obtain a
restraining order and/or a permanent injunction against any person, firm or
corporation or any other entity who shall be in violation of §
151.01 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5:5:02)
   (C)   (1)   Fines. Any person, firm, corporation or any other entity which
violates any term, provision or condition of §
151.02 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished with a minimum fine
of $10 and a maximum fine of $100, and costs, with each day that the violation
continues being a separate offense which shall subject the violator to a
separate fine.
      (2)   Restraining order and/or injunction. In addition to the foregoing,
the town is empowered to obtain a restraining order and/or permanent injunction
against any person, firm, corporation or any other entity that shall be in
violation of §
151.02 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5:6:02)
(Ord. 1981-1, passed 2-4-1981; Ord. 82-24, passed 12-31-1982)
CHAPTER 152:  STORM WATER
Section
Illicit Discharge and Connection
   
152.01   Purpose; intent
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   Applicability
   
152.04   Responsibility for administration
   
152.05   Discharge prohibitions
   
152.06   Illicit connections prohibited
   
152.07   Suspension of MS4 access
   
152.08   Industrial, construction activity discharges
   
152.09   Monitoring discharges
   
152.10   Best management practices
   
152.11   Watercourse protection
   
152.12   Notification of spills
   
152.13   Notice of violation; appeal
   
152.14   Enforcement measures after appeal
   
152.15   Cost of abatement of violation
   
152.16   Injunctive relief
   
152.17   Effective date
Construction, Post-Construction Activities; Runoff
   
152.30   Introduction; purpose
   
152.31   Definitions
   
152.32   Applicability
   
152.33   Submittals, review and approval
   
152.34   Storm water pollution prevention plan
   
152.35   Design requirements
   
152.36   Inspections
   
152.37   Notice of violation; appeal
   
152.38   Enforcement measures after appeal
   
152.39   Cost of abatement of violation
   
152.40   Injunctive relief
   
152.41   Effective date
 
   
152.99   Penalty
ILLICIT DISCHARGE AND CONNECTION
§ 152.01  PURPOSE; INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for the health, safety
and general welfare of the citizens of the town through the regulation of non-
storm water discharges to the storm drainage system to the maximum extent
practicable as required by federal and state law. This subchapter establishes
methods for controlling the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
separate storm sewer system (MS4) in order to comply with requirements of the
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit.
   (B)   The objectives of this subchapter are:
      (1)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the MS4 by storm
water discharges by any user;
      (2)   To prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the town’s
separate storm sewer system; and
      (3)   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection,
surveillance and monitoring procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2005-12, passed 11-21-2005)
§ 152.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPS). Structural or non-structural practices, or
a combination of practices, designed to act as effective, practicable means of
minimizing the impacts of development and human activities on water quality.
Traditional structural BMPs, including extended detention dry ponds, wet ponds,
infiltration trenches and sand filtration systems, are now common elements of
most new development projects. Structural BMPs rely heavily on gravitational
settling and/or the infiltration of soluble nutrients through a porous medium
for pollutant removal. Non-structural BMPs, which may be used independently or
in conjunction with structural BMPs, rely on a much wider breadth of mechanisms
to prevent or control NPS pollution. Non-structural BMPs range from programs
that increase public awareness to prevent pollution, to the implementation of
control-oriented techniques (such as bioretention and storm water wetlands)
that utilize vegetation to enhance pollutant removal and restore the
infiltrative capacity of the landscape.
   CLEAN WATER ACT (CWA). The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. §§
1251 et seq.), any subsequent amendments thereto; and all rules and regulations
promulgated pursuant to said Act.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Activities subject to NPDES construction permits.
These include construction projects resulting in land disturbance of one acre
or more, as defined in 327 I.A.C. 15-5-1:12 (Rule 5). Such activities include,
but are not limited to, clearing and grubbing, grading, excavating and
demolition.
   FACILITY. Any facility, including construction sites, required by the
Federal Clean Water Act, being U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., to have a permit to
discharge storm water associated with industrial activity.
   UTILITY SUPERVISOR AND/OR THE TOWN’S DESIGNEES. The town’s Utility
Supervisor and/or the Town Council’s designee(s) designated to enforce and
administer this subchapter.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any material, including any substance, waste or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration or physical,
chemical or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety, property
or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or
otherwise managed.
   ILLICIT CONNECTIONS. Either of the following:
      (1)   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface,
which allows an illicit discharge to enter the storm drainage system including,
but not limited to, any conveyances which allow any non-storm water discharge
including sewage, process wastewater and wash water to enter the storm drainage
system and any connections to the storm drainage system from indoor drains and
sinks, regardless of whether said drain or connection had been previously
allowed, permitted or approved by the town’s Utility Supervisor and/or the Town
Council’s designee(s); or
      (2)   Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial
land use to the storm drainage system which has not been documented in plans,
maps or equivalent records and approved by the town’s Utility Supervisor and/or
the Town Council’s designee(s).
   ILLICIT DISCHARGE. Any direct or indirect non-storm water discharge to the
storm drainage system, except as exempted in §
152.05 of this chapter.
   INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY. Activities subject to NPDES industrial permits as
defined by 327 I.A.C. 15-6-1:12 (Rule 6).
   MAXIMUM EXTENT PRACTICABLE (MEP). The statutory standard that establishes
the level of pollutant reductions that operators of regulated MS4s must
achieve. The CWA requires that NPDES permits for discharges from MS4s “shall
require controls to reduce the discharge of pollutants to the maximum extent
practicable, including management practices, control techniques and system,
design and engineering methods.” This standard applies to all MS4s regulated
under the Phase I and Phase II (Rule 13) storm water rules. Compliance with the
conditions of Rule 13 and the series of steps associated with implementation of
the required six minimum control measures will satisfy the MEP standard.
Compliance with the six minimum control measures requires the development and
implementation of BMPs. Implementation of the BMPs includes not only the
actions necessary to initiate and continue the use of specific control
measures, but also the enforcement actions, as applicable, to ensure that the
implementation of the control measures occurs.
   MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4). A conveyance or system of
conveyances (including roads with drainage systems, municipal streets, catch
basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, human-made channels or storm drains), which
are owned or operated by a state, town, county, tribe, district, association or
other public body or a designated and approved management agency under § 208 of
the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1288 that discharges into waters of the
United States (40 C.F.R. § 122.26(b)(8)).
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORM WATER
DISCHARGE PERMIT. A permit issued by the state’s Department of Environmental
Management (IDEM) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants to waters of the
United States, whether the permit is applicable to an individual, a group or on
a general area-wide basis.
   NON-STORM WATER DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the storm drainage system that
is not composed entirely of storm water.
   NOTICE OF INTENT (NOP). A written notification indicating a person’s
intention to comply with the terms of a specified general permit rule in lieu
of applying for an individual NPDES permit and includes information as required
under 327 I.A.C. 15-3 and the applicable general permit rule.
   PERSON. Any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm,
corporation or other entity recognized by law and acting as either the owner or
as the owner’s agent.
   PERMIT HOLDER. Any person, partnership, corporation or landowner who holds,
or has been issued an NPDES storm water discharge permit.
   POLLUTANT. Anything which causes or contributes to pollution. POLLUTANTS may
include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes and solvents; oil and other
automotive fluids, non-hazardous liquid, solid wastes, yard wastes, refuse,
rubbish, garbage, litter or other discarded or abandoned objects, ordinances
and accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to pollution;
floatables; pesticides, herbicides and fertilizers; hazardous substances and
wastes; sewage, gray water, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and
particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from
constructing a building or structure; and noxious or offensive matter of any
kind.
   PREMISES. Any building, lot, parcel of land or portion of land, whether
improved or unimproved, including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
   RECEIVING WATERS. Rivers, streams, lakes or any body of water into which
wastewater is discharged.
   STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM. Any publicly-owned or regulated drainage system
within the jurisdiction of the permit holder by which storm water is collected
and/or conveyed, including, but not limited to, any roads with drainage
systems, municipal streets, gutters, curbs, inlets, piped storm drains,
retention and detention basins, natural and human-made or altered drainage
channels, reservoirs and other drainage structures.
   STORM WATER CONVEYANCE SYSTEMS. All storm sewer pipes, ditches, catch basins
and other structures, including retention and detention facilities.
   STORM WATER. Water resulting from rain, melting or melted snow, hail or
sleet.
   STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP). A document which describes
the best management practices and activities to be implemented by a person or
business to identify sources of pollution or contamination at a site and the
actions to eliminate or reduce pollutant discharges into storm water conveyance
systems and/or receiving waters to the maximum extent practicable.
   WASTEWATER. Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated storm
water, discharged from a facility.
   WATERS OF THE UNITED STATES. A term used in federal regulations that defines
all water bodies regulated as waters of the United States. It includes:
      (1)   All waters which may be susceptible to use in interstate or foreign
commerce;
      (2)   All interstate waters, including interstate wetlands;
      (3)   All other waters, such as intrastate lakes, rivers, streams
(including intermittent streams), mud flats, sandflats, wetlands, sloughs,
prairie potholes, wet meadows, playa lakes or natural ponds, the use,
degradation or destruction of which could affect interstate or foreign commerce
including any such waters;
      (4)   All impoundments of waters otherwise defined as waters of the
United States;
      (5)   Tributaries of waters identified in this section;
      (6)   The territorial seas; and
      (7)   Wetlands adjacent to waters.
   WATERCOURSE. A conduit through which water flows, a natural body of running
water flowing on or under the earth or a natural or artificial channel through
which water flows.
(Ord. 2005-12, passed 11-21-2005)
§ 152.03  APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall apply to all landowners, permit holders, developers,
other entities in possession or other persons acting without the consent of a
landowner which affects any real estate located within the town, which either:
   (A)   Directly discharges into a regulated drain established by the Town
Council, pursuant to I.C. 36-9-27;
   (B)   Directly discharges into a street drain located within the town;
   (C)   Directly discharges into Cicero Creek, Morse Reservoir and Hinkle
Creek;
   (D)   Is included in the MS4 jurisdiction as defined in the notice of intent
unless covered by another MS4 illicit discharge and elimination ordinance; and
   (E)   Directly discharges into a watercourse as established by I.C. 10-14-3.
(Ord. 2005-12, passed 11-21-2005)
§ 152.04  RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The town’s Utility Supervisor and/or the Town Council’s designee(s)
shall administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this subchapter
within its jurisdiction. Any powers granted or duties imposed upon the town’s
Utility Supervisor and/or the Town Council’s designee(s) may be delegated in
writing by the Town Council to persons or entities acting in the beneficial
interest of or in the employ of the county.
   (B)   The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this
subchapter intended to comply with the NPDES permit issued to the town.
However, nothing herein shall be construed to ensure that there will be no
contamination, pollution, nor unauthorized discharge of pollutants into the
waters of the United States.
(Ord. 2005-12, passed 11-21-2005)
§ 152.05  DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged directly or
indirectly into the municipal storm drainage system or watercourses any
materials, including, but not limited to, pollutants or waters containing any
pollutants that cause or contribute to a violation of applicable water quality
standards, other than storm water.
   (B)   The following discharges are exempt from discharge prohibitions
established by this subchapter:
      (1)   Water line flushing or other potable water sources, landscape
irrigation or lawn watering, diverted stream flows, rising ground water, ground
water infiltration to storm drains, uncontaminated pumped ground water,
foundation or footing drains (not including active ground water dewatering
systems), crawl space pumps, sump pumps, air-conditioning condensation,
springs, non-commercial washing of vehicles, natural riparian habitat or
wetland flows, swimming pools (if dechlorinated - typically less than one PPM
chlorine), firefighting activities and any other water source not containing
pollutants;
      (2)   Discharges specified in a permit approved by the town’s Utility
Supervisor and/or the Town Council’s designee(s) as being either:
         (a)   Necessary to protect public health and safety; or
         (b)   Non-threatening to the public health or safety or resulting in a
discharge that would be contrary to the purpose of this subchapter.
      (3)   Dye testing is an allowable discharge, but requires a verbal
notification to the town’s Utility Supervisor and/or the Town Council’s
designee(s) prior to the time of the test; and
      (4)   Any non-storm water discharge permitted under an NPDES permit,
waiver or waste discharge order issued to the discharger and administered under
the authority of the Federal Environmental Protection Agency; provided that,
the discharger is in full compliance with all requirements of the permit,
waiver or order and other applicable laws and regulations; and, provided that,
written approval has been granted for any discharge to the storm drainage
system.
(Ord. 2005-12, passed 11-21-2005)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.06  ILLICIT CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of direct or
indirect illicit connections to the storm drainage system is prohibited.
   (B)   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
(Ord. 2005-12, passed 11-21-2005)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.07  SUSPENSION OF MS4 ACCESS.
   (A)   Suspension due to illicit discharges in emergency situations. The
town’s Utility Supervisor and/or the Town Council’s designee(s) may, without
prior notice, suspend MS4 discharge access to a person when such suspension is
necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge which presents or may
present imminent and substantial danger to the environment to the health or
welfare of persons, to the MS4, or waters of the United States. If the violator
fails to comply with a suspension order issued in an emergency, the town’s
Utility Supervisor and/or the Town Council’s designee(s) may take such steps as
deemed necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the MS4, to the waters of the
United States or to minimize danger to persons.
   (B)   Suspension due to the detection of illicit discharge. Any person
discharging to the MS4 in violation of this subchapter may have his or her MS4
access terminated if such termination would abate or reduce an illicit
discharge. The town’s Utility Supervisor and/or the Town Council’s designee(s)
will notify a violator of the proposed termination of its MS4 access, in the
event of suspension, the violator may petition the Town Council for a
reconsideration and hearing.
(Ord. 2005-12, passed 11-21-2005)
§ 152.08  INDUSTRIAL, CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY DISCHARGES.
   Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES storm
water discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit. Proof
of compliance with said permit may be required in a form acceptable to the
town’s Utility Supervisor and/or the Town Council’s designee(s) prior to the
allowing of discharges to the MS4.
(Ord. 2005-12, passed 11-21-2005)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.09  MONITORING DISCHARGES.
   (A)   The town’s Utility Supervisor and/or the Town Council’s designee(s)
shall be permitted to enter and inspect the premises of a permit holder subject
to regulation under this subchapter as often as may be necessary to determine
compliance with this subchapter. If a permit holder has security measures in
force which require proper identification and clearance before entry into its
premises, the permit holder shall make the necessary arrangements to allow
access to representatives of the town’s Utility Supervisor and/or the Town
Council’s designee(s).
   (B)   Facility operators shall allow the town’s Utility Supervisor and/or
the Town Council’s designee(s) ready access to all parts of the permit holder’s
premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, examination and copying of
records that must be kept under the conditions of an NPDES permit to discharge
storm water and the performance of any additional duties as defined by state
and federal law.
   (C)   The town’s Utility Supervisor and/or the Town Council’s designee(s)
shall have the right to install and maintain on any permit holder’s facility
such devices as are necessary in the opinion of the town’s Utility Supervisor
and/or the Town Council’s designee(s) to conduct monitoring and/or sampling of
the facility’s storm water discharge.
   (D)   The town’s Utility Supervisor and/or the Town Council’s designee(s)
may require the permit holder to install monitoring equipment as necessary. The
permit holder’s sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all
times in a safe and proper operating condition by the permit holder at its own
expense. All devices used to measure storm water flow and quality shall be
calibrated to ensure their accuracy.
   (E)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the
facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the permit
holder at the written or oral request of the town’s Utility Supervisor and/or
the Town Council’s designee(s) and shall not be replaced. The costs of clearing
such access shall be borne by the permit holder.
   (F)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the town’s Utility Supervisor and/or
the Town Council’s designee(s) access to a permit holder’s facility is a
violation of a storm water discharge permit and of this subchapter. A permit
holder that discharges storm water associated with industrial activity commits
an offense if the person denies the town’s Utility Supervisor and/or the Town
Council’s designee(s) reasonable access to the permitted facility for the
purpose of conducting any activity authorized or required by this subchapter.
   (G)   If the town’s Utility Supervisor and/or the Town Council’s designee(s)
has been refused access to any part of the premises from which storm water is
discharged, and he or she is able to demonstrate probable cause to believe that
there may be a violation of this subchapter, or that there is a need to inspect
and/or sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling program designed to
verify compliance with this subchapter or any order issued hereunder, or to
protect the overall public health, safety and welfare of the community, then
the town’s Utility Supervisor and/or the Town Council’s designee(s) may seek
issuance of a search warrant from any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2005-12, passed 11-21-2005)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.10  BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.
   The town’s Utility Supervisor and/or the Town Council’s designee(s) will
adopt requirements identifying best management practices (BMPs) for any
activity, operation or facility which may cause or contribute to pollution or
contamination of storm water, the storm drainage system or waters of the United
States. The owner or operator of a commercial or industrial establishment shall
provide, at his, her or their own expense, reasonable protection from
accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other wastes into the municipal
storm drainage system or watercourses through the use of these structural and
non-structural BMPs. Further, any person responsible for a property or premise,
which is, or may be, the source of an illegal discharge, may be required to
implement, at said person’s expense, additional structural and non-structural
BMPs to prevent the further discharge of pollutants to the municipal separate
storm sewer system. Compliance with all terms and conditions of a valid NPDES
permit authorizing the discharge of storm water associated with industrial
activity, to the extent practicable, shall be deemed compliant with the
provisions of this section. These BMPs shall be part of a storm water pollution
prevention plan (SWPPP) as necessary for compliance with requirements of the
NPDES permit.
(Ord. 2005-12, passed 11-21-2005)
§ 152.11  WATERCOURSE PROTECTION.
   Every person owning or occupying property through which a watercourse
passes, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within the
property free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation and other substances that
would pollute or contaminate the flow of water. In addition, the owner and/or
lessee shall maintain existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to
a watercourse, so that such structures will not become a hazard to the use,
function or physical integrity of the watercourse.
(Ord. 2005-12, passed 11-21-2005)
§ 152.12  NOTIFICATION OF SPILLS.
   Not withstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person
responsible for a facility or operation, or responsible for emergency response
for a facility or operation has information of any known or suspected release
of materials which are resulting or may result in illicit discharges or
pollutants discharging into storm water, the storm drainage system or water of
the United States, said person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the
discovery, containment and cleanup of such release. In the event of such a
release of hazardous materials, said person shall immediately notify emergency
response agencies of the occurrence via emergency dispatch services. In the
event of a release of an illicit discharge, said person shall immediately
notify the town’s Utility Supervisor and/or the Town Council’s designee(s). If
the discharge of prohibited materials emanates from a commercial or industrial
establishment, the owner or operator of such establishment shall also retain an
on-site written record of the discharge and the actions taken to prevent its
recurrence. Such records shall be retained for at least three years.
(Ord. 2005-12, passed 11-21-2005)
§ 152.13  NOTICE OF VIOLATION; APPEAL.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever the town’s Utility Supervisor and/or the Town Council’s
designee(s) finds that a person has violated a prohibition or failed to meet a
requirement of this subchapter, the town’s Utility Supervisor and/or the Town
Council’s designee(s) may order compliance by written notice of violation by
either certified mail or in person to (he responsible person. Such notice may
require the violator to cure or mitigate the violation by requiring the
responsible perform any or all of the following:
         (a)   The performance of monitoring, analysis and reporting;
         (b)   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
         (c)   The violating discharges, practices or operations shall cease
and desist;
         (d)   The abatement or remediation of storm water pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
         (e)   Payment of remediation costs; and
         (f)   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
      (2)   If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property
is required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which such
remediation or restoration must be completed. Said notice shall further advise
that, should the violator fail to remediate or restore within the established
deadline, the work will be done by a designated governmental agency or a
contractor and the expense thereof shall be charged to the violator.
   (B)   (1)   Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal the
determination of violation to the town’s Utility Supervisor and/or the Town
Council’s designee(s).
      (2)   The notice of appeal must be received within seven days from the
date of the notice of violation. A hearing on the appeal before the town’s
Utility Supervisor and/or the Town Council’s designee(s) shall take place
within 15 days from the date of receipt of the notice of appeal. In the event
the landowner disagrees with the determination of the town’s Supervisor and/or
the Town Council’s designee(s) the landowner may appeal a decision of the
town’s Supervisor and/or the Town Council’s designee(s) to the Town Council and
any appeal of a municipality’s authorized enforcement officer to the Town
Council.
(Ord. 2005-12, passed 11-21-2005)
§ 152.14  ENFORCEMENT MEASURES AFTER APPEAL.
   If any violation of this subchapter has not been corrected as set forth in a
notice of violation, within 15 days of said notice, or the exhaustion of any
appeal, the town’s Utility Supervisor and/or the Town Council’s designee(s), or
any municipality, may, but is not required to, take all measures necessary to
abate the violation and/or restore the property. The costs of abatement, or
restoration, shall be assessed against the owner of the property and may be
filed as a lien against the property in the amount of the assessment, or
reduced to a judgment lien.
(Ord. 2005-12, passed 11-21-2005)
§ 152.15  COST OF ABATEMENT OF VIOLATION.
   Within 15 clays after the town’s Utility Supervisor and/or the Town
Council’s designee(s) taking action to abate a violation, the owner or party in
possession of the property will be notified of the cost of abatement, including
administrative costs incurred in curing the violation. The property owner may
file a written protest objecting to the amount of the assessment within ten
days to the Town Council. If the amount due is not paid within 30 days of the
decision of the town’s Utility Supervisor and/or the Town Council’s designee
(s)or by the expiration of the time in which to file an appeal, the town may
file a civil action to collect said costs, plus interest and reasonable
attorney’s fees.
(Ord. 2005-12, passed 11-21-2005)
§ 152.16  INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   In addition to any remedy set out herein, the Town Council may seek
injunctive relief to enjoin violations of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2005-12, passed 11-21-2005)
§ 152.17  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and became effective 1-2-2006.
(Ord. 2005-12, passed 11-21-2005)
CONSTRUCTION, POST-CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES; RUNOFF
§ 152.30  INTRODUCTION; PURPOSE.
   (A)   During the construction process, soil is highly vulnerable to erosion
by wind and water. Eroded soil endangers water resources by reducing water
quality and causing the siltation of aquatic habitat for fish and other
species. Eroded soil also necessitates repair of sewers and ditches and the
dredging of lakes. In addition, clearing and grading during construction cause
the loss of native vegetation necessary for terrestrial and aquatic habitat.
Following the completion of construction activities, dust, dirt and erosion
will continue to affect the storm water facilities and receiving streams unless
post-construction practices are put in place during the construction and
maintained in perpetuity.
   (B)   As a result, the purpose of this subchapter is to safeguard persons,
protect property and prevent damage to the environment in the town. This
subchapter will also promote the public welfare by guiding, regulating and
controlling the design, construction, use and maintenance of any development or
other activity that disturbs or breaks the topsoil or results in the movement
of earth in the town.
   (C)   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish minimum storm water
management requirements and controls to protect and safeguard the general
health, safety and welfare of the public residing in watersheds within this
jurisdiction. This subchapter seeks to meet that purpose through the following
objectives:
      (1)   Minimize increases in storm water runoff from any development in
order to reduce flooding, siltation and stream bank erosion and maintain the
integrity of stream channels;
      (2)   Minimize increases in non-point source pollution caused by storm
water;
      (3)   Minimize increases in non-point source pollution caused by storm
water runoff from development which would otherwise degrade local water
quality;
      (4)   Minimize the total annual volume of surface water runoff which
flows from any specific site during and following development to not exceed the
pre-development hydrologic regime to the maximum extent practicable; and
      (5)   Reduce storm water runoff rates and volumes, soil erosion and non-
point source pollution, wherever possible, through storm water management
controls and to ensure that these management controls are properly maintained
and pose no threat to public safety.
(Ord. 2005-13, passed 11-21-2005)
§ 152.31  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Tillage, planting, cultivation or
harvesting operations for the production of agricultural or nursery vegetative
crops. The term also includes pasture renovation and establishment, the
construction of agricultural conservation practices and the installation and
maintenance of agricultural drainage tiles. For the purposes of this
subchapter, the term does not include land disturbing activities for the
construction of agricultural-related facilities such as barns, buildings to
house livestock, roads associated with infrastructure, other infrastructure,
agricultural waste lagoons and facilities that process residential, workshop or
human wastes, and lakes, pond and wetlands; and other infrastructure.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPS). Structural or non-structural practices, or
a combination of practices, designed to act as effective, practicable means of
minimizing the impacts of development and human activities on water quality.
Traditional structural BMPs, including extended detention dry ponds, wet ponds,
infiltration trenches and sand filtration systems, are now common elements of
most new development projects. Structural BMPs rely heavily on gravitational
settling and/or the infiltration of soluble nutrients through a porous medium
for pollutant removal. Non-structural BMPs, which may be used independently or
in conjunction with structural BMPs, rely on a much wider breadth of mechanisms
to prevent or control NPS pollution. Non-structural BMPs range from programs
that increase public awareness to prevent pollution, to the implementation of
control-oriented techniques (such as bioretention and storm water wetlands)
that utilize vegetation to enhance pollutant removal and restore the
infiltrative capacity of the landscape.
   BUILDING COMMISSIONER AND/OR TOWN’S DESIGNEE. The Arcadia Building
Commissioner and/or other designees appointed by the Town Council of Arcadia
designated to enforce this subchapter.
   CLEARING. Any activity that removes the vegetative surface cover.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Land disturbing activities and land disturbing
activities associated with the construction of infrastructure and structures.
This term does not include routine ditch or road maintenance or minor
landscaping projects.
   CONSTRUCTION PLAN. A representation of a project site and all activities
associated with the project. The plan includes the location of the project
site, buildings and other infrastructure, grading activities, schedules for
implementation and other pertinent information related to the project site. A
storm water pollution prevention plan is a part of the CONSTRUCTION PLAN.
   CONTRACTOR or SUBCONTRACTOR. An individual or company hired by the project
site owner, or by an individual lot owner or individual lot operator to perform
services on or connected to the project site or individual lot.
   DEVELOPER. Any person financially responsible for construction activity; or
an owner of property who sells or leases, or offers for sale or lease, any lots
in a subdivision.
   EROSION. The detachment and movement of soil, sediment or rock fragments by
water, wind, ice or gravity.
   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL MEASURE. A practice, or a combination of
practices, to control erosion and resulting sedimentation.
   EROSION CONTROL. A measure that prevents erosion.
   GRADING. The cutting and filling of the land surface to a desired slope or
elevation.
   LAND DISTURBANCE or LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any man-made change of the
land surface, including removing vegetative cover that exposes the underlying
soil, excavating, filling, transporting and grading.
   MEASURABLE STORM EVENT. A precipitation event that results in a total
measured precipitation accumulation equal to, or greater than, one-half inch of
rainfall.
   MAXIMUM EXTENT PRACTICABLE. The use of a practice or procedure that attains
the highest result that is economically and technically reasonable under the
circumstances.
   PROJECT SITE. The entire area on which construction activity is to be
performed.
   PROJECT SITE OWNER. The person required to submit the NOI letter per Rule 5
and required to comply with the terms of this subchapter, and Rule 5, including
a developer; or a person who has financial and operational control of
construction activities and project plans and specifications, including the
ability to make modifications to those plans and specifications.
   RULE 5. The rules promulgated under 327 I.A.C. 15-5 et seq., as amended.
   RULE 13. The rules promulgated under 327 I.A.C. 15-3 et seq., as amended.
   SEDIMENT. Solid material (both mineral and organic) that is in suspension,
is being transported or has been moved from its place of origin by air, water,
gravity or ice and has come to rest on the earth’s surface.
   SEDIMENT CONTROL. Measures that prevent sediment from leaving the project
site.
   SOIL. The unconsolidated mineral and organic material on the surface of the
earth that serves as the natural medium for the growth of plants.
   SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION DISTRICT or SWCD. A political subdivision
established under I.C. 14-32.
   STORM WATER. Water resulting from rain, melting or melted snow, hail or
sleet.
   STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP). A plan developed to minimize
the impact of storm water pollution resulting from construction and post-
construction activities. The plan indicates the specific measures and
sequencing to be used to control sediment, soil erosion and other construction
site wastes during and after construction.
   STORM WATER QUALITY MEASURE. A practice, or a combination of practices, to
control or minimize pollutants associated with storm water runoff.
   SUBDIVISION. Any land that is divided or proposed to be divided into lots,
whether contiguous or subject to zoning requirements, for the purpose of sale
or lease as part of a larger common plan of development or sale.
   TECHNICAL REVIEW AND COMMENT FORM. A form issued by the town’s Building
Commissioner and/or by the town’s designee stating that the storm water
pollution prevention plan is adequate or stating revisions needed in the SWPPP.
   TRAINED INDIVIDUAL. An individual who is trained and experienced in the
principles of storm water quality, including erosion and sediment control as
may be demonstrated by state registration, professional certification,
experience or completion of coursework that enable the individual to make
judgments regarding storm water control or treatment and monitoring.
   WATER QUALITY VOLUME (WQv). The storage needed to capture and treat 90% of
the average annual storm water runoff volume. Numerically, WQv will vary as a
function of long-term rainfall statistical data.
   WATERS OF THE UNITED STATES. A term used in federal regulations that defines
all water bodies regulated as waters of the United States. It includes:
      (1)   All waters which may be susceptible to use in interstate or foreign
commerce;
      (2)   All interstate waters, including interstate wetlands;
      (3)   All other waters, such as intrastate lakes, rivers, streams
(including intermittent streams), mud flats, sandflats, wetlands, sloughs,
prairie potholes, wet meadows, playa lakes or natural ponds, the use,
degradation or destruction of which could affect interstate or foreign commerce
including any such waters;
      (4)   All impoundments of waters otherwise defined as waters of the
United States;
      (5)   Tributaries of waters identified in this section;
      (6)   The territorial seas; and
      (7)   Wetlands adjacent to waters.
   WATERSHED. An area of land from which water drains to a common point.
(Ord. 2005-13, passed 11-21-2005)
§ 152.32  APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The requirements under this subchapter are in compliance with 327
I.A.C. 15-5 (Rule 5) and apply to all persons meeting the requirements of 327
I.A.C. 15-5-2. In general, this subchapter requires the control of polluted
run-off from construction sites with a land disturbance greater than or equal
to one acre, or disturbances of less than one acre of land that are part of a
larger common plan of development or sale if the larger common plan will
disturb one or more acres of land as part of the same project.
   (B)   The requirements under this rule do not apply to persons who are
involved in agricultural land disturbing activities or forest harvesting
activities.
   (C)   The requirements under this rule do not apply to the following
activities; provided, other applicable permits contain provisions requiring
immediate implementation of soil erosion control measures:
      (1)   Landfills that have been issued a certification of closure under
329 I.A.C. 10;
      (2)   Coal mining activities permitted under I.C. 14-34;
      (3)   Municipal solid waste landfills that are accepting waste pursuant
to a permit issued by the Department under 329 I.A.C. 10 that contains
equivalent storm water requirements, including the expansion of landfill
boundaries and construction of new cells either within or outside the original
solid waste permit boundary; and
      (4)   Road and regulated drain maintenance.
   (D)   In addition to the requirements of this subchapter, storm water
pollution prevention plans shall be developed in accordance with the current
town standards and specifications to ensure that established water quality
standards will be maintained during and after development of the site and that
post construction runoff levels are consistent with any local and regional
watershed plans.
(Ord. 2005-13, passed 11-21-2005)
§ 152.33  SUBMITTALS, REVIEW AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   A technical review and comment form stating that the “plan is
adequate” and an improvement location permit shall be obtained prior to the
initiation of any land disturbing activities.
   (B)   A complete storm water pollution prevention plan and erosion and
sediment control plan shall be submitted in triplicate to the town’s Building
Commissioner and/or the town’s designee.
   (C)   At the time of submittal, the date and time will be recorded.
   (D)   Each application shall bear the name(s) and address(es) of the owner
or developer of the project site, and of any consulting firm retained by the
applicant together with the name of the applicant’s principal contact at such
firm and shall be accompanied by a filing fee, included in the schedule of fees
of the town.
   (E)   (1)   Each application shall include a statement that any land
clearing, construction or development involving the movement of earth shall be
in accordance with the storm water pollution prevention plan.
      (2)   The town’s Building Commissioner and/or the town’s designee will
review each application for a Rule 5 permit to determine its conformance with
the provisions of this regulation.
      (3)   Within 28 days after receiving an application, the town’s Building
Commissioner and/or the town’s designee shall, in writing:
         (a)   Approve the erosion and sediment control plan and SWPPP and
provide a technical review and comment form stating that the “plan is adequate”
and issue an improvement location permit;
         (b)   Approve the erosion and sediment control plan and SWPPP subject
to such reasonable conditions as may be necessary to secure substantially the
objectives of this regulation, and issue the technical review and comment form
stating that the “plan is adequate” and issue an improvement location permit;
or
         (c)   Provide a technical review and comment form stating that the
“plan is deficient” and indicating the reason(s) and procedure for submitting a
revised application and/or submission.
   (F)   Failure of the town’s Building Commissioner and/or the town’s designee
to act on an original or revised application within 28 days of receipt shall
authorize the applicant to proceed in accordance with the plans as filed unless
such time is extended by agreement between the applicant and the Town Council.
   (G)   The sufficiency of the construction plans shall be based upon Rule 5
regulations and the design criteria described in the current town standards and
specifications.
   (H)   After receiving a technical review and comment form stating that the
“plan is adequate”, if revisions to the construction plans require a change in
measures appropriate to control the quality or quantity of storm water runoff,
then revised plans must be submitted to the town’s Building Commissioner and/or
the town’s designee.
   (I)   The applicant will be required to file with the Town Council, a
performance bond, letter of credit or other improvement surety in an amount
deemed sufficient by the town’s Building Commissioner and/or the town’s
designee to cover all costs of improvements, landscaping maintenance of
improvements for such period as specified by the SWPPP, and engineering and
inspection costs to cover the cost of failure to repair of improvements
installed on the project site.
   (J)   After receiving a technical review and comment form stating that the
“plan is adequate” from the town’s Building Commissioner and/or the town’s
designee, and at least 48 hours prior to the start of construction, the
following shall be submitted to the state’s Department of Environmental
Management and town’s Building Commissioner and/or the town’s designee:
      (1)   Notice of intent form (required by 327 I.A.C. 15-5);
      (2)   A copy of the technical review and comment form stating that the
“plan is adequate”; and
      (3)   Proof of Publication required by 327 I.A.C. 15-5-5(9).
   (K)   The project site owner must submit a notice of termination (NOT)
letter to IDEM and transmit a copy of the NOT letter to the town’s Building
Commissioner and/or the town’s designee when all land disturbing activities
have been completed, the entire project site has been stabilized and all
temporary erosion and sediment control measures have been removed.
   (L)   Upon receipt of the NOT, the town’s Building Commissioner and/or the
town’s designee shall make a final inspection of the site and upon satisfaction
that all conditions have been addressed shall request that the surety be
released by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2005-13, passed 11-21-2005)
§ 152.34  STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN.
   The storm water pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) including erosion and
sediment control measures shall meet the requirements contained in Rule 5, the
town’s Drainage Standards Manual and the state’s Storm Water Quality Manual.
(Ord. 2005-13, passed 11-21-2005)
§ 152.35  DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Erosion and sediment control measures shall be designed and installed
in accordance with Rule 5, the town’s Drainage Standards Manual and the state’s
Storm Water Quality Manual.
   (B)   Unless judged by the town’s Building Commissioner and/or the town’s
designee to be exempt or granted a waiver, the following performance criteria
shall be addressed for storm water management at all sites.
      (1)   All site designs shall establish storm water management practices
to control the peak flow rates of storm water discharge associated with
specified design storms and reduce the generation of storm water. These
practices should seek to utilize pervious areas for storm water treatment and
to infiltrate storm water runoff from driveways, sidewalks, rooftops, parking
lots and landscaped areas to the maximum extent practical to provide treatment
for both water quality and quantity.
      (2)   All storm water runoff generated from new development shall not
discharge directly into a jurisdictional wetland or waters of the United States
without adequate treatment. Where such discharges are proposed, the impact of
the proposal on wetland functional values shall be assessed using a method
acceptable to the jurisdictional storm water authority. In no case shall the
impact on functional values be any less than allowed by the Army Corp of
Engineers (ACE) or the state’s Department of Natural Resources.
      (3)   Annual ground water recharge rates shall be maintained, by
promoting infiltration through the use of structural and non-structural
methods.
      (4)   For new development, structural best management practices (BMPs)
shall be designed to remove to the maximum extent practicable of the average
annual post development total suspended solids load (TSS). It is presumed that
a BMP complies with this performance standard if it is:
         (a)   Sized to capture the prescribed water quality volume (Wqv);
         (b)   Designed according to the specific performance criteria outlined
in the local storm water design manual;
         (c)   Constructed properly; and
         (d)   Maintained regularly.
   (C)   A list of pre-approved post-construction BMPs along with procedures to
be followed for approval of innovative BMPs or BMPs not in the pre-approved
list are provided in the town’s drainage standards and specifications.
(Ord. 2005-13, passed 11-21-2005)
§ 152.36  INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   A self-monitoring program by the project site owner is required during
construction of any project described in §
152.32 of this chapter. A trained individual employed or retained by the
project site owner shall prepare and maintain a written evaluation of the
project site by the end of the next business day following each measurable
storm event and at a minimum, one time per week.
   (B)   The evaluation must address the maintenance of existing storm water
quality measures to ensure they are functioning properly; and identify
additional measures necessary to remain in compliance with all applicable
statutes and rules.
   (C)   Written evaluation reports must include the following:
      (1)   The name of the individual performing the evaluation;
      (2)   The date of the evaluation;
      (3)   Problems identified at the project site; and
      (4)   Details of corrective actions recommended and completed.
   (D)   All evaluation reports for the project site must be made available to
the inspecting authority within one business day of a request.
   (E)   All persons engaging in construction activities on a project site must
comply with the storm water pollution prevention plan, this subchapter, Rule 5
and the town’s drainage standards and specifications.
   (F)   (1)   The town’s Building Commissioner and/or the town’s designee will
perform inspections and provide recommendations to evaluate the installation,
implementation and maintenance of control measures and management practices at
any project site involved in construction activities.
      (2)   Construction project sites will be prioritized based on the nature
and extent of the construction activity, topography and the characteristics of
soils and receiving water quality.
   (G)   If after a recommendation is provided to the project site owner,
corrective action is not taken, the town’s Building Commissioner and/or the
town’s designee will pursue enforcement according to §
152.37(A) of this chapter.
(Ord. 2005-13, passed 11-21-2005)
§ 152.37  NOTICE OF VIOLATION; APPEAL.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever the town’s Building Commissioner and/or the town’s
designee finds that a person has violated a prohibition or failed to meet a
requirement of this subchapter, the town’s Building Commissioner and/or the
town’s designee may order compliance by written notice of violation by either
certified mail or in person to the responsible person. Such notice may require
the violator to cure or mitigate the violation by requiring the responsible
person to perform any or all of the following:
         (a)   The performance of monitoring, analysis and reporting;
         (b)   The violating discharges, practices or operations shall cease
and desist;
         (c)   The abatement or remediation of storm water pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
         (d)   Payment of remediation costs; and
         (e)   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
      (2)   If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property
is required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which such
remediation or restoration must be completed. Said notice shall further advise
that, should the violator fail to remediate or restore within the established
deadline, the work will be done by a designated governmental agency or a
contractor and the expense thereof shall be charged to the violator.
   (B)   (1)   Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal the
determination of violation to the town’s Building Commissioner and/or the
town’s designee.
      (2)   The notice of appeal must be received within seven days from the
date of the notice of violation. A hearing on the appeal before the town’s
Building Commissioner and/or the town’s designee shall take place within 15
days from the date of receipt of the notice of appeal. In the event the
landowner disagrees with the determination of the town’s Building Commissioner
and/or the town’s designee, the landowner may appeal a decision of the town’s
Building Commissioner and/or the town’s designee to the Town Council and any
appeal of a municipality’s authorized enforcement officer shall also be to the
Town Council.
(Ord. 2005-13, passed 11-21-2005)
§ 152.38  ENFORCEMENT MEASURES AFTER APPEAL.
   If any violation of this subchapter has not been corrected as set forth in a
notice of violation, within 15 days of said notice, or the exhaustion of any
appeal, town’s Building Commissioner and/or the town’s designee, or any
municipality, may, but is not required to, take all measures necessary to abate
the violation and/or restore the property, The costs of abatement, or
restoration, shall be assessed against the owner of the property and may be
filed as a lien against the property in the amount of the assessment, or
reduced to a judgment lien.
(Ord. 2005-13, passed 11-21-2005)
§ 152.39  COST OF ABATEMENT OF VIOLATION.
   Within 15 days after the town’s Building Commissioner and/or the town’s
designee taking action to abate a violation, the owner or party in possession
of the property will be notified of the cost of abatement, including
administrative costs incurred in curing the violation. The property owner may
file a written protest objecting to the amount of the assessment within ten
days to the Town Council. If the amount due is not paid within 30 days of the
decision of the town’s Building Commissioner and/or the town’s designee or by
the expiration of the time in which to file an appeal, the town may file a
civil action to collect said costs, plus interest and reasonable attorney’s
fees.
(Ord. 2005-13, passed 11-21-2005)
§ 152.40  INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   In addition to any remedy set out herein, the Town Council may seek
injunctive relief to enjoin violations of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2005-13, passed 11-21-2005)
§ 152.41  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be effective on 1-2-2006.
(Ord. 2005-13, passed 11-21-2005)
§ 152.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   In addition to any of the above remedies, the violation of any terms
of §§
152.01 through
152.17 of this chapter shall be deemed a Class B infraction, and a Court of
competent jurisdiction, in addition to any other remedies contained herein, may
impose a fine upon any person or landowner who violates §§
152.01 through
152.17 of this chapter in the amount of $1,000 for each violation. Each day of
a violation may be considered a separate violation.
   (C)   In addition to any of the above remedies, the violation of any terms
of §§
152.30 through
152.41 of this chapter shall be deemed a Class B infraction, and a Court of
competent jurisdiction, in addition to any other remedies contained herein, may
impose a fine upon any person or landowner who violates §§
152.30 through
152.41 of this chapter in the amount of $1,000 for each violation. Each day of
a violation may be considered a separate violation.
(Ord. 2005-12, passed 11-21-2005; Ord. 2005-13, passed 11-21-2005)
CHAPTER 153:  MANUFACTURED HOUSING
Section
Development of Manufactured Housing In Residential Zones
   
153.01   Intent
   
153.02   Definitions
   
153.03   Applicability
   
153.04   Standards
   
153.05   Installation standards
   
153.06   Permits
   
153.07   Fee schedules and forms
   
153.08   Master plan ordinance
 
   
153.99   Penalty
DEVELOPMENT OF MANUFACTURED HOUSING IN RESIDENTIAL ZONES
§ 153.01  INTENT.
   It is the intent of this subchapter to encourage the provision of
alternative modest income housing in general residential areas by permitting
the use of certain manufactured homes, as defined herein, in all districts in
which similar dwellings constructed on site are permitted, subject to the
requirements and procedures set forth herein to assure acceptable similarity in
exterior appearance between such manufactured homes and dwellings that have
been or might be constructed under these and other lawful regulations on
adjacent or nearby lots in the same district.
(Prior Code, § 9:1:01)  (Ord. 82-3, passed 6-16-1982)
§ 153.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADD-A-ROOM UNIT. A unit of manufactured housing not designed as a part of
the original structure which may have less occupied space than a manufactured
housing section.
   ANCHORING SYSTEM. An approved system of straps, cables, turnbuckles, chains,
ties, or other approved materials used to secure a manufactured or mobile home.
   ANSI/NFPA 501 A STANDARD FOR INSTALLATION OF (MANUFACTURED) MOBILE HOMES.
Model national standards (including all authorized successor documents) for
installation of manufactured and mobile homes, as adopted and copywrited by the
National Fire Protection Association and the Manufactured Housing Institute.
   APPROVED. Acceptable to the appropriate authority having jurisdiction, by
reason of investigation, accepted principles or tests by nationally recognized
organizations.
   EXPANDO UNIT. An expandable manufactured housing unit.
   FOUNDATION SIDING/SKIRTING. A type of wainscoting constructed of fire and
weather resistant material such as aluminum, asbestos board, treated pressed
wood or other approved materials, enclosing the entire undercarriage of the
manufactured or mobile home.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A dwelling unit fabricated in an off-site manufacturing
facility for installation or assembly at the building site, bearing a seal
certifying that it is built in compliance with the Federal Manufactured Housing
Construction and Safety Standards Code or the state’s Title 675 of the Indiana
Administrative Code, as promulgated by the state’s Administrative Building
Council.
   MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A parcel of land platted for subdivision
according to all requirements of the comprehensive plan, designed or intended
for lots to be conveyed by deed to individual owners for residential occupancy
primarily by manufactured homes.
   MANUFACTURED HOUSING CONSTRUCTION AND SAFETY STANDARDS CODE. Title VI of the
1974 Housing and Community Development Act (42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq.), as
amended (previously known at the Federal Mobile Home Construction and Safety
Act), rules and regulations adopted thereunder (including information supplied
by the home manufactured, which has been stamped and approved by a design
approval primary inspection agency, an agent of the U.S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development pursuant to HUD rules), and regulations and
interpretations of said code by the state’s Administrative Building Council;
all of which became effective for mobile/ manufactured home construction on 6-
15-1976.
   MANUFACTURED OR MOBILE HOME COMMUNITY OR PARK. A parcel of land on which two
or more manufactured or mobile homes are occupied as residences.
   MOBILE HOME. A transportable structure larger than 320 square feet, designed
to be used as a year-round residential dwelling, and built prior to the
enactment of the Federal Mobile Home Construction and Safety Act of 1974, being
42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq., which became effective for all mobile home
construction 6-15-1976.
   OCCUPIED SPACE. The total area of earth horizontally covered by the
structure, excluding accessory structures, such as, but not limited to,
garages, patios and porches.
   ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY DWELLING CODE, INDIANA. The nationally recognized model
building code prepared by the Council of American Building Officials, adopted
by the Indiana Administrative Building Council (ABC) as mandated through Title
675 of the Indiana Administrative Code, and, which includes those supplements
and amendments promulgated by the ABC.
   PERMANENT PERIMETER ENCLOSURE. A permanent perimeter structural system
completely enclosing the space between the floor joists of the home and the
ground.
   PERMANENT FOUNDATION. Any structural system for transposing loads from a
structure to the earth at a depth below the established frost line without
exceeding the safe bearing capacity of the supporting soil.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A portable vehicular structure not built to the
Federal Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Code (or the
obsolete ANS1119.1 Mobile Home Design and Construction Standard) designed for
travel, recreational camping or vacation purposes, either having its own motor
power or mounted onto or drawn by another vehicle, and including, but not
limited to, travel and camping trailers, truck campers and motor homes.
   SECTION. A unit of a manufactured home at least ten body feet in width and
30 body feet in length.
   SPECIAL EXCEPTION PERMIT OR VARIANCE. A device for permitting a use within a
district other than a principally permitted use.
   SUPPORT SYSTEM. A pad or a combination of footings, piers, caps, plates and
shims, which, when properly installed, support the manufactured or mobile home.
(Prior Code, § 9:1:02)  (Ord. 82-3, passed 6-16-1982)
§ 153.03  APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Permitted placement. The establishment, location, and use of
manufactured homes as permanent residences approved individually, by specific
materials or by design, shall be permitted in any zone permitting installation
of a dwelling unit, subject to requirements and limitations applying generally
to such residential use in the district; and, provided, such manufactured or
mobile homes shall meet the following requirements and limitations:
      (1)   The dwelling shall meet the appropriate exterior appearance
standards, as hereinafter set forth in §
153.04 of this chapter;
      (2)   The dwelling shall be sited in a district where such use is
permitted; and
      (3)   The dwelling shall receive all required permits and conform to the
Comprehensive Plan and other ordinances of the town.
   (B)   Location out of parks. This subchapter shall only apply to
manufactured or mobile homes located outside of manufactured or mobile home
parks as defined in Ord. 77-Z-102 and 77-Z-103.
   (C)   Non-conforming homes. A manufactured or mobile home placed and
maintained on a tract of land and deemed to be a legal non-conforming use prior
to the adoption of this subchapter shall continue to be a legal non-conforming
use. If the non-conforming use is discontinued as set out in § 605 of Ord. 77-
Z-107, the land thereafter must be used in conformity with all provisions of
this subchapter and other ordinances and/or chapters of the code of ordinances
of the town.
   (D)   Replacement of non-conforming homes. Thereafter, upon application to
the designated administrator and subsequent approval thereof, a manufactured or
mobile home, deemed a legal non-conforming use, may be replaced by a
manufactured or mobile home, provided the replacement is of an equal or a
higher type, as specified in §
153.04 of this chapter and in § 603 of Ord. 77-Z-107; provided, however, that,
the manufactured or mobile home must be replaced within 365 days from the date
of its removal and/or destruction.
   (E)   Structural alteration. Due to its integral design, any structural
alteration or modification of a manufactured or mobile home after it is placed
on the site must be approved by the authorized building administrator of the
town.
(Prior Code, § 9:1:03)  (Ord. 82-3, passed 6-16-1982)
§ 153.04  STANDARDS.
   The establishment, location and use of manufactured or mobile homes as
scattered-site residences shall be permitted in any zone permitting
installation of a dwelling unit subject to requirements and limitations
applying generally to such residential use in the district; and, provided, such
manufactured or mobile homes shall meet the following requirements and
limitations:
   (A)   The manufactured or mobile home shall meet all requirements applicable
to single-family dwellings and possess ail necessary improvement location,
building and occupancy permits and other certifications required by the code;
   (B)   The manufactured or mobile home shall be larger than 950 square feet
of occupied space;
   (C)   Be placed and anchored onto a permanent foundation;
   (D)   Utilize a permanent perimeter enclosure foundation in accordance with
approved installation standards and in compliance with the Indiana Building
Code for single-family residential dwellings;
   (E)   Be anchored to the ground, in accordance with the Indiana One- and
Two-Family Dwelling Code and to the manufacturer’s specifications;
   (F)   Have wheels, axles and hitch mechanisms removed;
   (G)   Be located on a lot with sewage and water hookup, and have said
utilities connected, in accordance with the Indiana One- and Two-Family
Dwelling Code and manufacturer’s specifications;
   (H)   Be located on a lot with a minimum lot size of 6,000 square feet and
shall comply with all other requirements of the Master Plan for the district in
which the home is to be located;
   (I)   Must meet the minimum rear, side and front yard setback line
requirements of the zoning ordinance (Ord. 77-Z-107);
   (J)   Must provide a minimum area of ten feet by 40 feet for off street
parking;
   (K)   The manufactured or mobile home must conform to and be in compliance
with Title 675 of the Indiana Administrative Code;
   (L)   The home shall be covered with one of the following siding materials,
and such material shall extend over the top of the foundation:
      (1)   Residential horizontal aluminum lap siding;
      (2)   Residential horizontal vinyl lap siding;
      (3)   Cedar or other wood siding;
      (4)   Wood grain, weather resistant, press board siding;
      (5)   Stucco siding; and
      (6)   Brick or stone siding.
   (M)   The home shall be covered with one of the following roofing materials
and shall be installed onto a surface appropriately pitched for the materials
used:
      (1)   Asbestos shingles;
      (2)   Fiberglass shingles;
      (3)   Asphalt shingles; and
      (4)   Tile materials
   (N)   The home must be at least comparable to or better than the existing
dwellings located in the area, district or neighborhood; and
   (O)   The home shall have overhangs extending from the roof.
(Prior Code, § 9:1:04)  (Ord. 82-3, passed 6-16-1982)
§ 153.05  INSTALLATION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Permanent perimeter enclosure.
      (1)   Those manufactured or mobile homes designated in the zoning
ordinance or in this subchapter as requiring a permanent perimeter enclosure
must be set onto an excavated area, with permanent perimeter enclosure
foundations, footings and crawl space or basement walls constructed in
accordance with the terms of the One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code.
      (2)   The space between the floor joists of the home and the excavated
underfloor grade shall be completely enclosed with the permanent perimeter
enclosure (except for required openings.)
   (B)   Support system.
      (1)   Manufactured homes. All HUD-Code manufactured home load-bearing
foundations shall be installed in conformance with the regulations in the One-
and Two-Family Dwelling Code and with the manufacturer’s installation
specifications.
      (2)   Title 675 of the Indiana Administrative-Code homes. All Title 675
of the Indiana Administrative Code home foundations shall be installed in
conformance with the regulations in the One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code and
with the manufacturer’s installation specifications.
(Prior Code, § 9:1:05)  (Ord. 82-3, passed 6-16-1982)
§ 153.06  PERMITS.
   (A)   Improvement location permit.
      (1)   Requirements. Prior to the location, relocation or establishment of
any manufactured or mobile home, the home owner or authorized representative
shall secure from the Plan Commission’s designated administrator an improvement
location permit, which states that the building and its location conform with
the Comprehensive Plan. Each application for an improvement location permit
shall be accompanied by:
         (a)   Those plot plans as required for all dwelling units, but which
at a minimum include elevations or photographs of all sides of the home,
exterior dimensions, roof materials, foundation siding or permanent perimeter
enclosure treatment, foundation siding or perimeter retaining wall treatment,
foundation construction and materials, exterior finished and the like;
         (b)   Health department approval for any sewage disposal or water
supply, where applicable;
         (c)   PUD or subdivision permit approval, where applicable;
         (d)   A copy of the approved instructions, which will be used for
installation purposes, where applicable;
         (e)   Such other information, as may be required by the Zoning
Ordinance and by the Plan Commission’s designated administrator for proper
enforcement of this subchapter;
         (f)   An agreement signed by the home owner or authorized
representative pledging compliance with the terms set by the Plan Commission in
the improvement location permit; and
      (2)   Issuance of permit. After receipt of the information required for
an improvement location permit, the Plan Commission’s designated Administrator
shall review the standards set in this subchapter and the Zoning Ordinance. If
the applicant has met alt required standards, then the improvement location
permit shall be issued by the designated Administrator, as set forth in §
156.267 of this code of ordinances.
      (3)   Denial of permit. If any condition and/or standard of this
subchapter, the Zoning Ordinance (Ord. 77-Z-107), or any other ordinance or
code sections of the town have not been complied with, the improvement location
permit shall be denied.
   (B)   Certificate of occupancy.
      (1)   Occupancy requirement. Prior to the occupancy of any manufactured
or mobile home, the home owner or authorized representative shall secure from
the Plan Commission’s designated Administrator, a certificate of occupancy,
stating that the building and its use comply with all provisions of this
subchapter, the Zoning Ordinance or any other ordinance or code section
applicable to the building or the use in the district in which it is to be
located.
      (2)   Issuance of certificate. After submission of an application for a
certificate of occupancy, the Plan Commission’s designated Administrator shall
inspect the property and make such referrals to other local officials for
technical determinations, as he or she deems appropriate, for conformance with
condition of the improvement location permit and the standards set in this
subchapter and the standards set in this subchapter and the Zoning Ordinance.
If the applicant has conformed with all of the required conditions and
standards, a certificate of occupancy shall be issued as set forth in §
156.269 of this code of ordinances.
      (3)   Denial of certificate. If any condition or standard of this
subchapter, the Zoning Ordinance or any other ordinance or code section have
not been complied with, the certificate of occupancy shall be denied.
   (C)   Failure to obtain required permits. Failure to obtain either an
improvement location permit or a certificate of occupancy shall be a violation
of this subchapter and punishable under the provisions of §
153.99 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9:1:06)  (Ord. 82-3, passed 6-16-1982)
§ 153.07  FEE SCHEDULES AND FORMS.
   The fee schedules and the forms required by the “Master Plan Ordinance of
Arcadia, Indiana, 1977”, as amended from time to time, shall be applicable to
and are fully incorporated in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 9:1:08)  (Ord. 82-3, passed 6-16-1982)
§ 153.08  MASTER PLAN ORDINANCE.
   (A)   (1)   The “Master Plan Ordinance of Arcadia, Indiana, 1977” (Ord. 77-
Z-100), as amended, includes the following ordinances: Ord. 77-Z-101, as
amended, Ord. 77-Z-102, as amended; Ord. 77-Z-103, as amended; Ord. 77-Z-104,
as amended; Ord. 77-Z-105, as amended; Ord. 77-Z-106, as amended; and Ord. 77-
Z-107, as amended. This subchapter shall become and be considered a part of the
“Master Plan Ordinance of Arcadia, Indiana, 1977”, as amended from time to
time, and the powers and duties of the Plan Commission, the Board of Zoning
Appeals, the Building Commissioner and the Town Council as set forth in the
various ordinances comprising the “Master Plan Ordinance of Arcadia, 1977”, as
amended, as well as all of the procedures, rules, regulations, fines,
penalties, requirement, restrictions, definitions, standards, fee schedules,
enforcement provisions and zoning districts set forth therein are fully
incorporated in this subchapter.
      (2)   Where specific definitions, permitted placement, specific
standards, specific requirements and specific limitations contained in this
subchapter, as the same applies to and/or affects only manufactured or mobile
homes, differs from or contradicts those contained in other ordinances
comprising “Master Plan Ordinance of Arcadia, Indiana 1977” as amended, this
subchapter shall be controlling.
   (B)   Usage of the words “Master Plan Code”, “Comprehensive Plan”, “Master
Plan”, “Master Plan Ordinance”, “Zoning Code” and “Zoning Ordinance” herein
refers to and means the various ordinances comprising the “Master Plan
Ordinance of Arcadia, Indiana 1977”, as amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 9:1:09)  (Ord. 82-3, passed 6-16-1982)
§ 153.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any of the
provisions of §§
153.01 through
153.08 of this chapter and/or of the “Master Plan Ordinance of Arcadia,
Indiana, 1977”, as amended from time to time, shall be subject to all of the
remedies, penalties, fines and enforcement procedures set forth in the “Master
Plan Ordinance of Arcadia, Indiana, 1977”, as amended from time to time, and
said remedies, enforcement procedures and penalties are fully incorporated in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 9:1:07)  (Ord. 82-3, passed 6-16-1982)
CHAPTER 154:  FLOODPLAINS
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Statutory authorization
   
154.02   Findings of fact
   
154.03   Statement of purpose
   
154.04   Objectives
   
154.05   Definitions
   
154.06   Lands to which chapter applies
   
154.07   Basis for establishing regulatory flood data
   
154.08   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
154.09   Compliance
   
154.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
154.11   Discrepancy between mapped floodplain and actual ground elevations
   
154.12   Interpretation
   
154.13   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
154.14   Effective date
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
154.25   General standards
   
154.26   Specific standards
   
154.27   Subdivision proposal standards
   
154.28   Critical facilities
   
154.29   Identified floodway standards
   
154.30   Identified fringe standards
   
154.31   SFHAs without established base flood elevation and/or floodway/fringe
standards
   
154.32   Flood-prone area standards
Administration
   
154.45   Administrator; duties and responsibilities
   
154.46   Permit procedures
Variance Procedures
   
154.60   Variance and Appeals Board; duties
   
154.61   Variance procedures
   
154.62   Conditions for variances
   
154.63   Variance notification
   
154.64   Historic structures
   
154.65   Special conditions
 
   
154.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01  STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The state’s legislature has, in I.C. 36-7-4, granted the power to local
government units to control land use within their jurisdictions. Therefore, the
Town Council does hereby adopt the following floodplain management regulations.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-3-2014)
§ 154.02  FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the town are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities, and by the
occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to
other land which are inadequately elevated, inadequately flood-proofed or
otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-3-2014)
§ 154.03  STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses; which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards, which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage;
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands; and
   (F)   Make federally subsidized flood insurance available for structures and
their contents in the town by fulfilling the requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-3-2014)
§ 154.04  OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To protect human life and health;
   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located
in floodplains; and
   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood blight
areas.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-3-2014)
§ 154.05  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   1% ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD.  The flood that has a 1% chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with the letter A is
subject to the 1% ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. See REGULATORY FLOOD.
   A ZONE. Portions of the SFHA in which the principal source of flooding is
runoff from rainfall, snowmelt, or a combination of both. In A ZONES, flood
waters may move slowly or rapidly, but waves are usually not a significant
threat to buildings. These areas are labeled as Zone A, Zone AE, Zones A1-A30,
Zone AO, Zone AH, Zone AR and Zone A99 on a FIRM. The definitions are presented
below.
      (1)   ZONE A. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event because detailed hydraulic analyses have not been performed, no base
flood elevation or depths are shown.
      (2)   ZONE AE AND A1-A30. Areas subject to inundation by the one-percent
annual chance flood event determined by detailed methods. Base flood elevations
are shown within these zones. (Zone AE is on new and revised maps in place of
Zones A1-A30.)
      (3)   ZONE AO. Areas subject to inundation by one-percent annual chance
shallow flooding (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain) where average depths
are between one and three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed
hydraulic analyses are shown within this zone.
      (4)   ZONE AH. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding (usually areas of ponding) where average depths are between one and
three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed hydraulic analyses are
shown within this zone.
      (5)   ZONE AR. Areas that result from the decertification of a previously
accredited flood protection system that is determined to be in the process of
being restored to provide base flood protection.
      (6)   ZONE A99. Areas subject to inundation by the one-percent annual
chance flood event, but which will ultimately be protected upon completion of
an under-construction Federal flood protection system. These are areas of
special flood hazard where enough progress has been made on the construction of
a protection system, such as dikes, dams and levees, to consider it complete
for insurance rating purposes. ZONE A99 may only be used when the flood
protection system has reached specified statutory progress toward completion.
No base flood elevations or depths are shown.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure with a floor area
400 square feet or less that is located on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should constitute a minimal initial
investment, may not be used for human habitation, and be designed to have
minimal flood damage potential. Examples of ACCESSORY STRUCTURES are detached
garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns and hay sheds
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the floodplain administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on the community’s
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation of the 1% annual chance flood.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a structure having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BOUNDARY RIVER. The part of the Ohio River that forms the boundary between
the Kentucky and Indiana.
   BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY. The floodway of a boundary river.
   BUILDING. see STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity that has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives for those communities in the regular
program that have gone beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to
develop extra measures to provide protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire and emergency response
installations, installations which produce, use or store hazardous materials or
hazardous waste.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction or placement of a structure or any
addition to a structure;
         (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
         (c)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction
of roads or similar projects;
         (d)   Construction of flood control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements and the like;
         (e)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation or drilling
operations;
         (f)   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
         (g)   Storage of materials; or
         (h)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance of
existing structures and facilities such as painting, re-roofing; resurfacing
roads; or gardening, plowing and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation or the construction of permanent
structures.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, filled stem wall foundations (also called chain walls), pilings or
columns (posts and piers).
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A certified statement that verifies a structure’s
elevation information.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The first phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP. It is intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at
subsidized rates on all insurable structures in that community before the
effective date of the initial FIRM.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA)
has delineated the areas of flood hazards and regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official hydraulic and hydrologic report
provided by FEMA. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the FIRM, FBFM
(where applicable), and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD PRONE AREA. Any land area acknowledged by a community as being
susceptible to inundation by water from any source. (See FLOOD.)
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPG). The elevation of the regulatory flood plus two
feet at any given location in the SFHA. (see FREEBOARD.)
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining any wetland, lake or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory
flood. The FLOODPLAIN includes both the floodway and the fringe districts.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This ordinance and other zoning
ordinances, subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations,
special purpose ordinances and other applications of police power which control
development in flood-prone areas. This term describes federal, state or local
regulations in any combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing
and reducing flood loss and damage. FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS are also
referred to as floodplain regulations, floodplain ordinance, flood damage
prevention ordinance and floodplain management requirements.
   FLOOD-PROOFING (DRY FLOOD-PROOFING). A method of protecting a structure that
ensures that the structure, together with attendant utilities and sanitary
facilities, is water-tight to the flood- proofed design elevation with walls
that are substantially impermeable to the passage of water. All structural
components of these walls are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy, and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOOD-PROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form used to certify compliance for non-
residential structures as an alternative to elevating structures to or above
the FPG. This certification must be by a registered professional engineer or
architect.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flood flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood.
   FRINGE. Those portions of the floodplain lying outside the floodway.
   HARDSHIP. As related to variances of this chapter, the exceptional hardship
that would result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The Board of
Zoning Appeals requires that the variance is exceptional, unusual, and peculiar
to the property involved. Mere economic or financial hardship alone is not
exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps,
personal preferences or the disapproval of one’s neighbors likewise cannot, as
a rule, qualify as an exceptional hardship. All of these problems can be
resolved through other means without granting a variance, even if the
alternative is more expensive, or requires the property owner to build
elsewhere or put the parcel to a different use than originally intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to the start of construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURES. Any structures individually fisted on the National
Register of Historic Places or the state’s Register of Historic Sites and
Structures.
   LETTER OF FINAL DETERMINATION (LFD). A letter issued by FEMA during the
mapping update process which establishes final elevations and provides the new
flood map and flood study to the community. The LFD initiates the six-month
adoption period. The community must adopt or amend its floodplain management
regulations during this six-month period unless the community has previously
incorporated an automatic adoption clause.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). A general term used to refer to the several
types of revisions and amendments to FEMA maps that can be accomplished by
letter. They include letter of map amendment (LOMA), letter of map revision
(LOMR) and letter of map revision based on fill (LOMR-F). The definitions are
presented below.
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment by letter to the
currently effective FEMA map that establishes that a property is not located in
a SFHA through the submittal of property specific elevation data. A LOMA is
only issued by FEMA.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official revision to the
currently effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones,
delineations and elevations.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). An official revision
by letter to an effective NFIP map. A LOMR-F provides FEMA’s determination
concerning whether a structure or parcel has been elevated on fill above the
BFE and excluded from the SFHA.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The lowest elevation, after completion of
construction, of the ground, sidewalk, patio, deck support or basement entryway
immediately next to the structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest elevation described among the following:
      (1)   The top of the lowest level of the structure;
      (2)   The top of the basement floor;
      (3)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level of
the structure;
      (4)   The top of the first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or
pillars; and
      (5)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure, other than a basement,
below an elevated structure where the walls of the enclosure provide any
resistance to the flow of flood waters unless:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood waters by
providing a minimum of two openings (in addition to doorways and windows) in a
minimum of two exterior walls; if a structure has more than one enclosed area,
each shall have openings on exterior walls;
         (b)   The total net area of all openings shall be at least one square
inch for every one square foot of enclosed area; the bottom of all such
openings shall be no higher than one foot above the exterior grade or the
interior grade immediately beneath each opening, whichever is higher; and
         (c)   Such enclosed space shall be usable solely for the parking of
vehicles and building access.
   MANUFACTURED HOME.  A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle.”
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE.  The building value, excluding the land (as agreed to between
a willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate
market will bear. MARKET VALUE can be established by independent certified
appraisal, replacement cost depreciated by age of building (actual cash value)
or adjusted assessed values.
   MITIGATION.  Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk
to people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of
MITIGATION is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the
cost of disaster response and recovery.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP).  The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD) OF 1929 AS CORRECTED IN 1929.  A
vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within
the floodplain.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION.  Any structure for which the “start of construction”
commenced after the effective date of the community’s first floodplain
ordinance.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  A MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR
SUBDIVISION for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   NON-BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY.  The floodway of any river or stream other than
a boundary river.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 (NAVD 88) AS ADOPTED IN 1993.  A
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain.
   OBSTRUCTION.  Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, canalization,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation, or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water; or due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR). An official republication of a community’s FEMA
map to effect changes to base (1% annual chance) flood elevations, floodplain
boundary delineations, regulatory floodways and planimetric features. These
changes typically occur as a result of structural works or improvements,
annexations resulting in additional flood hazard areas or correction to base
flood elevations or SFHAs.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community, neighborhood or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
quarters for recreational camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of the community’s participation in the NFIP
where more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and
higher amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure that is acceptable
to and approved by the state’s Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The REGULATORY FLOOD elevation at any location is
as defined in §
154.07 of this chapter. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the term BASE
FLOOD, 1% ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD and 100-YEAR FLOOD.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on the average, equaled or exceeds 25% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SECTION 1316. The section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new flood insurance coverage shall be provided
for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a duly
constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public body to
be in violation of state or local laws, regulations or ordinances that intended
to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy in flood-
prone areas.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). Those lands within the jurisdiction of the
Town subject to inundation by the regulatory flood. The SFHAs of the town are
generally identified as such on the county and incorporated area flood
insurance rate map, dated 11-19-2014, as well as any future updates, amendments
or revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most
recent date. (These areas are shown on a FIRM as Zone A, AE, A1- A30, AH, AR,
A99 or AO.)
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued; provided, the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The actual START means either the first placement of permanent construction of
a structure on a site, such as the pouring of a stab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the stage
of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers,
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home or a prefabricated building. The term also includes
recreational vehicles to be installed on a site for more than 180 days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to it’s before damaged condition would
equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred “repetitive loss”
or “substantial damage” regardless of the actual repair work performed. The
term does not include improvements of structures to correct existing violations
of state or local health, sanitary or safety code requirements or any
alteration of a historic structure; provided that, the alteration will not
preclude the structures continued designation as a historic structure.
   SUSPENSION. The removal of a participating community from the NFIP because
the community has not enacted and/or enforced the proper floodplain management
regulations required for participation in the NFIP.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this ordinance, which
permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter where
specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A structure or other development without the
elevation, other certification or other evidence of compliance required in this
chapter is presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation is
provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
Shaded X ZONES shown on recent FIRMs (B zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% chance of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood). Unshaded X ZONES (C zones on older FIRMs)
designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is less
than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a FIRM that reflects the severity or type
of flooding in the area.
      (1)   ZONE A. See definition for A ZONE.
      (2)   ZONE B, C AND X. Areas identified in the community as areas of
moderate or minimal hazard from the principal source of flood in the area.
However, buildings in these zones could be flooded by severe, concentrated
rainfall coupled with inadequate local drainage systems. Flood insurance is
available in participating communities, but is not required by regulation in
these zones. (Zone X is used on new and revised maps in place of Zones B and
C.)
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-3-2014)
§ 154.06  LANDS TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all SFHAs and known flood prone areas within the
jurisdiction of the town.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-3-2014)
§ 154.07  BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING REGULATORY FLOOD DATA.
   (A)   This chapter’s protection standard is the regulatory flood.
   (B)   The best available regulatory flood data is listed below.
      (1)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway and fringe limits for the
studied SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the town shall be as delineated on the
1% annual chance flood profiles in the “Flood Insurance Study of Hamilton
County, Indiana and Incorporated Areas”, dated 11-19-2014, and the
corresponding “Flood Insurance Rate Map”, dated 11-19-2014, as well as any
future updates, amendments or revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency with the most recent date.
      (2)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway and fringe limits for each
of the SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the town, delineated as an “A Zone” on
the “Hamilton County, Indiana and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map”,
dated 11-19-2014 as well as any future updates, amendments or revisions,
prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most recent date,
shall be according to the best data available as provided by the state’s
Department of Natural Resources; provided, the upstream drainage area from the
subject site is greater than one square mile. Whenever a party disagrees with
the best available data, the party needs to replace existing data with better
data that meets current engineering standards. To be considered, this data must
be submitted to the state’s Department of Natural Resources for review,
subsequently approved.
      (3)   In the absence of a published FEMA map, or absence of
identification on a FEMA map, the regulatory flood elevation, floodway and
fringe limits of any watercourse in the community’s known flood prone areas
shall be according to the best data available as provided by the state’s
Department of Natural Resources; provided, the upstream drainage area from the
subject site is greater than one square mile.
      (4)   Upon issuance of a letter of final determination (LFD), any more
restrictive data in the new (not yet effective) mapping/study shall be utilized
for permitting and construction (development) purposes, replacing all
previously effective less restrictive flood hazard data provided by FEMA.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-3-2014)
§ 154.08  ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in areas of special flood hazard.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-3-2014)
§ 154.09  COMPLIANCE.
   No structure shall hereafter be located, extended, converted or structurally
altered within the SFHA without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. No land or stream within the SFHA shall
hereafter be altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-3-2014)  Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.10  ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-3-2014)
§ 154.11  DISCREPANCY BETWEEN MAPPED FLOODPLAIN AND ACTUAL GROUND ELEVATIONS.
   (A)   In cases where there is a discrepancy between the mapped floodplain
(SFHA) on the FIRM and the actual ground elevations, the elevation provided on
the profiles shall govern.
   (B)   If the elevation of the site in question is below the base flood
elevation, that site shall be included in the SFHA and regulated accordingly.
   (C)   If the elevation (natural grade) of the site in question is above the
base flood elevation and not located within the floodway, that site shall be
considered outside the SFHA and the floodplain regulations will not be applied.
The property owner shall be advised to apply for a LOMA.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-3-2014)
§ 154.12  INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-3-2014)
§ 154.13  WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Therefore, this chapter does not create any
liability on the part of the town, the state’s Department of Natural Resources
or the state, for any flood damage that results from reliance on this chapter
or any administrative decision made lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-3-2014)
§ 154.14  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and was in effect on 11-19-2014.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-3-2014)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 154.25  GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs and known flood prone areas, the following provisions are
required.
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use
of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage below the FPG.
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, utility meters and other service facilities shall be located at/
above the FPG or designed so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components below the FPG. Water and sewer pipes, electrical and
telephone lines, submersible pumps and other waterproofed service facilities
may be located below the FPG.
   (F)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (G)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (H)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (I)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure
that is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of “new construction”, as contained in this chapter.
   (J)   Parking lots, driveways and sidewalks within the SFHA shall be
constructed with permeable materials.
   (K)   Whenever any portion of the SFHA is authorized for use, the volume of
space which will be occupied by the authorized fill or structure below the BFE
shall be compensated for and balanced by an equivalent volume of excavation
taken below the BFE. The excavation volume shall be at least equal to the
volume of storage lost (replacement ratio of one to one (1:1)) due to the fill
or structure.
      (1)   The excavation shall take place in the floodplain and in the same
property in which the authorized fill or structure is located.
      (2)   Under certain circumstances, the excavation may be allowed to take
place outside of, but adjacent to, the floodplain provided that the excavated
volume will be below the regulatory flood elevation, will be in the same
property in which the authorized fill or structure is located, will be
accessible to the regulatory flood water, will not be subject to ponding when
not inundated by flood water, and that it shall not be refilled.
      (3)   The excavation shall provide for true storage of flood water, but
shall not be subject to ponding when not inundated by flood water.
      (4)   The fill or structure shall not obstruct a drainage way leading to
the floodplain.
      (5)   The grading around the excavation shall be such that the excavated
area is accessible to the regulatory flood water.
      (6)   The fill or structure shall be of a material deemed stable enough
to remain firm and in place during periods of flooding and shall include
provisions to protect adjacent property owners against any increased runoff or
drainage resulting from its placement.
      (7)   Plans depicting the areas to be excavated and filled shall be
submitted prior to the actual start of construction or any site work; once site
work is complete, but before the actual start of construction, the applicant
shall provide to the Floodplain Administrator a certified survey of the
excavation and fill sites demonstrating the fill and excavation comply with §§
154.25 through
154.32 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-3-2014)
§ 154.26  SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   General. In addition to the requirements of §
154.25 of this chapter, all structures to be located in the SFHA shall be
protected from flood damage below the FPG. This building protection requirement
applies to the following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of any structure having a floor area
greater than 400 square feet;
      (2)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure where the
cost of the addition or improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the
existing structure (excluding the value of the land);
      (3)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged structure where the
costs of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure (excluding the value of the
land) before damage occurred;
      (4)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days;
      (5)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. This chapter does not apply to returning the existing
manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it was removed
to avoid flood damage;
      (6)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive loss structure; and
      (7)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure with a
previous addition or improvement constructed since the community’s first
floodplain ordinance.
   (B)   Residential structures. New construction or substantial improvement of
any residential structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest floor;
including basement, at or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood
elevation). Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a
structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of flood
waters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of division (D)
below.
   (C)   Non-residential structures. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or non-residential structure (or
manufactured home) shall either have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated to or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood elevation) or be
flood- proofed to or above the FPG. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be
used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded
movements of flood waters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of
division (D) below. Structures located in all “A Zones” may be flood- proofed
in lieu of being elevated if done in accordance with the following:
      (1)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the structure has been designed so that below the FPG, the structure and
attendant utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the
effects of the regulatory flood. The structure design shall take into account
flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures and impacts
from debris or ice. Such certification shall be provided to the official as set
forth in §
154.27(L) of this chapter.
      (2)   Flood-proofing measures shall be operable without human
intervention and without an outside source of electricity.
   (D)   Elevated structures.
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvements of elevated structures
shall have the lowest floor at or above the FPG.
      (2)   Elevated structures with fully enclosed areas formed by foundation
and other exterior wails below the flood protection grade shall be designed to
preclude finished living space and designed to allow for the entry and exit of
flood waters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior
walls. Designs must meet the following minimum criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings located in a minimum of two
exterior walls (having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area);
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot above
the exterior grade or the interior grade immediately beneath each opening,
whichever is higher;
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of flood waters in
both directions;
         (d)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to
allow for parking for vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator);
         (e)   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms; and
         (f)   The interior grade of such enclosed area shall be at an
elevation at or higher than the exterior grade.
   (E)   Structures constructed on fill. A residential or non-residential
structure may be constructed on a permanent land fill in accordance with the
following:
      (1)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the
Standard or Modified Proctor Test method, which shall be retained in permit
file.
      (2)   The fill shall extend ten feet beyond the foundation of the
structure before sloping below the BFE.
      (3)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap or bulkheading. if vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than 3 horizontal to 1 vertical (3:1).
      (4)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
      (5)   The top of the lowest floor including basements shall be at or
above the FPG.
      (6)   Fill shall be composed of clean granular or earthen material.
   (F)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles to be installed or substantially
improved on a site for more than 180 days must meet one of the following
requirements.
      (1)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on
a site outside a manufactured home park or subdivision; in a new manufactured
home park or subdivision; in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision; or in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on
which a manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as a result of a
flood.
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor shall be at or above the FPG and securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse and lateral movement.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of flood waters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in division (D) above.
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (2)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on
a site in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision that has not been
substantially damaged by a flood.
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated so that the lowest floor
of the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other
foundation elevations that are no less than 36 inches in height above grade and
be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of flood waters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in division (D) above.
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (3)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site shall either:
         (a)   Be on site for less than 180 days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use (defined as being on
its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached additions);
or
         (c)   Meet the requirements for “manufactured homes” as stated earlier
in this section.
   (G)   Accessory structures. Relief to the elevation or dry flood-proofing
standards may be granted for accessory structures. Such structures must meet
the following standards:
      (1)   Shall not be used for human habitation;
      (2)   Shall be constructed of flood resistant materials;
      (3)   Shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the minimum
resistance to the flow of flood waters;
      (4)   Shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation;
      (5)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall
be elevated or flood-proofed to or above the FPG; and
      (6)   Shall be designed to allow for the entry and exit of flood waters
to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as
required for elevated structures in division (D) above.
   (H)   Above ground gas or liquid storage tanks. All above ground gas or
liquid storage tanks shall be anchored to prevent flotation or lateral
movement.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-3-2014)
§ 154.27  SUBDIVISION PROPOSAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions), which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five acres.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals shall ensure safe access into/out of SFHA
for pedestrians and vehicles (especially emergency responders).
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-3-2014)
§ 154.28  CRITICAL FACILITIES.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA. Construction of new critical facilities
shall be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated to or above the FPG at the site. Flood-proofing and
sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be
displaced by or released into flood waters. Access routes elevated to or above
the FPG shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-3-2014)
§ 154.29  IDENTIFIED FLOODWAY STANDARDS.
   (A)   (1)   Located within SFHAs, established in §
154.07 of this chapter, are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an
extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters, which carry
debris, potential projectiles and has erosion potential, if the site is in an
identified floodway, the Floodplain Administrator shall require the applicant
to forward the application, along with all pertinent plans and specifications,
to the state’s Department of Natural Resources and apply for a permit for
construction in a floodway.
      (2)   (a)   Under the provisions of I.C. 14-28-1, a permit for
construction in a floodway from the state’s Department of Natural Resources is
required prior to the issuance of a local building permit for any excavation,
deposit, construction or obstruction activity located in the floodway. This
includes land preparation activities such as fitting, grading, clearing and
paving and the like undertaken before the actual start of construction of the
structure. However, it does exclude non-substantial additions/improvements to
existing (lawful) residences in a non-boundary river floodway.
         (b)   I.C. 14-28-1-26 allows construction of a non-substantial
addition/ improvement to a residence in a non-boundary river floodway without
obtaining a permit for construction in the floodway from the state’s Department
of Natural Resources. Please note that if fill is needed to elevate an addition
above the existing grade, prior approval for the fill is required from the
state’s Department of Natural Resources.
   (B)   (1)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until a
permit or letter of authorization (when applicable) has been issued by the
state’s Department of Natural Resources granting approval for construction in
the floodway. Once a permit for construction in a floodway or letter of
authorization has been issued by the state’s Department of Natural Resources,
the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit;
provided, the provisions contained in §§
154.25 through
154.32 of this chapter have been met. The floodplain development permit cannot
be less restrictive than the permit for construction in a floodway issued by
the state’s Department of Natural Resources.
      (2)   However, a community’s more restrictive regulations (if any) shall
take precedence.
   (C)   (1)   No development shall be allowed, which acting alone or in
combination with existing or future development, that will adversely affect the
efficiency of, or unduly restrict the capacity of the floodway. This adverse
affect is defined as an increase in the elevation of the regulatory flood of at
least fifteen-hundredths of a foot as determined by comparing the regulatory
flood elevation under the project condition to that under the natural or pre-
floodway condition as proven with hydraulic analyses.
      (2)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill (including
levees), the town shall submit the data and request that the Federal Emergency
Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data per mapping standard
regulations found at 44 C.F.R. § 65.12.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-3-2014)
§ 154.30  IDENTIFIED FRINGE STANDARDS.
   (A)   If the site is located in an identified fringe, then the Floodplain
Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit provided the
provisions contained in §§
154.25 through
154.32 of this chapter have been met.
   (B)   The key provision is that the top of the lowest floor of any new or
substantially improved structure shall be at or above the FPG.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-3-2014)
§ 154.31  SFHAS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION AND/OR FLOODWAY/FRINGE
STANDARDS.
   (A)   Drainage area upstream of the site is greater than one square mile.
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage area
upstream of the site is greater than one square mile, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the state’s Department of
Natural Resources for review and comment.
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
either a permit for construction in a floodway permit (including letters of
authorization) or a floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment citing the 1%
annual chance flood elevation and the recommended flood protection grade has
been received from the state’s Department of Natural Resources.
      (3)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper permit
for construction in a floodway permit (including letters of authorization) or
floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment approving the proposed development, a
floodplain development permit may be issued provided the conditions of the
floodplain development permit are not less restrictive than the conditions
received from the state’s Department of Natural Resources and the provisions
contained in §§
154.25 through
154.32 of this chapter have been met.
   (B)   Drainage area upstream of the site is less than one square mile.
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area upstream
of the site is less than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator shall
require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the limits of
the floodplain and 1% annual chance flood elevation for the site.
      (2)   Upon receipt, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
floodplain development permit, provided the provisions contained in §§
154.25 through
154.32 of this chapter have been met.
   (3)   Cumulative effect. The total cumulative effect of the proposed
development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated development,
will not increase the regulatory flood more than 0.14 of one foot and will not
increase flood damages or potential flood damages.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-3-2014)
§ 154.32  FLOOD-PRONE AREA STANDARDS.
   All development in known flood prone areas not identified on FEMA maps, or
where no FEMA published map is available, shall meet applicable standards as
required per §§
154.25 through
154.32 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-3-2014)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 154.45  ADMINISTRATOR; DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby appoints the Building Commissioner to
administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and is herein referred
to as the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   (1)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or designated staff is hereby
authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The
Administrator is further authorized to render interpretations of this chapter,
which are consistent with its spirit and purpose.
      (2)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   Review all floodplain development permits to assure that the
permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
         (b)   Inspect and inventory damaged structures in the SFHA and
complete substantial damage determinations;
         (c)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources for all development projects subject to
§§
154.29 and
154.31(A) of this chapter, and maintain a record of such authorization (either
copy of actual permit/authorization or floodplain analysis/regulatory
assessment);
         (d)   Ensure that all necessary federal or state permits have been
received prior to issuance of the local floodplain development permit. Copies
of such permits/authorizations are to be maintained on file with the floodplain
development permit;
         (e)   Maintain and track permit records involving additions and
improvements to residences located in the floodway;
         (f)   Notify adjacent communities and the state’s Floodplain
Coordinator prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit
copies of such notifications to FEMA;
         (g)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request local
permit documents, damaged structure inventories, substantial damage
determinations, regulatory flood data, SFHA maps, letters of map change (LOMC),
copies of DNR permits, letters of authorization and floodplain analysis and
regulatory assessments (letters of recommendation), federal permit documents
and “as-built” elevation and flood-proofing data for all buildings constructed
subject to this chapter;
         (h)   Utilize and enforce all letters of map change (LOMC) or physical
map revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently effective SFHA maps of the
community;
         (i)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is
not diminished;
         (j)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance;
         (k)   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, in
accordance with §
154.46 of this chapter;
         (l)   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new or
substantially improved structures have been flood-proofed in accordance with §
154.46 of this chapter;
         (m)   Perform a minimum of three inspections to ensure that all
applicable ordinance and floodplain development requirements have been
satisfied. The first upon the establishment of the flood protection grade
reference mark at the development site; the second upon the establishment of
the structure’s footprint/establishment of the lowest floor; and the final
inspection upon completion and submission of the required finished construction
elevation certificate. Authorized town officials shall have the right to enter
and inspect properties located in the SFHA;
         (n)   Stop work orders.
            1.   Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator, work on any
building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease.
            2.   Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the
owner of the property, or to his or her agent, or to the person doing the work,
and shall state the conditions under which work may be resumed.
         (o)   Revocation of permits.
            1.   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval,
issued under the provisions of this chapter, in cases where there has been any
false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application
or plans on which the permit or approval was based.
            2.   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon
determination by the Floodplain Administrator that the construction, erection,
alteration, repair, moving, demolition, installation or replacement of the
structure for which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in
conformity with, the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-3-2014)
§ 154.46  PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be made to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her prior to any
development activities, and may include, but not be limited to, the following:
plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions and
elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed structures, earthen
fill, storage of materials or equipment, drainage facilities and the location
of the foregoing.
   (B)   Specifically, the following information is required:
      (1)   Application stage.
         (a)   A description of the proposed development;
         (b)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structure(s) in relation to existing roads and streams;
         (c)   A legal description of the property site;
         (d)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed
development locations and existing and proposed land grades;
         (e)   Elevation of the top of the planned lowest floor (including
basement) of all proposed buildings. Elevation should be in NAVD 88 or NGVD;
         (f)   Elevation (in NAVD 88 or NGVD) to which any non-residential
structure will be flood-proofed; and
         (g)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development. A hydrologic and
hydraulic engineering study is required and any watercourse changes submitted
to DNR for approval and then to FEMA as a letter of map revision. (See §
154.45(B) of this chapter for additional information.)
      (2)   Construction stage. Upon establishment/placement of the lowest
floor, before framing continues, to include any approved flood-proofing, it
shall be the duty of the applicant to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a
certification of the NAVD 88 or NGVD elevation of the lowest floor or flood-
proofed elevation, as built. Said certification shall be prepared by or under
the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor or professional engineer
and certified by the same. When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular
structure said certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by same. Any
work undertaken prior to submission of the flood-proofing certification shall
be at the applicant’s risk. Any work undertaken prior to submission of the
elevation certification shall be at the applicant’s risk. The Floodplain
Administrator shall review the lowest floor or flood-proofed elevation survey
data submitted. The applicant shall correct any deficiencies detected by such
review. Failure to submit the elevation certification or failure to make
correction required shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
      (3)   Finished construction. Upon completion of construction, an
elevation certification which depicts the “as-built” lowest floor elevation is
required to be submitted to the Floodplain Administrator. If the project
includes a flood-proofing measure, flood-proofing certification is required to
be submitted by the applicant to the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-3-2014)
VARIANCE PROCEDURES
§ 154.60  VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hear and decide appeals and requests
for variances from requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged an error in
any requirement, decision or determination is made by the Floodplain
Administrator in the enforcement or administration of this chapter. Any person
aggrieved by the decision of the Board may appeal such decision to the County
Circuit or Superior Courts.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-3-2014)
§ 154.61  VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   In passing upon such applications, the Board shall consider all technical
evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other sections of
this chapter and:
   (A)   The danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
   (B)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
   (C)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
   (D)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
   (E)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
   (F)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
   (G)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
   (H)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
   (I)   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment of
transport of the flood waters at the site; and
   (J)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and bridges.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-3-2014)
§ 154.62  CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variances shall only be issued when there is:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship; and/or
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public or
conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
   (B)   No variance for a residential use within a floodway subject to §§
154.29 and
154.31(A) of this chapter may be granted.
   (C)   Any variance granted in a floodway subject to §§
154.29 and
154.31(A) of this chapter will require a permit from the state’s Department of
Natural Resources.
   (D)   Variances to the provisions for flood hazard reduction of §
154.26 of this chapter may be granted only when a new structure is to be
located on a lot of one-half acre or less in size, contiguous to and surrounded
by lots with existing structures constructed below the flood protection grade.
   (E)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (F)   Variances may be granted for the reconstruction or restoration of any
structure individually listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the state’s Register of Historic Sites and Structures.
   (G)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the flood protection grade and the
elevation to which the lowest floor is to be built and stating that the cost of
the flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from
the reduced lowest floor elevation. (See §
154.63 of this chapter.)
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency or
the state’s Department of Natural Resources upon request. (See §
154.63 of this chapter.)
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-3-2014)
§ 154.63  VARIANCE NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted that allows the lowest
floor of a structure to be built below the flood protection grade shall be
given written notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the flood
protection grade will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
      (2)   Such construction below the flood protection grade increases risks
to life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the office of the County Recorder and shall be recorded in a
manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator will maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-3-2014)
§ 154.64  HISTORIC STRUCTURES.
   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of “historic
structures” upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation
will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as an historic
structure and the variance is the minimum to preserve the historic character
and design of the structure.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-3-2014)
§ 154.65  SPECIAL CONDITIONS.
   Upon the consideration of the factors listed in this subchapter, and the
purposes of this chapter, the Board of Zoning Appeals may attach such
conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the
purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-3-2014)
§ 154.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit in the SFHA or
failure to comply with the requirements of a floodplain development permit or
conditions of a variance shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter. All
violations shall be considered a common nuisance and be treated as such in
accordance with the provisions of
Ch. 156 of this code of ordinances. All violations shall be punishable by a
fine not exceeding $2,500.
   (B)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the violation
continues to exist.
   (C)   The Town Council shall inform the owner that any such violation is
considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore may cause
coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
   (D)   Nothing herein shall prevent the town from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-3-2014)
CHAPTER 155:  SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Approval of plats
   
155.002   Definitions
   
155.003   Plat certificates and deed of dedication
   
155.004   Variance
   
155.005   Amendments
   
155.006   Validity
Procedures
   
155.020   General plan
   
155.021   Preliminary considerations
   
155.022   Applications
   
155.023   Procedural requirements
Soil Survey, Drainage, Erosion and Sediment Control
   
155.035   Basic requirements
   
155.036   General
   
155.037   Performance principles
   
155.038   Grading for drainage
   
155.039   Responsibility
   
155.040   Compliance with regulations and procedures
Principles and Standards of Design
   
155.055   General
   
155.056   Streets
   
155.057   Block standards
   
155.058   Lot standards
   
155.059   Easements
   
155.060   Public open spaces
   
155.061   Building setback lines
   
155.062   Soil limitations and natural features
   
155.063   Commercial and industrial subdivisions
Improvements and Installations
   
155.075   General
   
155.076   Monuments and markers
   
155.077   Streets
   
155.078   Sewers
   
155.079   Water
   
155.080   Drainage
   
155.081   Curb and gutter
   
155.082   Sidewalks
   
155.083   Street signs
   
155.084   Street lights and fire hydrants
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001  APPROVAL OF PLATS.
   No plat or replat of a  subdivision of land located within the jurisdiction
of the Commission shall be recorded until it shall have been approved by the
Commission and such approval shall have been entered in writing on the plat by
the President and Secretary of the Commission.
(Ord. passed 10-19-1977)
§ 155.002  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A permanent public service way providing a secondary means of access
to abutting lands.
   BLOCK. A unit of property bounded by streets, or by street or railroad
rights-of-way, waterways or other barriers.
   BLOCK FRONTAGE. Property abutting on one side op a street, and lying between
the two nearest intersecting or intercepting streets, or nearest intersecting
or intercepting street and railroad right-of-way, waterway or other barrier.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE - BUILDING LINE. The line nearest the front of and
across a lot establishing the minimum open space to be provided between the
front line of buildings and structures and the front lot line.
   COMMISSION. The Arcadia Town Plan Commission.
   COVENANT. An agreement between buyer and seller of a piece of property
specifying what may or may not be done with the subject property.
   CROSS WALKWAY. A strip of land dedicated to public use, which is reserved
across a block to provide pedestrian access to adjacent areas.
   CUL-DE-SAC (COURT OR DEAD END STREET). A short residential street having one
end open to traffic and being permanently terminated by a vehicle turn-around.
   DEVELOP. To make a development; also to do any grading or filling of land,
whether undeveloped or already subdivided, so as to change the drainage or the
flow of water, or to do any work upon the land that is capable of future use as
a subdivision or development of building sites.
   DEVELOPER or SUBDIVIDER. Any person engaged in developing or improving a lot
or group of lots or structures thereon for use or occupancy.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner of the use of a strip of land by the
public, a corporation or persons for specified purposes.
   HEALTH OFFICER. Any officer of authority, Sewage or Water Plant
Superintendent, County Health Department and State Department of Health.
   JURISDICTION OF THE COMMISSION. The territory in which the Plan Commission
has statutory authority to adopt a master plan and specifically consisting of
the following areas:
      (1)   The town of Arcadia; and
      (2)   The contiguous unincorporated territory surrounding the town,
delineated on a map entitled “Arcadia, Indiana, Jurisdictional Area, 1974” and
filed with the Recorder of the county.
   LEASE. To rent to permit the possession or use of right of possession or use
for consideration of a lot, parcel, tract, land or group of lots, parcels,
tracts or lands.
   LOT. A parcel, tract, tract or area of land accessible by means of a street,
and for residential uses, abutting upon a street for at least 50% of the lot
width prescribed by
Ch. 156 of this code of ordinances for the district in which the lot is
located. It may be a single parcel separately described in a deed which is
recorded in the office of the County Recorder; or it may be a single parcel
separately described in a survey which is recorded in the office of the County
Recorder; or it may include a parcel contained in a plat or subdivision of land
which is recorded in the office of the County Recorder; or it may include parts
of, or a combination of, such parcels when adjacent to one another and used as
one. In determining lot area and boundary lines, no part thereof within the
limits of a street, either existing or proposed, shall be included.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot, other than a corner lot, which fronts on two
streets.
   MAJOR STREETS AND HIGHWAYS PLAN or THOROUGHFARE PLAN. The part of the Master
Plan, now or hereafter adopted which includes a plan for major streets and
highways and sets forth the location, alignment, dimensions, streets, rights-
of-way and other thoroughfares.
   MARGINAL ACCESS STREET. A road which parallels a major arterial street,
providing access from abutting property and separated from the highway by a
common dividing strip.
   MASTER PLAN. The complete plan, or any of its parts, for the development of
the town and jurisdictional area, prepared by the Commission and adopted in
accordance with Ch. 174, Acts of 1947, General Assembly of Indiana, as is now
or may hereafter be in effect.
   NO ACCESS EASEMENT. Public easement along a public right-of-way across which
the access to the property is not permitted.
   OFFICIAL THOROUGHFARE PLAN. The part of the Master Plan, now or hereafter
adopted, which includes a major street and highway plan and sets forth the
location, alignment, dimensions, identification and classification of existing
and proposed streets, highways and other thoroughfares.
   OWNER. Any individual, firm, association, syndicate, co-partnership,
corporation, trust or any other legal entity having sufficient proprietary
interest in the land sought to be subdivided to commence and maintain
proceedings to subdivide the same under this chapter.
   PARCEL. An ownership, lot plat or part of an ownership, lot or plot.
   PERFORMANCE BOND or SURETY BOND. A personal or corporate surety agreement
between a subdivider and such surety in favor of a governmental body
guaranteeing the completion of physical improvements according to plan and
specifications within the time prescribed by the subdivider’s agreement.
   PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE. Any guarantee which may be accepted in lieu of a
requirement that certain improvements be made before the Commission approves
the record plat, including by way of illustrating, but not limiting,
performance bonds, escrow agreements, deposit agreements, and other similar
collateral or surety arrangements approved as valid and enforceable by the
Commission.
   PERSON. A corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization or any
other group acting as a unit, as well as a natural person.
   PLACE. An open, unoccupied, officially designated space, other than a street
or alley, permanently reserved for use as the principal means of access to
abutting property.
   PLAT. A map or chart indicating the subdivision or resubdivision of land,
intended to be filed for record.
   PROVISIONAL PLAT. The map and supporting information indicating the proposed
layout of the subdivision which is presented to the Commission for
consideration and approval in accordance with these regulations. Also, OVERALL
PROVISIONAL PLAT.
   REPLAT. A subdivision or plat, the site of which has heretofore been platted
or subdivided with lots or parcels of land. It may include all or any part of a
previous subdivision or plat.
   RECORD PLAT. A drawing, in final form, showing the subdivider’s plan of
subdivision containing all information or detail required by law and by these
regulations to be presented to the Plan Commission for approval, and which is
approved, may be duly filed or recorded by the applicant in the office of the
County Recorder.
   STREET or THOROUGHFARE. A right-of-way, other than an alley, or place
dedicated or otherwise legally established to the public use, usually affording
the principal means of access to abutting property. A STREET may be designated
as a highway, thoroughfare, parkway, boulevard, road, avenue, lane, drive or
other appropriate name. A STREET may also be identified according to type of
use, as follows.
      (1)   STREET, ARTERIAL. A street designated for large volumes of traffic
movement. Certain ARTERIAL STREETS should be classified as limited access
highways to which entrances and exits are provided only at controlled
intersections and access is denied to abutting properties.
      (2)   STREET, FEEDER OR COLLECTOR. A street planned to facilitate the
collection of traffic from residential streets, and to provide circulation
within the neighborhood areas and convenient ways for traffic to reach arterial
streets.
      (3)   STREET, RESIDENTIAL. A street designated primarily to provide
access to abutting properties, usually residential, certain residential streets
parallel to arterial streets, which provide access to abutting property and
ways for traffic to reach access points on arterial streets.
   STREET (OR ALLEY) IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   The construction or a street or alley to its full thickness,
commencing at the subgrade according to the specifications contained in this
chapter.
      (2)   The placing of a new surface over an existing paved or closed
surface street or alley shall not be considered as an improvement, but as
maintenance.
   STREET WIDTH. The shortest distance between the lines which delineate the
right-of-way of a street.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person or persons, firm or corporation engaged in developing
or improving a tract of land which complies with the definition of a
subdivision, as defined in this chapter.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of any parcel of land, separately described in a
deed on record in the office of the County Recorder, into two or more
contiguous parcels, sites or lots fronting on an existing street and each of
which comprises less than five acres, for the purpose of immediate or future
transfer of ownership, but which do not front on an existing street, such
interior lots shall be considered as parts of the subdivision even though they
may exceed five acres in area; for the improvement of one or more parcels of
land for residential, commercial or industrial structures or groups of
structures involving the subdivision and allocation of land as streets or other
open spaces for common use by owners, occupants or lease holders or as
easements for the extension and maintenance of public sewer, water, storm
drainage or other public utilities and facilities. (See the figure in §
155.055 of this chapter.)
   TOWN. The Town of Arcadia, Indiana.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. The part of the Master Plan, now or hereafter adopted,
which includes an ordinance and zone map which divides the jurisdiction of the
Commission into districts, with regulations and requirements and procedures for
the establishment of land use controls.
(Ord. passed 10-19-1977)
§ 155.003  PLAT CERTIFICATES AND DEED OF DEDICATION.
   The following forms shall be used in record plat.
   (A)   Commission certificate.
 
 UNDER AUTHORITY PROVIDED BY CHAPTER 174 - ACTS OF 1947, ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE STATE OF INDIANA, AND
 ALL ACTS AMENDATORY THERETO, AND AN ORDINANCE ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE TOWN OF ARCADIA, INDIANA, THIS
 PLAT WAS GIVEN APPROVAL BY THE TOWN OF ARCADIA AS FOLLOWS:
  
 Adopted by the Arcadia Plan Commission at a meeting held                          ,            .
  
 ARCADIA PLAN COMMISSION
  
                                                                              
 President
  
                                                                              
 Secretary
  
 
   (B)   County Commissioners’ certificate. The following certificate shall
also be used if the plat lies wholly, or partly, outside of the town:
 
 UNDER AUTHORITY PROVIDED BY CHAPTER 47, ACTS OF 1951, OF THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY, STATE OF INDIANA, THIS PLAT WAS GIVEN
 APPROVAL BY THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF HAMILTON COUNTY, INDIANA, at a Meeting held on the            day
 of                                ,               .
  
                                                                              
 President
  
                                                                              
  
                                                                              
  
 
   (C)   Registered land surveyor’s or engineer’s certificate.
 
 I,                                                              , HEREBY CERTIFY THAT I AM A REGISTERED LAND
 SURVEYOR (OR PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER), LICENSED IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF INDIANA:
  
 THAT THIS PLAT CORRECTLY REPRESENTS A SURVEY COMPLETED BY ME ON                                                    
                                THAT ALL THE MONUMENTS SHOWN THEREON ACTUALLY EXISTS: AND THAT ALL OTHER REQUIREMENTS
 SPECIFIED HEREIN, DONE BY ME, HAVE BEEN MET.
  
                                                                              
  
 
   (D)   Deed of dedication. Each record plat submitted to the Commission for
approval shall carry a deed of dedication in substantially the following form:
 
 We, the undersigned                                                                      , owners of the real estate
 shown and described herein, do hereby certify that we have laid off, platted and subdivided, and do hereby lay off,
 plat and subdivide, said real estate in accordance with the within plat.
  
 This subdivision shall be known and designated as                                                              , an
 addition to                                                                  . All streets and alleys shown and not
 heretofore dedicated, are hereby dedicated to the public.
  
 Front and side yard building setback lines are hereby established as shown on this plat, between which lines and the
 property lines of the street, there shall be erected or maintained no building or structure.
  
 There are strips of ground  (number)  feet in width as shown on this plat and marked “Easement”, reserved for the
 use of public utilities for the installation of water and sewer mains, poles, ducts, lines and wires, subject to all
 times to the proper authorities and to the easement herein reserved. No permanent or other structures are to be
 erected or maintained upon said strips of land, but owners of lots in this subdivision shall take their titles
 subject to the rights of the public utilities.
  
 (Additional dedications and protective covenants, or private restrictions would be inserted here upon the
 subdivider’s initiative or the recommendations of the Commission; important provisions are those specifying the use
 to be made of the property and, in the case of residential use, the minimum habitable floor area.)
  
 The foregoing covenants, (or restrictions), are to run with the land and shall be binding on all parties and all
 persons claiming under them until January 1,                    (a 25-year period is suggested), at which time said
 covenants, (or restrictions), shall be automatically extended for successive periods of ten years unless changed by
 vote of a majority of the then owners of the building sites covered by these covenants, or restrictions, in whole or
 in part.  Invalidation of any one of the foregoing covenants or restrictions, by judgment or court order shall in no
 way affect any of the other covenants or restrictions, which shall remain in full force and effect.
  
 The right to enforce these provisions by injunction, together with the right to cause the removal, by due process of
 law, of any structure or part thereof erected, or maintained in violation hereof, is hereby dedicated to the public,
 and reserved to the several owners of the several lots in this subdivision and to their heirs and assigns.
  
 Witness our hands and seals this                          day of                                ,                  
 .
  
 State of Indiana   )
 ) SS
 County of Hamilton   )
  
  
 Before me the undersigned Notary Public, in and for the county and state, personally appeared                      
                                                  ,                                                            ,    
                                                                    , and each separately and severally acknowledge
 the execution of the foregoing instrument as his or her voluntary act and deed. For the purpose therein expressed.
  
 Witness my hand and notarial seal this                    day of                            ,                    .
  
  
                                                                              
 Notary Public
  
                                                                              
 My Commission Expires:
  
 
(Ord. passed 10-19-1977)
§ 155.004  VARIANCE.
   Where the subdivider can show that a provision of this chapter would cause
unnecessary hardship if strictly adhered to and where, in the opinion of the
Commission, because of topographical or other conditions peculiar to the site,
a departure may be made without destroying the intent of such provision, the
Commission may authorize a variance. Any variance thus authorized is required
to be entered in writing in the minutes of the Commission and the reasoning on
which the departure was justified shall be set forth.
(Ord. passed 10-19-1977)
§ 155.005  AMENDMENTS.
   All amendments to this chapter shall be in conformance with §§ 37 through
40, inclusive, and § 42 of Ch. 174 of the Acts of the Indiana General Assembly
of 1947, and all acts amendatory thereto.
(Ord. passed 10-19-1977)
§ 155.006  VALIDITY.
   If any section, clause, paragraph, provision or portion op this chapter
shall be held to be invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect any other section, clause,
paragraph, provision or portion of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-19-1977)
PROCEDURES
§ 155.020  GENERAL PLAN.
   The subdivider shall submit a general plan for the ultimate-overall
development of his or her property in order to indicate the manner in which the
proposed provisional plat relates to the entire property.
(Ord. passed 10-19-1977)
§ 155.021  PRELIMINARY CONSIDERATIONS.
   (A)   In order to make the most of the opportunities related to the
subdivision and to conserve time, effort and expense, the subdivider should
consult with the Commission, the Engineer designated by the Commission and
other public officials prior to the preparation of the provisional plat, school
and recreational sites, shopping centers, community facilities, sanitation,
water supply, drainage and thorough fares; and relationship to other
developments.
   (B)   The subdivider should also request a national cooperative soil survey
map with interpretation and limitations for the intended usage; request
conservation planning assistance from the County Soil and Water Conservation
District; check with County Surveyor concerning legal drains on tract and
adjoining properties; check with the state’s Department of Natural Resources,
Division of Water, concerning flood plains on tract or adjoining properties;
and check with the County Highway Department or city street concerning road
construction, roads, ditch specifications, culverts and the like, private drain
tile on tract and adjoining properties.
(Ord. passed 10-19-1977)
§ 155.022  APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   A subdivider desiring approval of a plat of a subdivision of any land
lying within the jurisdiction of the Commission shall submit a written
application for approval of the overall provisional plat therefor to the
Building Commissioner. Subsequent to the approval of the overall provisional
plat, a subdivider desiring approval of a record plat of a subdivision shall
submit a written application therefor to the Building Commissioner. Such
applications shall be prepared on the forms provided by the Building
Commissioner and accompanied by the information, requirements and plans set
forth in §
155.023 of this chapter, all in accordance with the requirements set forth in
this chapter.
   (B)   The applications shall be accompanied by a check or money order made
payable to the Clerk-Treasurer in an amount which is in accordance with the
following fees:
      (1)   Overall provisional plat: $50, plus $1 for each lot;
      (2)   Re-submitted overall provisional plat (which previously has been
rejected): $50, plus $1 for each lot; and
      (3)   Record plat: $150, plus $1 for each lot.
   (C)   No part of these filing fees shall be returnable to the applicant.
(Ord. passed 10-19-1977)
§ 155.023  PROCEDURAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Step 1. Overall Provisional Plat of the Subdivision. The subdivider
shall provide an overall provisional plat of the subdivision, the design of
which shall conform with the policies of the Master Plan and its provisions,
and having the following sheets and information:
      (1)   Title sheet:
         (a)   Proposed name of the subdivision, followed by the words “Overall
Provisional Plat”;
         (b)   A site location map showing the location of highways, county
roads, rural routes, utilities, legal drains, floodplains, private drain tile,
open drains, watershed boundaries and any other physical features that may have
a bearing on proposed development (i.e., swamp, steep escartments, woods and
the like);
         (c)   Names and addresses of the owner of the land, the subdivider,
planner, architect, engineer, land surveyor or other persons who prepared the
plan;
         (d)   Land use adjacent to proposed subdivision and owners names;
      (2)   Topographic sheet:
         (a)   Contours at vertical intervals of two feet or less if the
general slope of the site is less than 10% and at vertical intervals of five
feet if the general slope of the site is 10% or greater;
         (b)   Tract boundary lines showing dimensions, bearings, angles and
references to section, township and range lines;
         (c)   Plot and profile of existing drainage, drainage channels,
underground facilities, wooded areas, power transmission poles and lines, and
any other significant items shall be shown; and
         (d)   The location and size of all existing utilities.
      (3)   Plan layout sheet:
         (a)   Streets and rights-of-way on and adjoining the site of the
proposed subdivision, with names of streets which shall not duplicate names of
other streets in the community, except in cases of extensions of existing
streets, sidewalks and other pertinent data;
         (b)   The layout of lots, showing dimensions and numbers and square
foot area of each lot with irregular sides (not rectangular), block number,
distances, radii and chords shall be shown;
         (c)   Parcels of land proposed to be dedicated or reserved for
schools, parks, playgrounds or other public, semi-public or community purposes;
         (d)   Building setback or front yard lines;
         (e)   Easement locations, widths and purposes;
         (f)   The “plan layout sheet” may be incorporated with the
“topographic sheet”; provided, such incorporation does not result in a drawing
which is not legible;
         (g)   Provide a drawing indicating thereon the proposed sanitary
sewers with connections to main sewer system, lift stations, if any, and other
appurtenances, if any. If a private sewage system, provide a drawing locating
the system in relation to well, house and adjacent lot systems. Private sewage
systems shall be installed according to the County Sanitary Code;
         (h)   Provide a drawing indicating thereon the proposed method of
drainage:
            1.   If storm sewers or similar type of system is used show
connection to main system, or method of disposition into stream, retention
reservoir and the like, distance to stream outlet, lift stations, if any,
approximate size, approximate location, manholes, if any, inlets, junction
boxes and other necessary appurtenances; and
            2.   If surface drainage is planned, roadside, swales, grassed
waterways, watercourses, open ditches, roll curb and gutter sections, show
location of said type, location and approximate size of road culverts, location
and typical cross-section of grades, swales, waterways, roadside ditches, open
ditches, if applicable, approximate depth and grades of abovementioned surface
drainage , and necessary profiles, cross-sections and other information to the
adequacy of the outlet drain or detention reservoir.
      (4)   Supplementary information:
         (a)   Statement of the proposed use of lots, stating type of
residential buildings with number of proposed dwelling units; type of business
or industry; so as to reveal the effect of the development on traffic, fire
hazards or congestion of population;
         (b)   Proposed covenants and restrictions;
         (c)   Evidence of an adequate source of water supply;
         (d)   Statement concerning the location and approximate size or
capacity of utilities to be installed;
         (e)   If any zoning changes are contemplated by the subdivider, the
proposed zoning should be outlined and described;
         (f)   A national cooperative soil survey map from the Building
Commissioner or the local Soil and Water Conservation District showing the soil
limitations based upon the intended usage of the development land;
         (g)   A statement concerning the method of controlling erosion before,
during and following construction (i.e., temporary seeding, siltation basins,
mechanical erosion devices and other similar means that meets the county’s soil
and water conservation guidelines for urban development);
         (h)   A statement from the County Highway Department or Town Street
Department concerning rights-of-way, road improvements, roadside improvements,
roadside drainage, entrances, culvert pipes and other specifications deemed
necessary by the Commission or County Highway or Street Department;
         (i)   If private sewage systems, a statement from the County Health
Officer whether private septic systems can be used on this property;
         (j)   If a legal drain is involved, a statement from the County
Drainage Board concerning easements, rights-of-way, permits and the like;
         (k)   If a floodplain is involved, a statement from the state’s
Department of Natural Resources, Division of Water, concerning construction in
a floodway, including floodplain high water marks and the like; and
         (l)   Show other features or conditions, which would affect the
subdivision favorably or adversely.
      (5)   The overall provisional plat sheets of the subdivision shall be
drawn to a scale of 50 feet to one inch, or 100 feet to one inch and on sheets
not to exceed 24 inches by 36 inches; however, if the resulting drawing would
be over 36 inches in the shortest dimension, then a scale as recommended by the
Building Commissioner may be used.
   (B)   Step 2, Overall Provisional Plat Approval.
      (1)   Fifteen days before the Commission’s next regularly scheduled
meeting, the subdivider shall submit to the Building Commissioner an
application for approval of the overall provisional plat of the subdivision,
together with six copies of all of the material outlined in Step 1. Also, one
of these six copies shall be submitted to the County Soil and Water
Conservation District and another to the County Surveyor.
      (2)   After the application has been received by the Building
Commissioner, and after the Commission has given acceptance or tentative
approval, it shall set a date for public hearing, notify the applicant in
writing, and at least ten days prior to the next regularly scheduled meeting,
the Commission shall publish a notice of the time and place of the hearing and
the location of the proposed plat. The cost of the publication of the notice of
public hearing shall be met by the applicant, included in the application shall
be a conservation plan detailing the management of the soil, the water
management plan for both surface and subsurface drainage, and the method or
methods used in controlling erosion and sedimentation that meets the guidelines
of the County Soil and Water Conservation District.
      (3)   After the public hearing, the Commission shall review the
application and shall study the overall provisional plat to determine if it
conforms to the minimum standards and requirements as outlined in this chapter,
and shall approve, reject or table the application within 65 days after
submission of the application to the Building Commissioner. Upon the tabling or
rejecting of an application, the Commission shall notify the applicant in
writing what revisions, changes or further changes in the overall provisional
plat are needed for approval. Upon the rejection of an application, the
Commission will not review the overall provisional plat until it is re-
submitted, which cannot be done but once every six months. The approval of the
overall provisional plat by the Commission does not constitute approval of any
or all of the subdivision, but is merely an authorization to proceed with
preparation of a record plat.
      (4)   Five copies of the overall provisional plat approved by the
Commission and signed by the President and Secretary shall be retained in the
office of the Building Commissioner. One copy shall be sent to the subdivider
and is authorization for the subdivider to proceed with the preparation of a
record plat. One copy shall be sent to the County Surveyor.
      (5)   An approval of the overall provisional plat shall be effective for
a period of four years, unless upon request of the applicant, the Commission
grants an extension of time. The application for a record plat shall be
submitted to the Commission and, if it is not received within the period of
time above specified, all previous actions by the Commission with respect to
the plat shall be deemed to be null and void.
   (C)   Step 3, Record Plat of the Subdivision. With the application for
approval of the record plat, the subdivider shall submit the following
engineering plans and specifications and other required information to the
Commission:
      (1)   Profiles, typical cross-sections and specifications for proposed
street improvements and grade if used for drainage;
      (2)   Profiles and locations and other explanatory data concerning the
installation of sanitary systems and water distribution system;
      (3)   A description of the portion of the overall provisional plat
intended to be filed for record, including a program for the progressive
development of the entire area contained in the overall provisional plat;
      (4)   A statement of the estimated amount of money sufficient to complete
the improvements and installations by the subdivider and attested to by a
registered land surveyor or a registered professional engineer;
      (5)   The record plat may include all or any part of the overall
provisional plat which has received approval;
      (6)   The original drawing of the record plat of the subdivision shall be
provided and drawn to a scale of 50 feet to one inch; provided that, the
resulting drawing can be placed on a sheet 18 inches by 23 inches. A scale of
100 feet to one inch may be used if authorized by the Commission;
      (7)   Accurate boundary line, with dimensions and angles, which provide a
survey of the tract, closing with an error of not more than one foot in 5,000
feet;
      (8)   Accurate distances and directions to the nearest established street
corners or official monuments. Reference corners shall be accurately described
on the plat;
      (9)   Accurate locations of all existing and recorded streets
intersecting the boundaries of the tract;
      (10)   Street lines with accurate dimensions in feet and hundredths of
feet, with angles to street, alley and lot lines;
      (11)   Lot numbers and dimensions;
      (12)   Accurate locations of easements for utilities and drainage and any
limitations on such easements. Surface drainage easements shall be shown
separately front utilities, but within the same easement area;
      (13)   Accurate dimensions for any property to be dedicated or reserved
for public, semi-public or community use;
      (14)   Building setback lines and dimensions;
      (15)   Location, type, material and size of all monuments and lot
markers;
      (16)   Plans and specifications for the improvements required in this
chapter;
      (17)   Restrictions of all types which will run with the land and become
covenants in the deeds for lots;
      (18)   Name of the subdivision, followed by the words: “Record Plat”;
      (19)   Name and address of the owner and the subdivider;
      (20)   North point, scale and date;
      (21)   Certification by a registered land surveyor;
      (22)   Certification of dedication of streets and other public property;
      (23)   Certificate for approval by the Commission;
      (24)   Certificate for approval of the roads by the Board of County
Commissioners, if the plat lies wholly, or partly, beyond the town limits;
      (25)   Provide typical cross-section, grades and other specifications for
all surface drainage systems, including both on-site and off-site drainage
(i.e., culvert pipes, swales, open ditches and the like);
      (26)   Provide size, type, grade, location and other specifications for
storm sewers including on-site and off-site (i.e., inlets, curb sections,
manholes, lift stations and the like);
      (27)   Size, type, grade and locations of existing subsurface drainage or
proposed subsurface drainage including on-site and off-site (i.e., peripheral
drains around homes, beneath street beds and the like);
      (28)   Elevation of finished grade of each homesite in relation to
street;
      (29)   Location of well, if applicable, septic tank, if applicable, and
absorption field if applicable in relation to lot lines, adjoining property,
drainage and utility easements and the like;
      (30)   Certification of approval from the state’s Department of Natural
Resources, Division of Water, on any permanent structure lying wholly or in
port in a floodplain;
      (31)   Certification of approval from County Drainage Board on any
permanent structure lying wholly or in part within the easement of a legal
drain;
      (32)   Certification of approval from the County Highway Department or
City Street Department concerning road standards and specifications, road
drainage, rights-of-way and the like; and
      (33)   Any other item that was required as part of the overall
provisional plat.
   (D)   Step 4, Record Plat Approval.
      (1)   The Record Plat will have incorporated all changes or modifications
required by the Commission, a designated engineer, the Health Officer, the
County Soil and Water Conservation District and the County Surveyor; otherwise,
it shall conform to the provisional plat, and it may constitute only that
portion of the approved provisional plat which the subdivider proposed to
record and develop at the time; provided that, such portion conforms with all
requirements of this chapter and meets the approval of the Commission,
      (2)   (a)   The record plat shall be filed not later than 12 months after
the date of approval of the overall preliminary plat; otherwise, it will be
considered void unless an extension is requested by the developer and granted
by the Commission in writing.
         (b)   Fifteen days before the Commission’s next regularly scheduled
meeting, the subdivider shall submit to the Building Commissioner an
application for approval of the record plat of the subdivision, together with
four copies of all material outlined in Step 3 as requested by the Commission.
Also, the original drawing and eight page-size prints of the record plat shall
accompany this material.
         (c)   When the record plat is submitted to the Commission, it shall be
accompanied by a notice from the Council, stating that there has been filed
with and approved by that body, one of the following:
            1.   A certificate signed by a registered professional engineer or
a registered land surveyor, who has been approved by the Council, stating that
he or she has inspected the improvements and installations for the subdivision
required for its approval, during and after their construction and installation
and that they have been made or installed in accordance with the approved
specification; and, that a three-year maintenance bond has been provided for
any improvements and installations required by this chapter, as is executed to
the town. The said maintenance bond shall:
               a.   Run to and be in favor of the town, if the subdivision or
any part thereof, is within the corporate limits of the town. If the
subdivision is beyond the jurisdiction of the Commission, then such maintenance
bond shall be in favor of and run to the Board of County Commissioners;
               b.   Be in a penal sum of not less than $25,000 per mile of
streets in the subdivision to assure and guarantee the maintenance of all
improvements and installations, during such three-year period, including, but
not limited to, streets to minimum town specifications at the end of such
period, sanitary sewers, storm sewers and water lines, including lift stations,
pumps, motors, connections and main lines installed in the subdivision,
sidewalks, shoulders, side slopes and ditches, street signs, street lights and
fire hydrants; provided that, the Board of Trustees may reduce the penal sum
set forth herein for good cause if the intent of the maintenance bond provision
is preserved;
               c.   Include an amount for maintenance other than for streets
set forth above which shall be set by the Commission, but in no event shall the
penal sum of such maintenance bond covering additional installations be less
than 10% of the total cost of all of the improvements and installations in the
subdivision proposed for record plat approval; and
               d.   Commence upon approval of the record plat.
            2.   A bond which shall:
               a.   Run to the town;
               b.   Be in an amount determined by the Commission to be
sufficient in amount to complete the improvements and installations in
compliance with this chapter, but in no case shall such amount be less than
100% of the total estimated cost of all improvements and installations provided
in the record plat. A statement of the estimated amount sufficient to complete
the improvements and installations shall be furnished by the subdivider and
attested to by a registered professional engineer or a registered land
surveyor;
               c.   Be with surety satisfactory to the Commission; and
               d.   Specify the time for the completion of the improvements and
installations, which shall be within two years from the date of such bond.
            3.   Specify that upon completion, but prior to acceptance by the
Council of any streets within the corporate limits of the town and by the Board
of County Commissioners of any streets outside of the town limits, a three-year
maintenance bond or other suitable agreement or guarantee acceptable to the
Council covering such street improvements, and for all other improvements and
installations in the subdivision, which shall run to the Council or the Board
of County Commissioners as the case may be, will be provided by the subdivider
or contractor of such street improvement to be effective as of the date of
acceptance by the Council or the Board of County Commissioners as the case may
be. This maintenance bond or other suitable agreement or performance guarantee
shall satisfy the requirements set forth for a three-year maintenance bond in
divisions (D)(2)(c)1.a. through (D)(2)(c)1.d. above.
      (3)   The performance bond referred to in division (D)(2)(c)2. above
shall not be released until a certificate signed by a registered professional
engineer or registered land surveyor, as the case may be, who has been approved
by the Council, shall have been filed with the Building Commissioner stating
that said engineer or surveyor has inspected the improvements and installations
guaranteed by the bond during and after the construction and installation and
that they have been made and installed in accordance with the approved
specifications. Upon the acceptance of all streets in the subdivision by the
Council or the Board of County Commissioners, as the case may be, and upon the
subsequent authorization of the Council for the acceptance of the other
improvements and installations covered by the maintenance bond, then the three-
year maintenance bond or other suitable agreement or performance guarantee may
be released and the surety discharged for all time of further obligation.
      (4)   Any funds received from the bond required by these regulations
shall be used only for the purpose of making the improvements, installations or
repair for which said guarantees were provided, in accordance with the
standards, specifications and requirements of these regulations.
      (5)   Upon the acceptance of said improvements and installations by the
Board of County Commissioners or Council, as the case may be, the applicant
shall obtain a completion affidavit stating that the required improvements and
installations have been installed in compliance with the specifications of this
chapter, and have been accepted for public maintenance, and shall file said
completion affidavit with the Commission.
      (6)   (a)   Within a reasonable time, not exceeding 65 days, after
application for approval of the record plat, the Commission shall approve or
disapprove it.
         (b)   If the Commission approves, it shall affix the Commission’s seal
upon the plat, together with the certifying signatures of its President and
Secretary. It may then be filed for recording in the office of the Recorder of
the county, as required by law.
         (c)   If it is disapproved, it shall set forth the reason for such
disapproval in its own records and provide the applicant with a copy.
(Ord. passed 10-19-1977)
SOIL SURVEY, DRAINAGE, EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
§ 155.035  BASIC REQUIREMENTS.
   Before granting approval of a subdivision, the Building Commissioner shall
be satisfied that the proposed subdivision meets the applicable criteria set
forth herein for the tract of land concerning types of soils involved, and the
conditions which are requisite to assure proper execution of erosion and
sediment control and proper drainage. The Building Commissioner shall be guided
by the information set forth in the findings in the national cooperative soil
survey prepared by the USDA Soil Conservation Service in cooperation with the
Purdue Experiment Station and the County Soil and Water Conservation District,
and the specifications set forth in Subsection (e) herein. The Building
Commissioner shall also be guided by advice from the USDA Conservation Service,
the County Soil and Water Conservation District, the County Drainage Board, the
state’s Department of Natural Resources, Division of Water, and other agencies
or officials offering technical assistance on the subjects of soils drainage,
erosion and sediment control. The applicant shall provide the information,
report or plan for his or her application, and any additional expense necessary
to ensure adequate information, report or plan shall be met by the applicant.
(Ord. passed 10-19-1977)
§ 155.036  GENERAL.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words in
the singular number include the plural, and words in the plural number include
the singular. Present tense includes the future. The word “building” shall be
deemed to include the word “structure”.
      CUT. An excavation. The difference between a point on the original ground
and a designated point of lower elevation on the final grade. Also, the
material removed in excavation.
      EROSION. The removal of surface materials by the action of natural
elements.
      EXCAVATION. Any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock or any other
similar material is dug into, cut, quarried, uncovered, removed, displaced,
relocated or bulldozed and shall include the conditions resulting therefrom.
      FILL. Any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock or any other material is
placed, pushed, dumped, pulled, transported or moved to a new location above
the natural surface of the ground or on top of the stripped surface and shall
include the conditions resulting therefrom. The difference in elevation between
a point on the original ground and a designated point of higher elevation on
the final grade. The material used to make a fill.
      FLOODPLAIN. The area along a natural watercourse which is periodically
overflowed by water therefrom.
      QUALIFYING TRACT. Any tract where 20 or more cubic yards of earth is
moved.
      RUNOFF. The surface water discharge or rate of discharge of a given
watershed after a fall of rain or snow that does not enter the soil, but runs
off the surface of the land.
      RUNOFF FROM A FULLY DEVELOPED AREA UPSTREAM. The surface water runoff
that can be reasonably anticipated upon maximum development of that area of the
watershed located upstream from the subject tract, as permitted by prevailing
zoning or the township comprehensive plan.
      SEDIMENTATION. The process by which mineral or organic matter is
accumulated or deposited by moving wind, water or gravity. Once this matter is
deposited (or remains suspended in water), it is usually referred to as
SEDIMENT.
      SLOPE. The face of an embankment or cut section; any ground whose surface
makes an angle with the plane of the horizon. SLOPES are usually expressed in a
percentage based upon vertical difference in feet per 100 feet of horizontal
distance.
      SOIL STABILIZATION. Chemical or structural treatment of a mass of soil to
increase or maintain its stability or otherwise improve its engineering
properties.
      SWALE. A low lying stretch of land which gathers or carries surface water
runoff.
      TOPSOIL. Surface soils and subsurface soils which presumably are fertile
soils and soil material, ordinarily rich in organic matter or humus debris.
TOPSOIL is usually found in the uppermost soil layer called the “A Horizon”.
      WATERCOURSE. A permanent stream, intermittent stream, river, brook,
creek, channel or ditch for water whether natural or human-made.
   (B)   No changes shall be made in the contour of the land; or grading,
excavating, removal or destruction of the topsoil, trees or other vegetative
cover of the land shall be commenced until such time that a plan for minimizing
erosion and sedimentation has been reviewed by the Building Commissioner, or
there has been a determination by the Building Commissioner that such plans are
necessary.
   (C)   No development plan shall be approved unless:
      (1)   There has been a plan approved by the Building Commissioner that
provides for drainage and minimizing erosion and sedimentation consistent with
this section, and an improvement bond or other acceptable securities are
deposited with the town or county in the form of an escrow guarantee
satisfactory for the planning which will ensure installation and completion of
the required improvements; or
      (2)   There has been a determination by the Building Commissioner that a
plan for drainage and minimizing erosion and sedimentation is not necessary.
   (D)   (1)   Measures used to control erosion and reduce sedimentation and to
provide drainage shall as a minimum meet the standards and specifications of
the County Soil and Water Conservation District.
      (2)   The Building Commissioner shall ensure compliance with the
appropriate specifications, copies of which are available from the County Soil
and Water Conservation District or the Building Commissioner.
(Ord. passed 10-19-1977)
§ 155.037  PERFORMANCE PRINCIPLES.
   The following measures are effective in minimizing erosion and sedimentation
and shall be included where applicable in the control plan.
   (A)   Stripping of vegetation, regarding or other development shall be done
in such a way that will minimize erosion. Development plans shall preserve
salient natural features, keep cut-fill operations to a minimum and ensure
conformity with topography so as to create the least erosion potential and
adequately handle the volume and velocity of surface water runoff.
   (B)   Whenever feasible, natural vegetation shall be retained, protected and
supplemented.
   (C)   The disturbed area and the duration of exposure shall be kept to a
practical minimum.
   (D)   Disturbed soils shall be stabilized as quickly as practicable.
   (E)   Temporary vegetation and mulching shall be used to protect exposed
critical areas during development.
   (F)   The permanent final vegetation and structural erosion control and
drainage measures shall be installed as soon as practical in the development.
   (G)   Provisions shall be made to effectively accommodate the increased
runoff caused by changed soil and surface conditions during and after
development.
   (H)   Where necessary, the rate of surface water runoff will be structurally
retarded.
   (I)   Sediment in the runoff water shall be trapped until the disturbed area
is stabilized by the use of debris basins, sediment basins, silt traps or
similar measures.
(Ord. passed 10-19-1977)
§ 155.038  GRADING FOR DRAINAGE.
   In order to provide more suitable sites for building and other uses, improve
surface drainage and control erosion, the following requirements shall be met.
   (A)   The location, grading and placement of sub-grade (base) material of
all driveway and parking areas shall be accomplished as the first work done on
a development plan.
   (B)   All lots, tracts or parcels shall be graded to provide proper drainage
away from the buildings and dispose of it without ponding, and all land within
a development shall be graded to drain and dispose of surface water without
ponding, except where approved by the Building Commissioner.
   (C)   All drainage provisions shall be of such design to adequately handle
the surface runoff and carry it to the nearest suitable outlet such as a curbed
street, storm drain or natural watercourse. Where drainage swales are used to
divert surface water’s away from buildings, they shall be sodded or planted as
required and shall be of such slope, shape and size as to conform with the
requirements of the town or the county as the case may be.
   (D)   Concentration of surface water runoff shall only be permitted in
swales or watercourses.
   (E)   Excavations and fills.
      (1)   Cut and fill slopes shall not be steeper than 2:1 unless stabilized
by a retaining wall or cribbing, except as approved by the Building
Commissioner, when handled under special conditions.
      (2)   Provisions shall be made to prevent surface water from damaging the
cut face of excavations or the sloping surfaces of fills, by installation of
temporary or permanent drainage across or above these areas.
      (3)   Cut and fills shall not endanger adjoining property.
      (4)   Fill shall not be placed and compacted so as to minimize sliding or
erosion of the soil.
      (5)   Fills shall not encroach on natural watercourses or constructed
channels.
      (6)   Fills placed adjacent to natural watercourses of constructed
channels shall have suitable protection against erosion during periods of
flooding.
      (7)   Grading will not be done in such a way so as to divert water onto
the property of another land owner without the expressed consent of the
Building Commissioner.
      (8)   During grading operations, necessary measures for dust control will
be exercised.
      (9)   Grading equipment will not be allowed to cross live streams.
Provision will be made for the installation of temporary or permanent culverts
or bridges.
(Ord. passed 10-19-1977)
§ 155.039  RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Whenever sedimentation is caused by stripping vegetation, regarding or
other development, it shall be the responsibility of the applicant, person,
corporation or other entity causing such sedimentation to remove it from all
adjoining surfaces, drainage systems and watercourses and to repair any damage
at his or her expense as quickly as possible.
   (B)   Maintenance of all driveways, parking areas, drainage facilities and
watercourses within any development plan area is the responsibility of the
applicant or owner developer.
   (C)   It is the responsibility of the applicant and any person, corporation,
or other entity doing any act on or across a communal stream, watercourse or
swale or upon the floodplain or right-of-way during the pendency of the
activity and to return it to its original or equal condition after such
activity is completed.
   (D)   No applicant and person, corporation or other entity shall block,
impede the flow of, alter, construct any structure, or deposit any material or
thing, or commit any act which will affect normal or flood flow in any communal
stream or watercourse without having obtained prior approval from the County
Drainage Board or the state’s Department of Natural Resources, Division of
Water, whichever is applicable.
   (E)   Where a development plan area is traversed by a watercourse, the total
development of the watercourse shall be considered. There shall be provided a
drainage easement or right-of-way conforming substantially with the line of
such watercourse and of such width as will be adequate to preserve natural
drainage to the satisfaction of the Building Commissioner.
   (F)   Each applicant, person, corporation or other entity which makes any
surface changes shall be required to:
      (1)   Collect on-site surface runoff and dispose op it to the point of
discharge into an adequate outlet approved by the Building Commissioner;
      (2)   Handle existing and potent off-site runoff through his or her
development by designing to adequately handle storm runoff from a fully
developed area upstream;
      (3)   Pay his or her proportionate share of the total cost of off-site
improvements to the common natural watercourse, based on a fully developed
drainage area; and
      (4)   Provide and install, at his or her expense, in accordance with the
Building Commissioner requirements, all drainage and erosion control
improvements (temporary and permanent) as required by the erosion and sediment
control plan.
   (G)   It is the responsibility of the applicant or owner to keep all major
streams, not under the jurisdiction of other of official agency, open and free
flowing.
   (H)   The applicant or owner will assume the responsibility for maintaining
an open and free flowing condition in all minor streams, watercourses and
drainage systems, constructed or improved in accordance with town and county
design criteria on his or her property, which are necessary for proper drainage
in the discretion of the Building Commissioner if adequate right-of-way exists
or can be acquired.
(Ord. passed 10-19-1977)
§ 155.040  COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The design, installation and maintenance of the required drainage
facilities and erosion and sediment control measures shall be in accordance
with the following standards and specifications on file in the office of the
County Soil and Water Conservation District and the office of the Building
Commissioner: “Urban Soil and Water Conservation Guidelines, Specification No.
1”, adopted by the County Soil and Water Conservation District.
   (B)   The approval of plans and specifications for the control of erosion
and sedimentation shall be concurrent with the approval of the development, and
become a part thereof.
   (C)   Permission for clearing and grading prior to the approval of the
development plan may be obtained under temporary easements or other conditions
satisfactory to the Building Commissioner.
   (D)   In the event the applicant or developer proceeds to clear and grade
prior to the approval of the development plan, without satisfying conditions
specified under division (C) above, the Council may revoke the approval of all
plans.
(Ord. passed 10-19-1977)
PRINCIPLES AND STANDARDS OF DESIGN
§ 155.055  GENERAL.
   (A)   In determining whether an application for approval of an overall
provisional and a record plat of a subdivision shall be granted, the Commission
shall determine that the plat is in accordance with the Master Plan and
conforms to the principles and standards required in this subchapter which
shall be deemed as minimal; and whenever the applicable requirements of
Ch. 156 of this code of ordinances are higher or more restrictive, those
requirements shall control any application for plat approval.
   (B)   In the subdividing of any land, due regard shall be shown for all
natural features, such as tree growth, watercourse, historic spots or similar
conditions which, if preserved, will add attractiveness and value to the
proposed development.
   (C)   Due consideration shall be given to the prevention of air and stream
pollution, proper treatment and disposal of refuse and other waste, and the
elimination of other blighting characteristic.
   (D)   The subdivision layout shall be of such a character that it protects
the health, safety and general welfare of the residents in the jurisdiction of
the Commission.
(Ord. passed 10-19-1977)
§ 155.056  STREETS.
   The street and alley layout shall provide adequate vehicular and pedestrian
access to all lots and parcels of land within the subdivision, and where
streets cross other streets, jogs shall not be created. Streets shall conform
to the following principles and standards.
   (A)   Proposed streets shall be adjusted to the contour of the land so as to
produce usable lots and streets of reasonable gradient.
   (B)   Residential street systems shall be designed to minimize through
traffic movement, but certain proposed streets, where appropriate, shall be
extended to the boundary line of the tract to be subdivided so as to provide
for normal circulation of traffic within the vicinity.
   (C)   Wherever there exists a dedicated op platted portion op a street or
alley adjacent to the proposed subdivision, the remainder of the street or
alley to the prescribed width shall be platted within the proposed subdivision.
   (D)   Residential street patterns shall provide reasonable direct access to
the primary circulation system.
   (E)   Local circulation systems and land development patterns shall not
conflict with the efficiency of bordering arterial routes.
   (F)   Widths of arterial streets and feeder streets shall conform to the
widths set forth in the thoroughfare plan.
   (G)   The minimum right-of-way of residential streets or cul-de-sacs shall
be 50 feet. All cul-de-sacs shall terminate in a circular right-of-way with a
minimum diameter of 100 feet, or other arrangement for the turning of all
vehicles conveniently within the right-of-way, and shall not exceed 600 feet in
length.
   (H)   Alleys shall be discouraged in residential districts, but should be
included in commercial and industrial areas where needed for loading and
unloading or access purposes, and where platted shall be at least 20 feet in
width.
   (I)   The centerlines of streets should intersect as nearly at right angles
as possible.
   (J)   At intersections of streets and alleys, property line corners shall be
rounded by arcs of at least 20 feet radii or by chords op such arcs.
   (K)   At intersections of streets the property line corners shall be rounded
by arcs with radii of not less than 15 feet, or by chords of such arcs.
   (L)   If the smaller angle of intersection of two streets is less than 60
degrees, the radius of the arc at the intersection of property lines shall be
increased as deemed advisable by the Commission.
   (M)   Intersections of more than two streets at one point shall be avoided.
   (N)   Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than 125 feet shall not be
permitted.
   (O)   Where parkways or special types of streets are involved, the
Commission may apply special standards to be followed in their design.
   (P)   Whenever the proposed subdivision contains or is adjacent to a
railroad right-of-way or main thoroughfare provision should be made for a
marginal access street, or a parallel street adjacent to such railroad right-
of-way or major thoroughfare. As a general principle, intersections of such
marginal access streets or parallel streets shall not exist at less than one-
quarter mile intervals with major thoroughfares.
   (Q)   Only one street, driveway or point of vehicle access shall be
permitted from a subdivision onto an arterial street or road. Two or more
streets, driveways or points of vehicle access may be permitted by the
Commission only if they are definitely needed to improve the safety and traffic
circulation in the area, or are required because of the large size of a
subdivision.
   (R)   Half streets shall be prohibited, except where essential to the
reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with other requirements
of these regulations; and where the Commission finds it will be propelled to
require the dedication of the other half when the adjoining property is
subdivided. Wherever a half street is adjacent to a tract to be subdivided, the
other half of the street shall be planned within such tract.
   (S)   A temporarily dead-ended street shall be permitted in any case in
which a street is proposed to be and should logically be extended, but is not
yet constructed. An adequate easement for a turn-around shall be provided for
any such temporary dead-end street which extends 200 feet or more in length.
Such easement shall be automatically vacated to abutting property owners when
said dead-ended street is legally extended.
   (T)   In subdivisions that adjoin or include existing streets that do not
conform to the minimum right-of-way dimensions as established by the
thoroughfare plan, the subdivider shall dedicate additional width along either
one or both sides of such streets of inadequate width so as to bring them up to
standards; provided, the area to be used for widening is owned by the
subdivider or under his or her control.
   (U)   Horizontal visibility on curved streets and vertical visibility on all
streets must be maintained along the centerlines as follows:
 
Arterial thoroughfares      500 feet
Feeder streets and parkways 300 feet
Residential streets         150 feet
 
   (V)   Curvature measure along the centerline shall have a minimum radius as
follows:
 
Arterial thoroughfares      500 feet
Feeder streets and parkways 300 feet
Residential streets         200 feet
 
   (W)   Between reversed curves on arterial streets, there shall be a tangent
of not less than 100 feet and, on feeder and residential streets, such tangent
shall be not less than 40 feet.
   (X)   Maximum grades for streets shall be as follows:
      (1)   Arterial streets: not greater than 6%; and
      (2)   Feeder streets, residential streets and alleys: not greater than
8%.
   (Y)   The minimum grade of any street gutter shall not be less than 0.3%.
   (Z)   No street names may be used which will duplicate, or be con fused
with, the names of existing streets, unless for special reasons to be
considered as exceptions by the Commission. The streets which are logical
extensions or continuations of, or obviously in alignment with, any existing
streets, either constructed or appearing on any validly recorded plat, shall
bear the names of such existing streets.
   (AA)   The following divisions shall be required as a provision of the
restrictive covenants of all final plats to which they apply.
      (1)   No fence, wall, hedge, tree or shrub planting which obstructs sight
lines and elevations between three and 12 feet above the street shall be placed
or permitted to remain on any corner lot within the triangular area formed by
the street right-of-way lines and a line connecting points 40 feet from the
intersection of said street lines or in the case of a rounded property corner,
from the intersection of the street right-of-way lines extended.
      (2)   The same sight line limitations shall apply to any lot within ten
feet of the intersection of a street right-of-way line with the edge of the
driveway pavement or alley line. No driveway shall be located within 75 feet of
the intersection of two street lines.
(Ord. passed 10-19-1977)
§ 155.057  BLOCK STANDARDS.
   (A)   Block length and width of acreage within bounding streets shall be
such as to accommodate the size of lot required in the area by
Ch. 156 of this code of ordinances and to provide for convenient access,
circulation control and safety of street traffic blocks that are unreasonably
large or small will not be approved.
   (B)   The maximum block length shall be 1,200 feet. In the design of blocks
longer than 800 feet, the Commission may specify the provision of pedestrian
crosswalks near the center, or wherever most useful to facilitate pedestrians’
circulation to a school, park, recreation area, shopping center or other
significant neighborhood destination.
   (C)   Residential blocks shall be of sufficient depth to accommodate two
tiers of lots of minimum depth, except where reverse frontage lots bordering a
freeway, arterial street or floodplain are used.
(Ord. passed 10-19-1977)
§ 155.058  LOT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Subdivision lots shall be adequate for the type of development and
land use proposed, and shall be in conformity with
Ch. 156 of this code of ordinances’ provisions applicable thereto; provided
that, the area of the lots shall meet the criteria set forth by the Health
Officer.
   (B)   The lot size, width, depth and shape, grade location and orientation
shall be in proper relation to street and block design and to existing and
proposed topographical conditions.
   (C)   All lots shall abut on a street or place.
   (D)   (1)   Side lines of lots shall be at approximately right angles to
straight streets and on radial lines on curved streets.
      (2)   Some variation from this rule is permissible, but pointed or very
irregular lots should be avoided.
   (E)   Double frontage lots should not be platted; except that, where desired
along no access streets or arterial streets, lots may face on an interior
street and back on such thoroughfares. In that event a planting strip for a
screen, at least 20 feet in width shall be provided along the back of each lot.
   (F)   The depth to width ratio of any single-family residential lot shall
not be greater than three to one.
   (G)   Building lines shall conform to the front yard provisions of
Ch. 156 of this code of ordinances or as directed by the Commission.
   (H)   Corner lots shall be sufficiently larger than interior lots to allow
maintenance of building lines on both streets.
   (I)   Wherever possible, unit shopping centers, based upon sound development
standards, should be designed in contract to the platting of lots for
individual commercial use.
   (J)   Lots abutting a watercourse, drainageway, channel or stream shall have
additional minimum width or depth as required to provide an adequate building
site and afford the minimum usuable area required by
Ch. 156 of this code of ordinances for front, rear and side yards.
(Ord. passed 10-19-1977)
§ 155.059  EASEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Adequate areas of suitable size and location shall be allocated
for utility easements. As a general principle, such easements shall be at least
20 feet in width, shall provide reasonable continuity from block to block, and
shall be located at rear lot lines and along side and front lot lines when
deemed necessary; and where located along lot lines, one-half the width shall
be taken from each lot. In the case of lots extending to the boundary of the
lands plotted and not adjoining another plat, the full width of the easement
shall be provided on such peripheral lots.
      (2)   Before determining the location of easements, the plan shall be
discussed with the local public utility companies to assure their property
placing for the installation of such services.
   (B)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainageway,
channel or stream, adequate areas for storm water or drainage easements shall
be allocated for the purpose of widening, deepening, sloping, improving or
protecting said watercourses.
   (C)   Whenever practicable, the subdivider shall be encouraged to design for
the placement of utility lines underground, following the required standards
and specifications established by each utility company. The location of each
underground utility system shall be shown by appropriate easement lines on the
proposed lot.
(Ord. passed 10-19-1977)
§ 155.060  PUBLIC OPEN SPACES.
   (A)   Where sites for parks, schools, playgrounds or other public uses are
located within the subdivision area as shown on the Master Plan, the Commission
may request their dedication for such purposes, or their reservation for a
period of two years, following the date of the final approval of the plat. In
the event a government agency concerned passes a resolution expressing its
intent to acquire the land so reserved, the reservation period shall be
extended for an additional six months.
   (B)   In a subdivision proposed to contain an average or more than two and
one-half lots per gross acre, and containing 50 or more lots as shown on the
provisional plat, at least one acre of open space per each 50 lots shall be
platted and permanently dedicated for community park or playground use. At the
discretion of the Commission, such area may be permanently dedicated to the
town or county as the case may be, or if suitably protected by covenants to a
private land owners association. Playgrounds or public school sites within the
boundaries of the proposed subdivision shall be deemed to meet such community
open space requirements. The least dimension of any such required open space
shall be 150 feet. A public way crosswalk or easement not less than 15 feet in
width shall be provided for access to the required open space.
(Ord. passed 10-19-1977)
§ 155.061  BUILDING SETBACK LINES.
   Building setback lines shall be provided in
Ch. 156 of this code of ordinances or as directed by the Commission.
(Ord. passed 10-19-1977)
§ 155.062  SOIL LIMITATIONS AND NATURAL FEATURES.
   (A)   Land which exhibits severe limitations to urban development due to
flooding, bad drainage, poor soils or other features likely to be harmful to
the safety, welfare and general health of future residents shall not be
subdivided unless adequate remedies to overcome said limitations are formulated
by the subdivider and approved by the Plan Commission and other appropriate
public agencies.
   (B)   Land which exhibits very severe limitations to urban development, such
as floodplains and very poorly drained organic (muck) soils, characterized by
seasonal high water table at or near the surface, ponding or frequent to
occasional flooding, shall not be platted for urban development or used for
non- agricultural structures.
(Ord. passed 10-19-1977)
§ 155.063  COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   It is recognized that the subdivider, in creating commercial and
industrial subdivision, faces unique problems of lot design not normally
encountered in residential subdivisions. For this reason, the initial emphasis
of the Commission shall be upon street layout and block arrangement.
   (B)   (1)   Generally, the procedural requirements shall be for the owner to
follow the regular procedure outlined in these regulations; however, the
subdivider need show only two lots along the street and block layout.
      (2)   Then, from time to time, as prospective buyers or users express
interest in lots sized to their required specifications, the owner shall submit
an amendment to the approved recorded subdivision plat for consideration.
      (3)   Regular procedural requirements of the Commission following the
receipt of a final subdivision plat shall then apply, except those streets that
have been built by following an approved set of plans on the previously
approved record plat, shall not have to be rebuilt because of the adoption of
new criteria by the town.
   (C)   This shall also apply to storm drainage facilities within said
subdivision unless runoff characteristics have been changed by the newly
proposed improvements or unauthorized existing improvements.
(Ord. passed 10-19-1977)
IMPROVEMENTS AND INSTALLATIONS
§ 155.075  GENERAL.
   (A)   Subdivision improvements shall be designed, furnished and installed by
the subdivider in accordance with the standard specifications of the town and
with the requirements of this chapter and other requirements of the state and
county, and whenever the applicable requirements of any other governmental unit
are higher or more restrictive, those requirements shall control any
application or plat approval. No subdivision shall be approved by the
Commission unless the following applicable improvements have been completed as
herein specified and required, or the subdivider provides a financial guarantee
therefore as specified in this chapter.
   (B)   After Commission approval of the provisional plat and prior to any
construction in the subdivision, the subdivider shall submit copies of the
construction drawings for streets and drainage facilities to the Building
Commissioner at least 45 days before construction is to begin.
   (C)   Supervision and inspection of construction of all required
improvements shall be provided by the Building Commissioner; provided that, the
Health Officer shall inspect sewage disposal systems.
(Ord. passed 10-19-1977)
§ 155.076  MONUMENTS AND MARKERS.
   (A)   Monuments and markers shall be placed by the subdivider so that the
center of the pipe or marked point shall coincide exactly with the intersection
of lines to be marked, and shall be set so that the top of the monument or
marker is level with the finished grade.
   (B)   Monuments or permanent markers shall be set:
      (1)   At the intersection of all lines forming angles in the boundary of
the subdivision; and
      (2)   At the intersection of street property lines.
   (C)   Markers shall be set:
      (1)   At the beginning and ending of all curves along street property
lines;
      (2)   At all points where lot lines intersect curves, either front or
rear;
      (3)   At all angles in property lines of lots; and
      (4)   At all other lot corners not established by a monument.
   (D)   Monuments shall be of stone, pre-cast concrete or concrete poured in
place with minimum dimensions of four inches by four inches by 30 inches. They
shall be deeply scored on top with a cross, with the legs of the cross at least
three inches long and at least one-eighth inches deep. Solid iron pins with a
minimum length of 30 inches and one inch in diameter may also be used as
permanent markers. Markers shall consist of iron pipes or steel bars at least
30 inches long, and not less than five-eighths inches in diameter. At least
four monuments shall be set in each subdivision.
   (E)   Monuments, permanent markers and other markers shall be placed in a
manner so that the line of sight between such markers can be observed from one
marker to the other.
(Ord. passed 10-19-1977)
§ 155.077  STREETS.
   (A)   Streets (and alleys where provided) shall be completed to grades shown
on plans, profiles and cross-sections provided by the subdivider and prepared
by a registered professional engineer and approved by the Commission.
   (B)   (1)   The streets shall be graded, surfaced and improved to the
dimensions required by the cross-sections and the work shall be performed in
the manner prescribed in Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction and Maintenance, latest issue, of the state’s Highway Commission.
      (2)   References in the following paragraphs refer to the S.H.C. of 1.
Standard Specifications:
         (a)   In a subdivision proposed to have a street or streets which are
extensions of existing paved streets which are surfaced to a width of at least
31 feet or in a subdivision where any parking is to be allowed on the street,
the street shall be surfaced to a minimum width of 31 feet.
         (b)   In a subdivision where no parking is to be allowed on the
street, the streets shall be surfaced to a minimum width of 22 feet.
   (C)   (1)   The street surface shall be of portland cement concrete or a
flexible pavement and shall be constructed in accordance with design
characteristics at least equal to those given below:
Design Characteristics of Street and Alley Pavements
 Arterial Street Feeder Streets Residential Streets Alleys
Design Characteristics of Street and Alley Pavements
                                              Arterial Feeder  Residential Alleys
                                              Street   Streets Streets
CONTROLLING AXLE LOAD - PORTLAND              22,000#  16,000# 12,000//    12,000#
CEMENT CONCRETE*
   Uniform design thickness                8”     7”    6”        6”
FLEXIBLE*
   Asphaltic concrete or bituminous coated 4”     4”    3”        3”
aggregate
   Graded, compacted aggregate base        8”     6”    4”        4”
   Sub-base                                9”     8”    4”        4”
NOTES TO TABLE:
* - For intersections on residential streets, use feeder street design
characteristics.
 
      (2)   Where aggregate is placed for use as a construction road, that
portion which lies below the bottom elevation of the compacted aggregate base,
and only that portion, may be left in place and be considered to be sub-base;
providing that, the use as a construct i on road has not degraded the material
below the minimum requirements of the Standard Specifications for Sub-Base. The
compacted aggregate base and surface courses shall be constructed successively,
and in no case shall the graded, compacted aggregate base be used as a
construction road.
   (D)   Prior to piecing the street and alley surfaces, adequate subsurface
drainage for the street shall be provided by the subdivider. Subsurface
drainage pipe, when required, shall be a culvert not less than 12 inches in
diameter approved by the Commission, County Highway Department or Town Street
Department, whichever applies. Upon the completion of the street and alley
improvements, plans and profiles as built shall be filed with the Commission.
(Ord. passed 10-19-1977)
§ 155.078  SEWERS.
   (A)   The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with a complete sanitary
sewer system, which shall connect with a sanitary sewer outlet approved by the
Health Officer; except that, when such approved outlet is not available, one of
the following methods of sewage disposal shall be used; provided, however,
that, a private sewage disposal system on individual lots consisting of a
septic tank and tile absorption field shall not be allowed if the water table
is less than 30 inches below the ground surface:
      (1)   A complete sanitary sewer system to convey the sewage to a
treatment plant, to be provided by the subdivider in accordance with minimum
requirements of the Health Officer; and
      (2)   A private sewage disposal system on individual lots consisting of a
septic tank and tile absorption field or other approved sewage disposal system,
when laid out in accordance with minimum standards of the Health Officer.
   (B)   The plans for the installation of a sanitary sewer system shall be
provided by the subdivider and approved by the Health Officer. Upon the
completion of the sanitary sewer installation, the plans for such system as
built shall be filed with the Commission.
   (C)   In this section and §
155.079 of this chapter, the phrase “the subdivider shall provide” shall be
interpreted to mean that the subdivider shall install the facility referred to,
or whenever a private sewage disposal system or an individual system or an
individual water supply is to be provided, that the subdivider shall require,
as a condition of the sale of each lot or parcel in the subdivision, that the
facilities referred to in these sections shall be installed by the developer of
the lots in accordance with these regulations.
(Ord. passed 10-19-1977)
§ 155.079  WATER.
   (A)   The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with a complete water
main supply system, which shall be connected to a municipal or a community
water supply approved by the Health Officer; except that, when such municipal
or community water supply is not available, the subdivider shall provide an
individual water supply on each lot in the subdivision in accordance with
minimum requirements of the Health Officer.
   (B)   (1)   The plans for the installation of a water main supply system
shall be provided by the subdivider and approved by the Health Officer.
      (2)   Upon the completion of the water supply installation, the plans for
such system as built shall be filed with the Commission.
(Ord. passed 10-19-1977)
§ 155.080  DRAINAGE.
   (A)   (1)   The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with an adequate
storm water sewer system whenever curb and gutter is installed and whenever the
evidence available to the Commission indicates that the natural surface
drainage is inadequate.
      (2)   When the surface drainage is adequate, easements for such surface
drainage are permitted along the side of the street, but where curbs and
gutters are not provided, a shallow swale of at least a two-foot bottom width
and 3:1 side slopes and a depth of at least one foot not to exceed three feet
below the finished grade of the road may be permitted.
      (3)   In all cases the drainage swales must be of adequate size and
dimension to handle the drainage in the watershed; provided that, where
existing natural drainage ways offer a suitable means of storm drainage, the
street right-of-way may be widened to accommodate them, or they may be located
in a parkway or easement.
      (4)   Subsurface drainage of concrete, clay or plastic tile shall be
installed in those soils where it is deemed necessary to protect the street
from damage because of high water table.
         (a)   These drains shall be located one foot adjacent to the road bed
with a minimum of two feet of cover.
         (b)   They shall outlet into a storm sewer or open ditch.
         (c)   The diameter of these subsurface drains shall not be smaller
than six inches, nor larger than 12 inches, unless approved by the Commission.
         (d)   These subsurface drains shall not have surface or storm water
inlets.
         (e)   These subsurface drains shall be bedded in a two-foot by two-
foot bed of gravel.
         (f)   Peak discharge of any drainage system shall be no greater than
existed before the land use change.
   (B)   (1)   In a subdivision where curbs and gutters are not provided, to
facilitate roadside drainage and to assure suitable entrances for private
driveways which are proposed to intersect the roadway, the subdivider shall
furnish a metal pipe, at least 12 inches in diameter and 14 feet in length to
be placed where required for each driveway.
      (2)   Where this type of pipe is used, end-sections shall be installed at
each end.
      (3)   The diameter of the pipe shall be of adequate size to dispose of
the water in the watershed area.
(Ord. passed 10-19-1977)
§ 155.081  CURB AND GUTTER.
   (A)   The Commission shall require curb and gutter to be installed on each
side of the street surface in a subdivision requiring the street standards set
forth in §
155.077 of this chapter.
   (B)   The curb and gutter shall be of one of the construction types shown
below and shall be constructed according to the following specifications.
      (1)   The base for the curb and gutter shall be well compacted on the
existing base or grade.
      (2)   The minimum specifications shall be as shown for the three types of
cross-sections in the figure below.
      (3)   All concrete used in the curb and gutter shall meet the state’s
highway specifications for Class D concrete.
(Ord. passed 10-19-1977)
§ 155.082  SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   The Commission shall require sidewalks to be installed on each side of
the street in a subdivision proposed to be located within the corporate limits
of the town and the Commission may require sidewalks to be constructed on any
street in any subdivision where, in the judgment of the Commission, they are
necessary for the safety of access to places of public assemblage, including
schools and parks.
   (B)   When sidewalks are required, they shall be constructed of portland
cement concrete, at least four inches thick and four feet wide and placed three
feet from the street property line.
(Ord. passed 10-19-1977)
§ 155.083  STREET SIGNS.
   The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with street signs which shall
meet the approval of the Commission at the intersection of all streets.
(Ord. passed 10-19-1977)
§ 155.084  STREET LIGHTS AND FIRE HYDRANTS.
   The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with street lights and fire
hydrants, the quantity and type of which will be determined by the Commission.
The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with street lights and fire
hydrants at street intersections and at such other locations as the Commission
may direct.
(Ord. passed 10-19-1977)
CHAPTER 156:  ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
156.001   Title
   
156.002   Definitions
   
156.003   Authority
   
156.004   Purpose
   
156.005   Compliance
   
156.006   Severability
   
156.007   Interpretation
   
156.008   Jurisdiction area
   
156.009   Application
   
156.010   Saving provision
   
156.011   Repealer
   
156.012   Transition rules
   
156.013   Amendments
   
156.014   Effective date
General Zoning Districts
   
156.025   Establishment of districts
   
156.026   Establishment of overlay district
   
156.027   Planned development districts
   
156.028   District land uses
   
156.029   Unlisted or questionable land uses
Agricultural and Residential Zoning Districts
   
156.040   AG District; intent; permitted uses; special exception uses;
standards
   
156.041   R1 District; intent; permitted uses; special exception uses;
standards
   
156.042   R2 District; intent; permitted uses; special exception uses;
standards
   
156.043   R3 District; intent; permitted uses; special exception uses;
standards
   
156.044   R4 District; intent; permitted uses; special exception uses;
standards
   
156.045   R5 District; intent; permitted uses; special exception uses;
standards
   
156.046   MP District; intent; permitted uses; special exception uses;
standards
Commercial Zoning Districts
   
156.060   SC District; intent; permitted uses; special exception uses;
standards
   
156.061   OC District; intent; permitted uses; special exception uses;
standards
   
156.062   DC District; intent; permitted uses; special exception uses;
standards
   
156.063   C1 District; intent; permitted uses; special exception uses;
standards
   
156.064   C2 District; intent; permitted uses; special exception uses;
standards
   
156.065   C3 District; intent; permitted uses; special exception uses;
standards
Wellhead Protection Overlay District
   
156.080   Purpose
   
156.081   Jurisdictional boundary
   
156.082   Applicability
   
156.083   Establishment of wellhead protection zones
   
156.084   Exemptions from regulations
   
156.085   Development plans required
   
156.086   Plan review
   
156.087   Plan documentation and supporting information
   
156.088   Development standards and prohibitions
Zoning Map
   
156.100   Official zoning map
   
156.101   Official zoning map copies
   
156.102   Location of the official zoning map
   
156.103   Zoning district boundaries
   
156.104   Regular revisions
   
156.105   Damaged, destroyed or lost official zoning map
   
156.106   Official zoning map standards
Development Standards
   
156.120   Introduction
   
156.121   Development standards that apply
   
156.122   Lot/yard standards (LY)
   
156.123   Height standards (HT)
   
156.124   Accessory structure standards (AS)
   
156.125   Temporary use/structure standards (TU)
   
156.126   Landscaping standards (LS)
   
156.127   Buffer yard standards (BY)
   
156.128   Performance standards (PS)
   
156.129   Environmental standards (EN)
   
156.130   Floodplain standards (FP)
   
156.131   Lighting standards (LT)
   
156.132   Parking standards (PK)
   
156.133   Loading standards (LD)
   
156.134   Entrance/drive standards (ED)
   
156.135   Vision clearance standards (VC)
   
156.136   Public improvement standards (PI)
   
156.137   Open space standards (OS)
   
156.138   Home occupation standards (HO)
   
156.139   Telecommunication facilities standards (TF)
   
156.140   Fences and walls (FN)
   
156.141   Miscellaneous standards (MS)
Planned Developments
   
156.155   District intent; permitted uses; miscellaneous standards
   
156.156   General
   
156.157   Rezoning to a planned development district
   
156.158   Planned development uses
   
156.159   Origination of proposals
   
156.160   General procedure
   
156.161   Filing procedure
   
156.162   Preliminary development plan
   
156.163   Final development plan
   
156.164   Final development plan hearing
   
156.165   Approval of detailed plan
   
156.166   Covenants and maintenance
   
156.167   Recording
   
156.168   Permits
   
156.169   Construction
   
156.170   Extension, abandonment, expiration
   
156.171   Rules of procedure
   
156.172   Limitation of rezoning
Sign Regulations
   
156.185   Intent
   
156.186   Sign regulations that apply
   
156.187   General sign standards (GS)
   
156.188   Temporary sign standards (TS)
   
156.189   Permanent sign standards (PS)
Non-Conforming Structures, Lots and Uses
   
156.200   Intent
   
156.201   Distinction between illegal and legal non-conforming
   
156.202   Non-conforming buildings and structures
   
156.203   Non-conforming lots of record
   
156.204   Non-conforming uses of structures, land or structures and land in
combination
   
156.205   Non-conforming signs
   
156.206   Repairs and maintenance
Board of Zoning Appeals
   
156.220   Membership
   
156.221   Officers, members and employees
   
156.222   Territorial jurisdiction
   
156.223   Powers and duties
   
156.224   Rules and procedures
   
156.225   Hearings
   
156.226   Appearances
   
156.227   Order of business
   
156.228   Official action
   
156.229   Appeals
   
156.230   Special exceptions
   
156.231   Development standards variances
   
156.232   Use variances
   
156.233   Exclusion
   
156.234   Amendments
   
156.235   Repeal
Administration
   
156.250   Administrative officer
   
156.251   Effect on annexation or vacation on zoning
   
156.252   Town Council; powers and duties
   
156.253   Plan Commission; powers and duties
   
156.254   Board of Zoning Appeals; powers and duties
Processes, Permits and Fees
   
156.265   Types of petitions
   
156.266   Processes per type of petition
   
156.267   Improvement location permits
   
156.268   Schedule of improvement location permits
   
156.269   Certificate of occupancy
   
156.270   Sign permits and fees
   
156.271   Temporary sign permits and fees
   
156.272   Schedule of fees
Enforcement
   
156.285   Authority
   
156.286   Violations
   
156.287   Inspection of property
   
156.288   Responsibility of violations
   
156.289   Liability
   
156.290   Violations during the construction/building process
   
156.291   Types of violations
   
156.292   Procedure for violations
   
156.293   Appeals or trials
   
156.294   Enforcement, remedies and injunctive relief
 
   
156.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.001  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be formally known as the “Arcadia Zoning Ordinance”, and
it may be cited and referred to as the “Zoning Ordinance” or “this chapter”.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 1.1)
§ 156.002  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General. The definitions contained in this chapter shall be observed
and applied in the interpretation of all section in this chapter, except where
the context clearly indicates otherwise. Words used in the present tense shall
include the future; words used in the singular number shall include the plural
and the plural the singular; words used in the masculine gender shall include
the feminine.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 16.1)
   (B)   Defined words. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ABANDONMENT. The relinquishment of property or a cessation of the use of
the property for a continuous period of one year by the owner with the
intention neither of transferring rights to the property to another owner nor
of resuming the use of the property.
      ACCESSORY BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. A building or structure which:
         (a)   Is subordinate to a principal building or structure in area,
intent and/or purpose;
         (b)   Contributes to the comfort, convenience or necessity of
occupants of the principal building, structure or principal use;
         (c)   Does not alter or change the character of the premises;
         (d)   Is located on the same zoning lot as the principal building,
structure or use;
         (e)   Conforms to the setback, height, bulk, lot coverage and other
requirements of this chapter unless otherwise provided for by this chapter;
         (f)   May not be constructed prior to the time of construction of the
principal building or structure, unless used for agricultural or personal
storage or otherwise specified in this chapter; and
         (g)   Is not designed for human occupancy as a dwelling or commercial
use.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff91d24e8c26585d0d8b562ed7375079c256e840/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1589.png]
      ADMINISTRATOR. See ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
      ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment having as a majority of its stock in
trade or its dollar volume in trade, books, magazines, periodicals or other
printed matter, or photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes,
slides, tapes, records or other forms of visual or audio representations which
are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to sexual activities or sexual anatomical areas.
      ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS. An adult bookstore, adult motion picture
theater, adult cabaret or adult live entertainment arcade, or like uses.
      ADVISORY PLAN COMMISSION. A planning commission serving a single local
government jurisdiction established as defined under the I.C. 36-7-1-2 (1983)
as amended. The Arcadia Plan Commission is an ADVISORY PLAN COMMISSION.
      AGRICULTURE. The use of land for agriculture purposes, including fanning,
dairying, pasturage, apiculture, agriculture, horticulture, floriculture,
viticulture and animal and poultry husbandry, and the necessary accessory uses
for packing, treating or storing the produce; provided, however, that, the
operation of any accessory uses shall be secondary to that of the normal
agricultural activities. AGRICULTURE shall not include feed lots, stock yards
or the commercial feeding of garbage or offal to swine or other animals.
      AGRICULTURE ZONING DISTRICT. An AG District.
      ALLEY. A public right-of-way, other than a street, road, crosswalk or
easement that provides secondary access for the special accommodation of the
abutting property.
      ANTENNA. A structure or device that is used for the purpose of receiving
and or transmitting signals, images, sounds or information of any nature by
radio, visual or electromagnetic waves, including, but not limited to,
directional or omni-directional antennas, panels and microwave or satellite
dishes.
      APARTMENT. One or more rooms in an apartment building or combination
apartment and commercial building, arranged, intended, designed or occupied on
a rental basis as a dwelling unit of a single family, an individual or a group
of individuals.
      APARTMENT BUILDING. A multi-family housing structure designed and
constructed to accommodate three or more apartments, in contrast to single- or
two-family dwellings converted for multi-family use.
      APPLICANT. The owner, owners or legal representative of real estate who
makes application to the town’s Plan Commission and/or Board of Zoning Appeals
for action by said commission or board affecting the real estate owned thereby.
      ARTERIAL STREET. See STREET, ARTERIAL.
      ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY. See NURSING HOME.
      ATTACHED BUILDING.
         (a)   A building that is structurally connected to another building by
a foundation, wall or roof line; and
         (b)   Carports, garages, porch awnings and the like shall be
considered ATTACHED BUILDINGS and abide by all regulations pertaining to
primary buildings.
      AUTO REPAIR, MAJOR. Engine rebuilding or major reconditioning of worn or
damaged motor vehicles or trailers; collision service, including body, frame or
fender straightening or repair; and overall painting of vehicles.
      AUTO REPAIR, MINOR. Incidental repairs, replacement of parts and motor
service to automobiles, but excluding any operation specified under “automobile
repair, major”.
      AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION.  Any building or premises used for the
dispensing, sale or offering for sale at retail to the public, automobile fuels
stored only in underground tanks and located wholly within the lot lines;
lubricating oil or grease for the operation of automobiles; and the sale and
installation of tires, batteries, other minor accessories and minor auto
repair, but not including a bulk plant, conducting of major auto repairs,
automobile wrecking, automobile sales or car washes; provided, however, that
the washing of individual automobiles where no chain conveyor is employed may
be included.
      BASE ZONES. A base zone is the existing zoning district of the subject
property prior to the approval of a planned development rezone.
      BED AND BREAKFAST FACILITY. An owner occupied or owner employee occupied
residence containing no more than six guest rooms for hire, for lodging by
prearrangement for periods not to exceed three consecutive weeks and providing
for occasional meals daily (usually breakfast) and not a hotel, boarding,
lodging house or motel.
      BERM. A human-made, formed, earth mound of definite height and width used
for landscaping and obscuring purposes, the intent of which is to provide a
transition between uses of differing intensity.
      BILLBOARD. See SIGN, OUTDOOR ADVERTISING.
      BLOCK. Property abutting on one side of a street and lying between the
two nearest intersecting or intercepting streets, intersecting railroad,
intersecting waterway or the end of a dead end street.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff91d24e8c26585d0d8b562ed7375079c256e840/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1591.png]
      BOARD. See BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
      BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS. The Arcadia Board of Zoning Appeals or any
division thereof.
      BOARDING HOUSE. A building or part of a building that contains
accommodation facilities for lodging, and typically with meals reserved solely
for the occupants thereof for a fee. BOARDING HOUSES do not include bed and
breakfasts, multi-family dwellings, hotels or motels.
      BOND. Any form of security including a cash deposit, surety bond,
collateral, property or instrument of credit in an amount and form satisfactory
to the Plan Commission. All BONDS shall be approved by the Commission wherever
a bond is required by these regulations.
      BUFFER LANDSCAPING. Any trees, shrubs, walls, fences, berms, space or
related landscaping features required under this chapter on private lots, and
privately maintained, for buffering lots from adjacent properties or public
rights-of-way for the purpose of increasing visual or other aspects of privacy
and aesthetics.
      BUFFER YARDS.
      (1)   An area adjacent to front, side and rear property lines, measured
perpendicularly from adjacent property lines and/or right-of-way lines,
intended to provide attractive spaces to reduce the impacts of proposed uses on
adjacent property or natural features and to screen incompatible uses from each
other. Buffers also help to maintain existing trees or natural vegetation, to
block or reduce noise, glare or other emissions and to maintain privacy; and
      (2)   BUFFER YARDS are in addition to (separate from) front, rear or side
yard setbacks.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff91d24e8c26585d0d8b562ed7375079c256e840/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1593.png]
      BUILDING. A structure having a roof, supported by columns or walls, for
the shelter, support or enclosure of persons, property or animals; and when
separated by division walls from the ground up and without openings, each
portion of such building shall be deemed as a separate building.
      BUILDING AREA. The horizontal area of the buildings on a lot, measured
from the outside exterior walls, excluding open areas or terraces, unenclosed
porches or decks and architectural features that project no more than two feet.
      BUILDING CODE. The state’s Building Code which establishes and controls
the standards for constructing all forms of permanent structures and related
matters. Also referred to herein as the HAMILTON COUNTY OR ARCADIA BUILDING
CODE.
      BUILDING HEIGHT. See STRUCTURE HEIGHT.
      BUILDING ENVELOPE. The setback lines that establishes an area on a lot in
which building can occur.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff91d24e8c26585d0d8b562ed7375079c256e840/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1595.png]
      BUSINESS. The engaging in the purchase, sale, barter or exchange of
goods, wares, merchandise or services, or the maintenance or operation of
offices, recreational or amusement enterprises.
      BUSINESS DISTRICT. The SC, OC, DC, C1 and C2 Districts.
      BZA. See BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
      CAMPGROUND. Any site, lot, field or tract of land designed with
facilities for short-term occupancy by recreational vehicles and other camping
equipment, but not including mobile homes.
      CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN. A proposed schedule of future projects listed
in order of construction priority together with cost estimates and the
anticipated means of financing each project. Major projects requiring the
expenditure of public funds, over and above the annual local government’s
operating expenses, for the purchase, construction or replacement of the
capital improvements for the community are included.
      CEMETERY. Includes any crematory, mausoleum or mortuary operated in
conjunction with and on the same tract as the cemetery.
      CENTRAL WATER SYSTEM. A community water supply system including existing
and new wells and/or surface water sources and intakes, treatment facilities
and distribution lines and includes such of the above facilities established by
the developer to serve a new subdivision or commercial/ industrial development.
      CENTRAL SEWER SYSTEM. A community sewer system including collection and
treatment facilities owned and maintained by the town.
      CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE. A certificate is issued prior to the
certificate of occupancy stating that the building, structure or use has been
constructed and complies with the provisions of this chapter, developer
commitments and all conditions of the Plan Commission or BZA. A posting of bond
may be accepted for incomplete requirements that will be completed as per a
written agreement. The time period and amount of bond shall be determined by
the Zoning Administrator.
      CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. A certificate stating that the occupancy and
use of a building or structure complies with the provisions of the all
applicable town codes and ordinances.
      CHILD CARE HOME. An establishment providing non-overnight care,
supervision and protection of children in private residences which is ancillary
to the primary use of residential. The maximum number of children allowed is
eight at any given time excluding the children of the property owner.
      CHILD CARE CENTER. Any institution operated for the care of children,
licensed pursuant to I.C. 12-17.2-4-1 et seq., and as defined by I.C. 12-7-2-
28.4.
      CHILD CARE INSTITUTION.
         (a)   A residential facility that provides for the care, supervision
and protection of children on a 24-hour basis; or
         (b)   An institution that operates under a license issued under I.C.
31-27; provides for delivery of mental health services that are appropriate to
the needs of the individual; and, complies with the rules adopted under I.C. 4-
22-2 by the Division of Family and Children. (For reference, see I.C. 12-7-2.)
      CHILDREN’S HOME. See CHILD CARE INSTITUTION.
      CLINIC. An establishment in which human patients are admitted for medical
or dental study or treatment and in which the services of at least two
physicians or dentists are provided.
      COLLECTOR STREET. See STREET, COLLECTOR.
      CO-LOCATION. A number of different telecommunication providers or
different use antennas by the same provider or several providers locate their
transmitting facilities on a single tower to allow the use of a number of
different kinds of public and private telecommunications services including
police, fire, emergency management, storm warning and the like.
      COMMISSION. See ADVISORY PLAN COMMISSION.
      COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. Refers to the town’s Comprehensive Plan. The plan
includes goals, objectives and strategies for land use, growth management,
transportation/thoroughfares, community facilities and services, environment
concerns, infrastructure, aesthetics and identity, economic development and
parks and recreation. The plan was developed and adopted by the Commission
pursuant to the I.C. 36-7-4-500 series and includes any part and/or policies
separately adopted and any amendment to such plan and/or policies, or parts
thereof.
      CONDITION OF APPROVAL. Stipulations or provisions set forth by the Board
of Zoning Appeals or Plan Commission required as a prerequisite for approval of
a petition.
      CONDOMINIUM. Real estate lawfully subject to I.C. 32-25, by the
recordation of condominium instruments, in which undivided interests in the
common areas and facilities are vested in the condominium unit owners.
      CONSTRUCTION PLAN(S). The maps or drawings showing the specific location
and design of improvements to be installed in accordance with the requirements
of this chapter and the state’s Building Code as a condition of the approval.
      COUNTY. Hamilton County, Indiana.
      COVENANTS. Private and legal restrictions of various kinds on the usage
of lots, typically within a subdivision and applied by the subdivides In the
case of public health, safety and welfare, COVENANTS may be applied by the
Commission, that are recorded with the plat and deed. COVENANTS can also be
placed on commercial and industrial developments. Unless specifically agreed
to, COVENANTS are not enforceable by the Plan Commission or its designees.
However, they are enforceable in civil court by interested or affected parties.
      CUL-DE-SAC. A short street having one end open to traffic and being
permanently terminated by a vehicular turnaround.
      DAY CARE CENTER. See CHILD CARE CENTER.
      DEDICATION. The setting apart of land or interests in land for use by the
municipality or public by ordinance, resolution or entry in the official
minutes as by the recording of a plat.
      DETACHED BUILDING. A building that has no structural connection with the
principal building or any other building or structure.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff91d24e8c26585d0d8b562ed7375079c256e840/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1597.png]
      DEVELOPER. The owner or legal representative of land proposed to be
subdivided or commercially/industrially utilized. Consent for making
applications for development approval shall be required from the legal owner of
the premises.
      DISTRICT. Areas within the town for which uniform zoning regulations
governing use, height, area, size, intensity of use of buildings and land, and
open spaces about buildings, are established by this chapter. DISTRICTS are
drawn on the official zoning map.
      DOMESTIC PETS. Animals commonly used as household pets, protection,
companions and for the assistance to disabled persons. DOMESTIC PETS shall
include animals that are cared for and treated in a manner acceptable for pet
dogs, cats and birds. DOMESTIC PETS shall include, but not be limited to, dogs,
cats, parakeets, parrots, finches, lizards, spiders, guinea pigs, hamsters,
gerbils, rats, mice, rabbits, aquarium fish, pot belly pigs, ferrets and snakes
if cared for in the manner described above.
      DRIVES, PRIVATE. See STREET, PRIVATE.
      DUPLEX. See DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY.
      DWELLING. A building or structure or portion thereof, conforming to all
requirements applicable to the District it is located, all building codes, and
is used exclusively for residential occupancy, including single-family dwelling
units, two-family dwelling units and multi-family dwelling units, but excluding
hotels, boarding houses and lodging houses.
      DWELLING, MANUFACTURED HOME. A single-family dwelling unit designed and
built in a factory, installed as a permanent residence, which bears a seal
certifying that it was built in compliance with the Federal Manufactured
Housing Construction and Safety Standards Law (1974 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq.),
and which also complies with the following specifications:
         (a)   Shall have been constructed after 1-1-1981, and must exceed 950
square feet of occupied space per I.C. 36-7-4(d);
         (b)   Is attached to a permanent foundation of masonry construction
and has a permanent concrete or concrete block perimeter enclosure constructed
in accordance with the One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code;
         (c)   Has wheels, axles and towing chassis removed;
         (d)   Has a pitched roof with a minimum rise of 2/12; and
         (e)   Consists of two or more sections which, when joined, have a
minimum dimension of 23 feet in width for at least 60% of its length.
      DWELLING, MOBILE HOME. A transportable dwelling unit which is a minimum
of eight feet in width and which is built on a permanent foundation or tied
down with perimeter skirting when connected to the required utilities, and
includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical system
contained therein, and which was manufactured either:
         (a)   Prior to 6-15-1976 and bears a seal attached under Pub. Law No.
135, 1971, certifying that it was built in compliance with the standards
established by the state’s Administrative Building Council; or
         (b)   Subsequent to or on 6-15-1976 and bears a seal, certifying that
it was built in compliance with the Federal Mobile Home Construction and Safety
Standards.
      DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A residential building designed for or occupied
by three or more families, with the number of families in residence not
exceeding the number of dwelling units provided.
      DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached residential dwelling unit designed
for and occupied by one family. A SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING shall be at least 23
feet wide for 60% of its length.
      DWELLING SITE. A site within a manufactured home park and/or mobile home
park with required improvements and utilities that is leased for the long term
placement of a manufactured home and/or mobile home.
      DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A residential building containing two dwelling
units designed for occupancy by not more than two families.
      DWELLING UNIT. Any structure or portion thereof designed for or used for
residential purposes as a self-sufficient or individual unit by one family or
other social association of persons and having permanently installed sleeping,
cooking and sanitary facilities.
      EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner to specific persons, the general
public, corporations, utilities or others, for the purpose of providing
services or access to the property.
      EXEMPT SUBDIVISIONS. See SUBDIVISION.
      EXPRESSWAY/FREEWAY. Any roadway that operates at a high service level,
consists of limited access, is divided, carries region-wide traffic and is
generally classified as part of the interstate system.
      FAMILY. An individual, or two or more persons related by blood, marriage
or adoption, or a group of not more than three persons, not related by blood,
marriage or adoption, living together as a single housekeeping unit in a
dwelling unit.
      FARM. An area used for agricultural operations, forestry, the operating
of a tree or plant nursery or the production of livestock and poultry as well
as those properties classified by the Internal Revenue Service as a FARM.
      FARM ANIMALS. Animals commonly used for transportation, food, skins and
other by-products. FARM ANIMALS include, but are not limited to, horses,
cattle, pigs, sheep, goats, mules, donkeys, miniature horses, miniature
donkeys, camels, emu, ostrich, llamas, alpacas, rabbits, mink, fox, buffalo,
chickens, turkeys, quail, pheasants and other animals or fowl of similar
characteristics.
      FINISHED FLOOR AREA. See FLOOR AREA, FINISHED.
      FLOODPLAIN. The relatively flat area or low land adjoining the channel of
a river or stream which has been or may be covered by flood water. The
FLOODPLAIN includes the channel, floodway and floodway fringe. FLOODPLAIN
boundaries are to be determined by using the floodway-flood boundary maps of
the Federal Insurance Administration/Federal Emergency Management
Administration.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff91d24e8c26585d0d8b562ed7375079c256e840/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1599.png]
      FLOOR AREA. The sum of all horizontal surface areas of all floors of all
roofed portions of a building enclosed by and within the surrounding exterior
walls or roofs, or to the centerline(s) of party walls separating such
buildings or portions thereof. FLOOR AREA of a building shall exclude exterior
open balconies and open porches.
      FLOOR AREA, FINISHED. The portion of floor area constructed, completed,
and usable for living purposes with normal living facilities which includes
sleeping, dining, cooking, working, entertainment, common space linking rooms,
areas for personal hygiene or combination thereof. Floor area or portion
thereof used only for storage purposes and not equipped for the facilities
mentioned above shall not be considered FINISHED FLOOR AREA.
      FLOOR AREA, MAIN. The portion of finished floor area located on the first
(or nearest ground level) floor of the dwelling unit. The MAIN FLOOR AREA of a
primary structure does not include a garage, carport, deck, unfinished storage,
patio or open porch.
      FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE. The elevation of the lowest point around the
perimeter of a building at which a 100-year flood may enter any finished floor
area.
      FOUNDATION. The supporting member of a wall or structure.
      FREEWAY. See EXPRESSWAY.
      FRONT LINE. With respect to a building, the foundation line that is
nearest the front lot line.
      FRONT LOT LINE.
         (a)   For an interior or through lot, the line marking the boundary
between the lot and the abutting street right-of-way or a lake or watercourse;
         (b)   For a corner lot, the line marking the boundary between the lot
and each of the abutting streets; and
         (c)   See graphics for “front yard”.
      FRONT YARD. The horizontal space between the nearest foundation of a
building or structural appurtenance, or roof eave to the front lot line,
extending to the side lines of the lot and measured as the shortest distance
from that foundation to the Front Lot line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff91d24e8c26585d0d8b562ed7375079c256e840/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1601.png]
      FRONTAGE. See LOT FRONTAGE.
      GARAGE. An attached or detached structure whose principal use is to house
motor vehicles or personal property for the accommodation of related dwelling
units or related business establishments.
      GROUND FLOOR AREA. See FLOOR AREA, MAIN.
      HARDSHIP. A difficulty with regard to one’s ability to improve land
stemming from the application of the development standards of this chapter,
which may or may not be subject to relief by means of variance. In and of
themselves, self-imposed situations and claims based on a perceived reduction
of or restriction on economic gain shall not be considered HARDSHIPS. Self-
imposed situations include: the purchase of land with actual or constructive
knowledge that, for reasons other than physical characteristics of the
property, the development standards herein will inhibit the desired
improvement; any improvement initiated in violation of the standards of this
chapter: any result of land division requiring variance from the development
standards of this chapter in order to render that site buildable.
      HEIGHT. See STRUCTURE HEIGHT.
      HOBBY FARMING.
         (a)   The use of land for purposes, including: dairying, pasturage,
apiculture, agriculture, horticulture, floriculture, viticulture and animal and
poultry husbandry. Processing and storage of harvested produce or other end
products shall not be allowed on site. The HOBBY FARMING use(s) shall not
exceed 40% of the land area of the lot and shall abide by all setback
regulations. HOBBY FARMING cannot be the principal income source for the owner,
operator or household on site.
         (b)   HOBBY FARMING shall not include feed lots, stock yards or the
commercial feeding of garbage or offal to swine or other animals.
      HOME OCCUPATION #1. The intent of the Home Occupation #1 provisions are
to allow minimal (no impact to structure or surroundings) business practices
within certain residential zoning districts. Further, the intent is not to
allow the loss of the residential district’s character or function as a
residential area or neighborhood. To regulate minimal business practices within
residential districts, development standards for home occupations have been
established and can be found in §
156.138(A) of this chapter.
      HOME OCCUPATION #2. The intent of the Home Occupation #2 provisions are
to allow reasonable business practices within certain residential zoning
districts. Further, the intent is not to allow the loss of the residential
district’s character or function as a residential area or neighborhood. To
regulate reasonable business practices for home occupations, development
standards have been established and can be found in §
156.138(B) of this chapter.
      HOTEL. A building in which lodging or board and lodging are provided and
offered to the public for compensation and in which ingress and egress to and
from all rooms is made through an inside lobby or office supervised by a person
in charge at all hours. As such, it is open to the public. Compensation is
usually assessed on a day-to-day basis.
      HOSPITAL. An institution devoted primarily to the maintenance and
operation of facilities for the diagnosis, treatment or care for three or more
unrelated individuals suffering from illness, disease, injury, deformity or
other abnormal physical conditions. The term HOSPITAL, as used in this chapter,
does not apply to institutions operating primarily for treatment of insane
persons, drug addicts, liquor addicts and other types of cases necessitating
restraint of patients, and the term HOSPITAL shall not include convalescent,
nursing, shelter or boarding homes.
      IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. Any material that prevents absorption of storm water
into the ground such as concrete or asphalt. This does not include gravel, rock
or stone.
      IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT. A permit issued under this chapter prior to
receiving a building permit, permitting a person, firm or corporation to erect,
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, occupy, use, improve, remove, convert
or demolish any building or structure within its jurisdiction, or the pursuit
of changes to the condition of the land.
      INCIDENTAL. A minor occurrence or condition which is customarily
associated with a permitted use and is likely to ensue from normal operations.
      INDUSTRY, LIGHT. See MANUFACTURING, LIGHT.
      INDUSTRY, HEAVY. See MANUFACTURING, HEAVY.
      INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT. The C3 District.
      INTERIOR LOT. See LOT, INTERIOR.
      INTERSTATE. See EXPRESSWAY.
      JURISDICTION. See PLANNING JURISDICTION.
      JUNK. An automobile, truck, other motor vehicle, large appliances,
furniture or like materials which has been damaged to such an extent that it
cannot be operated under its own power or used and/or will require major
repairs before being made usable. This could also include such a vehicle which
does not comply with state, county or town vehicle laws or ordinances.
      JUNK YARD. A place, usually outdoors, where waste or discarded used
property other than organic matter, including, but not limited to, automobiles,
farm implements and trucks, is accumulated and is or may be salvaged for reuse
or resale; this shall not include any industrial scrap metal yard.
      KENNEL (COMMERCIAL). A place primarily for keeping more than four adult
dogs, or other small animals that are ordinarily bred for sale as pets. Also
could include temporary care facility for compensation.
      KENNEL (PRIVATE). A place for keeping up to four adult dogs or other
small animals for personal use and enjoyment which is subordinate to the
principal residential use.
      LANDSCAPING. The improvements of a lot with grass, shrubs, trees and
other vegetation and/or ornamental objects. LANDSCAPING may include pedestrian
walks, flower beds, berms, fountains and other similar natural and human-made
objects designed and arranged to produce an aesthetically pleasing effect.
      LOCAL STREET. See STREET, LOCAL.
      LODGING HOUSE. See BOARDING HOUSE.
      LOT. A piece, parcel or tract of land designated by its owner or
developer to be used, developed or built upon as a unit under single or
multiple ownership or control. There are generally three types of LOTS
identified in this chapter: interior lots, corner lots and through lots.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff91d24e8c26585d0d8b562ed7375079c256e840/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1603.png]
      LOT, BUILDABLE. See LOT, IMPROVED.
      LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the intersection of two streets or which
fronts a street on two or more sides forming an interior angle of less than 135
degrees.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff91d24e8c26585d0d8b562ed7375079c256e840/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1605.png]
      LOT COVERAGE. The area of a zoning lot occupied by the principal building
and any accessory structures.
      LOT DEPTH. The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff91d24e8c26585d0d8b562ed7375079c256e840/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1607.png]
      LOT, DEVELOPED. A lot with buildings or structures.
      LOT FRONTAGE. All property of a lot fronting on a street right-of-way, as
measured between side lot lines.
      LOT, IMPROVED. A lot upon which a structure or building can be
constructed and occupied. The lot shall have frontage on and access to an
improved street, meet minimal setbacks and have all necessary utilities
available to the lot such as sewer, water, electricity and the like.
      LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot or a through lot.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff91d24e8c26585d0d8b562ed7375079c256e840/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1609.png]
      LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is a part of a subdivision recorded in the
office of the County Recorder, or a parcel or lot described by metes and
bounds, and a description of what has been so recorded. Lots recorded prior to
1990 are LOTS OF RECORD. All lots proposed for development shall meet all the
requirements of this chapter.
      LOT, THROUGH. A lot fronting on two parallel or approximately parallel
streets, or abutting two streets which do not intersect at the boundaries of
the lot. Also includes lots fronting on both a street and a watercourse or
lake. Accessory buildings are allowed in front yards facing watercourses or
lakes.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff91d24e8c26585d0d8b562ed7375079c256e840/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1611.png]
      LOT WIDTH. The distance between the side lot lines as measured on the
front lot line. Cul-de-Sac front lot widths shall be measured at the front set
back line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff91d24e8c26585d0d8b562ed7375079c256e840/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1613.png]
      MAIN FLOOR AREA. See FLOOR AREA, MAIN.
      MANEUVERING SPACE. An open space in a parking area which:
         (a)   Is immediately adjacent to a parking space;
         (b)   Is used for and/or is necessary for turning, backing or driving
forward a motor vehicle into such parking space; but
         (c)   Is not used for the parking of or storage of motor vehicles.
      MANUFACTURED HOME. See DWELLING, MANUFACTURED HOME.
      MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. A parcel of land containing two or more dwelling
sites, with required improvements and utilities, that are leased for long-term
placement of mobile home dwellings and/or manufactured home dwellings, and
shall include any street used or intended for use as part of the facilities of
such MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. A MANUFACTURED HOME PARK does not involve sales of
mobile home dwellings or manufactured home dwellings in which unoccupied units
are parked for inspection or sale.
      MANUFACTURING, HEAVY. The assembly, fabrication or processing of goods
and materials using processes that ordinarily have greater than minimal impacts
on the environment, or that otherwise do not constitute light manufacturing,
and which may include open uses and outdoor storage. HEAVY MANUFACTURING
generally includes processing and fabrication of products made from extracted
or raw materials. HEAVY MANUFACTURING shall not include any use that is
otherwise listed specifically in any zoning district as a permitted use or
special exception.
      MANUFACTURING, LIGHT. The assembly, fabrication or processing of goods
and materials using processes that ordinarily that ordinarily do not create
noise, smoke fume odors, glare or health or safety hazards outside of the
building or lot where such assembly, fabrication or processing of goods are
housed entirely within an enclosed building. LIGHT MANUFACTURING generally
includes processing and fabrication of finished products predominantly from
previously prepared materials. LIGHT MANUFACTURING shall not include any use
that is otherwise listed specifically in any zoning district as a permitted use
or special exception.
      MARKER (SURVEY). A stake, pipe, rod, nail or any other object which is
not intended to be a permanent point for record purposes.
      MOBILE HOME. See DWELLING, MOBILE HOME.
      MOBILE HOME PARK. See MANUFACTURED HOME PARK.
      MONUMENT (SURVEY). A permanent physical structure which marks the
location of a corner or other survey point.
      MOTEL. An establishment consisting of a group of attached or detached
living or sleeping accommodations with bathroom and closet space, located on a
single zoning lot and designed for use by transient automobile tourists. A
MOTEL furnishes customary services such as maid service and laundering of
linen, telephone, secretarial or desk service, and the use and upkeep of
furniture.
      MOTOR HOME. See RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Any passenger vehicle, truck, tractor, tractor-trailer,
truck-trailer, trailer or semi-trailer propelled or drawn by mechanical power.
      NON-CONFORMING BUILDING. A building, structure or portion thereof, which
was designed, erected or structurally altered such that it does not conform to
the regulations of the district in which it is located.
      NON-CONFORMING USE. A use which does not conform with the use regulations
of the district in which it is located.
      NURSING HOME. A private home for the care of the aged or infirm, or any
other person in need of nursing care and which does not contain equipment for
surgical care or for treatment of disease or injury, and is not primarily
designed for mental patients or alcoholics.
      OFFICIAL ZONING MAP. A map of the town that legally denotes the
boundaries of zoning districts as they apply to the properties within the
planning jurisdiction. There is only one official zoning map and is kept up to
date by the Plan Commission and the Zoning Administrator.
      OFFICIAL ZONING MAP COPIES. A map of the town that legally denotes the
boundaries of zoning districts as they apply to the properties within the
planning jurisdiction. These maps may be out of date.
      OFF-SITE IMPROVEMENTS. Any premises not located within the area of the
property to be subdivided, used or built upon whether or not in the same
ownership of the applicant for subdivision approval.
      OPEN SPACE. An area of land not covered by buildings, parking structures
or accessory uses except for recreational structures. OPEN SPACE may include
nature areas; streams and floodplains; meadows or open fields containing
baseball, football and soccer fields, golf courses, swimming pools, bicycle
paths and the like. OPEN SPACE does not include street rights-of-way, platted
lot area, private yard, patio areas or land scheduled for future development.
      OUTDOOR STORAGE. See STORAGE, OUTDOOR.
      OWNER. Any person, group of persons, firm or firms, corporation or
corporations, or any other legal entity having legal title to or sufficient
proprietary interest in the land sought to be subdivided under these
regulations, or their legal representative.
      PARCEL. See LOT.
      PARENT TRACT. A lot of record as recorded on the effective date of this
chapter. Multiple pieces (lots) owned by one person, persons in partnership or
a company and that are contiguous shall together be considered one PARENT
TRACT. Roads, rivers, easements and other built or natural features shall not
constitute a separation of two or more pieces of land owned by one person,
persons in partnership or a business.
      PARKING SPACE, AUTOMOBILE. Space within a public or private parking area
for the storage of one passenger automobile or commercial vehicle under a one
and one-half ton capacity.
      PERFORMANCE BOND. An amount of money or other negotiable security paid by
the subdivider, developer or property owner or his or her surety to the town
which guarantees that the subdivider will perform all actions required by the
town regarding an approved plat or in other situations as stated forth in this
chapter and/or as deemed by the Zoning Administrator, and provides that if the
subdivider, developer or property owner defaults and fails to comply with the
provisions of his or her approval, the subdivider, developer or property owner
or his surety will pay damages up to the limit of the bond, or the surety will
itself complete the requirements of the approval.
      PERMANENT FOUNDATION. A structural system for transposing loads from a
structure to the earth at a depth below the established frost line without
exceeding the safe bearing capacity of the supporting soil.
      PERMANENT PERIMETER ENCLOSURE. A permanent perimeter structural system
completely enclosing the space between the floor joists of the home and the
ground, except for the necessary openings, constructed in accordance with the
One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code.
      PERSON. A corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization, unit
of government or any other group that acts as a unit, as well as a natural
person.
      PLAN COMMISSION. See ADVISORY PLAN COMMISSION.
      PLANNED DEVELOPMENT. A large-scale unified development meeting the
requirements for zoning approval under the provisions of §§
156.155 through
156.172 of this chapter. Generally, a PLANNED DEVELOPMENT consists of a parcel
or parcels of land, controlled by a single landowner, to be developed as a
single entity which does not correspond in size of lots, bulk or type of
buildings, density, lot coverage and required open space to the regulations
established in any district of this chapter. This may result in more attractive
and affordable development than conventional developments would allow.
Clustered housing (dwellings built in innovative lot arrangements around common
open space) and zero lot line housing (dwellings built immediately adjacent to
lot lines) are possible as part of PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS. A PLANNED DEVELOPMENT
requires approval through a zoning map amendment.
      PLANNING JURISDICTION. All land within the corporate limits of the town
and other lands as discussed in the interlocal agreement with the county and
revised in 1999.
      PLAT. A map or chart that shows a division of land and is intended to be
filed for record.
      PLAT, PRIMARY. The primary plat, pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-700 series, is
the plat and plans upon which the approval of a proposed subdivision are based.
The PRIMARY PLAT and plans shall be subject to public notice and public hearing
according to law and according to Plan Commission rules. (Under former state
statutes, the PRIMARY PLAT was referred to as a “preliminary” plat.)
      PLAT, SECONDARY. The secondary plat, pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-700 series,
is the final plat document in recordable form. A SECONDARY PLAT shall
substantially conform with the preceding primary plat, or section thereof. The
SECONDARY PLAT and plans are not subject to public notices and public hearings.
      PORCH. A roofed-over structure projecting out from the wall or walls of a
main structure and commonly open to the weather in part.
      PRACTICAL DIFFICULTY. A difficulty with regard to one’s ability to
improve land stemming from regulations of this chapter. A PRACTICAL DIFFICULTY
is not a hardship, rather it is a situation where the owner could comply with
the regulations within this chapter, but would like a variance from the
development standards to improve his or her site in a practical manner. For
instance, a person may request a variance from a side yard setback due to a
large tree which is blocking the only location that would meet the development
standards for a new garage location.
      PRIMARY ARTERIAL. See STREET, PRIMARY ARTERIAL.
      PRIMARY PLAT. See PLAT, PRIMARY.
      PRIME FARMLAND.
         (a)   Land that has the best combination of physical and chemical
characteristics for producing food, feed, forage, fiber and oilseed crops, and
is also available for these uses (the land could be cropland pasture land,
rangeland, forest land or other land but not urban built-up land or water). It
has the soil quality, growing season and moisture supply needed to economically
produce sustained high yields of crops when treated and managed, including
water management, according to acceptable farming methods;
         (b)   In general, PRIME FARMLANDS have an adequate and dependable
water supply from precipitation or irrigation, a favorable temperature and
growing season, acceptable acidity or alkalinity, acceptable salt and sodium
content, and few or no rocks. PRIME FARMLANDS are not excessively erodible or
saturated with water for a long period of time, and they either do not flood
frequently or are protected from flooding; and
         (c)   Examples of soils that qualify as PRIME FARMLAND are Brookston
silty clay loam, drained; and Alford silt loam, 0 to 2% slopes.
      PRINCIPAL BUILDING/STRUCTURE. The building or structure in which the
principal use of the lot or premises is located or conducted, with respect to
residential uses, the principal building or structure shall be the main
dwelling. Only one primary single-family structure shall be allowed on any one
lot at any time.
      PRINCIPAL USE.
         (a)   The main use of land or buildings as distinguished from an
accessory use; and
         (b)   A PRINCIPAL USE may be either a permitted use or a special
exception.
      PRIVATE STREET. See STREET, PRIVATE.
      PROFESSIONAL OFFICE. An office used by members of a recognized profession
such as architects, artists, dentists, engineers, lawyers, musicians,
physicians, surgeons or pharmacists, and realtors or insurance agents and
brokers.
      PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS. Any storm drainage facility, street, highway,
sidewalk, pedestrian-way, tree, lawn, off-street parking area, lot improvement,
utility or other facility for which the local government may ultimately assume
the responsibility for maintenance and operation, or which may affect an
improvement for which local government responsibility is established.
      PUBLIC/PRIVATE PARKING AREA. A group of parking spaces in an open area
not including any part of a street or alley, designed or used for temporary
parking of motor vehicles.
      PUBLIC STREET. See STREET, PUBLIC.
      PUBLIC UTILITY. Any person, firm or corporation duly authorized to
furnish under public regulation to the public, electricity, gas, steam,
telephone, fiber optics, transportation, water or sewerage systems.
      REAR LOT LINE. The lot line that is opposite the front lot line and
farthest from it; except that, for a triangular or other irregularly-shaped
lot, the line ten feet long, parallel to the front lot line, and wholly within
the lot, that is farthest from the lot line. (See graphics for “rear yard”.)
      REAR YARD. The horizontal space between the nearest foundation or
structural appurtenance of a building to a rear lot line and that rear lot
line, extending to the side lines of the lot and measured as the shortest
distance from the foundation to the rear lot line. The REAR YARD of a corner
lot shall be that yard at the opposite end of the lot from the front yard.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff91d24e8c26585d0d8b562ed7375079c256e840/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1615.png]
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
         (a)   A vehicular-type portable structure without permanent foundation
that can be towed, hauled or driven and primarily designed as a temporary
living accommodation for recreational, camping and travel use and including,
but not limited to, travel trailers, truck campers, camping trailers and self-
propelled motor homes; and
         (b)   A RECREATIONAL VEHICLE shall not be used as living quarters.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK. Any commercially zoned site, lot, field or
tract of land under single ownership, or ownership of two or more people,
designed with facilities for short-term occupancy for recreational vehicles
only.
      REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR. A land surveyor properly licensed and
registered or through reciprocity permitted to practice in the state.
      REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. An engineer properly licensed and
registered or through reciprocity permitted to practice in the state.
      REGULATORY FLOOD.
         (a)   A flood having a peak discharge which can be equaled or exceeded
on the average of once in a 100-year period, as calculated by a method and
procedure which is acceptable to and approved by the state’s Natural Resources
Commission; and
         (b)   Further, this flood is equivalent to a flood having a 1%
probability of occurrence in any given year.
      REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions
of the floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to
efficiently carry and discharge peak flow of the regulatory flood of any river
or stream and, is that area covered by flood waters in significant downstream
motion or covered by significant volumes of stored water during the occurrence
of the regulatory flood.
      RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. The R1, R2, R3, R4, R5 and MP Districts.
      RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR THE DEVELOPMENTALLY DISABLED (LARGE). A
residential facility which provides residential services for more than eight
developmentally disabled individuals as described in I.C. 12-28-4.
      RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR THE DEVELOPMENTALLY DISABLED (SMALL). A
residential facility which provides residential services for eight
developmentally disabled individuals or less as described in I.C. 12-28-4.
      RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR THE MENTALLY ILL. A residential facility which
provides residential services for mentally ill individuals as described in I.C.
12-28-4. No two RESIDENTIAL FACILITIES FOR THE MENTALLY ILL shall be within
3,000 feet of one another in the town’s planning jurisdiction as stated in
Indiana Code.
      REST HOME....missing material...
      RE-SUBDIVISION. A change in a recorded subdivision plat if such change
affects any street layout or area reserved thereon for public use or any lot
line or easement; or if it affects any map or plan legally recorded.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by
transportation facilities, public utilities or other special public uses.
RIGHTS-OF-WAY intended for any use involving maintenance by a public agency
shall be dedicated to the public use by the maker of the plat on which such
right-of-way is established.
      RETIREMENT COMMUNITY. An age-restricted development, which may include
detached and attached dwelling units, apartments and may also have a nursing
home component.
      ROW. See RIGHT-OF WAY.
      ROAD. See STREET.
      ROOF-MOUNTED ANTENNA. Any device attached to a building or structure that
is used for wireless telecommunications service.
      SATELLITE DISH/ANTENNA. An apparatus capable of receiving communications
from a transmitter relay located in a planetary orbit, or broadcasted signals
from transmitting towers.
      SCHOOL. A public or private institution which offers instruction in any
of the branches of learning and study comparable to that taught in the public
schools under the state’s school laws, including pre-kindergarten,
kindergarten, elementary school and junior and senior high schools, but
excluding trade, business or commercial schools.
      SCRAP METAL YARD.
         (a)   A general industrial use established independent or ancillary to
and connected with another general industrial use, which is concerned
exclusively in new and salvaged metal pipes, wire, beams, angles, rods,
machinery, parts, filings, clippings and all other metal items of every type,
and which acquires such items incidental to its connection with the other
general industrial use or by purchase, consignment or bailment which stores,
grades, processes, melts, cuts, dismantles, compresses, cleans or in any way
prepares said items for reuse by the connected other general industrial use or
for storage, sale or shipment and use in other industries or businesses
including open hearth, electric furnaces and foundry operations; such an
establishment shall not include junk yards, dumps or automobile graveyards; and
         (b)   The storage, dealing in or the permitting of the accumulation of
significant quantities of combustible, organic or non-metal scrap materials
such as wood, paper, rags, garbage, bones and shattered glass on the premises
of such an establishment will disqualify it from being classified as a SCRAP
METAL YARD and the same will be classified as a junk yard.
      SECONDARY ARTERIAL. See STREET, SECONDARY ARTERIAL.
      SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between the building line and a
lot line or right-of-way.
      SHARED HOUSING. Any dwelling unit which the owner allows to be occupied
by unrelated persons living as a single housekeeping unit; provided that, the
number of occupants does not exceed twice the number of bedrooms, and that the
total number of unrelated occupants does not exceed four regardless of the
number of bedrooms.
      SIDE LOT LINE. A lot boundary line other than a front or rear lot line.
(See graphic under “side yard”.)
      SIDE YARD. The horizontal space between the nearest foundation or
structural appurtenance of a building to the side lot line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff91d24e8c26585d0d8b562ed7375079c256e840/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1617.png]
      SIGN. Any name, identification, description, display or illustration
which is affixed to, painted on, or is represented directly or indirectly upon
a building, structure or piece of land, and which directs attention to an
object, product, place, activity, person, institution, organization or
business. Religious symbols on places of worship or structures owned and
operated by religious organizations shall not be considered SIGNS unless
accompanied with text.
      SIGN, OUTDOOR ADVERTISING. A sign which directs attention to a business,
commodity, service or entertainment conducted, sold or offered elsewhere than
upon the premises where such sign is located or to which it is affixed. Also
called BILLBOARD or OFF-PREMISES SIGN.
      SIGN, TEMPORARY. An on-premise advertising device not fixed to a
permanent foundation, for the purpose of conveying information, knowledge or
ideas to the public about a subject related to the activities on the premises
upon which it is located.
      SIGNS, TYPES OF. The graphic below depicts the primary types of signs.
Regulations for the type of signs permitted will vary by zoning district.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff91d24e8c26585d0d8b562ed7375079c256e840/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1619.png]
      SPECIAL EXCEPTION. The authorization of a use that is designated as such
by this chapter as being permitted in the district concerned if it meets
special conditions, is found to be appropriate and upon application, is
specifically authorized by the BZA.
      STORAGE, OUTDOOR. The outdoor accumulation of goods, junk, vehicles,
equipment, products or materials for permanent or temporary holding.
      STORY.
         (a)   The portion of a building included between the surface of any
floor and the surface of the floor next above it, or if there be no floor above
it, then the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it; and
         (b)   Any portion of a STORY exceeding 14 feet in height shall be
considered as an additional STORY for each 14 feet or fraction thereof.
      STREET. Any vehicular that:
         (a)   Is an existing state, county or municipal roadway;
         (b)   Is shown upon a plat approved pursuant to law;
         (c)   Is approved by other official action; or
         (d)   Is shown on a plat duly filed and recorded in the office of the
County Recording Officer prior to the appointment of a planning board and the
grant to such board to review plats; includes the land between the street
lines, whether improved or unimproved.
      STREET, COLLECTOR. A street designed to facilitate the collection of
traffic from local streets and to provide circulation within neighborhood areas
and convenient ways to reach arterial streets, as depicted by the
Transportation Plan within the Comprehensive Plan.
      STREET, LOCAL. A street designed primarily to provide access to abutting
properties and discourage through traffic, as depicted by the Transportation
Plan within the Comprehensive Plan.
      STREET, PRIMARY ARTERIAL. A street with access control, restricted
parking, and that collects and distributes traffic to and from secondary
arterials, as depicted by the Transportation Plan within the Comprehensive
Plan.
      STREET, PRIVATE. Vehicular streets and driveways, paved or impaved, which
are wholly within private property, except where they intersect with other
streets within public rights-of-way and maintained by the owner(s).
      STREET, PUBLIC. All property dedicated or intended for public highway,
freeway or roadway purpose or subject to public easements therefore.
      STREET, SECONDARY ARTERIAL. A street that collects and distributes
traffic to and from collector and primary arterial streets, as depicted by the
Transportation Plan within the Comprehensive Plan.
      STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of a
building or structure such as bearing walls, partitions, columns, beams or
girders, or any substantial change in the footprint or increasing size of
living space. Also, substantial roofing and siding work when repairs are made
to the structure beneath.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected which requires location on the
ground or attachment to something having a location on the ground, including,
but not limited to, buildings, sheds, detached garages, mobile homes,
manufactured homes, above-ground storage tanks, free-standing signs and other
similar items.
      STRUCTURE HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the lot ground
level to the highest point of the roof.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff91d24e8c26585d0d8b562ed7375079c256e840/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1621.png]
      SUBDIVISION. The division of a parent tract or other piece of land into
at least two smaller lots or the combination of two or more smaller lots into
one lot so that, either now or in the future, the subdivider can do any of the
following with one or more of the subdivided lots:
         (a)   Transfer ownership;
         (b)   Construct buildings or establish a use other than vacant; and
         (c)   Create new building sites for leasehold.
      SECONDARY PLAT. See PLAT, SECONDARY.
      SWIMMING POOL. A rigidly constructed, self-contained body of water that
is permanent year round and used for recreational purposes. It may be above or
below ground level and shall be considered an accessory structure/use.
      TEMPORARY IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT. A permit issued under this chapter
permitting a temporary use or structure not to exceed two months. One extension
of two months may be authorized by the Zoning Administrator for reason/cause.
      TEMPORARY USE/STRUCTURE. A land use or structure established for a
limited and fixed period of no more than two four months with the intent to
discontinue such use or structure upon the expiration of the time period.
      TRANSPORTATION PLAN. The official plan, now and hereafter adopted, which
includes a street plan, sets forth the location, alignment, dimensions,
identification and classification of existing and proposed streets and other
thoroughfares.
      TOWER. A ground pole, spire, structure or combination thereof including
supporting lines, cables, wires, braces and masts intended primarily for the
purpose of mounting an antenna, a meteorological device or other similar
apparatus above ground for use as a wireless telecommunications facility.
      TOWN. The Town of Arcadia.
      TOWNSHIP. Jackson Township.
      TWO-PAGE SPREAD. The two-page layout accompanying each zoning district in
§§
156.040 through
156.046 and
156.060 through
156.065 of this chapter. The two-page layout includes permitted uses, special
exception uses and basic zone district information.
      USE. The purposes of which land, building or structure thereon is
designed, arranged or intended, or for which it is occupied, maintained, let or
leased.
      VARIANCE, USE. The approval of a use other than that prescribed by this
chapter, an act granted by I.C. 36-7-4-918.3.
      VARIANCE, DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS. A specific approval granted by a Board
of Zoning Appeals in the manner prescribed by this chapter, to deviate from the
development standards (such as height, bulk, area) that the chapter otherwise
prescribes.
      WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY. A wireless telecommunications
facility consists of the equipment and structures utilized to transmit or
receive telecommunication signals to and from any communications source which
may also be connected to a mobile and or stationary unit with land-based
facilities including, but not limited to, all antennas, towers and accessory
structures.
      WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES. Licensed public commercial
telecommunications services, including, but not limited to, cellular, digital,
personal communication services (PCS), enhanced specialized mobilized radio
(ESMR), paging and other similar services that are marketed to the general
public.
      YARD. A space on the same lot with a principal building that is open and
unobstructed, except as otherwise authorized by this chapter. All required
YARDS shall be kept free of all material including, but not limited to,
buildings, structures, material for sale, storage, advertising or display to
attract attention and parking lots.
      ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The officer appointed by and/or delegated the
responsibility for the administration of this chapter’s regulations by the
Advisory Plan Commission. The Plan Commission is hereby designated as the
ADMINISTRATOR for the purpose of administering and enforcing this chapter and
is the town officer referred to herein wherever the term ADMINISTRATOR or
ZONING ADMINISTRATOR appears.
      ZONING DISTRICT. See DISTRICT.
      ZONING MAP. See OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 16.2)
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 1-23-2012)
§ 156.003  AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted by the town pursuant to its authority under the laws
of the state, I.C. 36-7-4 et seq. Whenever codes cited in this chapter refer to
Indiana Code which has been amended or superseded, this chapter shall be deemed
amended in reference to the new or revised code.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 1.3)
§ 156.004  PURPOSE.
   This chapter is intended to guide the growth and development of the town in
accordance with the town’s Comprehensive Plan and for the following purposes:
   (A)   To secure adequate light, air and convenience of access; and that
safety from fire, flood and other dangers;
   (B)   To promote the public health, safety, comfort, convenience, morals and
general welfare; and
   (C)   To plan for the future development of the town to the end:
      (1)   The community grows only with adequate public ways, utility,
health, educational and recreational facilities;
      (2)   The needs of agriculture, industry and business be recognized in
future growth;
      (3)   Residential areas provide healthful surroundings for family life;
      (4)   The growth of the community is commensurate with and promotes the
efficient and economical use of public funds; and
      (5)   The community strive for high aesthetic value and quality planning.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 1.4)
§ 156.005  COMPLIANCE.
   No structure shall be located, erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved,
altered, converted or enlarged; nor shall any structure or land be used or
existing use be expanded, except in full compliance with all provisions of this
chapter and after the lawful issuance of all permits and certificates required
by this chapter.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 1.5)
§ 156.006  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this chapter or the application of any provision to
particular circumstances is held unconstitutional or invalid by the courts, the
remainder of the chapter or the application of such provision to other
circumstances shall not be affected.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 1.6)
§ 156.007  INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall be held to be the minimum
requirements for the protection of the health, safety, comfort, morals,
convenience and general welfare of the people at large, and are designed to
encourage the establishment and maintenance of reasonable community standards
of physical environment.
   (B)   If two or more provisions within this chapter are in conflict or are
inconsistent with one another, then the provision which is most restrictive
shall control.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 1.7)
§ 156.008  JURISDICTION AREA.
   This chapter shall apply to all land within the corporate limits of the town
and other lands as discussed in the interlocal agreement with the county and
revised in 1999.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 1.8)
§ 156.009  APPLICATION.
   It is not intended by this chapter to interfere with, abrogate or amend any
existing easements, covenants or other agreements, between parties, nor is it
intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate, annul or in any way interfere
with any existing provisions of laws or ordinances (other than previous zoning
ordinances), or any rules, regulations or permits previously adopted or issued
pursuant to law relating to the use of building or premises; provided, however,
that, where this chapter imposes a greater restriction upon the use of
buildings or premises than is imposed or required by such existing provisions
of law or by such rules, regulations, agreements, covenants or permits, the
provisions of this chapter shall control; but where private covenants, permits,
agreements, rules or regulations impose a greater restriction than is imposed
by this chapter, the greater restriction shall control.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 1.9)
§ 156.010  SAVING PROVISION.
   This chapter shall not be construed as abating any action now pending under,
or by virtue of, prior existing zoning ordinance, or as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accruing or about to accrue.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 1.10)
§ 156.011  REPEALER.
   The Arcadia Zoning Ordinance of 1990 (Ord. 90-01), together with the zoning
map which was a part the above mentioned ordinance and their subsequent
amendments, are hereby repealed. This chapter, the Arcadia Zoning Ordinance and
the referenced and updated official zoning map shall replace the repealed
ordinances as of the adoption and effective date.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 1.11)
§ 156.012  TRANSITION RULES.
   (A)   Subdivision and planned development lots fully approved prior to the
adoption of this chapter shall be regulated by the terms and conditions of the
recorded plats (or development laws) of
Ch. 155 of this code of ordinance and this chapter which was in place at the
time of the approvals. All procedures shall follow the procedures set forth by
this chapter.
   (B)   Applications for improvement location permits which have been filed
with the Plan Commission or its designees and which is full and complete, prior
to the effective date of this chapter shall be regulated by the terms and
conditions of
Ch. 155 of this code of ordinance and this chapter which was in place at the
time of filing.
   (C)   Applications for a zone map amendment which have been filed with the
Plan Commission or its designees and which is full and complete, prior to the
effective date of this chapter shall be allowed to be continued to process to
completion pursuant to the terms and conditions of
Ch. 155 of this code of ordinance and this chapter which was in place at the
time of filing; provided, however, if the proposed use would no longer be
permitted in the proposed zoning classification as a result of changes to that
zoning classification from the adoption of this chapter, such application shall
be amended to request the zoning classification of this chapter in which the
proposed use is first permitted.
   (D)   Applications before the Board of Zoning Appeals (i.e., special
exception, use variance, development standards variance) which have been filed
with the BZA or its designees and which application is full and complete, prior
to the effective date of this chapter shall be allowed to continue the process
pursuant to the terms and conditions of the
Ch. 155 of this code of ordinance and this chapter which was in place at the
time of filing; provided that:
      (1)   If such application is no longer required by the terms of this
chapter, the application will be dismissed; or
      (2)   If the proposed use or development requires additional approvals
from the Board of Zoning Appeals pursuant to the terms of this chapter and were
not required under the previous ordinances, such application will be amended to
include only those additional approvals which are required and within the
jurisdiction of the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (E)   All new building sites shall meet the requirements of this chapter
unless a building permit is issued and is still valid, sites were approved as
building sites by Plan Commission or the Board of Zoning Appeals prior to the
effective date of this chapter. Parcels recorded prior to the date of this
chapter that do not meet the size or lot width requirements of this chapter,
but shall meet all other requirements of this chapter of the section that deals
with the size and site.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 1.12)
§ 156.013  AMENDMENTS.
   In accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-602, the legislative body may amend or
partially repeal the text of this chapter or they may amend the zoning maps of
this chapter as follows.
   (A)   The legislative body or the Plan Commission may initiate a proposal to
amend or partially repeal the text according to the procedure of I.C. 36-7-4-
602(b) and I.C. 36-7-4-607 and according to the Commission Rules and
Procedures.
   (B)   The legislative body, Plan Commission or at least 50% of the affected
property owners may initiate a petition to change the zoning maps according to
the procedure of I.C. 36-7-4-602(c) and I.C. 36-7-4-608 and according to the
Commission rules.
   (C)   In its review of the text and zone map amendments, the legislative
body and the Plan Commission shall pay reasonable regard to:
      (1)   The most recently adopted Comprehensive Plan;
      (2)   Current conditions and the character of structure and uses in each
district;
      (3)   The most desirable use for which the land in each district is
adapted;
      (4)   The conservation of property values throughout the jurisdiction;
and
      (5)   Responsible development and growth.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 1.13)
§ 156.014  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   This chapter was in full force and in effect at 12:01 a.m. on 3-1-
2003.
   (B)   The effective date is based on the passage and notice of adoption as
required by law.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 1.14)
GENERAL ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 156.025  ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the Planning Jurisdiction is divided
into the following zoning districts for the general uses as stated:
      (1)   AG, Agriculture: this district is established for agricultural
areas and homes and buildings associated with agriculture production;
      (2)   R1, Estate Residential: this district is established for those
areas in the planning jurisdiction which are for single-family, detached, large
homes and estate sized lots;
      (3)   R2, Large Lot, Large Home Residential: This district is established
for those areas in the planning jurisdiction which are for single-family,
detached, large size lots and large homes;
      (4)   R3, Medium Lot, Medium Home Residential: this district is
established for those areas in the planning jurisdiction which are for single-
family, detached, medium size homes and medium size lots;
      (5)   R4, Old Town Residential: this district is established for the
existing older neighborhoods in the town;
      (6)   R5, Multi-Family Residential: this district is established for
small to moderate sized multi- family apartments, duplexes, condominiums and/or
similar units;
      (7)   MP, Manufactured Home Park: this district is established for
manufactured home parks which lease dwelling sites for single-wide and double-
wide manufactured homes;
      (8)   SC, Special Character Commercial: this district is established for
areas of special character in the town;
      (9)   OC, Office Commercial: this district is established for small to
moderate scale office uses with provisions for some complementary uses;
      (10)   DC, Downtown Commercial: this district is generally intended to
meet the special issues and land use goals for the downtown area in the town;
      (11)   C1, General Commercial: this district is generally intended for a
wide variety of retail, commercial, service, entertainment and eating
establishments that are small to medium in scale;
      (12)   C2, Business Park/Light Manufacturing/Utility: this district is
generally intended for small business parks, light manufacturing facilities,
light manufacturing parks and utility usage; and
      (13)   C3, Industrial Park/Manufacturing: this district is generally
intended for large business parks, manufacturing facilities, manufacturing
parks and utility usage.
   (B)   (1)   Each of the above districts stand alone and are not a part of a
hierarchy system of zoning.
      (2)   For example, what is permitted in the C1 District is not permitted
in the C2 District.
      (3)   Only those uses and development standards which are expressly
permitted and noted for each district apply.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 2.1)
§ 156.026  ESTABLISHMENT OF OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   For the purpose of this chapter, an overlay district has been established as
stated below: WP-OL, Wellhead Protection Overlay: this district is established
to protect the integrity and drinkability of the community’s public water
supply.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 2.2)
§ 156.027  PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter allow the R2, R3, R5, OC, C1 and C2
districts to be rezoned for a planned development. No other districts can be
rezoned into a planned development district.
   (B)   On the official zoning map, a planned development district, once
rezoned, shall be labeled as PD followed by the district it was created from.
The following are the appropriate labels for Planned Development Districts: PD-
R2, PD-R3, PD-R5, PD-OC, PD-C1 and PD-C2.
   (C)   The provisions that regulate planned developments can be found in §§
156.155 through
156.172 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 2.3)
§ 156.028  DISTRICT LAND USES.
   (A)   Land uses are either permitted, non-permitted or a special exception
in each zoning district. The town’s permitted and special exception uses for
each district are noted in the permitted use and special exception divisions in
§§
156.040 through
156.046 and
156.060 through
156.065 of this chapter.
   (B)   These subchapters represent two categories of zoning districts. They
are: agriculture and residential districts and commercial districts.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 2.4)
§ 156.029  UNLISTED OR QUESTIONABLE LAND USES.
   (A)   Any land use not listed as a permitted use or special exception is
considered non-permitted unless the Plan Commission or Zoning Administrator
makes a determination otherwise. The Plan Commission or Zoning Administrator
may determine into which category any questionable use be placed if not
specifically listed and is similar to another use that is permitted or a
special exception.
   (B)   This determination may be appealed to the Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 2.5)
AGRICULTURAL AND RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 156.040  AG DISTRICT; INTENT; PERMITTED USES; SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES;
STANDARDS.
   (A)   District intent.
      (1)   The “AG” District, Agriculture, is intended to provide a land use
category for agricultural activities. The provisions that regulate this land
use district should protect, promote and maintain areas in the town for farming
operations.
      (2)   The town’s Plan Commission and Board of Zoning appeals should
strive to protect this district from “spot zoning”, conflicting land uses and
any use that may inflict significant environmental impacts.
      (3)   The Plan Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals should also strive
to promote prime agriculture land for production crops in the “AG” District.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Residential:
         (a)   Dwelling, single-family;
         (b)   Residential facility for developmentally disabled (small)*; and
         (c)   Residential facility for mentally ill*.
      (2)   Agricultural uses:
         (a)   Agricultural crop production;
         (b)   Orchards (without retail sales);
         (c)   Plant nursery (without retail sales);
         (d)   Production of farm animals;
         (e)   Roadside produce sales;
         (f)   Storage of agricultural products produced on site; and
         (g)   Tree farms (without retail sales).
      (3)   Institutional/public facilities: public park/recreation; and
      (4)   Miscellaneous:
         (a)   Accessory uses;
         (b)   Home occupations #1;
         (c)   Riding stables (private); and
         (d)   Kennel (private).
   (C)   Special exception uses.
      (1)   Residential: child care home (owner occupied home);
      (2)   Agricultural uses:
         (a)   Agricultural seed sales;
         (b)   Private commercial raising of non-farm animals;
         (c)   Farm equipment sales/service;
         (d)   Commercial outdoor storage of farm materials;
         (e)   Commercial processing agriculture products; and
         (f)   Commercial processing agriculture products produced on site.
      (3)   Business; general business: kennel;
      (4)   Business; recreation: commercial riding stables;
      (5)   Institutional/public facilities:
         (a)   Fire station;
         (b)   Church, mosque or temple;
         (c)   School, public or private;
         (d)   Child care center; and
         (e)   Community center.
      (6)   Communication/utility:
         (a)   Utility substation;
         (b)   Public well;
         (c)   Sewage treatment plant; and
         (d)   Water treatment plant.
      (7)   Miscellaneous:
         (a)   Artificial lake or pond over one acre in size; and
         (b)   Home occupation #2 greenhouse facilities (wholesale only).
   *NOTE: These uses are permitted by Indiana Code (I.C. 12-28-4-8 and I.C. 12-
28-4-7).
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 3.1)
   (D)   Standards.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff91d24e8c26585d0d8b562ed7375079c256e840/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1623.png]
      (1)   Minimum lot area: one and one-half acres;
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 200 feet;
      (3)   Maximum lot depth: two and one-half times the lot width;
      (4)   Minimum lot frontage: 180 feet on a public street with access from
said public street (only if used for a building site for primary or secondary
structures);
      (5)   Sewer and water: does not require municipal water or sewer hookup;
      (6)   Minimum front yard setback:
         (a)   Sixty feet when adjacent to a primary arterial road;
         (b)   Fifty feet when adjacent to a secondary arterial road;
         (c)   Forty-five feet when adjacent to a collector road; and
         (d)   Forty feet when adjacent to a local road.
      (7)   Minimum side yard setback:
         (a)   Forty-five feet for primary structure; and
         (b)   Thirty-five feet for secondary structure.
      (8)   Minimum rear yard setback:
         (a)   Forty-five feet for the primary structure; and
         (b)   Thirty-five feet for secondary structures.
      (9)   Maximum lot coverage: square feet of all primary and secondary
structures, and impervious surface cannot exceed 5% of the lot area;
      (10)   Minimum main floor area:
         (a)   One thousand eight hundred square feet for one story primary
structures; or
         (b)   One thousand three hundred square feet for multiple story
primary structures; provided that, the total finished floor area is 1,800
square feet or more.
      (11)   Maximum structure height:
         (a)   Thirty-five feet for the primary structure; and
         (b)   Thirty feet for accessory structures.
      (12)   Agriculture-related accessory structures are exempt; and
      (13)   (a)   Except for pipe stem lots, each lot created after the
adoption of this chapter shall have 40 feet of frontage on a public road or a
private road of at least a 50-foot right-of-way.
         (b)   To achieve more creative planning and preservation of natural
property features, pipe stem lots are permitted; provided, they have exclusive
unobstructed private easement of access of at least 25 feet width to a road.
However, two pipe stem lots with no more than one dwelling on each lot may
share a common easement of access of at least 25 feet in width. The area of a
pipe stem lot occupied solely by the pipe stem driveway or easement shall not
be deemed to be part of the required minimum lot area.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff91d24e8c26585d0d8b562ed7375079c256e840/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1625.png]
   (E)   Additional standards that apply.
      (1)   Lot/Yard (LY): LY01;
      (2)   Height (HT): HT-01;
      (3)   Accessory Structures (AS):
         (a)   AS-01; and
         (b)   AS-02.
      (4)   Temporary Uses (TU):
         (a)   TU-01; and
         (b)   TU-02.
      (5)   Landscaping (LS):
         (a)   LS-01;
         (b)   LS-02; and
         (c)   LS-03.
      (6)   Buffer Yards (BY): BY-01;
      (7)   Performance Standards (PS): PS-01;
      (8)   Environmental (EN): EN-01;
      (9)   Floodplain (FP): FP-01;
      (10)   Lighting (LT): LT-01;
      (11)   Parking (PK):
         (a)   PK-01;
         (b)   PK-06; and
         (c)   PK-07.
      (12)   Entrances/Drives (ED): ED-01;
      (13)   Vision Clearance (VC): VC-01;
      (14)   Home Occupation (HO):
         (a)   HO-01; and
         (b)   HO-02.
      (15)   Telecommunication Facilities (TF):
         (a)   TF-01;
         (b)   TF-02; and
         (c)   TF-03.
      (16)   Fences and Walls (FN): FN-01;
      (17)   Miscellaneous (MS):
         (a)   MS-02;
         (b)   MS-03;
         (c)   MS-04;
         (d)   MS-05;
         (e)   MS-06; and
         (f)   MS-07.
      (18)   General Signs (GS): GS-01;
      (19)   Temporary Signs (TS): TS-01; and
      (20)   Permanent Signs (PS): PS-01.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 3.2)
(Ord. 2007-01, passed 4-9-2007; Ord. 2009-03, passed 4-6-2009; Ord. 2009-04,
passed 4-6-2009)
§ 156.041  R1 DISTRICT; INTENT; PERMITTED USES; SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES;
STANDARDS.
   (A)   District intent.
      (1)   The “R1” (Estate Residential) District is intended to provide a
land use category for large lots and large single-family detached homes. The
provisions that regulate this land use district should provide for this
district to be used sparingly in the town.
      (2)   The town’s Plan Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals should
strive to protect this district from conflicting land uses and non-family
oriented businesses.
      (3)   The Plan Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals should also strive
to promote an average net density of one dwelling unit per acre community-wide
in the “R1” District.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Residential:
         (a)   Dwelling, single family;
         (b)   Residential facility for developmentally disabled (small); and
         (c)   Residential facility for mentally ill*.
      (2)   Institutional/public facilities: public park/recreation center; and
      (3)   Miscellaneous accessory uses: home occupation #1.
   (C)   Special exception uses.
      (1)   Residential: residential facility for developmentally disabled
(large);
      (2)   Business; recreation: golf course;
      (3)   Institutional/public facilities:
         (a)   Fire station;
         (b)   Church;
         (c)   School, public or private;
         (d)   Community center government buildings; and
         (e)   Communication/utility public well.
      (4)   Miscellaneous:
         (a)   Artificial lake or pond over one acre in size; and
         (b)   Home occupation #2.
   NOTE: *These uses are permitted by Indiana Code (I.C. 12-28-4-8 and I.C. 12-
28-4-7).
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 3.3)
   (D)   R1 District standards.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff91d24e8c26585d0d8b562ed7375079c256e840/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1627.png]
      (1)   Minimum lot area: 45,000 square feet;
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 140 feet;
      (3)   Maximum lot depth: 2.5 times the lot width;
      (4)   Minimum lot frontage: 80 feet on a public street with access from
said public street;
      (5)   Sewer and water: requires municipal water and sewer hookup;
      (6)   Minimum front yard setback:
         (a)   Sixty feet when adjacent to a primary arterial. Driveways are
not permitted off of a primary arterial;
         (b)   Fifty feet when adjacent to a secondary arterial. Driveways are
not permitted off of a secondary arterial;
         (c)   Forty-five feet when adjacent to a collector; and
         (d)   Forty feet when adjacent to a local street.
      (7)   Minimum side yard setback: 40 feet;
      (8)   Minimum rear yard setback:
         (a)   Seventy-five feet for the primary structure; and
         (b)   Fifty-five feet for accessory structures.
      (9)   Maximum lot coverage: square feet of all primary and secondary
structures, and impervious surface cannot exceed 25% of the lot area;
      (10)   Minimum main floor area:
         (a)   Two thousand one hundred square feet for one story primary
structures; or
         (b)   One thousand five hundred square feet for the first floor of the
primary structure, provided that the total finished floor area is 2,100 square
feet or more.
      (11)   Maximum structure height:
         (a)   Thirty-five feet for the primary structure; and
         (b)   Thirty feet for accessory structures.
      (12)   (a)   Except for pipe stem lots, each lot created after the
adoption of this chapter shall have 40 feet of frontage on a public road or a
private road of at least a 50-foot right-of-way.
         (b)   To achieve more creative planning and preservation of natural
property features, pipe stem lots are permitted; provided, they have exclusive
unobstructed private easement of access of at least 25 feet width to a road.
However, two pipe stem lots with no more than one dwelling on each lot may
share a common easement of access of at least 25 feet in width. The area of a
pipe stem lot occupied solely by the pipe stem driveway or easement shall not
be deemed to be part of the required minimum lot area.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff91d24e8c26585d0d8b562ed7375079c256e840/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1629.png]
   (E)   Additional standards that apply
      (1)   Lot/Yard (LY): LY-01;
      (2)   Height (HT): HT-01;
      (3)   Accessory Structures (AS):
         (a)   AS-01; and
         (b)   AS-02.
      (4)   Temporary Uses (TU):
         (a)   TU-01; and
         (b)   TU-02.
      (5)   Landscaping (LS):
         (a)   LS-01;
         (b)   LS-02; and
         (c)   LS-03.
      (6)   Buffer Yards (BY): BY-01;
      (7)   Performance Standards (PS): PS-01;
      (8)   Environmental (EN): EN-01;
      (9)   Floodplain (FP): FP-01;
      (10)   Lighting (LT): LT-01;
      (11)   Parking (PK):
         (a)   PK-01;
         (b)   PK-06; and
         (c)   PK-07.
      (12)   Entrances/Drives (ED): ED-01;
      (13)   Vision Clearance (VC): VC-01;
      (14)   Home Occupation (HO):
         (a)   HO-01; and
         (b)   HO-02.
      (15)   Telecommunication Facilities (TF):
         (a)   TF-01;
         (b)   TF-02; and
         (c)   TF-03.
      (16)   Fences and Walls (FN): FN-01;
      (17)   Miscellaneous (MS):
         (a)   MS-02;
         (b)   MS-03;
         (c)   MS-04;
         (d)   MS-05;
         (e)   MS-06; and
         (f)   MS-07.
      (18)   General Signs (GS): GS-01;
      (19)   Temporary Signs (TS): TS-01; and
      (20)   Permanent Signs (PS): PS-01.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 3.4)
(Ord. 2007-01, passed 4-9-2007; Ord. 2009-03, passed 4-6-2009; Ord. 2009-04,
passed 4-6-2009)
§ 156.042  R2 DISTRICT; INTENT; PERMITTED USES; SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES;
STANDARDS.
   (A)   District intent.
      (1)   The “R2” (Large Lot, Medium Home) District is intended to provide a
land use category for large lots and medium-sized single-family detached homes.
The provisions that regulate this land use district should protect, promote and
maintain areas in the town for existing and future housing growth. The town’s
Plan Commission and Board of Zoning appeals should strive to protect this
district from conflicting land uses, and non-family oriented businesses.
      (2)   The Plan Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals should also strive
to promote an average net density of 1.5 to 2.0 dwelling units per acre
community-wide in the “R2” District.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Residential:
         (a)   Dwelling, single-family;
         (b)   Residential facility for developmentally disabled (small)*; and
         (c)   Residential facility for mentally ill*.
      (2)   Institutional/public facilities: public park/recreation center; and
      (3)   Miscellaneous:
         (a)   Accessory uses; and
         (b)   Home occupation #1.
   (C)   Special exception uses.
      (1)   Residential:
         (a)   Bed and breakfast facility (owner occupied - three guest rooms);
and
         (b)   Residential facility for developmentally disabled (large).
      (2)   Business; recreation: golf course;
      (3)   Institutional/public facilities:
         (a)   Fire station;
         (b)   Church;
         (c)   School, public or private;
         (d)   Child care center;
         (e)   Community center; and
         (f)   Government, building.
      (4)   Communication/utility: public well; and
      (5)   Miscellaneous: home occupation #2.
   NOTE: *These uses are permitted by Indiana Code (I.C. 12-28-4-8 and I.C. 12-
28-4-7).
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 3.5)
   (D)   R2 District standards.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff91d24e8c26585d0d8b562ed7375079c256e840/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1631.png]
      (1)   Minimum lot area: 22,000 square feet;
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 100 feet;
      (3)   Maximum lot depth: 2.5 times the Lot Width;
      (4)   Minimum lot frontage: 65 feet on a public street with access from
said public street;
      (5)   Sewer and water: requires municipal water and sewer hookup;
      (6)   Minimum front yard setback:
         (a)   Fifty feet when adjacent to a primary arterial. Driveways are
not permitted off of a primary arterial;
         (b)   Forty-five feet when adjacent to a secondary arterial. Driveways
are not permitted off of a secondary arterial;
         (c)   Forty feet when adjacent to a collector; and
         (d)   Forty feet when adjacent to a local street.
      (7)   Minimum side yard setback: 30 feet;
      (8)   Minimum rear yard setback:
         (a)   Thirty feet for the primary structure; and
         (b)   Thirty feet for accessory structures.
      (9)   Maximum lot coverage: square feet of all primary and secondary
structures, and impervious surface cannot exceed 40% of the lot area.
      (10)   Minimum main floor area:
         (a)   One thousand eight hundred square feet for one story primary
structures; or
         (b)   One thousand three hundred square feet for the first floor of
the primary structure, provided that the total finished floor area is 1,800
square feet or more.
      (11)   Maximum structure height:
         (a)   Thirty-five feet for the primary structure; and
         (b)   Thirty feet for accessory structures.
      (12)   (a)   Except for pipe stem lots, each lot created after the
adoption of this chapter shall have 40 feet of frontage on a public road or a
private road of at least a 50-foot right-of-way.
         (b)   To achieve more creative planning and preservation of natural
property features, pipe stem lots are permitted; provided, they have exclusive
unobstructed private easement of access of at least 25 feet width to a road.
However, two pipe stem lots with no more than one dwelling on each lot may
share a common easement of access of at least 25 feet in width. The area of a
pipe stem lot occupied solely by the pipe stem driveway or easement shall not
be deemed to be part of the required minimum lot area.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff91d24e8c26585d0d8b562ed7375079c256e840/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1633.png]
   (E)   Additional standards that apply.
      (1)   Lot/Yard (LY): LY-01;
      (2)   Height (HT): HT-01;
      (3)   Accessory Structures (AS):
         (a)   AS-01; and
         (b)   AS-02.
      (4)   Temporary Uses (TU):
         (a)   TU-01; and
         (b)   TU-02.
      (5)   Landscaping (LS):
         (a)   LS-01;
         (b)   LS-02; and
         (c)   LS-03.
      (6)   Buffer Yards (BY): BY-01;
      (7)   Performance Standards (PS): PS-01;
      (8)   Environmental (EN): EN-01;
      (9)   Floodplain (FP): FP-01;
      (10)   Lighting (LT): LT-01;
      (11)   Parking (PK):
         (a)   PK-01;
         (b)   PK-06; and
         (c)   PK-07.
      (12)   Entrances/Drives (ED): ED-01;
      (13)   Vision Clearance (VC): VC-01;
      (14)   Home Occupation (HO):
         (a)   HO-01; and
         (b)   HO-02.
      (15)   Telecommunication Facilities (TF):
         (a)   TF-01;
         (b)   7F-02; and
         (c)   TF-03.
      (16)   Fences and Walls (FN): FN-01;
      (17)   Miscellaneous (MS):
         (a)   MS-02;
         (b)   MS-03;
         (c)   MS-04;
         (d)   MS-05;
         (e)   MS-06; and
         (f)   MS-07.
      (18)   General Signs (GS): GS-01;
      (19)   Temporary Signs (TS): TS-01; and
      (20)   Permanent Signs (PS): PS-01.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 3.6)
(Ord. 2007-01, passed 4-9-2007; Ord. 2009-03, passed 4-6-2009; Ord. 2009-04,
passed 4-6-2009)
§ 156.043  R3 DISTRICT; INTENT; PERMITTED USES; SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES;
STANDARDS.
   (A)   District intent.
      (1)   The “R3” (Medium Lot, Medium Home) District is intended to provide
a land use category for medium lots and medium-sized single-family detached
homes. The provisions that regulate this land use district should protect,
promote and maintain areas in the town for existing and future housing growth.
      (2)   The town’s Plan Commission and Board of Zoning appeals should
strive to protect this district from conflicting land uses and non-family
oriented businesses.
      (3)   The Plan Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals should strive to
promote an average net density of 2.5 to 3.5 dwelling units per acre community-
wide in the “R3” District.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Residential:
         (a)   Dwelling, single family;
         (b)   Residential facility for developmentally disabled (small)*; and
         (c)   Residential facility for mentally ill*.
      (2)   Institutional/public facilities: public park/recreation center;
      (3)   Miscellaneous:
         (a)   Accessory uses; and
         (b)   Home occupation #1.
   (C)   Special exception uses.
      (1)   Residential:
         (a)   Dwelling, two-family**;
         (b)   Bed and breakfast facility;
         (c)   Boarding house**;
         (d)   Child care home (owner occupied, home)**; and
         (e)   Residential facility for developmentally disabled (large).
      (2)   Business; recreation: golf course;
      (3)   Institutional/public facilities:
         (a)   Fire station **;
         (b)   Church**;
         (c)   School, public or private **;
         (d)   Child care center **;
         (e)   Community center **; and
         (f)   Government building**.
      (4)   Communication/utility: public well; and
      (5)   Miscellaneous: home occupation #2.
   NOTE: *These uses are permitted by Indiana Code (I.C. 12-28-4-8 and I.C. 12-
28-4-7).
      ** Minimum side yard setback of 25 feet, minimum lot width of 100 feet
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 3.7)
   (D)   R3 District standards.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff91d24e8c26585d0d8b562ed7375079c256e840/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1635.png]
      (1)   Minimum lot area: 10,000 square feet;
      (2)   Minimum lot area per dwelling unit: 10,000 square feet;
      (3)   Minimum lot width: 80 feet;
      (4)   Maximum lot depth: two and one-half times the lot width;
      (5)   Minimum lot frontage: 50 feet on a public street with access from
said public street;
      (6)   Sewer and water: requires municipal water and sewer hookup;
      (7)   Maximum structure height:
         (a)   Thirty-five feet for the primary structure; and
         (b)   Thirty feet for accessory structures.
      (8)   Minimum front yard setback:
         (a)   Fifty feet when adjacent to a primary arterial. Driveways are
not permitted off of a primary arterial;
         (b)   Forty-five feet when adjacent to a secondary arterial. Driveways
are not permitted off of a secondary arterial;
         (c)   Thirty-five feet when adjacent to a collector; and
         (d)   Thirty-five feet when adjacent to a local street.
      (9)   Minimum side yard setback: 15 feet;
      (10)   Minimum rear yard setback:
         (a)   Twenty-five feet for primary structures; and
         (b)   Twenty feet for accessory structures.
      (11)   Maximum lot coverage: square feet of all primary and secondary
structures and impervious surface cannot exceed 45% of the lot area;
      (12)   Minimum main floor area:
         (a)   One thousand eight hundred square feet for one story primary
structures; or
         (b)   One thousand three hundred square feet for the first floor of
the primary structure; provided that, the total finished floor area is 1,800
square feet or more.
      (13)   (a)   Except for pipe stem lots, each lot created after the
adoption of this chapter shall have 40 feet of frontage on a public road or a
private road of at least a 50-foot right-of-way.
         (b)   To achieve more creative planning and preservation of natural
property features, pipe stem lots are permitted; provided, they have exclusive
unobstructed private easement of access of at least 25 feet width to a road.
However, two pipe stem lots with no more than one dwelling on each lot may
share a common easement of access of at least 25 feet in width. The area of a
pipe stem lot occupied solely by the pipe stem driveway or easement shall not
be deemed to be part of the required minimum lot area.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff91d24e8c26585d0d8b562ed7375079c256e840/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1637.png]
   (E)   Additional standards that apply.
      (1)   Lot/Yard (LY): LY-01;
      (2)   Height (HT): HT-01;
      (3)   Accessory Structures (AS):
         (a)   AS-01; and
         (b)   AS-02.
      (4)   Temporary Uses (TU):
         (a)   TU-01; and
         (b)   TU-02.
      (5)   Landscaping (LS):
         (a)   LS-01;
         (b)   LS-02; and
         (c)   LS-03.
      (6)   Buffer Yards (BY): BY-01;
      (7)   Performance Standards (PS): PS-01;
      (8)   Environmental (EN): EN-01;
      (9)   Floodplain (FP): FP-01;
      (10)   Lighting (LT): LT-01;
      (11)   Parking (PK):
         (a)   PK-01;
         (b)   PK-06; and
         (c)   PK-07.
      (12)   Entrances/Drives (ED): ED-01;
      (13)   Vision Clearance (VC): VC-01;
      (14)   Home Occupation (HO):
         (a)   HO-01; and
         (b)   HO-02.
      (15)   Telecommunication Facilities (TF):
         (a)   TF-01;
         (b)   TF-02; and
         (c)   TF-03.
      (16)   Fences and Walls (FN): FN-01;
      (17)   Miscellaneous (MS):
         (a)   MS-02;
         (b)   MS-03;
         (c)   MS-04;
         (d)   MS-05;
         (e)   MS-06; and
         (f)   MS-07.
      (18)   General Signs (GS): GS-01;
      (19)   Temporary Signs (TS): TS-01; and
      (20)   Permanent Signs (PS): PS-01.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 3.8)
(Ord. 2007-01, passed 4-9-2007; Ord. 2009-03, passed 4-6-2009; Ord. 2009-04,
passed 4-6-2009)
§ 156.044  R4 DISTRICT; INTENT; PERMITTED USES; SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES;
STANDARDS.
   (A)   District intent.
      (1)   The “R4” (Old Town Residential) District is intended to provide a
land use category for small lots and small-sized single-family detached homes.
The provisions that regulate this land use district should protect, maintain
and promote where possible the “old town character” in the town.
      (2)   The town’s Plan Commission and Board of Zoning appeals should
strive to protect this district from business encroachment, conflicting land
uses and non-family oriented businesses.
      (3)   The Plan Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals should strive to
promote an average net density of seven to eight dwelling units per acre
community-wide in the “R4” District.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Residential:
         (a)   Dwelling, single-family;
         (b)   Residential facility for developmentally disabled (small)*; and
         (c)   Residential facility for mentally ill*.
      (2)   Institutional/public facilities: public park/recreation center;
      (3)   Miscellaneous:
         (a)   Accessory uses; and
         (b)   Home occupation #1.
   (C)   Special exception uses.
      (1)   Residential:
         (a)   Dwelling, multi-family, apartment (ten-unit or less)***
         (b)   Dwelling, two-family;
         (c)   Bed and breakfast facility (12 boarders or less)**;
         (d)   Boarding house (owner-occupied)***;
         (e)   Child care home (owner-occupied home)***; and
         (f)   Residential facility for developmentally disabled- (large)***.
      (2)   Institutional/public facilities:
         (a)   Fire station***;
         (b)   Church***;
         (c)   School, public or private***;
         (d)   Child care center***;
         (e)   Community center***; and
         (f)   Government building***.
      (3)   Communication/utility: public well; and
      (4)   Miscellaneous: home occupation #2.
   NOTE: *These uses are permitted by Indiana Code (I.C. 12-28-4-8 and I.C. 12-
28-4-7).
      ** Minimum side yard setback of 25 feet, minimum lot width of 90 feet.
      *** Minimum side yard setback of 35 feet, minimum rear yard setback of 30
feet, minimum lot width of 100 feet.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 3.9)
   (D)   R4 District standards.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff91d24e8c26585d0d8b562ed7375079c256e840/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1639.png]
      (1)   Minimum lot area: 5,000 square feet;
      (2)   Minimum lot area per dwelling unit: 5,000 square feet;
      (3)   Minimum lot width: 35 feet;
      (4)   Maximum lot depth: five times the lot width;
      (5)   Minimum lot frontage: 35 feet on a public street with access from
said public street;
      (6)   Sewer and water: requires municipal water and sewer hookup;
      (7)   Maximum structure height:
         (a)   Thirty-five feet for the primary structure; and
         (b)   Thirty feet for accessory structures.
      (8)   Minimum front yard setback:
         (a)   Twenty feet when adjacent to a primary arterial;
         (b)   Twenty feet when adjacent to a secondary arterial;
         (c)   Twenty feet when adjacent to a collector; and
         (d)   Twenty feet when adjacent to a local street.
      (9)   Minimum side yard setback: five feet;
      (10)   Minimum rear yard setback: 15 feet for the primary structure 15
feet for accessory structures;
      (11)   Maximum lot coverage: square feet of all primary and secondary
structures, and impervious surface cannot exceed 75% of the lot area;
      (12)   Minimum main floor area:
         (a)   One thousand two hundred fifty square feet for one story primary
structures; or
         (b)   Seven hundred square feet for the first floor of the primary
structure; provided that, the total finished floor area is 1250 square feet or
more
      (13)   (a)   Except for pipe stem lots, each lot created after the
adoption of this chapter shall have 40 feet of frontage on a public road or a
private road of at least a 50-foot right-of-way.
         (b)   To achieve more creative planning and preservation of natural
property features, pipe stem lots are permitted; provided, they have exclusive
unobstructed private easement of access of at least 25 feet width to a road.
However, two pipe stem lots with no more than one dwelling on each lot may
share a common easement of access of at least 25 feet in width. The area of a
pipe stem lot occupied solely by the pipe stem driveway or easement shall not
be deemed to be part of the required minimum lot area.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff91d24e8c26585d0d8b562ed7375079c256e840/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1641.png]
   (E)   Additional standards that apply.
      (1)   Lot/Yard (LY): LY-01;
      (2)   Height (HT): HT-01;
      (3)   Accessory Structures (AS):
         (a)   AS-01; and
         (b)   AS-02.
      (4)   Temporary Uses (TU):
         (a)   TU-01; and
         (b)   TU-02.
      (5)   Landscaping (LS)
         (a)   LS-01;
         (b)   LS-02; and
         (c)   LS-03.
      (6)   Buffer Yards (BY): BY-01;
      (7)   Performance Standards (PS): PS-01;
      (8)   Environmental (EN): EN-01;
      (9)   Floodplain (FP): FP-01;
      (10)   Lighting (LT): LT-01;
      (11)   Parking (PK):
         (a)   PK-01;
         (b)   PK-06; and
         (c)   PK-07.
      (12)   Entrances/Drives (ED): ED-01;
      (13)   Vision Clearance (VC): VC-01;
      (14)   Home Occupation (HO):
         (a)   HO-01; and
         (b)   HO-02.
      (15)   Telecommunication Facilities (TF):
         (a)   TF-01;
         (b)   TF-02; and
         (c)   TF-03.
      (16)   Fences and Walls (FN): FN-01;
      (17)   Miscellaneous (MS):
         (a)   MS-02;
         (b)   MS-03;
         (c)   MS-04;
         (d)   MS-05;
         (e)   MS-06; and
         (f)   MS-07.
      (18)   General Signs (GS): GS-01;
      (19)   Temporary Signs (TS): TS-01; and
      (20)   Permanent Signs (PS): PS-01.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 3.10)
(Ord. 2007-01, passed 4-9-2007; Ord. 2009-03, passed 4-6-2009; Ord. 2009-04,
passed 4-6-2009; Ord. 2009-05, passed 4-6-2009)
§ 156.045  R5 DISTRICT; INTENT; PERMITTED USES; SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES;
STANDARDS.
   (A)   District intent.
      (1)   The “R5” (Multi-Family Residential) Residential District is
intended to provide a land use category for small to medium scale multi-family
developments. The provisions regulate that this land use district should
protect, promote and maintain areas in the town for existing and future multi-
family housing growth.
      (2)   The town’s Plan Commission and Board of Zoning appeals should
strive to sensitively integrate this district into other Residential Districts
and the NC, OC, DC, C1 and C2 Commercial Districts. This district should be
within close proximity to parks, open space, services and retail if possible.
Avoid locating near conflicting land uses and non-family oriented businesses.
      (3)   The Plan Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals should strive to
promote an average net density of eight to ten dwelling units per acre
community-wide in the “R5” District.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Residential:
         (a)   Dwelling, multi-family
         (b)   Dwelling, multi-family, apartment;
         (c)   Dwelling, two-family;
         (d)   Nursing home;
         (e)   Retirement community;
         (f)   Residential facility for developmentally multi-family disabled
(large);
         (g)   Residential facility for developmentally disabled (small)*; and
         (h)   Residential facility for mentally ill*.
      (2)   Miscellaneous: accessory uses.
   (C)   Special exception uses.
      (1)   Residential:
         (a)   Dwelling, single-family;
         (b)   Bed and breakfast facility;
         (c)   Boarding house; and
         (d)   Child care home (owner occupied home).
      (2)   Institutional/public facilities:
         (a)   Church, temple or mosque;
         (b)   Community center;
         (c)   Government building;
         (d)   Library;
         (e)   Police/fire station;
         (f)   Post office;
         (g)   Public park/recreation center;
         (h)   School, public/private; and
         (i)   Trade or business school.
      (3)   Communication/utilities: public wells; and
      (4)   Miscellaneous:
         (a)   Child care institution; and
         (b)   Home occupation #1.
   NOTE: *These uses are permitted by Indiana Code (I.C. 12-28-4-8 and I.C. 12-
28-4-7).
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 3.11)
   (D)   R5 District standards.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff91d24e8c26585d0d8b562ed7375079c256e840/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1643.png]
      (1)   Minimum lot area: 17,000 square feet;
      (2)   Minimum lot area per dwelling unit: 6,000 square feet;
      (3)   Minimum lot width: 90 feet;
      (4)   Maximum lot depth: 2.5 times the lot width;
      (5)   Minimum lot frontage: 70 feet on a public street with access from
said public street;
      (6)   Sewer and water: requires municipal water and sewer hookup;
      (7)   Maximum structure height:
         (a)   Forty feet for the primary structure; and
         (b)   Thirty feet for accessory structures.
      (8)   Minimum front yard setback:
         (a)   Forty-five feet when adjacent to a primary arterial. Driveways
are not permitted off of a primary arterial;
         (b)   Forty-five feet when adjacent to a secondary arterial street.
Driveways are not permitted off of a primary arterial;
         (c)   Thirty-five feet when adjacent to a collector; and
         (d)   Thirty feet when adjacent to a local street.
      (9)   Minimum side yard setback: 20 feet (plus buffer yard);
      (10)   Minimum rear yard setback: 20 feet for the primary and accessory
structures (plus buffer yard);
      (11)   Maximum lot coverage: square feet of all primary and secondary
structures, and impervious surface cannot exceed 65% of the lot area;
      (12)   Minimum main floor area: 1,100 square feet per primary structure
for single-family or multi-family uses;
      (13)   Minimum floor area per unit: 950 square feet average per dwelling
unit in a multiple-unit primary structure;
      (14)   (a)   Except for pipe stem lots, each lot created after the
adoption of this chapter shall have 40 feet of frontage on a public road or a
private road of at least a 50 foot right-of-way.
         (b)   1.   To achieve more creative planning and preservation of
natural property features, pipe stem lots are permitted; provided, they have
exclusive unobstructed private easement of access of at least 25 feet width to
a road.
            2.   However, two pipe stem lots with no more than one dwelling on
each lot may share a common easement of access of at least 25 feet in width.
            3.   The area of a pipe stem lot occupied solely by the pipe stem
driveway or easement shall not be deemed to be part of the required minimum lot
area.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff91d24e8c26585d0d8b562ed7375079c256e840/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1645.png]
   (E)   Additional standards that apply.
      (1)   Lot/Yard (LY): LY-01; and
      (2)   Height (HT): HT-01.
      (3)   Accessory Structures (AS):
         (a)   AS-01; and
         (b)   AS-02.
      (4)   Temporary Uses (TU):
         (a)   TU-01; and
         (b)   TU-02.
      (5)   Landscaping (LS):
         (a)   LS-01;
         (b)   LS-02; and
         (c)   LS-03.
      (6)   Buffer Yards (BY): BY-01;
      (7)   Performance Standards (PS): PS-01;
      (8)   Environmental (EN): EN-01;
      (9)   Floodplain (FP): FP-01;
      (10)   Lighting (LT): LT01;
      (11)   Parking (PK):
         (a)   PK-01;
         (b)   PK-06; and
         (c)   PK-07.
      (12)   Entrances/Drives (ED): ED-01;
      (13)   Vision Clearance (VC): VC-01;
      (14)   Public Improvement (PI): PI-01;
      (15)   Home Occupation (HO): HO-01;
      (16)   Telecommunication Facilities (TF):
         (a)   TF-01;
         (b)   TF-02; and
         (c)   TF03.
      (17)   Fences and Walls (FN): FN-01;
      (18)   Miscellaneous (MS):
         (a)   MS-02;
         (b)   MS-03;
         (c)   MS-04;
         (d)   MS-05;
         (e)   MS-06; and
         (f)   MS-07.
      (19)   General Signs (GS): GS-01;
      (20)   Temporary Signs (TS): TS02; and
      (21)   Permanent Signs (PS): PS-02.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 3.12)
(Ord. 2007-01, passed 4-9-2007; Ord. 2009-03, passed 4-6-2009; Ord. 2009-04,
passed 4-6-2009)
§ 156.046  MP DISTRICT; INTENT; PERMITTED USES; SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES;
STANDARDS.
   (A)   District intent.
      (1)   The “MP” (Manufactured Home Park) District is intended to provide a
land use category for manufactured homes parks in the community as attractive
and decent affordable housing. Manufactured home parks shall be in accordance
with I.C. 16-41-27-1 et seq., Rule 410 I.A.C. 6-6 and their subsequent
amendments, the state’s Board of Health requirements and the requirements of
this chapter.
      (2)   This district should be within close proximity to parks, open
space, services and retail, if possible. Avoid locating near conflicting land
uses and non-family oriented businesses.
      (3)   The Plan Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals should strive to
promote an average net density of five to six dwelling units per acre
community-wide in the “MP” District.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Residential:
         (a)   Manufactured home park**;
         (b)   Dwelling, mobile home;
         (c)   Dwelling, manufactured;
         (d)   Dwelling, single-family;
         (e)   Residential facility for developmentally disabled (small)*; and
         (f)   Residential facility for mentally ill*.
      (2)   Institutional/public facilities: public park/recreation center;
      (3)   Miscellaneous:
         (a)   Accessory uses; and
         (b)   Private swimming pool.
   (C)   Special exception uses.
      (1)   Residential: child care home (owner occupied home);
      (2)   Institutional/public facilities: community center; and
      (3)   Miscellaneous:
         (a)   Child care institution; and
         (b)   Home occupation #1.
   NOTE: *These uses are permitted by Indiana Code (I.C. 12-28-4-8 and I.C. 12-
28-4-7).
      ** A development plan shall be submitted, reviewed and approved by Plan
Commission at a public hearing
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 3.13)
   (D)   MP District standards.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff91d24e8c26585d0d8b562ed7375079c256e840/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1643.png]
      (1)   Minimum lot size: five acres;
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 250 feet;
      (3)   Maximum lot depth: three and one-half times the lot width;
      (4)   Minimum dwelling site size: 4,000 square feet;
      (5)   Minimum dwelling site width: 30 feet;
      (6)   Maximum dwelling site depth: three and one-half times the lot
width;
      (7)   Sewer and water: requires municipal water and sewer hookup;
      (8)   Maximum structure height:
         (a)   Thirty feet for the primary structure; and
         (b)   Fifteen feet for accessory structures.
      (9)   Minimum lot front yard setback:
         (a)   Thirty-five feet when adjacent to a primary arterial;
         (b)   Thirty feet when adjacent to a secondary arterial;
         (c)   Twenty feet when adjacent to a collector; and
         (d)   Twenty feet when adjacent to a local street.
      (10)   Minimum lot side yard setback: 20 feet (plus buffer yard);
      (11)   Minimum lot rear yard setback: 20 feet for the primary and
secondary structures (plus buffer yard);
      (12)   Minimum dwelling site front yard setback: ten feet from edge of
pavement of interior roads;
      (13)   Minimum dwelling site side yard setback: seven feet for primary
and secondary structures;
      (14)   Minimum rear yard setback: seven feet for the primary and
secondary structures;
      (15)   Maximum lot coverage: square feet of all primary and secondary
structures, and impervious surface cannot exceed 65% of the lot area;
      (16)   Minimum main floor area per dwelling unit: 750 square feet per
primary structure; and
      (17)   (a)   Except for pipe stem lots, each lot created after the
adoption of this chapter shall have 40 feet of frontage on a public road or a
private road of at least a 50-foot right-of-way.
         (b)   To achieve more creative planning and preservation of natural
property features, pipe stem lots are permitted; provided, they have exclusive
unobstructed private easement of access of at least 25 feet width to a road.
However, two pipe stem lots with no more than one dwelling on each lot may
share a common easement of access of at least 25 feet in width. The area of a
pipe stem lot occupied solely by the pipe stem driveway or easement shall not
be deemed to be part of the required minimum lot area.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff91d24e8c26585d0d8b562ed7375079c256e840/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1649.png]
   (E)   Additional standards that apply.
      (1)   Lot/Yard (LY): LY-01;
      (2)   Height (HT): HT-01;
      (3)   Accessory Structures (AS): AS-05;
      (4)   Temporary Uses (TU):
         (a)   TU-01; and
         (b)   TU-03.
      (5)   Landscaping (LS):
         (a)   LS-01;
         (b)   LS-02; and
         (c)   LS-03.
      (6)   Buffer Yards (BY): BY-01;
      (7)   Performance Standards (PS): PS-01;
      (8)   Environmental (EN): EN-01;
      (9)   floodplain (FP): FP-01;
      (10)   Lighting (LT): LT-01;
      (11)   Parking (PK):
         (a)   PK-02;
         (b)   PK-06; and
         (c)   PK-07.
      (12)   Entrances/Drives (ED):
         (a)   ED-01; and
         (b)   ED-02.
      (13)   Vision Clearance (VC): VC-01;
      (14)   Public Improvement (PI): PI-01;
      (15)   Open Space (OS): OS-01;
      (16)   Home Occupation (HO): HO-01;
      (17)   Telecommunication Facilities (TF):
         (a)   TF-01;
         (b)   TF-02; and
         (c)   TF-03.
      (18)   Fences and Walls (FN): FN-01;
      (19)   Miscellaneous (MS):
         (a)   MS-01;
         (b)   MS-02;
         (c)   MS-03;
         (d)   MS-04;
         (e)   MS-05;
         (f)   MS-06; and
         (g)   MS-07.
      (20)   General Signs (GS): GS-01;
      (21)   Temporary Signs (TS): TS-02; and
      (22)   Permanent Signs (PS): PS-02.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 3.14)
(Ord. 2007-01, passed 4-9-2007; Ord. 2009-03, passed 4-6-2009; Ord. 2009-04,
passed 4-6-2009)
COMMERCIAL ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 156.060  SC DISTRICT; INTENT; PERMITTED USES; SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES;
STANDARDS.
   (A)   District intent.
      (1)   The “SC” (Special Character Commercial) District is intended to
provide a land use category for commercial uses in areas of special character.
The provisions that regulate this land use district should promote appropriate
commercial uses that are clearly non-conflicting with neighborhoods in the town
and present a positive image. This district should be used in and around the
intersection of Main St. and S.R. 19.
      (2)   The town’s Plan Commission and Board of Zoning appeals should
strive to use this district to promote the character and aesthetic goals of the
community as determined in the town’s Comprehensive Plan. This district may
also be used sparingly and appropriately as a “spot zone” in the community for
areas of special character.
      (3)   The Plan Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals should also strive
to exclude businesses from the “SC” District that are not family oriented, that
have an adverse effect on the existing or future adjacent neighborhoods and do
not meet the character and aesthetic goals of the community.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Institutional/public facilities:
         (a)   Government office;
         (b)   Library;
         (c)   Police/fire station; and
         (d)   Post office.
      (2)   Business: office/professional:
         (a)   Architecture;
         (b)   Bank/credit union;
         (c)   Design services;
         (d)   Insurance office;
         (e)   Planning offices;
         (f)   Professional offices;
         (g)   Real estate office;
         (h)   Secretarial service; and
         (i)   Service organization offices.
   (C)   Special exception uses.
      (1)   Business; food sales/service:
         (a)   Restaurant;
         (b)   Bakery, retail; and
         (c)   Convenience store (without gas pumps).
      (2)   Business; retail:
         (a)   Drug store;
         (b)   Flower shop; and
         (c)   News dealer/bookstore.
      (3)   Institutional/public facilities
         (a)   Church, temple or mosque;
         (b)   Community center;
         (c)   School, public/private; and
         (d)   Public park/recreation center.
      (4)   Business; personal service:
         (a)   Barber/beauty shop;
         (b)   Day care; and
         (c)   Dry-cleaning service.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 4.1)
   (D)   SC District standards.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff91d24e8c26585d0d8b562ed7375079c256e840/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1651.png]
      (1)   Maximum lot area: 30,000 square feet;
      (2)   Minimum lot area: 7,000 square feet;
      (3)   Minimum lot width: 60 feet;
      (4)   Maximum lot depth: 2 times the lot width;
      (5)   Minimum lot frontage: 50 feet on a public street with access from
said public street;
      (6)   Sewer and water: requires municipal water or sewer hookup;
      (7)   Minimum front yard setback:
         (a)   20 feet when adjacent to a primary arterial;
         (b)   20 feet when adjacent to a secondary arterial;
         (c)   15 feet when adjacent to a collector; and
         (d)   15 feet when adjacent to a local street.
      (8)   Minimum side yard setback: 12 feet (plus buffer yard);
      (9)   Minimum rear yard setback: 12 feet for the primary and accessory
structures (plus buffer yard);
      (10)   Maximum lot coverage: square feet of all primary and secondary
structures, and impervious surface cannot exceed 60% of the lot area;
      (11)   Minimum floor area: 800 square feet for primary structures;
      (12)   Maximum floor area: 6,000 square feet for primary and accessory
structures;
      (13)   Maximum structure height:
         (a)   Twenty-eight feet for the primary structure; and
         (b)   Fifteen feet for accessory structures.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff91d24e8c26585d0d8b562ed7375079c256e840/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1653.png]
   (E)   Additional standards that apply.
      (1)   Lot/Yard (LY): LY-01;
      (2)   Height (HT): HP-01;
      (3)   Accessory Structures (AS):
         (a)   AS-03; and
         (b)   AS-04.
      (4)   Temporary Uses (TU):
         (a)   TU-01; and
         (b)   TU-03.
      (5)   Landscaping (LS):
         (a)   LS-01;
         (b)   LS-02; and
         (c)   LS-03.
      (6)   Buffer Yards (BY): BY-01;
      (7)   Performance Standards (PS): PS-01;
      (8)   Environmental (EN): EN-01;
      (9)   Floodplain (FP): FP-01;
      (10)   Lighting (LT): LT-01;
      (11)   Parking (PK):
         (a)   PK-03;
         (b)   PK-04; and
         (c)   PK-05.
      (12)   Loading (LD): LD-01;
      (13)   Entrances/Drives (ED): ED-01;
      (14)   Vision Clearance (VC): VC-01;
      (15)   Home Occupation (HO): HO-01;
      (16)   Telecommunication Facilities (TF):
         (a)   TF-01;
         (b)   TF-02; and
         (c)   TF-03.
      (17)   Fences and Walls (FN): FN-02;
      (18)   Miscellaneous (MS):
         (a)   MS-03;
         (b)   MS-05;
         (c)   MS-06; and
         (d)   MS-07.
      (19)   General Signs (GS): GS-01;
      (20)   Temporary Signs (TS): TS-02; and
      (21)   Permanent Signs (PS): PS-03.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 4.2)
§ 156.061  OC DISTRICT; INTENT; PERMITTED USES; SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES;
STANDARDS.
   (A)   District intent.
      (1)   The “OC” {'{'}Office Commercial) District is intended to provide a
land use category for low impact office commercial uses. The provisions that
regulate this land use district should make the district compatible with all
residential districts. This district can be used as a buffer between any
residential district and high impact or conflicting land uses.
      (2)   The town’s Plan Commission and Board of Zoning appeals should
strive to use this district sparingly.
      (3)   The Plan Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals should also strive
to minimize lighting, large parking lots, traffic generation, traffic conflicts
and noise generation in the “OC” District.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Business; Office/Professional:
         (a)   Architecture;
         (b)   Bank/credit union;
         (c)   Design services;
         (d)   Insurance office;
         (e)   Planning offices;
         (f)   Professional offices;
         (g)   Real estate office;
         (h)   Secretarial service; and
         (i)   Service organization offices.
      (2)   Business; general business: clinic/medical/dental print shop; and
      (3)   Miscellaneous: accessory uses.
   (C)   Special exception uses.
      (1)   Residential:
         (a)   Dwelling, single-family (upper floors);
         (b)   Dwelling, two-family (upper floors); and
         (c)   Dwelling, multi-family (upper floors).
      (2)   Business; food sales/service:
         (a)   Restaurant; and
         (b)   Restaurant (without alcoholic).
      (3)   Business; personal service:
         (a)   Daycare;
         (b)   Fitness center/gym; and
         (c)   Health spa.
      (4)   Business; office/professional: bank machine/ATM;
      (5)   Institutional/public facilities:
         (a)   Church, temple or mosque;
         (b)   Community center;
         (c)   Government office;
         (d)   Library;
         (e)   Police/fire station;
         (f)   Post office;
         (g)   Public park/recreation center; and
         (h)   School, public/private.
      (6)   Miscellaneous: home occupation #1.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 4.3)
   (D)   OC District standards.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff91d24e8c26585d0d8b562ed7375079c256e840/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1655.png]
      (1)   Minimum lot area: 9,000 square feet;
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 70 feet;
      (3)   Maximum lot depth: two and one-half times the lot width;
      (4)   Minimum lot frontage: 50 feet on a public street with access from
said public street;
      (5)   Sewer and water: requires municipal water or sewer hookup;
      (6)   Minimum front yard setback:
         (a)   Five feet when adjacent to a primary arterial;
         (b)   Twenty-five feet when adjacent to a secondary arterial;
         (c)   Twenty feet when adjacent to a collector; and
         (d)   Twenty feet when adjacent to a local street.
      (7)   Minimum side yard setback: 12 feet (plus buffer yard);
      (8)   Minimum rear yard setback: 12 feet for the primary and accessory
structures (plus buffer yard);
      (9)   Maximum lot coverage: square feet of all primary and accessory
structures, and impervious surface cannot exceed 70% of the lot area;
      (10)   Minimum floor area: 1,000 square feet for primary structures;
      (11)   Maximum structure height:
         (a)   30 feet for the primary structure; and
         (b)   15 feet for accessory structures
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff91d24e8c26585d0d8b562ed7375079c256e840/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1657.png]
   (E)   Additional standards that apply.
      (1)   Lot/Yard (LY): LY-01
      (2)   Height (HT): HT-01
      (3)   Accessory Structures (AS):
         (a)   AS-03; and
         (b)   AS-04.
      (4)   Temporary Uses (TU):
         (a)   TU-01; and
         (b)   TU-03.
      (5)   Landscaping (LS):
         (a)   LS-01;
         (b)   LS-02; and
         (c)   LS-03.
      (6)   Buffer Yards (BY): BY-01;
      (7)   Performance Standards (PS): PS-01;
      (8)   Environmental (EN): EN-01;
      (9)   Floodplain (FP): FP-01;
      (10)   Lighting (LT): LT-01;
      (11)   Parking (PK):
         (a)   PK-03;
         (b)   PK-04; and
         (c)   PK-05.
      (12)   Loading (LD): LD-01;
      (13)   Entrances/Drives(ED): ED-01;
      (14)   Vision Clearance (VC): VC-01;
      (15)   Home Occupation (HO): HO-01;
      (16)   Telecommunication Facilities (TF):
         (a)   TF-01;
         (b)   TF-02; and
         (c)   TF-04.
      (17)   Fences and Walls (FN): FN-02;
      (18)   Miscellaneous (MS):
         (a)   MS-03;
         (b)   MS-05;
         (c)   MS-06; and
         (d)   MS-07.
      (19)   General Signs (GS): GS-01;
      (20)   Temporary Signs (TS): TS-02; and
      (21)   Permanent Signs (PS): PS-03.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 4.4)
§ 156.062  DC DISTRICT; INTENT; PERMITTED USES; SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES;
STANDARDS.
   (A)   District intent.
      (1)   The “DC” (Downtown Commercial) District is intended to provide a
land use category for normal commercial uses in small town downtowns. The
provisions that regulate this land use district should make the district
compatible with the “R4” and “R5” Residential Districts, and “OC” and “C1”
Commercial Districts.
      (2)   The town’s Plan Commission and Board of Zoning appeals should
strive to use this district only in the historic downtown area and its
immediate surroundings.
      (3)   The Plan Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals should strive to
minimize parking lots between buildings, rather, encouraging parking behind
buildings.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Residential:
         (a)   Dwelling, single-family (upper floors);
         (b)   Dwelling, two-family (upper floors); and
         (c)   Dwelling, multi-family, (upper floors).
      (2)   Business; auto sales/services: automobile part sales (new);
      (3)   Business; retail:
         (a)   Antique shop;
         (b)   Apparel shop;
         (c)   Department store;
         (d)   Drug store;
         (e)   Fabric shop;
         (f)   Flower shop;
         (g)   Gift shop;
         (h)   Hardware store;
         (i)   Jewelry store;
         (j)   Liquor sales;
         (k)   Music store;
         (l)   News dealer/bookstore;
         (m)   Office supplies;
         (n)   Shoe sales;
         (o)   Sporting goods; and
         (p)   Variety store.
      (4)   Business; food sales/service:
         (a)   Bakery retail;
         (b)   Delicatessen;
         (c)   Restaurant; and
         (d)   Restaurant (without alcoholic).
      (5)   Business; personal service:
         (a)   Barber/beauty shop;
         (b)   Coin laundry;
         (c)   Dry-cleaning service;
         (d)   Shoe repair; and
         (e)   Tailor/pressing shop.
      (6)   Business; office/professional:
         (a)   Architecture;
         (b)   Bank/credit union;
         (c)   Design services;
         (d)   Insurance office;
         (e)   Planning offices;
         (f)   Professional offices;
         (g)   Real estate office;
         (h)   Secretarial service;
         (i)   Service organization offices; and
         (j)   Travel agency.
      (7)   Business; recreation: video store; and
      (8)   Miscellaneous: accessory uses.
   (C)   Special exception uses.
      (1)   Residential:
         (a)   Bed and breakfast facility; and
         (b)   Boarding or lodging house.
      (2)   Business; food sales/service:
         (a)   Convenience store; and
         (b)   Farmers market.
      (3)   Business; recreation:
         (a)   Bar/night club;
         (b)   Billiard/arcade room;
         (c)   Dance/aerobics/gymnastics studio;
         (d)   Karate studio;
         (e)   Lodge or private club; and
         (f)   Theater, indoor.
      (4)   Business; office/professional: bank machine/ATM;
      (5)   Institutional/public facilities:
         (a)   Church, temple or mosque;
         (b)   Community center;
         (c)   Government office;
         (d)   Museum;
         (e)   Police/fire station;
         (f)   Post office;
         (g)   Public park/recreation, center; and
         (h)   Public/private parking area.
      (6)   Miscellaneous: home occupation #1.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 4.5)
   (D)   DC District standards.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff91d24e8c26585d0d8b562ed7375079c256e840/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1659.png]
      (1)   Minimum lot area: 2,000 square feet;
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 25 feet;
      (3)   Maximum lot depth: three times the lot width;
      (4)   Minimum lot frontage: 25 feet on a public street with access from
said public street;
      (5)   Sewer and water: requires municipal water or sewer hookup;
      (6)   Minimum front yard setback:
         (a)   Zero feet when adjacent to a primary arterial;
         (b)   Zero feet when adjacent to a secondary arterial;
         (c)   Zero feet when adjacent to a collector; and
         (d)   Zero feet when adjacent to a local street.
      (7)   Minimum side yard setback: zero feet;
      (8)   Minimum rear yard setback:
         (a)   Zero feet for the primary structure; and
         (b)   Zero feet for secondary structures.
      (9)   Minimum lot coverage: square feet of all primary and secondary
structures, cannot be below 80% of the lot area;
      (10)   Minimum floor area: 1,500 square feet for primary structures;
      (11)   Minimum living area per dwelling unit: 900 square feet per
dwelling unit;
      (12)   Maximum structure height:
         (a)   Forty feet for the primary structure; and
         (b)   Fifteen feet for accessory structures.
      (13)   Minimum height: two stories for all primary structures.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff91d24e8c26585d0d8b562ed7375079c256e840/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1661.png]
   (E)   Additional standards that apply.
      (1)   Lot/Yard (LY): LY-01;
      (2)   Height (HT): HT-01;
      (3)   Accessory Structures (AS):
         (a)   AS-03; and
         (b)   AS-04.
      (4)   Temporary Uses (TU):
         (a)   TU-01; and
         (b)   TU-03.
      (5)   Landscaping (LS):
         (a)   LS-01;
         (b)   LS-02; and
         (c)   LS-03.
      (6)   Buffer Yards (BY): BY-01;
      (7)   Performance Standards (PS): PS-01;
      (8)   Environmental (EN): EN-01;
      (9)   Floodplain (FP): FP-01;
      (10)   Lighting (LT): LT-01;
      (11)   Parking (PK):
         (a)   PK-03;
         (b)   PK-04; and
         (c)   PK-05.
      (12)   Loading (LD): LD-01;
      (13)   Entrances/Drives (ED): ED-01;
      (14)   Vision Clearance (VC): VC-01;
      (15)   Home Occupation (HO): HO-01;
      (16)   Telecommunication Facilities (TF):
         (a)   TF-01;
         (b)   TF-02; and
         (c)   TF-04.
      (17)   Fences and Walls (FN): FN-02;
      (18)   Miscellaneous (MS):
         (a)   MS-03;
         (b)   MS-05;
         (c)   MS-06; and
         (d)   MS-07.
      (19)   General Signs (GS): GS-01;
      (20)   Temporary Signs (TS): TS-02; and
      (21)   Permanent Signs (PS): PS-03.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 4.6)
§ 156.063  C1 DISTRICT; INTENT; PERMITTED USES; SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES;
STANDARDS.
   (A)   District intent.
      (1)   The”C1” (General Commercial) District is intended to provide a land
use category for most general business uses. The provisions that regulate this
land use district should not overly restrict normal business practices. This
district can be used adjacent to all other commercial districts and the “R4”
and “R5” Residential Districts.
      (2)   The town’s Plan Commission and Board of Zoning appeals should
strive to use this district with the “C1” District to encourage a strong and
stable area for commerce.
      (3)   The Plan Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals should not
encourage “strip development”, rather development in clusters which share
resources and minimize the cost of public utilities and services. The Plan
Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals should also strive to minimize lighting,
un-landscaped large parking lots, parking lots fronting the major streets and
traffic conflicts In the “C1” District.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Business; retail:
         (a)   Antique shop;
         (b)   Apparel shop;
         (c)   Drug store;
         (d)   Electrical supplies;
         (e)   Fabric shop;
         (f)   Floor coverings;
         (g)   Flower shop;
         (h)   Furniture store;
         (i)   Garden shop;
         (j)   Gift shop;
         (k)   Hardware store;
         (l)   Heating and cooling sales/service;
         (m)   Home electronics/appliance store;
         (n)   Jewelry store;
         (o)   Liquor sales;
         (p)   Music store;
         (q)   News dealer/bookstore;
         (r)   Office supplies;
         (s)   Paint store;
         (t)   Plumbing supplies;
         (u)   Satellite dish sales/service;
         (v)   Sporting goods; and
         (w)   Variety store.
      (2)   Business; auto sales/services:
         (a)   Automobile part sales, new;
         (b)   Auto repair, minor;
         (c)   Automobile service station;
         (d)   Automobile wash, automatic and self;
         (e)   Oil change service; and
         (f)   Filling/gas station.
      (3)   Business; food sales/service:
         (a)   Bakery;
         (b)   Convenience store;
         (c)   Drive-in restaurant;
         (d)   Meat market; and
         (e)   Restaurant.
      (4)   Business; recreation:
         (a)   Banquet hall;
         (b)   Bar/night club;
         (c)   Billiard/arcade room;
         (d)   Bowling alley;
         (e)   Dance/aerobics/gymnastics studio;
         (f)   Theater, indoor; and
         (g)   Video store.
      (5)   Business; general business:
         (a)   Medical/dental clinic; and
         (b)   Hotel/motel.
      (6)   Business; personal service:
         (a)   Barber/beauty, shop;
         (b)   Coin laundry;
         (c)   Dry-cleaning service;
         (d)   Fingernail salon;
         (e)   Fitness center/gym;
         (f)   Health spa;
         (g)   Tailor/pressing shop; and
         (h)   Tanning salon.
      (7)   Business; office/professional:
         (a)   Bank/credit union; and
         (b)   Bank machine/ATM.
   (C)   Special exception uses.
      (1)   Business; retail:
         (a)   Department store;
         (b)   Lumber yard; and
         (c)   Satellite dish sales/service.
      (2)   Business; food sales/service:
         (a)   Drive-through restaurant; and
         (b)   Grocery/supermarket
      (3)   Business; auto sales/services:
         (a)   Auto repair, major;
         (b)   Automobile sales;
         (c)   Recreational vehicle sales; and
         (d)   Truck sales/service.
      (4)   Business; office/professional:
         (a)   Drive-through bank/credit union; and
         (b)   Drive-through bank machine/ATM.
      (5)   Business; recreation:
         (a)   Bar/night club; and
         (b)   Theater, outdoor.
      (6)   Business; general business:
         (a)   Boat sales/service;
         (b)   Funeral home or mortuary;
         (c)   Landscape business;
         (d)   Sign painting/fabrication;
         (e)   Mini-storage facility; and
         (f)   Wholesale business.
      (7)   Communication/utilities:
         (a)   Cellular/communication/radio/television tower;
         (b)   Public wells;
         (c)   Radio/TV station; and
         (d)   Sewage treatment plants.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 4.7)
   (D)   C1 District standards.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff91d24e8c26585d0d8b562ed7375079c256e840/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1663.png]
      (1)   Minimum lot area: 20,000 square feet;
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 70 feet;
      (3)   Maximum lot depth: two and one-half times the lot width;
      (4)   Minimum lot frontage: 70 feet on a public street with access from
said public street;
      (5)   Sewer and water: requires municipal water or sewer hookup;
      (6)   Minimum front yard setback:
         (a)   Thirty-five feet when adjacent to a primary arterial;
         (b)   Thirty-five feet when adjacent to a secondary arterial;
         (c)   Thirty feet when adjacent to a collector; and
         (d)   Twenty-five feet when adjacent to a local street.
      (7)   Minimum side yard setback: 25 feet (plus buffer yard);
      (8)   Minimum rear yard setback: 25 feet for the primary/secondary
structure (plus buffer yard);
      (9)   Maximum lot coverage: square feet of all primary and secondary
structures, and impervious surface cannot exceed 65% of the lot area;
      (10)   Minimum floor area: 1,000 square feet for primary structures;
      (11)   Maximum structure height:
         (a)   Twenty-two feet for the primary structure; and
         (b)   Fifteen feet for accessory structures.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff91d24e8c26585d0d8b562ed7375079c256e840/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1665.png]
   (E)   Additional standards that apply.
      (1)   Lot/Yard (LY): LY-01;
      (2)   Height (HT): HT-01;
      (3)   Accessory Structures (AS):
         (a)   AS-03; and
         (b)   AS-04.
      (4)   Temporary Uses (TU):
         (a)   TU-01; and
         (b)   TU-03.
      (5)   Landscaping (LS):
         (a)   LS-01;
         (b)   LS-02; and
         (c)   LS-03.
      (6)   Buffer Yards (BY): BY-01;
      (7)   Performance Standards (PS): PS-01;
      (8)   Environmental (EN): EN-01;
      (9)   Floodplain (FP): FP-01;
      (10)   Lighting (LT): LT-01;
      (11)   Parking (PK):
         (a)   PK-03;
         (b)   PK-04; and
         (c)   PK-05.
      (12)   Loading (LD): LD-01;
      (13)   Entrances/Drives (ED): ED-01;
      (14)   Vision Clearance (VC): VC-01;
      (15)   Telecommunication Facilities (TF):
         (a)   TF-01;
         (b)   TF-02; and
         (c)   TF-04.
      (16)   Fences and Walls (FN): FN-02;
      (17)   Miscellaneous (MS):
         (a)   MS-03;
         (b)   MS-05;
         (c)   MS-06; and
         (d)   MS-07.
      (18)   General Signs (GS): GS-01;
      (19)   Temporary Signs (TS): TS-02; and
      (20)   Permanent Signs (PS): PS-04.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 4.8)
§ 156.064  C2 DISTRICT; INTENT; PERMITTED USES; SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES;
STANDARDS.
   (A)   District intent.
      (1)   The “C2” (Business Park/Light Industrial) District is intended to
provide a land use category for most low to moderate impact business park and
light industrial facilities. This district can be used adjacent to all other
commercial districts, agriculture districts and the “R4” and “R5” Residential
Districts.
      (2)   The town’s Plan Commission and Board of Zoning appeals should
strive to use the “C2” District to develop a contiguous area, or cluster, for
commerce and job creation.
      (3)   The Plan Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals should not
encourage “spot zoning” with this district. The Plan Commission and Board of
Zoning Appeals should also strive to minimize lighting, parking lots fronting
the major streets, excessive use of signs and traffic conflicts in the “C2”
District.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Business; auto sales/services:
         (a)   Automobile body shop (enclosed);
         (b)   Automobile repair, minor (enclosed);
         (c)   Automobile service station;
         (d)   Recreational vehicle sales; and
         (e)   Oil change service (enclosed).
      (2)   Business; general business:
         (a)   Warehouse welding; and
         (b)   Trade shops.
      (3)   Communication/utility: radio/TV station;
      (4)   Industrial uses:
         (a)   Distribution center flex-space; and
         (b)   Light manufacturing office complex research center.
      (5)   Institutional/public facilities: public park/recreation center; and
      (6)   Miscellaneous: accessory uses.
   (C)   Special exception uses.
      (1)   Agricultural uses/service:
         (a)   Farm equipment sales/service;
         (b)   Commercial processing agriculture products; and
         (c)   Commercial storage of agricultural products.
      (2)   Business; auto sales/services:
         (a)   Automobile body shop (enclosed);
         (b)   Automobile repair, major (enclosed); and
         (c)   Automobile/truck storage (outdoor).
      (3)   Business; general business: outside storage facility (shall be
enclosed with privacy fence);
      (4)   Communication/utility:
         (a)   Cellular/communication/radio/television tower;
         (b)   Pipeline pumping station;
         (c)   Public wells; and
         (d)   Utility, substation.
      (5)   Institutional/public facilities: police/fire station;
      (6)   Industrial uses:
         (a)   Bottled gas, storage/distribution;
         (b)   General manufacturing; and
         (c)   Industrial park.
      (7)   Miscellaneous: artificial lake or pond over one acre in size.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 4.9)
   (D)   C2 District standards.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff91d24e8c26585d0d8b562ed7375079c256e840/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1667.png]
      (1)   Minimum lot area: two acres;
      (2)   Minimum lot width; 200 feet;
      (3)   Maximum lot depth: three times the lot width;
      (4)   Minimum lot frontage: 100 feet on a public street with access from
said public street;
      (5)   Sewer and water: requires municipal water or sewer hookup;
      (6)   Minimum front yard setback:
         (a)   Sixty feet when adjacent to a primary arterial;
         (b)   Fifty feet when adjacent to a secondary arterial;
         (c)   Fifty feet when adjacent to a collector; and
         (d)   Forty-five feet when adjacent to a local street.
      (7)   Minimum side yard setback: 40 feet (plus buffer yard);
      (8)   Minimum rear yard setback: 40 feet for the primary/accessory
structure (plus buffer yard);
      (9)   Maximum lot coverage: square feet of all primary and accessory
structures, and impervious surface cannot exceed 60% of the lot area;
      (10)   Minimum floor area: 3,000 square feet for primary structures;
      (11)   Maximum structure height:
         (a)   Forty-five feet for the primary structure; and
         (b)   Thirty-five feet for accessory structures.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff91d24e8c26585d0d8b562ed7375079c256e840/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1669.png]
   (E)   Additional standards that apply.
      (1)   Lot/Yard (LY): LY-01;
      (2)   Height (HT): HT-01;
      (3)   Accessory Structures (AS):
         (a)   AS-03; and
         (b)   AS-04.
      (4)   Temporary Uses (TU):
         (a)   TU-01; and
         (b)   TU-03.
      (5)   Landscaping (LS):
         (a)   LS-01;
         (b)   LS-02; and
         (c)   LS-03.
      (6)   Buffer Yards (BY): BY-01;
      (7)   Performance Standards (PS): PS-01;
      (8)   Environmental (EN): EN-01;
      (9)   Floodplain (FP): FP-01;
      (10)   Lighting (LT): LT-01;
      (11)   Parking (PK):
         (a)   PK-03;
         (b)   PK-04; and
         (c)   PK-05.
      (12)   Loading (LD): LD-01;
      (13)   Entrances/Drives (ED): ED-01;
      (14)   Vision Clearance (VC): VC-01;
      (15)   Telecommunication Facilities (TF):
         (a)   TF-01;
         (b)   TF-02; and
         (c)   TF-05.
      (16)   Fences and Walls (FN): FN-02;
      (17)   Miscellaneous (MS):
         (a)   MS-03;
         (b)   MS-05;
         (c)   MS-06; and
         (d)   MS-07.
      (18)   General Signs (GS): GS-01;
      (19)   Temporary Signs (TS): TS-02; and
      (20)   Permanent Signs (PS): PS-05.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 4.10)
§ 156.065  C3 DISTRICT; INTENT; PERMITTED USES; SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES;
STANDARDS.
   (A)   District intent.
      (1)   The “C3” (Industrial Park/Heavy Industrial) District is intended to
provide a land use category for most moderate to high impact industrial park
and heavy Industrial facilities. This district can be used adjacent to the “C1”
and “C2” Commercial Districts and agriculture districts where there are not
negative effects on the environment.
      (2)   The town’s Plan Commission and Board of Zoning appeals should
strive to use the “C3” District on a case-by-case basis. Vacant land should not
be zoned “C3”.
      (3)   The Plan Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals should be very
careful in allowing this district. Environmental, public safety, public welfare
and protection from all forms of pollution should be the highest priority. The
Plan Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals should also strive to minimize
lighting, parking lots fronting the major streets, excessive use of signs and
traffic conflicts in the “C3” District.
      (4)   Buffer yards are mandatory and outdoor storage is not permitted.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Agricultural uses/service: farm equipment sales/service storage of
agricultural products;
      (2)   Business; general business:
         (a)   Trade shops;
         (b)   Warehouse;
         (c)   Mini-storage facility; and
         (d)   Welding.
      (3)   Communication/utility:
         (a)   Radio/TV station; and
         (b)   Telephone exchange.
      (4)   Industrial uses:
         (a)   Bottled gas storage/distribution;
         (b)   Distribution center;
         (c)   Flex-space;
         (d)   Heavy manufacturing;
         (e)   Light manufacturing;
         (f)   Office complex; and
         (g)   Research center.
      (5)   Institutional/public facilities: public park/recreation center; and
      (6)   Miscellaneous: accessory uses.
   (C)   Special exception uses.
      (1)   Agricultural uses/service: processing agriculture products;
      (2)   Business; auto sales/services:
         (a)   Automobile body/shop (enclosed);
         (b)   Automobile repair, major (enclosed); and
         (c)   Automobile/truck storage (outdoor).
      (3)   Business; general business: storage (indoor or outdoor with XX
screening);
      (4)   Communication/utility:
         (a)   Cellular/communication/radio/television tower;
         (b)   Electrical generator;
         (c)   Pipeline pumping station;
         (d)   Public wells;
         (e)   Sewage treatment plants;
         (f)   Storage tanks non-hazardous; and
         (g)   Utility substation.
      (5)   Institutional/public facilities: police/fire station;
      (6)    Industrial uses:
         (a)   Incinerator; and
         (b)   Liquid fertilizer storage/distribution.
      (7)   Miscellaneous: artificial lake, one or more acres.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 4.11)
   (D)   C3 District standards.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff91d24e8c26585d0d8b562ed7375079c256e840/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1671.png]
      (1)   Minimum lot area: three acres;
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 250 feet;
      (3)   Maximum lot depth: three times the lot width;
      (4)   Minimum lot frontage: 50 feet on a public street with access from
said public street;
      (5)   Sewer and water: requires municipal water or sewer hookup;
      (6)   Minimum front yard setback:
         (a)   Sixty feet when adjacent to a primary arterial;
         (b)   Fifty feet when adjacent to a secondary arterial;
         (c)   Fifty feet when adjacent to a collector; and
         (d)   Fifty feet when adjacent to a local street.
      (7)   Minimum side yard setback: 30 feet (plus buffer yard);
      (8)   Minimum rear yard setback: 30 feet for the primary/accessory
structure (plus buffer yard);
      (9)   Maximum lot coverage: square feet of all primary and accessory
structures, and impervious surface cannot exceed 65% of the lot area;
      (10)   Minimum floor area: 5,000 square feet for primary structures;
      (11)   Maximum structure height:
         (a)   Thirty-five feet for the primary structure;
         (b)   Twenty-five feet for accessory structures; and
         (c)   Sixteen feet for towers/antennas.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff91d24e8c26585d0d8b562ed7375079c256e840/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1673.png]
   (E)   Additional standards that apply.
      (1)   Lot/Yard (LY): LY-01;
      (2)   Height (HT): HT-01;
      (3)   Accessory Structures (AS):
         (a)   AS-03; and
         (b)   AS-04.
      (4)   Temporary Uses (TU):
         (a)   TU-01; and
         (b)   TU-03.
      (5)   Landscaping (LS):
         (a)   LS-01;
         (b)   LS-02; and
         (c)   LS-03.
      (6)   Buffer Yards (BY): BY-01;
      (7)   Performance Standards (PS): PS-01;
      (8)   Environmental (EN): EN-01;
      (9)   Floodplain (FP): FP-01;
      (10)   Lighting (LT): LT-01;
      (11)   Parking (PK):
         (a)   PK-03;
         (b)   PK-04; and
         (c)   PK-05.
      (12)   Loading (LD): LD-01;
      (13)   Entrances/Drives (ED): ED-01;
      (14)   Vision Clearance (VC): VC-01;
      (15)   Telecommunication Facilities (TF):
         (a)   TF-01;
         (b)   TF-02; and
         (c)   TF-05.
      (16)   Fences and Walls (FN): FN-02;
      (17)   Miscellaneous (MS):
         (a)   MS-03;
         (b)   MS-05;
         (c)   MS-06; and
         (d)   MS-07.
      (18)   General Signs (GS): GS-01;
      (19)   Temporary Signs (TS): TS-02; and
      (20)   Permanent Signs (PS): PS-05.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 4.12)
WELLHEAD PROTECTION OVERLAY DISTRICT
§ 156.080  PURPOSE.
   (A)   This subchapter has been established to:
      (1)   Recognize the safety and potability of the community’s water supply
requires that lands near wellfields used to supply water for public purposes be
subject to land use controls designed to prevent site development that is
injurious to the public water supply;
      (2)   Recognize that commercial and industrial uses, if unregulated, have
an immediate probability of permitting the introduction of toxic substances
into the water supply;
      (3)   Recognize, local water utilities, in compliance with the state’s
Department of Environmental Management mandates for community public water
systems, are presently establishing wellfield protection programs as a first
step towards protecting their public water supply wellfields;
      (4)   Recognize, all public water supplies in the town are totally
dependent on ground water as the source for public water supplies; and
      (5)   Recognize, future development in the town is dependent on the
availability of a safe and dependable supply of drinking water.
   (B)   For the above mentioned reasons, the Town Council is establishing the
Wellhead Protection Overlay District with the following regulations.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 5.1)
§ 156.081  JURISDICTIONAL BOUNDARY.
   The jurisdictional boundaries for the Wellhead Protection Overlay District
(WP-OL) shall be shown on the Official Zoning Map as a hatch or textured
pattern and noted on the map legend as the Wellhead Protection Overlay District
(WP-OL).
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 5.2)
§ 156.082  APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The following requirements apply to all land within the wellhead
protection zones, as defined in §
156.083 of this chapter, with the exceptions of single and multi-family
residential land uses connected to municipal sanitary and storm sewers.
   (B)   After the effective date of this chapter, no building, structure,
premises or part thereof shall be constructed, erected, enlarged, extended or
relocated except in conformity with these regulations and for uses permitted by
this chapter and until the proposed site and land use description has been
filed with and approved by the Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 5.3)
§ 156.083  ESTABLISHMENT OF WELLHEAD PROTECTION ZONES.
   The following areas are designated as wellfield protection zones:
   (A)   Zone 1: The area contained within a one year time-of-travel to a
public water supply well or wellfield, as defined by a modeled delineation
performed in compliance with 327 I.A.C. 8-4.1; or the areas within 1,000 feet
of a public water supply well; and
   (B)   Zone 2: The area contained within a five-year time-of-travel to a
public water supply well or wellfield, as defined by a modeled delineation
performed in compliance with 327 I.A.C. 8-4.1; or the areas within 3,000 feet
of a public water supply well.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 5.4)
§ 156.084  EXEMPTIONS FROM REGULATIONS.
   The following are not required to submit site and development plans:
   (A)   Any land use within Zone 1 that in the ordinary course of their
business has or will have, less than the threshold amount of one gallon of
liquids in the aggregate or six pounds of water soluble solids;
   (B)   Any land use within Zone 2 that in the ordinary course of their
business has or will have, less than the threshold amount of 100 gallons of
liquid in the aggregate or 600 pounds of water soluble solids in the aggregate;
and
   (C)   In determining thresholds, the following substances shall be exempted:
      (1)   Reasonable quantities of substances used for routine building and
yard maintenance stored inside a facility;
      (2)   Liquids required for normal operation of a motor vehicle in use in
that vehicle;
      (3)   Substances contained within vehicles for bulk deliveries to the
site;
      (4)   Beverages and food at restaurants, supermarkets, convenience
stores, and other retail food establishments;
      (5)   Uncontaminated public water supply water, ground water and/or
surface water;
      (6)   Substances, which are packaged in pre-sealed containers, sold at
retail establishments;
      (7)   Substances utilized for the production and treatment of public
water supply; and
      (8)   Substances, which due to their inherent chemical or physical
properties, that are scientifically determined in writing to pose no
significant threat to ground water quality.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 5.5)
§ 156.085  DEVELOPMENT PLANS REQUIRED.
   Unless otherwise exempted under §
156.084 of this chapter, any proposed land use within a Wellhead Protection
Overlay District must submit a site and development plan, as described in §§
156.086, 156.087 and 156.088 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 5.6)
§ 156.086  PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   Property located within Zones 1 and 2 proposed for new construction or
expansion of existing facilities shall prepare and submit a description of said
construction or expansion and the new or expanded use of the property. The site
description shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator for review and
either approval, disapproval or approval with conditions. The Zoning
Administrator may solicit comments from the County Health Department and the
applicable water utility on the site and development plan.
   (B)   In reviewing the site and land use description, the Zoning
Administrator shall assess whether the site and proposed land use:
      (1)   Will prevent potential ground water contaminants associated with
human activity from interfering with each community public water supply
system’s ability to produce drinking water that meets all applicable federal
and state drinking water standards after undergoing conventional ground water
treatment, as employed by the public water supply system. These treatment
processes include, but are not limited to, aeration, detention, pressure
filtration and disinfection.
      (2)   Will not unreasonably endanger the quality of ground water in a
designated wellhead protection area. An unreasonable risk includes, but is not
limited to, the inappropriate storage, handling, use and/or production of
metals, inorganic compounds, volatile organic compounds, semi-volatile organic
compounds or other substances listed at 40 C.F.R. part 355, or defined at Ch. 4
of the County Code, “Hazardous Material Emergencies”, (10-4-4-1) within a
wellhead protection area; and
      (3)   The site complies with the standards and prohibitions listed in §
156.088 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 5.7)
§ 156.087  PLAN DOCUMENTATION AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION.
   Site and development plans shall include the following:
   (A)   A narrative report of the proposed site, including:
      (1)   Description of the site including any existing uses, setbacks,
available sewage disposal facilities and a brief history of the site (including
any former uses, historical environmental concerns, abandoned wells,
underground storage tanks, septic systems and the like);
      (2)   Description of the proposed operations, including chemical/products
used or generated, chemical/product storage area descriptions, waste generation
quantities, equipment cleaning/maintenance procedures;
      (3)   Methods and locations of receiving, handling, storing and shipping
chemicals/products and wastes;
      (4)   Spill or release response measures and reporting; and
      (5)   Description of slopes near containment vessels and waste storage
areas.
   (B)   A site plan including:
      (1)   A vicinity map (USGS quadrangle preferred); and
      (2)   A site map (drawn to scale) depicting:
         (a)   All existing and proposed structures;
         (b)   Paved and non-paved areas;
         (c)   Utility lines (inside and outside structures) including sanitary
sewers, storm sewers, storm retention ditches/basins/french drains/dry wells
and the like (both proposed and existing);
         (d)   Floor drain locations and outlets;
         (e)   Chemical/product storage locations;
         (f)   Waste storage locations;
         (g)   Liquid transfer areas;
         (h)   Site surface water bodies (streams, rivers, ponds);
         (i)   Underground storage tanks (and associated piping);
         (j)   Above ground storage tanks (and associated piping); and
         (k)   Slope and contours of finished grade at two-foot intervals.
   (C)   Proposed containment area detail drawings, including area, heights,
materials, specifications, if applicable.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 5.8)
§ 156.088  DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS AND PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Except for single-family residences (with sewage flows under 750
gallons per day), all development shall be connected to municipal sanitary
sewers or combined sewers. Floor drains, if present, must be connected to
sanitary sewers or combined sewers or routed to a temporary holding area for
removal.
   (B)   No surface impoundments, pits, ponds or lagoons shall be established,
except for:
      (1)   Storm water detention and retention ponds; and
      (2)   Recreation, landscaping, or public water supply purposes.
   (C)   In Zone 1, detention and retention ponds shall be constructed in a
manner that provides an effective barrier to the migration of potential ground
water contaminants into ground water.
   (D)   The following restrictions apply to new storage areas in Zone 1.
      (1)   No above ground storage of liquid and/or petroleum of greater than
1,000 gallons in aggregate is permitted.
      (2)   No storage of water-soluble solids of more than 6,000 pounds per
container in any one containment area is permitted.
      (3)   No new underground storage tanks (USTs) are permitted.
   (E)   All above ground storage of liquids in excess of 40 gallons for more
than 24 hours within Zones 1 and 2 must provide secondary containment which
meets the following requirements.
      (1)   Containment must be capable of containing 110% of the volume of the
tank or tanks.
      (2)   Constructed to meet one of the following:
         (a)   Designed to prevent and control the escape of the contaminant(s)
into ground water for a minimum of 72 hours before removal; or
         (b)   Designed and built with an outer shell and a space between the
tank wall and outer shell that allows and includes interstitial monitoring.
      (3)   The secondary containment structure shall be properly maintained
and shall be free of vegetation, cracks, open seams, open drains, siphons or
other openings that jeopardize the integrity of the structure.
      (4)   Secondary containment systems shall be designed so that the
intrusion of precipitation is inhibited or that storm water is removed to
maintain system capacity.
   (F)   In Zone 1, the following requirements apply to existing fuel
dispensing facilities and associated underground storage tanks (USTs) which are
to be replaced or upgraded.
      (1)   All USTs shall be double walled.
      (2)   All USTs shall include the following three methods of release
detection:
         (a)   Inventory control, as defined in 40 C.F.R. § 280.43(a);
         (b)   Monthly 0.2 in-tank leak test as defined in 40 C.F.R. § 280.43
(d); and
         (c)   Interstitial monitoring of a double walled approved UST as
defined by 40 C.F.R. § 280.43(g).
      (3)   Connected piping must include the following three methods of
release detection:
         (a)   Inventory control;
         (b)   Continuous detection for three-gallon per hour line leak, as
specified in 40 C.F.R. § 280.44(a), except that automatic shut off is required
at 95% tank capacity; and
         (c)   Double walled line which is continuously monitored to detect the
presence of liquid in the interstitial space and provided an alarm as specified
in 40 C.F.R. § 280.44c, via 40 C.F.R. § 280.43g.
   (G)   In Zone 2, the requirements of 40 C.F.R. part 280 apply to all
existing, registered USTs that are replaced or upgraded and USTs installed at
new fuel dispensing facilities. In addition, the construction standards of 40
C.F.R. part 280, applicable to non-petroleum USTs, shall be applicable to the
following in Zone 2:
      (1)   Tanks that are covered by state or federal hazardous waste
regulations; and
      (2)   Heating oil tanks for on-site use.
   (H)   All Class V injection wells (including, but not limited to, dry wells,
large-capacity cesspools, motor vehicle waste disposal wells or other injection
wells as defined at 40 C.F.R. part 146) shall be prohibited with the exception
of the following:
      (1)   Air conditioning return flow wells used to return to the supply
aquifer the water used for heating or cooling in a heat pump, if non-contact;
      (2)   Cooling water return flow wells used to inject water previously
used for cooling, if non-contact;
      (3)   Barrier recharge wells used to replenish the water in an aquifer or
to improve ground water quality; provided, the injected fluid does not contain
potential ground water contaminants; and
      (4)   Wells associated with the recovery of geothermal energy for
heating, aquaculture and production of electric power, if non-contact.
   (I)   The transfer area for bulk delivery of liquids shall be required to
accommodate and contain a release that occurs during loading and unloading of a
tank as follows.
      (1)   The liquid transfer area shall be constructed in a manner to
prevent a release in the transfer area from reaching the ground water.
      (2)   The portion of the liquid transfer area intended to contain
releases shall be maintained so that it is free of vegetation, cracks, open
seams, open drains, siphons or other openings that jeopardizes the integrity of
the area.
   (J)   No disposal of solid waste, as defined at 329 I.A.C. 10-2-174 shall be
permitted in either Zone 1 or Zone 2.
   (K)   The following requirements apply to all excavation activities
associated with the removal of sand and gravel materials.
      (1)   If the extraction of sand and gravel involves the removal of
materials below the normal ground water level, the work shall be performed by
means of a dragline, floating dredge or an alternative “wet” excavation method.
      (2)   There shall be no de-watering of sites utilized for sand and gravel
extraction.
      (3)   No form of solid waste (as defined at 329 I.A.C. 10-2-174) or any
other form of waste material of any kind, including, but not limited to,
construction/demolition debris, shall be used on the site. Clean natural earth
fill materials may be used without restriction as to origin or placement on-
site.
      (4)   All fuels, oils, lubricants, hydraulic fluids, petroleum products
or other similar materials on site shall have appropriate secondary
containment, as specified in division (E) above.
Cross-reference of Development Standards and Prohibitions by Land Use and
Zoning District
Land Use Protection Zone
         Zone 1 (One Year TOT) Zone 2 (Five Year TOT)
Cross-reference of Development Standards and Prohibitions by Land Use and Zoning District
Land Use     Protection Zone
             Zone 1 (One Year TOT)                                                    Zone 2 (Five Year TOT)
Class 5
injection    Prohibited                                                               Prohibited
wells (e.g.,
dry wells)
Detention
and
retention    Allowed
basins       - Must be lined                                                          Allowed
(e.g., pits,
ponds and
lagoons)
Existing     Allowed                                                                  Allowed
ASTs         - Must have secondary containment at 110% of volume                      - Must have secondary
                                                                                      containment at 110% of volume
             Allowed                                                                  Allowed
Existing     - Must be double-walled                                                  - Must meet all requirements of
USTs         - Must Include leak detection (40 C.F.R. § 280.43)                      40 C.F.R. part 280
             - Must have release detection on connection piping (40 C.F.R. § 240.44)
                                                                                      Allowed
Liquid       Allowed                                                                  - Must prevent release to
transfer     - Must prevent release to ground                                         ground
areas        - Must be appropriately maintained                                       - Must be appropriately
                                                                                      maintained
New ASTs                                                                              Allowed
(>1,000      Prohibited                                                               - Must have secondary
gallons)                                                                              containment at 110% of volume
New ASTs     Allowed                                                                  Allowed
(<1,000      - Must have secondary containment at 110% of volume                      - Must have secondary
gallons)                                                                              containment at 110% of volume
                                                                                      Allowed
New USTs     Prohibited                                                               - Must meet all requirements of
                                                                                      40 C.F.R. part 280
On-site
sewage
disposal     Prohibited                                                               Prohibited
(commercial
facilities)
Sand and     Allowed                                                                  Allowed
gravel       - Must use “wet” excavation                                          - Must use “wet” excavation
mining       - Excavation can be filled only with clean fill                          - Excavation can be filled only
                                                                                      with clean till
Sanitary     Prohibited                                                               Prohibited
land fills
Storage of                                                                            Allowed
water        Prohibited (in excess of 6,000 lbs)                                      - Must prevent release to
soluble                                                                               ground
solids                                                                                - Be appropriately maintained
Surface      Prohibited                                                               Prohibited
impoundments - Exceptions for storm water, recreation and the like                    - Exceptions for storm water,
                                                                                      recreation and the like
 
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 5.9)
ZONING MAP
§ 156.100  OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   The zoning map for the town, officially labeled “Town of Arcadia Zoning
Map”, is hereby included as part of this chapter. The map may also be known as
and referred to as the “official zoning map”.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 6.1)
§ 156.101  OFFICIAL ZONING MAP COPIES.
   Copies of the official zoning map may be made and distributed to interested
persons. The official zoning map copies shall be labeled as copies and have the
date which they were last modified printed on them.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 6.2)
§ 156.102  LOCATION OF THE OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   The official zoning map will be located in the office of the Zoning
Administrator.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 6.3)
§ 156.103  ZONING DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   The zoning district boundaries shall be shown on the zoning map. The
abbreviations for the zoning districts appearing in this chapter shall be used
to identify the zoning districts on the map. Planned developments shall be
shown on the map by abbreviations as noted in this chapter and shall also be
identified by the number and date of passage of the ordinance approving the
planned development.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 6.4)
§ 156.104  REGULAR REVISIONS.
   The zoning map should be formally revised annually, or as the Plan
Commission determines necessary. During interim periods of time, hand drawn
lines and text on the official zoning map will be appropriate to note zoning
changes. Copies may be made after the amendments are noted, and each copy shall
be noted as an update with the “date last changed” noted on the map. Other
revisions may be made to correct drafting or other errors or omission in the
prior map, but shall not have the effect of amending the zoning map, except as
adopted by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 6.5)
§ 156.105  DAMAGED, DESTROYED OR LOST OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   In the event that the official zoning map becomes damaged, destroyed, lost
or difficult to interpret because of the nature or number of changes and
additions, the Town Council may, by resolution, adopt a new official zoning map
which shall, to the extent possible, duplicate the accuracy of the damaged,
destroyed or lost map.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 6.6)
§ 156.106  OFFICIAL ZONING MAP STANDARDS.
   District boundaries on the zoning map shall be interpreted as follows.
   (A)   District boundaries shown within the lines of roads, easements and
transportation rights-of-way shall be deemed to follow the centerlines.
   (B)   District boundaries indicated as following section or fractional
sectional lines, platted lot lines or city or town corporation lines shall be
construed as following such lines.
   (C)   District boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of above
features shall be construed as so.
   (D)   District boundaries indicated as approximately following the
centerline of streams, rivers or other bodies of water shall be construed to
follow such centerlines.
   (E)   Where a district boundary line divides a lot at the time such line is
adopted, the regulations for the less restricted portion of such lot shall
extend not more than 25 feet into the more restricted portion; provided, the
lot has frontage on a street in the less restricted district. Further, the
exact location of where the line crosses the property shall be determined by
the Zoning Administrator.
   (F)   The vacation of streets and roads shall not affect the location of
such district boundaries.
   (G)   When the Zoning Administrator cannot definitely determine the location
of a district boundary by such centerlines, by scale or dimensions stated on
the official zoning map, or by the fact that it does not clearly coincide with
a property line, the Administrator shall refuse action and the Plan Commission
shall interpret the location of the district boundary with reference to the
scale of the zoning map and the purposes set forth in all relevant provisions
of this chapter.
   (H)   Any ruling of the Zoning Administrator pertaining to the district
boundaries may be appealed to the Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 6.7)
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
§ 156.120  INTRODUCTION.
   All structures, buildings, land uses, land use changes, structural
alterations, structural relocations, demolitions, structural additions and
structural enlargements that are constructed, created, established or occur
after the effective date of this chapter (except as may otherwise be provided
within this chapter) shall be subject to all development standards and
regulations for the applicable zoning district.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 7.1)
§ 156.121  DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS THAT APPLY.
   Under the sections below are development standards which are arranged by
category. To determine which development standards apply to the subject zoning
district, refer to the “additional standards that apply” division. The four-
digit codes noted in the “additional standards that apply” sections for each
zoning district can be found in the sections below. Only the four digit codes
noted in the “additional standards that apply” section apply to that zoning
district.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 7.2)
§ 156.122  LOT/YARD STANDARDS (LY).
   (A)   LY-01: Except hereinafter provided, no building or structure shall be
erected unless such building or structure conforms; and no building or
structure shall be altered, enlarged or reconstructed unless such alteration,
enlargement or reconstruction conforms with the lot/yard regulations of the
district in which it is located, as follows.
      (1)   Front yard setbacks: the minimum front yard setbacks shall be as
noted in §§
156.040 through
156.046 and
156.060 through
156.065 of this chapter.
      (2)   Side yard setbacks: the minimum side yard setbacks shall be as in
§§
156.040 through
156.046 and
156.060 through
156.065 of this chapter.
      (3)   Rear yard setbacks: the minimum rear yard setbacks shall be as
noted in §§
156.040 through
156.046 and
156.060 through
156.065 of this chapter.
   (B)   Buildings, structures, material for sale, storage, advertising or
display to attract attention or parking lots are not permitted within any
setback.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 7.3)
§ 156.123  HEIGHT STANDARDS (HT).
   (A)   HT-01: no structure may be erected or changed so as to make its height
greater than specified in its applicable zoning district, except as noted
below. Exceptions to height standards include:
      (1)   Church steeples; and
      (2)   Municipal water towers.
   (B)   These above specified height exceptions may exceed the permitted
height regulations by twofold or 60 feet, whichever is less.
   (C)   Additional exceptions to height standards include:
      (1)   Necessary mechanical appurtenances; and
      (2)   Elevator bulkheads.
   (D)   These above specified height exceptions may exceed the permitted
height standards by up to 15 feet, but must be shielded from view by design
features of the building.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 7.4)
§ 156.124  ACCESSORY STRUCTURE STANDARDS (AS).
   (A)   AS-01:
      (1)   Accessory structures shall comply with all development standards
for the subject zoning district. Also, no accessory structures shall encroach
on any platted easement unless written consent is given by the agency the
easement belongs to or is managed by.
      (2)   Accessory structures are not permitted on a lot prior to any
primary structure being constructed, except where the accessory structure is
being used for personal storage or agricultural purposes. Accessory structures
also must relate to the primary structure and its uses.
      (3)   The following accessory structures are permitted, but must abide by
all applicable standards:
         (a)   Antennas or satellite dishes;
         (b)   Bath houses or saunas;
         (c)   Decks;
         (d)   Detached garages;
         (e)   Gazebos;
         (f)   Greenhouses (personal);
         (g)   Hot tubs;
         (h)   Mini barns;
         (i)   Storage building;
         (j)   Pole barn;
         (k)   Agricultural buildings;
         (l)   Sheds;
         (m)   Boat docks;
         (n)   Sport courts; and
         (o)   Swimming pools (swimming pools must abide by 675 I.A.C. 20).
   (B)   AS-02: all permissible accessory structures shall abide by the
following standards:
      (1)   Size of accessory structures:
         (a)   RR: may not exceed 100% of the finished floor area of the
primary structure;
         (b)   R1: may not exceed 65% of the finished floor area of the primary
structure;
         (c)   R2: may not exceed 65% of the finished floor area of the primary
structure;
         (d)   R3: may not exceed 60% of the finished floor area of the primary
structure;
         (e)   R4: may not exceed 60% of the finished floor area of the primary
structure;
         (f)   R5: may not exceed 50% of the finished floor area of the primary
structure;
         (g)   R6: may not exceed 50% of the finished floor area of the primary
structure;
         (h)   MP: may not exceed 50% of the finished floor area of the primary
structure; and
         (i)   AG: no size restriction.
      (2)   No more than two enclosed accessory structures are permitted on a
lot, unless the property is in the AG Agriculture District and is used as a
working farm; in that instance, there is no limit to the number of accessory
structures.
      (3)   An accessory structure shall only be located to the rear or side of
the primary structure.
      (4)   Swimming pools, hot tubs, mini barns, campers, bath houses or sauna
shall only be located to the rear of the primary structure, except in the case
of corner or through lots; in that instance, the structures may be placed on
the side of the primary structure.
      (5)   No mobile home or manufactured home may be used as an accessory
structure in any district.
   (C)   AS-03:
      (1)   Accessory structures shall comply with all development standards
for the subject zoning district. Also, no accessory structures shall encroach
on any platted easement unless written consent of the agency the easement
belongs to or is managed by.
      (2)   Accessory structures are not allowed on a lot prior to any primary
structure being constructed. Accessory structures also must relate to the
primary structure and its uses.
      (3)   The following accessory structures are permitted, but must abide by
all applicable standards:
         (a)   Antennas or satellite dishes;
         (b)   Decks;
         (c)   Gazebos;
         (d)   Storage buildings;
         (e)   Sheds; and
         (f)   Dumpsters.
   (D)   AS-04: all permitted accessory structures shall abide by the following
standards.
      (1)   No more than two accessory structures are permitted on a lot.
      (2)   An accessory structure shall only be located to the rear or side of
the primary structure.
      (3)   Antennas or satellite dishes shall only be permitted to the rear of
the primary structure.
      (4)   Dumpsters shall be enclosed and screened on all four sides.
   (E)   AS-05: manufactured home park accessory structures standards are as
follows.
      (1)   Management offices, sales offices, storage, mini-warehouses,
laundry, dry cleaning facilities and other structures customarily incidental to
manufactured home parks shall be permitted; provided that, the following
criteria are met.
         (a)   They are subordinate to the residential component of the park
and add aesthetic value to the park.
         (b)   They are located, designed and intended to serve only the needs
of the park.
         (c)   The establishments shall present no visible evidence of their
business nature to areas outside the park.
      (2)   Each manufactured home is entitled to one accessory structure in
addition to a carport or garage. Attached or detached garages, and carports,
are to be counted toward the total accessory building area. The total area of
all accessory structures shall not exceed 20% of the dwelling site. Permitted
accessory structures are as follows:
         (a)   Decks;
         (b)   Attached/detached garages;
         (c)   Gazebos;
         (d)   Greenhouses;
         (e)   Hot tubs;
         (f)   Mini barns;
         (g)   Patios;
         (h)   Sheds;
         (i)   Sport courts; and
         (j)   Boat houses.
      (3)   Model manufactured homes as sales units provided the number of
model homes is limited to 5% of the authorized number of dwelling sites in the
park. Model homes must comply with all standards set forth in the MP District.
One unit may be used as a sales office.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 7.5)
§ 156.125  TEMPORARY USE/STRUCTURE STANDARDS (TU).
   (A)   TU-01: temporary uses or structures that abide by all applicable
development standards for the subject zoning district are permitted. The
following standards also pertain to temporary uses/structures.
      (1)   Transition to permanent or accessory uses/structures. Any temporary
use or structure that is intended to transition into a permanent use/structure
or accessory structure must meet all standards for a permanent use/structure or
accessory structure. In the event the intent is not noted upon the application,
the transition to a permanent use/structure or accessory structure will not be
permitted for one year from the application date.
      (2)   Duration. All temporary uses/structures shall be permitted for the
period of up to six months, unless otherwise noted in this chapter.
      (3)   Permit. All temporary uses/structures will be required to have a
temporary improvement location permit and will be subject to fees as adopted,
unless otherwise noted in this subchapter.
      (4)   Cessation of use. All temporary uses/structures must, upon
cessation, remove all structures, elements and debris; and revert all
alterations to the original site to its original state. All removal and
alterations must take place within the permitted duration.
      (5)   Limit. A petitioner shall be limited to a total of one temporary
uses/structures per year.
   (B)   TU-02: temporary uses permitted include:
      (1)   Garage sales (no permit necessary):
         (a)   Garage sales are permitted a maximum of three times per year,
per property; and
         (b)   Maximum duration (time limit) for a sale shall be two days.
      (2)   Children’s roadside stand (no permit necessary); and
      (3)   Tents for a private party/event (no permit necessary).
   (C)   TU-03: temporary structures/uses permitted include:
      (1)   Construction trailers (permit may be renewed one time by the Zoning
Administrator with reason;
      (2)   Roadside sales vehicles or structures; and
      (3)   Tents for sales and business events. Maximum duration (time limit)
is 15 days with permit.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 7.6)
§ 156.126  LANDSCAPING STANDARDS (LS).
   (A)   LS-01:
      (1)   Landscaping is an essential part in the design and development of a
site. Such plantings are a benefit to the environment, public health, safety,
comfort, convenience and general welfare of the community. These standards will
result in the reduction of storm water runoff, glare, heat buildup, may reduce
energy costs in structures and will improve the aesthetics of the community.
      (2)   A detailed landscape plan including size, type and location of
plant materials shall be submitted for review and approval to the Plan
Commission or its designees for all multi-family, commercial, industrial or
institutional new construction projects, additions or conversion from
residential to commercial. For the purposes of this section, institutional is
included, but is not limited to, governmental institutions, schools, churches
and hospitals. The minimum requirements are as follows.
         (a)   All deciduous trees planted must be one and one-half inch
caliper trees. All evergreen trees planted shall be a minimum of five feet in
height. All shrubs planted shall be a minimum of 24 inches in height.
         (b)   Any trees planted to meet the landscaping standards must be
replanted with a tree of like species if the tree dies or becomes diseased at
any time regardless of property ownership.
         (c)   A minimum of 65% of all plantings, including foundation
plantings, shall be located in the front yard(s).
   (B)   LS-02: minimum plantings required by use:
Use Type Num. Per Size
Use                Type                 Num. Per                 Size
                   Deciduous            1    1 dwelling unit     1-1/2” caliper
Single-family      Needled evergreen    1    1 dwelling unit     5 feet tall
                   Foundation plantings 1    20’ of perimeter  12” tall
                   Deciduous            1    2 dwelling units    1-1/2” caliper
Multiple- family   Needled evergreen    1    2 dwelling units    5 feet tall
                   Ornamental           1    4 dwelling units    6 feet tall
                   Foundation plantings 1    10’ of perimeter  12” tall
                   Deciduous            1    1,000 sq. ft. floor 1-1/2” caliper
                                             area
Retail commercial  Needled evergreen    1    1,000 sq. ft. floor 5 feet tall
(Not DC District)                            area
                   Ornamental           1    1,000 sq. ft. floor 6 feet tall
                                             area
                   Foundation plantings 1    20’ of perimeter  18” tall
                   Deciduous            1    1,000 sq. ft. floor 1-1/2” caliper
                                             area
Office commercial  Needled evergreen    1    1,000 sq. ft. floor 5 feet tall
(Not DC District)                            area
                   Ornamental           1    1,000 sq. ft. floor 6 feet tall
                   foundation                area
                   Plantings            1    10’ of perimeter  18” tall
                   Deciduous            1    1,000 sq. ft. floor 1-1/2” caliper
                                             area
Institutional (Not Needled evergreen    1    1,000 sq. ft. floor 5 feet tall
DC District)                                 area
                   Ornamental           1    1,000 sq. ft. floor 6 feet tall
                                             area
                   Foundation plantings 1    10’ of perimeter  18” tall
                   Deciduous            1    3,000 sq. ft. floor 1-1/2” caliper
                                             area
Industrial (Not DC Needled evergreen    1    3,000 sq. ft. floor 5 feet tall
District)                                    area
                   Ornamental           1    3,000 sq. ft. floor 6 feet tall
                                             area
                   Foundation plantings 1    30’ of perimeter  24” tall
 
      (1)   The plantings required to meet buffer yard or parking lot standards
shall not be counted toward this minimum landscaping requirement.
      (2)   Existing vegetation on site can be counted toward the minimum
landscaping requirements.
      (3)   All foundation plantings must be within ten feet of the structures’
foundation and should be scrubs, ornamental bushes, ornamental plants or
flowering plants.
   (C)   LS-03: general standards for landscaping:
      (1)   No landscaping materials, vegetation, plants, shrubs, trees,
retaining walls, bedding, lighting or mounds may extend into any existing or
proposed right-of-way or easement without the written permission from the
agency that established the right-of-way or easement.
      (2)   No trees may be planted within five feet of sidewalks, streets,
curbs, gutters, drainage tile or other infrastructure, unless approved
otherwise by the Planning Commission.
      (3)   The species of trees and plants for proposed landscape plan may be
subject to approval of Plan Commission or its designees.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 7.7)
§ 156.127  BUFFER YARD STANDARDS (BY).
   BY-01:
   (A)   Purpose. The general purpose of a buffer yard is to soften the
potential conflicts between potential uses in one zoning district from the
potential uses in another adjacent district by using plantings, fences and
mounds. The potential degree (or intensity) of conflict (or potential conflict)
between two zoning districts will determine the extent of buffer yard required.
   (B)   Type. The following matrix determines the type of buffer yard which
shall be installed by the subject development. First find the zoning district
of the subject property (across the top). Second, find the zoning district of
the adjacent property (in the left column). Where the two intersect on the
matrix will be a letter (A, B or C) or a blank space. When there is a blank
space no buffer yard is necessary. If an “A”, “B” or “C” is indicated in the
matrix, a buffer yard is mandatory.
Adjacent District Zoning District of the Subject Property
                  R1* R2* R3* R4* R5* MP SC OC DC C1 C2 C3 C4 AG
Adjacent District Zoning District of the Subject Property
                  R1* R2* R3* R4* R5* MP SC OC DC C1 C2 C3 C4 AG
R1                B   B   B   B   B   C  B  B  B  C  C  C  C
R2                B   B   B   B   B   C  B  B  B  C  C  C  C
R3                B   B   B   B   B   C  B  B  B  C  C  C  C
R4                B   B   B   B   B   C  B  B  B  C  C  C  C
R5                A   B   B   B   A   C  B  A  A  B  C  C  C
MP                                    B  B  A  A  B  B  C  C
SC                                    A           A  A  C  C
OC                                    A           A  A  B  C
DC                A   A   A   A       B              A  B  C
C1                                    A              A  A  C
C2                                    A                    B
C3                                                         A
AG
NOTES TO TABLE:
A = “A” Buffer Yard
B = “B” Buffer Yard
C = “C” Buffer Yard
* Non-single-family residential use
 
   (C)   General buffer yard standards. The following buffer yard standards
will apply to all bufferyards.
      (1)   The buffer yard standards only apply along the property lines where
the two conflicting zoning districts meet.
      (2)   The developer or owner of the subject property is responsible for
installing the buffer yard.
      (3)   The adjacent property owner shall not have to participate in
installing the buffer yard.
      (4)   An irregular row and spacing of trees is preferred. However, no two
trees shall be placed within 20 feet from one another.
      (5)   All deciduous trees must have at least a two-inch caliper and all
needled evergreen must be six feet in height when planted.
      (6)   All trees must be properly maintained, and be replaced if the tree
dies, is diseased or is damaged from natural causes.
   (D)   Buffer Yard “A”.
      (1)   An additional ten feet of setback shall be required in addition to
the normal setback.
      (2)   One deciduous canopy tree and one needled evergreen tree must be
planted for every 30 feet of contiguous boundary with conflicting district.
      (3)   All trees must be planted within five to 15 feet from the property
line which is contiguous to the conflicting property.
   (E)   Buffer Yard “B”.
      (1)   An additional 20 feet of setback shall be required in addition to
the normal setback.
      (2)   One deciduous canopy tree and two needled evergreen trees must be
planted for every 20 feet of contiguous boundary with conflicting district.
      (3)   All trees must be planted within five to 20 feet from the property
line.
   (F)   Buffer Yard “C”.
      (1)   An additional 35 feet of setback shall be required in addition to
the normal setback.
      (2)   A row of deciduous canopy trees must be planted 20 feet apart from
one another.
      (3)   Additionally, a five-foot tall fence, or five-foot tall undulating
berm, or a row of needled evergreen trees 12 feet apart will also need to be
placed parallel to the property line and at least five feet from the deciduous
canopy trees.
      (4)   All trees must be planted within ten to 30 feet from the property
line and within the subject property.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 7.8)
§ 156.128  PERFORMANCE STANDARDS (PS).
   PS-01: all uses established or placed into operation after the effective
date of this chapter shall comply with the following performance standards in
the interests of protecting public health, safety and general welfare and
lessening damage to property. No use on a property shall exhibit obnoxious
characteristics to the extent that it constitutes a public nuisance or
interferes with reasonable enjoyment of neighboring properties. No use in
existence on the effective date of this chapter shall be altered or modified to
conflict with these standards:
   (A)   Air pollution. No use on a property shall release fly ash, dust,
smoke, vapors, noxious, toxic or corrosive matter or other air pollutants in
such concentration as to be detrimental to health, animals, vegetation or
property, or conflict with public air quality standards.
   (B)   Electrical disturbance. No use on a property shall cause electrical
disturbance adversely affecting radio, television or other equipment in the
vicinity.
   (C)   Fire protection. Fire fighting equipment and prevention measures
acceptable to the local fire departments shall be readily available and
apparent when any activity involving the handling and storage of flammable or
explosive materials is conducted.
   (D)   Noise. No use on a property shall produce noise in such a manner as to
be objectionable because of volume, frequency, intermittence, beat, shrillness
or vibration. Such noise shall be muffled or otherwise controlled so as not to
become detrimental. Public safety sirens and related apparatus used solely for
public purposes shall be exempt from this standard.
   (E)   Odor. No use on a property shall emit across lot lines any gas or
matter with a bad odor in such quantity as to be readily detectable at any
point along such lines.
   (F)   Vibration. No use on a property shall cause vibrations detectable
beyond lot lines without the aid of instruments.
   (G)   Heat and glare. No use on a property shall produce heat and glare in
such a manner as to create a hazard to neighboring property; nor shall any such
heat or glare interfere with the reasonable enjoyment of neighboring property
or transportation function.
   (H)   Waste matter. No use on a property shall accumulate within the lot or
discharge waste matter beyond the lot lines.
   (I)   Water pollution. No use on a property shall produce erosion or other
pollutants in such a quantity as to be detrimental to adjacent properties or to
conflict with public water quality standards.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 7.9)
§ 156.129  ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS (EN).
   EN-OI: no land shall be used or structure erected where the land is
unsuitable for such use or structure due to slopes greater than 10%, adverse
soil or rock formation, erosion susceptibility, low percolation rate or bearing
strength or any other feature likely to be harmful to the health, safety,
prosperity, aesthetics and general welfare of the community. In addition, the
following standards must be met.
   (A)   Surface water. It shall be the responsibility of the owner of any lot
or parcel of land developed for any use other than for agriculture to provide
for adequate surface water drainage. Existing natural surface drainage should
be utilized. Whenever the evidence available indicates that the natural surface
drainage is inadequate, the owner shall provide the parcel with an adequate
surface water drainage system which shall be integrated into the drainage
pattern of surrounding properties. Swales are required to be placed in an
easement to prohibit future filling or constructing. On-site detention for a
100 year storm event shall be required unless written statement by County
Surveyor that it is not necessary to prevent harm to adjoining properties. All
drainage plans shall be reviewed and approved by the Building Commissioner or
the County Surveyor.
   (B)   Drainage. Drainage swales (ditches) along dedicated roadways and
within the right-of-way or on dedicated drainage easements are not to be
altered, except for maintenance as originally constructed and as approved by
the Building Commissioner, County Highway Department, the County Drainage Board
or state’s Department of Transportation. Driveways may be constructed over
these or other approved structures as permitted by the appropriate agency.
   (C)   Permanent structures. No permanent structures other than a fence may
be erected, and if erected in violation of this section, no such structure may
be used if the location is within 75 feet of the centerline of any regulated
tile ditch, or within 75 feet of the existing top edge of any regulated open
ditch or tile, or platted regulated subdivision easement unless approved by the
Building Commissioner, County Drainage Board and County Surveyor.
   (D)   Preservation of natural/historic features. Existing natural and
historic features which would add value to development of natural or human-made
assets of the county such as trees, streams, vistas, lakes, historical
landmarks and similar irreplaceable assets, when possible shall be preserved
through harmonious and careful design. Land to be developed shall be designed
and improved as far as practical in conformity to existing topography in order
to minimize storm water runoff and conserve the natural cover and soil.
   (E)   Landscaping. Any part or portion of a non-farm parcel which is not
used for structures, loading or parking spaces, sidewalks and accessory uses
shall be landscaped or left in a natural state. If landscaped, they shall be
planted with an all season ground cover and shall be landscaped with trees and
shrubs in accordance with the development plan and/or site plan and shall be in
keeping with natural surroundings.
   (F)   Cut/fill grade. No cut or fill grade shall exceed a slope of 3:1 or
33-1/3%. This provision shall apply to all cuts and fills exceeding 100 square
feet in exposed surface area, including cuts or fills on land naturally
exceeding 3:1 in slope.
   (G)   Erosion prevention. All land, regardless of slope, from which
structures or natural cover has been removed or otherwise destroyed, shall be
appropriately graded and seeded within 30 days after the removal or destruction
of said natural cover to prevent erosion.
   (H)   Alterations to shoreline. No alteration of the shoreline or bed of a
river or public lake shall be made until written approval is obtained from the
state’s Department of Natural Resources and Army Corp of Engineers, and the
provisions of this chapter are complied with. Alterations include, among other
things, filling of a river or wetlands, dredging of a riverbed and ditch
excavation within one-half mile of a water body.
   (I)   Retention, detention and pond edges. All retention, detention and pond
edges must be maintained with a buffer of natural plantings within 20 feet of
the peak elevation. The use of “rip-rap” or any other engineered hard edges are
not permitted, except around inlets arid outlets. However, the use of rip-rap
or any other engineered hard edges shall not exceed 5% of lineal feet of the
total edge of any retention facility, detention facility or pond.
   (J)   Code compliance/hazardous waste. All development must be in compliance
with I.C. Title 13, as amended, as it relates to hazardous waste, low level
nuclear waste, underground storage tanks, waste tires and other applicable
chapters of said title.
   (K)   Code compliance/environmental quality. All development must be in
compliance with I.C. Title 13, as amended, as it relates to air pollution
control, water pollution control, solid waste management and other applicable
chapters of said title.
   (L)   Waste disposal. No waste materials such as garbage, rubbish, trash,
construction material, gasoline, oil, flammables, soils, tars, chemicals,
greases, industrial or agricultural waste, or any other material of such
nature, quantity, obnoxiousness, toxicity or temperature so as to contaminate,
pollute or harm the waters shall be deposited, located, stored or discharged on
any lot in a way that would be likely to runoff, seep or wash into surface or
ground water.
   (M)   Fuel storage. No highly flammable or explosive liquids, solids or
gasses specified by the state’s Fire Marshal shall be stored in bulk above
ground, except tanks or drums of fuel connected directly with energy devises or
heating appliances located and operated on the same lot as the tanks or drums
of fuel.
   (N)   Debris/refuse. Debris, refuse, trash, construction material, garbage,
litter, unfinished buildings and rotting wood shall not accumulate on any
property, in any zoning district.
   (O)   Treatment of fill. Material used for fill where permitted by this
chapter and/or by the IDEM, IDNR or other governmental agency shall be promptly
covered and seeded.
   (P)   View requirements. Where a proposed structure will eliminate more than
50% of an adjacent structure’s view or exposure to the sun, an additional yard
area setback may be required by the Zoning Administrator so that the 50% view
or exposure may be maintained.
   (Q)   Improvement location permit requirements. The following activities are
permitted with no improvement location permit required; provided, all other
applicable standards are met.
      (1)   Normal plowing and preparing the land for farming, gardens and
yards.
      (2)   Normal trimming and/or removal of trees and shrubs for maintenance
and/or site preparation.
      (3)   Earth movements related to farming and other agricultural activity.
      (4)   Drain tile laying and ditch cleaning.
   (R)   Projects affecting regulated drains. Regulated drains are under the
jurisdiction of the County Drainage Board. The County Drainage Board or County
Surveyor shall review and approve all development or projects directly
affecting a regulated open ditch or tile per I.C. 36-9-27-13 of the state’s
Drainage Code.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 7.10)
§ 156.130  FLOODPLAIN STANDARDS (FP).
   FP-01:
   (A)   Intent. The intent of floodplain standards are to protect from loss of
property and maintain natural areas that help mitigate flooding downstream. The
town’s Plan Commission and Board of Zoning appeals should strive to prevent any
infilling of land in the floodplain, or constructing of any structures. The
floodplain includes the channel, floodway and floodway fringe of a 100-year
flood. Floodplain boundaries are to be determined by using the floodway-flood
boundary maps of the Federal Insurance Administration/Federal Emergency
Management Administration or best available information. The Zoning
Administrator may require a petitioner to acquire a surveyor or engineer to
determine the floodplain on a parcel of land.
   (B)   Statement of purpose.
      (1)   Under the authority granted to local units of government to control
land use within their jurisdiction, which includes taking into account the
effects of flooding, the Town Council adopts the following floodplain
management regulations in order to accomplish the following: to prevent unwise
developments from increasing flood or drainage hazards to others; to protect
new buildings and major improvements to buildings from flood damage; to protect
human life and health from the hazards of flooding; to lessen the burden on the
taxpayer for flood control projects, repairs to flood-damaged public facilities
and utilities, and flood rescue and relief operations; and to maintain property
values and a stable tax base by minimizing the potential for creating flood-
blighted areas.
      (2)   All development shall be prohibited within the floodplain, except
as outlined below.
         (a)   The following uses shall be permitted; provided, they are
permitted by the underlying district:
            1.   Agricultural uses such as crop production, pastures, orchards,
tree farms, plant nurseries, vineyards and general farming;
            2.   Forestry, wildlife areas and nature preserves;
            3.   Parks and recreational uses, except golf course and driving
range; and
            4.   Public streets, bridges and roadways.
      (b)   Uses permitted as a special exception are as follows:
            1.   Unenclosed riding stables or trails;
            2.   Telephone exchange;
            3.   Utility substation;
            4.   Public well;
            5.   Sewage treatment plant;
            6.   Water treatment plant;
            7.   Water management use facilities such as dams, docks, channel
improvements, dikes, jetties, marinas, piers, wharves, levees, seawalls,
floodwalls and irrigation facilities;
            8.   Public/private parking areas of any type (grass, gravel or
paved);
            9.   Golf course;
            10.   Driving range; and
            11.   Artificial lake, one or more acres.
         (c)   An improvement location permit is required if any structure or
use (except farming activities other than the construction of structures) is
proposed to be erected, any excavation opened or any material deposited in the
floodplain. The application for an improvement location permit shall be
accompanied by the following:
            1.   A description of the proposed development;
            2.   Location of proposed development, sufficient to accurately
pinpoint the property and structure in relation to existing roads and streams;
            3.   A legal description of the property site;
            4.   A site development plan showing existing and proposed
structure locations and existing and proposed land grades;
            5.   Elevation of lowest floor (including basement) of all proposed
structures; and
            6.   Base flood elevations. If the stream or waterway is located
outside the FEMA detailed study areas, base flood elevations must be approved
by IDNR,
         (d)   If the site is in the floodway the staff shall require the
applicant to forward the application, along with all pertinent plans and
specifications, to IDNR and apply for a permit for construction in a floodway.
Under the provisions of I.C. 14-28-1-22 a permit from IDNR is required prior to
any excavation, deposit, construction or obstruction activity located in the
floodway. This includes land preparation such as filling, grading, clearing and
paving and the like undertaken before the actual start of construction of the
building. No action shall be taken by the staff until a permit has been granted
by IDNR granting approval for construction in a floodway. The staff may issue
an improvement location permit; provided that, the provisions contained in FP-
01 of this chapter have been met.
         (e)   If the site is located in the floodway fringe, the staff may
issue an improvement location permit; provided that, the provisions contained
in FP-01 of this chapter have been met.
         (f)   Facilities (non-residential) may be constructed within the
floodplain; provided that, the flood protection grade for all buildings shall
be at least two feet above the regulatory flood profile. Flood-proofed non-
residential may also be constructed; provided that, the plans and necessary
specifications are certified by a professional engineer or registered architect
licensed to practice in the state. A registered professional engineer or
architect shall certify that below the flood protection grade the structure and
attendant facilities are water-tight and capable of resisting the affects of
regulatory flood. The building design shall take into account flood velocities,
duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures and impacts from debris or ice.
Also, on-site waste disposal systems may be permitted only when in accordance
with the policies of the County Health Department.
         (g)   The Zoning Administrator may require any or all of the following
measures as conditions of approval of new construction:
            1.   Retention or detention of storm water runoff to minimize the
increase in flood flows due to watershed urbanization;
            2.   Erosion and sedimentation control during construction projects
to reduce siltation resulting in loss of channel carrying capacity; and
            3.   Additional fill to reduce flood danger.
         (h)   Under no circumstance shall there be a net loss of flood water
capacity. No development shall be permitted which acting alone or in
combination with existing or future similar works will cause any increase in
the elevation of the regulatory flood.
         (i)   The Arcadia Board of Zoning Appeals when hearing variance
requests from this section shall consider the following:
            1.   The potential damage to personal property belonging to private
individuals other than the property or building owner;
            2.   The increased hazard the proposed structure may cause to other
structures and properties;
            3.   The potential risk to stranded individuals and rescue workers;
            4.   Whether the site is subject to more frequent flooding than the
100-year flood;
            5.   Whether there are other options for locating the structure;
            6.   The applicant shall demonstrate the necessity of the
particular use or structure within the floodplain; and
            7.   The applicant will demonstrate that there will be no net loss
of flood storage capacity. All fill shall come from subject property in order
to ensure flood water storage capacity.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 7.11)
§ 156.131  LIGHTING STANDARDS (LT).
   LT-01:
   (A)   The intent of lighting standards are to provide a level of
illumination for adequate, safe and efficient movement of vehicle and persons
without affecting neighboring properties. Further, the level of illumination
shall vary according to the type of use on a lot. The intensity of light
created on any site shall not significantly go beyond the property line of the
subject property.
   (B)   The following lighting standards apply.
      (1)   All lighting shall be shielded with opaque material to prevent
direct lighting on streets, alleys and adjacent properties.
      (2)   All lighting elements used to cast light on building facades,
features of buildings or signs shall have cutoff luminaires with less than a
90-degree angle (“downlighting”).
      (3)   Lighting for parking lots must all be consistent in their color,
size, height and design. Further, all parking lot lights shall have cutoff
luminaires with less than a 90-degree angle (downlighting) and shall be no more
than 20 feet in height.
      (4)   All free standing lights and lights mounted on walls or facades
must have cutoff luminaires with less than a 90-degree angle.
      (5)   All lights within a single development must uses consistent style,
design, height, size and color throughout the development.
      (6)   All lighting from a property must not cause illumination beyond the
property line of that property (at 0.5 foot candles). The only exception to
this standard is as follows.
         (a)   When the subject property is business and the adjacent property
is zoned for business or industrial, the allowable light at the property line
is 1.0 foot candles (only on sides of the property that are adjacent to the
similar zoning district).
         (b)   When the subject property is industrial and the adjacent
property is zoned for industrial the allowable light at the property line is
2.5 foot candles (only on sides of the property that are adjacent to the
similar zoning district).
      (7)   Measurements shall be taken along any property line of the subject
property with a light meter facing the center of the property at a height of
six feet.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 7.12)
§ 156.132  PARKING STANDARDS (PK).
   (A)   PK-01: two off-street parking spaces, paved or gravel, are required
per dwelling unit. Neither of the off-street parking spaces required may
include spaces within car ports or garages. Further, off-street parking spaces
may not fully or partially be in a public right-of-way or utility easement.
Each space must be at least nine feet wide and 18 feet long.
   (B)   PK-02: one and one-half paved off-street parking spaces are required
per dwelling unit. In multi-family housing developments or manufactured home
parks, at least one space per two units is required for visitor parking and
shall be spread evenly throughout the development. Visitor parking spaces
cannot include spaces in car ports or garages. Further, any off-street parking
space may not fully or partially be in a public right-of-way or utility
easement. Each space must be at least nine and one-half feet wide and 19 feet
long.
   (C)   PK-03: all parking lots for commercial, industrial, business, public
and private employee parking, offices, organizations and places of assembly
must be paved with asphalt, concrete or other durable material. Gravel, stone,
rock, dirt, sand or grass is not permitted as a parking surface. Expansion of
existing gravel, stone, rock, dirt, sand or grass lots is not permitted. In
addition, these parking lots must also conform to all the following
requirements:
      (1)   All ingress/egress into parking areas must be paved with asphalt,
concrete or other durable material;
      (2)   Be striped so as to show each parking space;
      (3)   Be constructed to allow proper drainage;
      (4)   Be designed as to prevent vehicles from having to maneuver in the
public right-of-way; and
      (5)   The interior of all parking lots shall be landscaped with one
deciduous shade tree per ten parking spaces (or any part of ten spaces).
   (D)   PK-04: to reduce traffic congestion and hazards along roadways, off-
street parking shall be required for business and industrial uses. The minimum
number of parking spaces shall be determined by adding up the spaces required
for each applicable statement below. The numbers below do not guarantee the
quantity needed per use, only minimums are expressed. The developer/builder
must calculate additional parking spaces that may be necessary.
                                       1 parking space per employee that
All uses                               potentially can be working at any given
                                       time
Convenience stores, gasoline stations,
grocery stores, banks and department   1 parking space per 300 sq. ft. of GFA
stores
Day-care facility                      1 parking space per every 10 children
                                       enrolled
Fitness, health spa, entertainment
facility, skating rink or similar      1 parking space per 200 sq. ft. of GFA
facilities
Furniture stores and automobile sales  1 parking space per 500 sq. ft. of GFA
Golf course                            20 parking spaces per 9 holes
Hardware stores, home improvement      1 parking space per 400 sq. ft. of GFA
stores and community centers
Hotel, motel, bed and breakfast, and   1 parking space per sleeping unit
lodging or boarding home
Restaurants, food services, movie      1 parking space per every 3 chairs
theater, auditorium or church
NOTES TO TABLE:
* Additional parking spaces may be required by the Planning Commission or
Board of Zoning Appeals if deemed necessary.
 
   (E)   PK-05:
      (1)   Parking spaces shall be installed as follows:
         (a)   Maximum of 30% in front of the primary structure;
         (b)   Maximum of 70% to the side of the primary structure;
         (c)   Minimum of 10% to the rear of the in rear yard; and
         (d)   Under no circumstances shall parking be permitted within any
required yard setback or buffer areas.
      (2)   Parking spaces prescribed in this rule must be located either on
the premises or on a lot approved by the Plan Commission. All required off-
street parking spaces, however, must be located within 600 feet of the
respective lot.
      (3)   Parking spaces shall be a minimum of nine feet by 18 feet. Parking
aisle widths shall be as follows:
         (a)   Ninety-degree angle space: 24 foot-wide parking aisle;
         (b)   Sixty-degree angle space: 18 foot-wide parking aisle; and
         (c)   Forty-five-degree angle space: 14 foot-wide parking aisle.
      (4)   A group of adjacent properties may provide a joint parking area if
the number of spaces required for all properties is adequate, and at least 80%
of the total spaces required for each use. A permanent documentation of the
agreement must be recorded with both properties. A permanent written agreement
signed by all property owners involved which shall include, but is not limited
to, the following items: maintenance, snow removal, ownership and liability.
The agreement shall be reviewed/approved by the Zoning Administrator and/or
Town Attorney. The agreement shall be recorded in the office of the County
Recorder. A copy of the recorded agreement shall be kept in the office of the
Plan Commission. The Zoning Administrator shall approve aggregate parking lots
such as mentioned above.
      (5)   A church or temple or like uses may request a variance to a down-
size parking requirements if adequate parking is located near the use and which
is available during the times of use by the church or temple.
   (F)   PK-06:
      (1)   Vehicles or trailers of any type without current license plates or
in an inoperable condition shall be prohibited in residential zone districts
other than in completely enclosed buildings, and shall not be parked or stored
in any zone unless specifically authorized under the terms of this chapter.
      (2)   No vehicle or tractor/trailer of any type may be used predominantly
for the purpose of personal storage.
   (G)   PK-07:
      (1)   The parking of a commercial vehicle in residential zone districts
shall be prohibited; except that one commercial vehicle of not more than three-
tons capacity may be parked on any lot where there is a principal building as
along as it is:
         (a)   Used by a resident of the premises; and
         (b)   Parked in an enclosed garage or accessory building, or is
located in the rear yard at least ten feet from the rear property line.
      (2)   This regulation shall not be interpreted to prohibit commercial
vehicles from temporary loading and unloading in a residential district.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 7.13)
§ 156.133  LOADING STANDARDS (LD).
   LD-01: there shall be provided off-street loading berths not less than the
minimum requirements specified in this section in connection with any building
or structure which is to be erected or substantially altered, and which
requires the receipt or distribution of materials or merchandise by trucks or
similar vehicles.
   (A)   Location. All required off-street loading berths shall be located on
the same lot as the use to be served, and no portion of the vehicle shall
project into a street right-of-way or alley easement. No permitted or required
loading berth shall be located within 25 feet of the nearest point of
intersection of any two streets, nor shall it be located in a front of the
primary structure, or on the side of the primary structure adjoining a street.
   (B)   Size. Off-street loading berths for over-the-road tractor-trailers
shall be at least 14 feet in width by at least 60 feet in length with a 60-foot
maneuvering apron, and shall have a vertical clearance of at least 15 feet. For
local pick-up and delivery trucks, off-street loading berths shall be at least
12 feet in width by at least 30 feet in length with a 30-foot maneuvering
apron, and shall have a vertical clearance of at least 12 feet.
   (C)   Access. Each required off-street loading berth shall be designed with
appropriate means of vehicular access to a street or alley in a manner which
will least interfere with traffic movements. There shall be no maneuvering
within the right-of-way.
   (D)   Surfacing. All open off-street loading berths shall be improved with a
compacted base not less of asphalt, concrete or some comparable all-weather,
dustless material.
   (E)   Space allowed. Space allowed to any off-street loading berth shall
not, while so allocated, be used to satisfy the space requirements of any off-
street parking areas or portions thereof.
   (F)   Off-street loading berth requirements.
 
Minimum Loading Berths Required Gross Floor Area
1                               Up to 40,000 sq. ft.
2                               40,000 to 80,000 sq. ft.
3                               80,000 to 120,000 sq. ft.
4                               120,000 to 160,000 sq. ft.
 
      (1)   One additional off-street loading space shall be required for each
additional 80,000 square feet after 320,000 square feet.
      (2)   In situations where the structure clearly does not need and will
not in the foreseeable future need loading docks, the Planning Commission may
reduce the number required or eliminate the requirement.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 7.14)
§ 156.134  ENTRANCE/DRIVE STANDARDS (ED).
   (A)   ED-01: the intent of entrance and drive standards is to provide for a
safe and efficient vehicular and pedestrian transportation system. The
following standards apply to entrances and drives.
      (1)   All classification of roads shall be based on the Transportation
Plan as found and maintained in the town’s Comprehensive Plan.
      (2)   (a)   No entrance or drive shall be permitted to begin within:
            1.   Two hundred twenty feet of any intersecting road if along a
primary arterial (see “C” below in the illustration);
            2.   One hundred seventy-five feet of any intersecting road if
along a secondary arterial (see “C” below in the illustration);
            3.   One hundred seventy feet of any intersecting road is along a
collector (see “C” below in the illustration); and
            4.   One hundred fifty feet of any intersecting road is along a
local road (see “C” below in the illustration).
         (b)   The distances for the above standards shall be determined by
measuring from ROW line to the curb or edge of pavement (whichever is less) of
the entrance or drive.
         (c)   No two entrance or drive shall be within:
            1.   One hundred twenty feet of one another if along a primary
arterial (see “D” below in the illustration);
            2.   On hundred feet of one another if along a secondary arterial
(see “D” below in the illustration);
            3.   Seventy feet of one another if along a collector (see “D”
below in the illustration); and
            4.   Fifty feet of one another if along a local street (see “D”
below in the illustration).
         (d)   The distances for (he above standards shall be determined by
measuring from the curb or edge of pavement to the curb or edge of pavement
(whichever is less) of each entrance, or drive.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff91d24e8c26585d0d8b562ed7375079c256e840/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1675.png]
      (4)   (a)   No entrance or drive shall be permitted within:
            1.   One hundred forty feet of the apex of a curve (30 degrees or
greater) and where the roads is a primary arterial;
            2.   One hundred twenty feet of the apex of a curve (30 degrees or
greater) and where the roads is a secondary arterial;
            3.   One hundred feet of the apex of a curve (30 degrees or
greater) and where the roads is a collector; and
            4.   Seventy feet of the apex of a curve (30 degrees or greater)
and where the roads is a local road.
         (b)   The location of drives on or near curves may be investigated
individually by the Town Engineer or his or her designees and evaluated for
their sight distance and design speed of the roadway or the posted speed limit,
whichever is greater. In no case shall the Town Engineer or his or her
designees be able to reduce the above stated distances by greater than 50%.
      (5)   (a)   No entrance or drive shall exceed the following pavement
widths for two-way traffic (if one-way, the measurements shall be one-half of
the below measurements):
            1.   Thirty-two feet if from a commercial zoning district onto a
primary arterial;
            2.   Thirty feet if from a commercial zoning district onto a
secondary arterial;
            3.   Twenty-eight feet if from a commercial zoning district onto a
collector;
            4.   Twenty-six feet if from a commercial zoning district onto a
local street;
            5.   Thirty feet if from a multi-family residential zoning district
onto a primary arterial, secondary arterial or collector;
            6.   Twenty-eight feet if from a multi-family residential zoning
district onto a local street;
            7.   Twenty-eight feet if from a single-family residential zoning
district onto any type of street; or
            8.   Twenty-two feet if from a single-family residential unit onto
any type of street.
         (b)   The distances for the above standards shall be determined by
measuring from the outside edges of the curb or pavement (whichever is more) of
the entrance, or drive.
      (6)   The Planning Commission may determine if the following are
necessary:
         (a)   An acceleration or deceleration lane; or
         (b)   A passing blister at a new entrance or drive.
   (B)   ED-02: in manufactured home parks with 40 or more manufactured homes:
      (1)   Two access points shall be required into and out of the
manufactured home park; and
      (2)   Individual dwelling sites may only have driveways on interior
roads.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 7.15)
§ 156.135  VISION CLEARANCE STANDARDS (VC).
   VC-01:
   (A)   The intent of vision clearance standards are to provide for a safe
vehicular and pedestrian transportation system. The visibility at
intersections, driveways, curb cuts and entrances are particularly important
for the safe movement of vehicles and pedestrians.
   (B)   The following vision clearance standards apply to all intersections,
drive, curb cuts and entrances.
      (1)   No entrance, curb cut or drive shall be permitted if within:
         (a)   One hundred sixty feet of the crest of a hill where the slope on
either side of the crest is 6% or greater, or the visibility is determined to
be impaired by the Zoning Administrator, County or Town Engineer and the speed
limit is 45 mph or greater;
         (b)   One hundred feet of the crest of a hill where the slope on
either side of the crest is 6% or greater, or the visibility is determined to
be impaired by the Zoning Administrator, County or Town Engineer and the speed
limit is 30 mph or greater; and
         (c)   Eighty feet of the crest of a hill where the slope on either
side of the crest is 6% or greater, or the visibility is determined to be
impaired by the Zoning Administrator, County or Town Engineer and the speed
limit is under 30 mph.
      (2)   All intersections must maintain a clear vision triangle where no
primary or accessory structures, trees, vegetation or signs other that road
signs are allowed to be placed or to project into. The clear vision triangle is
illustrated below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff91d24e8c26585d0d8b562ed7375079c256e840/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1677.png]
   (C)   The following triangle leg lengths will apply to the determination of
a clear vision triangle.
      (1)   Along primary arterials: 45 feet;
      (2)   Along secondary arterials: 40 feet;
      (3)   Along collectors: 35 feet; and
      (4)   Along local roads: 20 feet.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 7.16)
§ 156.136  PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS (PI).
   PI-01: the following public improvement standards shall apply as follows.
   (A)   Manufactured home parks and multi-family developments shall be
permitted only if the public streets, drainage facilities and utilities are
adequate to serve the proposed development. Any public streets which will carry
the increased traffic the park or development shall be adequate to accommodate
such traffic. Drainage facilities and public utilities shall have sufficient
capacity to serve the development. The Town Engineer shall make a determination
as to needed street and drainage improvements. The Town Engineer or his or her
designee shall make a determination as to needed utility improvements. The
decision of the Town Engineer or his or her designee may be appealed to the
Board of Zoning Appeals. When public improvements are required, the developer
or authorized representative shall be required to post performance and
maintenance guarantees for such improvements in a manner specified in
Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Attachment to public or semi-public water and sanitary facilities
shall be mandatory in MP, Manufactured Home Parks.
   (C)   Manufactured home parks shall be in accordance with I.C. 16-11-27-1 et
seq., Rule 410 I.A.C. 6-6 and their subsequent amendments, the state’s Board of
Health Requirements and the requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   All private streets shall be constructed to the public streets
standards set forth in the Public Improvement Design Standards Ordinance.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 7.17)
§ 156.137  OPEN SPACE STANDARDS (OS).
   OS-01: the intent of the open space standards are to allow adequate open
space in the MP, Manufactured Home Parks District.
   (A)   A minimum of400 square feet per dwelling site shall be dedicated to
open space, a portion of which shall be an active recreational area, or one-
quarter acre whichever is greater. Open space shall be configured for the
activity for which it is designed.
   (B)   The minimum lot size may be reduced provided that the amount by which
the lot is reduced is devoted to common open space and the lot size is not less
than 3,200 square feet.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 7.18)
§ 156.138  HOME OCCUPATION STANDARDS (HO).
   (A)   HO-01 Home Occupation #1: the intent of the Home Occupation #1
provisions are to allow minimal business practices within certain residential
zoning districts. Further, the intent is not to allow the loss of the
residential district’s character or function as a residential area or
neighborhood. To regulate reasonable business practices and residential
character, the following development standards apply.
      (1)   The home occupation must not involve retail sales or manufacturing
operations.
      (2)   The home occupation must not involve the employment of any person
other than those residing at the location of the home occupation.
      (3)   At least one members residing on the premises must be the primary
operator of the company.
      (4)   The equipment used for the business must be limited to computers,
fax machines, telephones, copy machines and other small business office
equipment.
      (5)   There must not be any interior or exterior storage or display of
products, equipment or materials used in connection with the home occupation.
      (6)   No more than 10% of the total floor area of the primary structure
shall be used for the home occupation.
      (7)   There shall not be any interior or exterior, structural or
aesthetic alterations to the dwelling unit to accommodate for the home
occupation.
      (8)   There shall not be any room additions or other structural/aesthetic
alterations that change
the residential character of the dwelling unit.
      (9)   There shall not be an additional entrances to the dwelling unit for
the purpose of conducting business or to accommodate the business.
      (10)   No use of accessory structure, including attached/detached
garages, shall be allowed.
      (11)   No traffic generation due to the business will be permitted.
      (12)   No signage for the business shall be allowed on or off the
property.
      (13)   No business practice, function, equipment or process shall create
electrical interference, odors, noise, vibration, light, smoke, fumes or any
thing offensive.
      (14)   No home occupation that demands increasing or enhancing the size,
capacity or flow of the water, gas, septic, sewer or electrical system beyond
what is standard for a residence will be allowed.
      (15)   No additional parking may be added to the lot(s) the residence is
located to accommodate for the home occupation.
      (16)   Use of commercial vehicles for pickup and deliveries other than
from the U.S. Postal Service, UPS and other express couriers is not permitted.
      (17)   The permitted uses in for Home Occupation #1 shall be limited to
small offices or operations which have no clients, associates or persons
visiting, shopping, meeting or otherwise doing
business at the home location.
      (18)   Home occupation uses that meet the above described standards are
deemed permitted until the Town Council, Commission or BZA rule the use to be a
nuisance, or until all adjacent neighbors petition to the Commission that the
use is a nuisance.
   (B)   HO-02 Home Occupation #2: the intent of the Home Occupation #2
provisions are to allow reasonable business practices within certain
residential zoning districts. Further, the intent is not to allow the loss of
the residential district’s character or function as a residential area or
neighborhood. To regulate reasonable business practices and residential
character, the following development standards apply.
      (1)   The home occupation must not involve retail sales or manufacturing
operations.
      (2)   The home occupation must not involve the employment of any more
than one person who is not related and does not reside at the location of the
home occupation.
      (3)   At least one member residing on the premises must be the primary
operator of the business and be that person(s) primary work.
      (4)   There shall not be any use of mechanical equipment, other than what
is usual for purely domestic or hobby purposes.
      (5)   There must not be any exterior storage or display of equipment or
materials used in connection with the home occupation.
      (6)   No more than 25% of the total floor area of any level of the
primary structure shall be used for the home occupation.
      (7)   There shall not be any exterior structural or aesthetic alterations
to the dwelling unit to accommodate for the home occupation.
      (8)   There shall not be any room additions or other structural/aesthetic
alterations that change the residential character of the dwelling unit.
      (9)   There shall not be an additional entrances to the dwelling unit for
the purpose of conducting business or to accommodate the business.
      (10)   Business practice in all accessory structure is not permitted.
      (11)   Minimal traffic generation due to the business will be permitted.
      (12)   A small sign not exceeding two square feet will be allowed on the
primary structure. No off-site signs or signs in the yard of the property shall
be permitted.
      (13)   No business practice, function, equipment or process shall create
electrical interference, odors, noise, vibration, light, smoke, fumes or any
thing offensive beyond the property line for the dwelling unit.
      (14)   No home occupation that demands increasing or enhancing the size,
capacity or flow of the water, gas, septic, sewer or electrical system beyond
what is standard for a residence will be allowed.
      (15)   No additional parking may be added to the lot(s) the residence is
located to accommodate for the home occupation.
      (16)   Use of commercial vehicles for pickup and deliveries other than
from the U.S. Postal Service, UPS and other express couriers is not permitted.
      (17)   The permitted uses in for Home Occupation #2 shall be limited to
domestic crafts, professional service, catalog businesses and internet
businesses, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Dressmaking;
         (b)   Sewing;
         (c)   Weaving;
         (d)   Tailoring;
         (e)   Ironing;
         (f)   Washing;
         (g)   Computer/internet based sales;
         (h)   Catalog order business;
         (i)   Furniture repair;
         (j)   Hair grooming - one chair;
         (k)   Home office for a lawyer, doctor, architect, engineer,
accountant or planner;
         (l)   Home office for a real estate, insurance, notary public or
manufacturer’s agent;
         (m)   Office for clergy;
         (n)   Art studio, writing studio, music studio, photography studio;
         (o)   Teaching art, writing or music for one student at one time; and
         (p)   Baking.
      (18)   The following types of business shall not be permitted as a Home
Occupation #2:
         (a)   Medical clinics of any kind;
         (b)   Retail dress shops;
         (c)   Funeral homes;
         (d)   Tourist homes;
         (e)   Animal hospitals;
         (f)   Kennels;
         (g)   Trailer rentals;
         (h)   Automobile, motor vehicles, equipment repair of any kind;
         (i)   Painting of automobiles, motor vehicles or equipment of any
kind;
         (j)   Photo developing;
         (k)   Television, radio or other electronics repair;
         (l)   Tooling, welding or machining of any kind;
         (m)   Retail or manufacturing of any kind;
         (n)   Tool or equipment rental of any kind;
         (o)   Restaurant or similar establishment;
         (p)   Salvage operations of any kind;
         (q)   Freight or trucking operations of any kind;
         (r)   Contractors business; and
         (s)   Landscaping/lawn care business.
      (19)   Permitted uses are deemed so until the Town Council, Commission or
BZA rule the use to be a nuisance, or until all adjacent neighbors petition to
the Town that the use is a nuisance.
      (20)   Uses not specifically mentioned will be interpreted by the Zoning
Administrator or BZA as to whether the use is permitted or not.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 7.19)
§ 156.139  TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES STANDARDS (TF).
   (A)   TF-01:
      (1)   The purpose of this section is to provide for sensible and
reasonable land uses to allow for the provision of adequate reliable public and
private telecommunication service and to maximize the use of any transmission
tower in order to reduce the total number of towers needed to serve the
telecommunications needs of the area; to minimize adverse, undesirable visual
effects of towers through careful design, siting and vegetative screening.
      (2)   All wireless telecommunication facilities shall meet the following
provisions.
         (a)   The location of the tower and equipment buildings shall comply
with all local, state and federal natural resource protection standards.
         (b)   The following buffer plantings shall be located around the
perimeter of the outer most perimeter or security fence of a wireless
telecommunications facility.
            1.   A live evergreen screen shall be planted around the entire
facility including the guy wires and anchors, if used, that consist of a hedge,
planted three feet on center maximum or a row of evergreen trees planted a
maximum of ten feet on center, height of plants at time of planting shall be no
less than five feet tall.
            2.   Existing vegetation (trees and shrubs) shall be preserved to
the maximum extent possible.
         (c)   An antenna may be located on a building or structure that is
listed on a historic registry only after obtaining all necessary and required
approvals. Any antenna located in a historic district will require approval by
the Board of Zoning Appeals for a special exception approval.
         (d)   Vehicular access to the tower and equipment building shall,
whenever feasible, be provided along the existing driveways.
         (e)   The wireless telecommunications facility shall be fully
automated and unattended on a daily basis, and shall he visited only for
periodic maintenance and emergencies.
         (f)   Proposed or modified towers and antennas shall meet the
following design requirements:
            1.   Tower and antennas shall be designed to blend into the
surrounding environment through the use of color, camouflaging and
architectural treatment, except in an instance where the color is dictated by
federal or state authorities such as the Federal Aviation Administration.
            2.   Wireless telecommunication service towers less than 131 feet
tall shall be of a monopole design and when located within or adjacent to an
environmentally, aesthetically sensitive area or a residential district,
designed in such a way as to architecturally camouflage the wireless
telecommunication service tower as much as reasonably practical to blend into
the surroundings.
            3.   The entire facility must be aesthetically and architecturally
compatible with its environment. The use of residentially compatible materials
such as wood, brick or stucco is required for associated support structures,
which shall be designed to architecturally match the exterior of residential or
commercial structures with in the neighborhood or area. Only if the facility
will be 100% screened during all seasons will other materials be approved.
            4.   Only when lighting is for safety or security reasons or
required by the Federal Aviation Administration or other federal or state
authority will it be permitted. When approved the lighting shall be oriented
inward so as not to project onto surrounding residential properties.
      (7)   Any request submitted to the office of the town’s Plan Commission
to install an antenna to be located on an existing approved or “grandfathered”
tower will only require a building permit and the contract between the
applicant company and the owner of the tower.
      (8)   All towers at a minimum are to be constructed to support the
initial user (wireless telecommunication antenna), plus handle the anticipated
loading of a second user on a monopole and third user on all other towers equal
to the antenna loading of the initial user.
      (9)   The size of the site of the initial tower and support facility
shall be sufficient area to allow the location of one additional tower and
associated support facility for future monopole tower and sufficient area to
allow for the location of two additional towers and associated support
facilities for non-monopole towers.
      (10)   A proposal for a new commercial wireless telecommunications
service tower shall not be approved unless the applicant submits verification
that the telecommunication equipment planned for the proposed tower cannot be
accommodated on an existing or approved tower or buildings or other structure
due to one or more of the following reasons:
         (a)   The planned equipment would exceed the structural capacity of
the existing or approved tower, building or structure as documented by a
qualified and licensed professional engineer, and the existing or approved
tower, building or structure cannot be reinforced, modified or replaced to
accommodate planned or equipment at a reasonable cost;
         (b)   The planned equipment would cause interference impacting the
usability of other existing or planned equipment at the tower site. Supportive
documentation by a qualified and licensed professional engineer indicating that
the interference cannot be prevented at a reasonable cost;
         (c)   That existing or approved towers, buildings or structure within
the search radius cannot accommodate the planned equipment at a height
necessary to function reasonably as documented by a qualified and licensed
professional engineer;
         (d)   Other unforeseen reasons that make it unfeasible or impossible
to locate the planned telecommunications equipment upon an existing or approved
tower, building or structure;
         (e)   Unable to enter a commonly reasonable lease term with the
existing tower owner;
         (f)   If agreement cannot be reached between parties both parties
shall agree to binding arbitration; and
         (g)   Additional land area is not available.
      (11)   Any proposed commercial wireless telecommunication service tower
shall be designed, and engineered structurally, electrically and in all other
respects to accommodate both the applicants height and at least one additional
users for every 30 feet of tower above 60 feet in height. Towers must be
designed to allow for future rearrangement of antennas upon the tower and
accept antennas mounted at varying heights. Tower sites shall be large enough
to accommodate all future accessory structures needed by future antenna users.
      (12)   All antennas, towers, accessory structure and wiring constructed
within the town’s Plan Commission jurisdiction, shall comply with the following
requirement:
         (a)   All applicable provisions of this Code and the Building Code of
the State of Indiana and the Federal Communications Commission when applicable;
         (b)   Towers shall be certified by a qualified and licensed
professional engineer to conform to the latest structural standards and wind
loading requirements of the Uniform Building Code and the Electronics Industry
Association;
         (c)   With the exception of necessary electric and telephone service
and connection lines approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals no part of any
antenna or tower nor any lines, cables, equipment or wires or braces in
connection with either shall at any time extend across or over any part of the
right-of-way, public street, highway, sidewalk, trails or property line without
appropriate approval in writing;
         (d)   The tower and associated antennas shall be designed to conform
with accepted electrical engineering methods and practices and to comply with
the provisions of the National Electrical Code;
         (e)   All towers shall be constructed to conform with the requirements
of Occupational Safety and Health Administration;
         (f)   An eight-foot high security fence shall completely surround the
tower (and guy wires if used) and equipment building;
         (g)   All signal and remote control conductors of low energy extending
substantially horizontally above the ground between a tower, antenna and a
structure, or between towers, shall be at least ten feet above the ground at
all points, unless buried underground;
         (h)   The tower shall be designed and constructed to all applicable
standards of the American National Standards Institute manual, as amended;
         (i)   An engineers certification shall be submitted to document and
verify the design specifications but not limited to, the foundation for the
tower, and anchors for the guy wires if used, co-location, strength
requirements, for natural forces; ice, wind, earth movements and the like; and
         (j)   Towers and antenna shall be designed and constructed, at a
minimum, to withstand wind gusts of at least 80 mph with one-half inch of ice
and to accommodate any co-location requirements.
      (13)   The following shall apply to existing antennas and towers:
         (a)   May continue in use for the purpose now used and, as now
existing but may not be replaced or structurally altered without complying in
ail respects to the requirements in this chapter;
         (b)   If such towers are hereafter damaged or destroyed due to any
reason or cause whatsoever, the tower may be repaired and restored to its
former location, and physical dimensions upon obtaining a building permit;
provided, however, that, if the cost of repairing the tower to the former use,
physical dimensions, and location would be 10% more of the cost of a new tower
of like kind and quality, then the tower may not be repaired or restored,
except in full compliance with all requirements in this chapter; and
         (c)   Existing antennas or towers cannot be used for anything other
than their originally intended use.
      (14)   The following shall apply to the inspection of towers.
         (a)   All towers may be inspected at least once every one to five
years by an official of the town’s Plan Commission and/or a qualified and
licensed engineer to determine compliance with the original construction
standards. Deviation from original construction for which a permit is obtained
constitutes a violation of this chapter.
         (b)   Notice of violations will be sent by registered mail to the
owner and the owner will have 30 days from the date the notification is issued
to make repairs. The owner will notify the Building Inspector that the repairs
have been made, and as soon as possible thereafter, another inspection will be
made and the owner notified of the results.
      (15)   Any tower unused or left abandon for 12 months shall be removed by
the tower owner at its expense.
   (B)   TF-02: roof/wall mounted antennas: the following chart shows where
roof mounted antennas are permitted, and where and how they are restricted and
necessary approvals.
 
BZA Approval                            Directors Approval
Unscreened 11 or more feet above the    Unscreened 10 or less ** feet above the
roof line                               roof line
Directors Approval                      Directors Approval
Screened 11 or more feet above the roof Screened 10 or less feet above the roof
line                                    line
NOTES TO TABLE:
** If within 200 feet of residential property lines BZA approval required
 
   (C)   TF-03:
      (1)   This section applies to residential districts, agriculture
districts and the SC District.
      (2)   Wireless telecommunications facility shall require a special
exception approval from the Board of Zoning Appeals and meet all the general
and following requirements when located in a residential or agriculture
district:
         (a)   The tower shall be set back from any property line a distance
equal to at least 100% the height of the tower;
         (b)   Maximum height:
            1.   Tower: 125 feet; and
            2.   Accessory structure: 15 feet.
         (c)   Minimum number of antenna sites for a 125-foot tower is three;
if tower is less than 125 feet, refer to TF-01; and
         (d)   The tower shall be a monopole design.
   (D)   TF-04:
      (1)   This section applies to the OC, DC and C1 Districts.
      (2)   Wireless telecommunications facility shall require approval as
special exception by the Board of Zoning Appeals and meet the following and all
other requirements within this chapter:
         (a)   Minimum side and rear property setbacks equal to 80% of the
height of the tower. Towers are not permitted in the front yard;
         (b)   Maximum height:
            1.   Tower: 180 feet; and
            2.   Accessory structure: 15 feet.
         (c)   Minimum number of antenna sites for a 180 feet tower is four; if
tower is less than 180 feet, refer to TF-01(A)(11); and
         (d)   Tower shall be placed no closer than 500 feet to any residential
structure. If it is closer, it will require special exception approval by the
Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (E)   TF-05:
      (1)   This section applies to the C2 and C3 Districts.
      (2)   A wireless telecommunications facility shall be permitted that meet
the following and all other requirements within this chapter:
         (a)   Minimum setback from the side and rear property line: equal to
50% of the height of the tower. Towers not allowed in the front yards;
         (b)   Maximum height:
            1.   Tower: 250 feet; and
            2.   Accessory structure: 15 feet.
         (c)   Minimum number of antenna sites for a 250-foot tower is six; if
tower is less than 250 feet, refer to TF-01(A)(11); and
         (d)   Tower shall be placed no closer than 500 feet to any residential
structure, if closer will require special exception approval by the Board of
Zoning Appeals.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 7.20)
§ 156.140  FENCES AND WALLS (FN).
   (A)   FN-01: all fences and walls shall:
      (1)   Present the non-structural face outward;
      (2)   Be permitted up to the property line;
      (3)   Not be greater than six feet in height in the side yard and rear
yard or greater than three feet in height in the front yard;
      (4)   Not be closer than two feet to any public right-of-way;
      (5)   Not be placed within the clear vision triangle; and
      (6)   Not incorporate security wire or sharpened top spikes.
   (B)   FN-02: all fences and walls shall:
      (1)   Present the non-structural face outward;
      (2)   Be permitted up to the property line;
      (3)   Not be greater than eight feet in height in the side yard and rear
yard;
      (4)   Not be closer than two feet to any public right-of-way; and
      (5)   Not be placed within the clear vision triangle.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 7.21)
§ 156.141  MISCELLANEOUS STANDARDS (MS).
   (A)   MS-01: each manufactured home in a manufactured home park must be tied
down and have perimeter skirting.
   (B)   MS-02: storage or parking of recreational vehicles is subject to the
following conditions.
      (1)   At no time shall a parked or stored recreational vehicle be
occupied or used for living, sleeping or housekeeping purposes, except as
outlined below.
      (2)   A recreational vehicle may be permitted to be parked for visitation
for up to seven consecutive days, but not to exceed 14 total days in any one
calendar year.
      (3)   No more than one recreational vehicle may be stored or parked
outdoors on a residential parcel at any one time.
      (4)   Recreational vehicles may be stored or parked by the owner thereof
behind or alongside the primary building in such a manner that no part of the
vehicle shall project beyond the front of the primary structure, side yard
setback or rear yard setback.
      (5)   Year-round storage of a recreational vehicle is permitted if it is
either enclosed, screened with vegetation, or is not within 75 feet of all
neighboring residential structures. If either of these conditions is not met,
outdoor storing or parking shall not extend more than nine months of any single
calendar year.
      (6)   A recreational vehicle shall not block a sidewalk.
      (7)   A recreational vehicle shall not be parked on a parcel without a
primary structure.
      (8)   A recreational vehicle shall not be used solely for the purpose of
personal storage.
   (C)   MS-03: all roof mounted heating, air conditioning, ventilation or
other mechanical equipment shall be screened with materials that are
complementary and aesthetically appealing to the structure on which they are
affixed. From any location within 400 feet of the structure, the screening must
hide or disguise the above listed equipment.
   (D)   MS-04: farm animals must have a minimum fenced area per animal to be
permitted within the jurisdiction of this chapter. The minimum lot size to be
able to have any farm animal on any lot or combination of lots is three acres.
The zoning administrator shall have discretion to determine the minimum acreage
for farm animals not listed. The following animals shall have:
      (1)   Large animals (horses, cows, buffalo, camels, donkeys): one and
one-half-acres fenced pasture per animal;
      (2)   Medium animals (llamas, emu, ostrich, alpacas, sheep): one-acre
fenced pasture per animal;
      (3)   Small animals (pigs, turkeys): five-acre fenced pasture per animal;
and
      (4)   Very small animals (chickens): one-acre fenced pasture per animal
   (E)   MS-05:all side property lines must be within ten degrees of
perpendicular to the street centerline or radial on curve.
   (F)   MS-06: all outdoor storage of materials, products for sale,
construction materials, trash containers and the like shall be fenced with a
six-foot privacy fence on all sides in all zoning districts.
   (G)   MS-07: street addresses must be posted on all primary structures and
be visible from primary roadway and/or be posted on mailbox or other suitable
structures visible from primary roadway.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 7.22)
PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS
§ 156.155  DISTRICT INTENT; PERMITTED USES; MISCELLANEOUS STANDARDS.
   (A)   District intent.
      (1)   The purposes of these regulations are to provide greater design
flexibility in the development of land when consistent with the Comprehensive
Plan and intent of this chapter and
Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances. The use of planned development zoning
classifications shall be encouraged when the use of such regulations promotes a
harmonious variety of uses, and/or provides for an economy of shared services
and facilities, and/or are compatible with surrounding areas and/or foster the
creation of attractive, healthful, efficient and stable environments for
living, shopping or working.
      (2)   The planned development regulations and procedures may apply to the
development of existing developed lands, or vacant lands. Further, they
generally only apply to large tracts of land.
      (3)   Planned development regulations are intended to encourage
innovations in land development techniques so that the growing demands of the
community may be met with greater flexibility, variety in type, design and
layout of sites and buildings. Also, planned development projects should also
encourage a more efficient use of land so that resulting economies may accrue
to the benefit of the community at large. Examples of this concept would
include the preservation of existing trees or wetlands, and the inclusion of
recreation areas within new subdivisions.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   All uses are subject to the discretion and approval of the Plan
Commission. No uses are granted by right.
      (2)   In general, the uses that will be allowed in a planned development
are: uses designated as permitted uses or special exceptions in the zoning
district prior to being changed to a Planned Development District. For example
if the previous zoning was R2 and the proposed Planned Development District
would be PD-R2, the permitted uses and special exceptions in the R2 District
would generally be appropriate.
      (3)   All other land uses will be reviewed and considered carefully by
the Plan Commission. Mixed uses will be considered and are encouraged when
appropriate. All land uses proposed in a PD must be non-conflicting and in the
spirit of the previous zoning district and surrounding land uses and zoning
districts.
   (C)   Miscellaneous standards.
      (1)   Minimum land area: 20 acres to qualify for any PD;
      (2)   Minimum overall lot frontage: 300 feet on a single public street
with access from said public street;
      (3)   Maximum lot coverage: square feet of all primary and secondary
structures, and impervious surface cannot exceed 65% of the lot area;
      (4)   Minimum floor area: based on zoning district prior to rezoning to a
PD District;
      (5)   Maximum structure height:
         (a)   Forty feet for the primary structure; and
         (b)   Twenty feet for accessory structures.
      (6)   Minimum open space:
         (a)   Thirty percent for residential based planned developments; and
         (b)   Fifteen percent for commercial based planned developments.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 8.1)
§ 156.156  GENERAL.
   Planned developments are a special district that can be petitioned for by a
land owner or developer.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 8.2)
§ 156.157  REZONING TO A PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT.
   (A)   Planned Development Districts can only be created from the R2, R3, R5,
OC, C1 and C2 Zoning Districts. From each of these zoning districts (called
base zones during the petition process), the following Planned Development
Districts can be created once the development plans are approved by the Plan
Commission. They are:
      (1)   R2 Districts can only be rezoned to PD-R2;
      (2)   R3 Districts can only be rezoned to PD-R3;
      (3)   R5 Districts can only be rezoned to PD-R5;
      (4)   OC Districts can only be rezoned to PD-OC;
      (5)   C1 Districts can only be rezoned to PD-C1; and
      (6)   C2 Districts can only be rezoned to PD-C2
   (B)   No other zoning district can be rezoned directly to a PD District. A
petitioner may first ask that a property be rezoned to a zoning district that
allows PD Districts. Further, if a petitioner wants a PD district based on a
different base zone a successful rezoning request to change the existing zoning
district to the preferred base zone must first be accomplished.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 8.3)
§ 156.158  PLANNED DEVELOPMENT USES
   Planned developments may contain mixed uses. Depending on the previous
zoning (or base zone) the maximum overall square footage allowed by type is as
follows:
 
Base Zone New District Residential Commercial Manufacturing
R2        PD-R2        100%        15%        0%
R3        PD-R3        100%        20%        0%
R5        PD-R5        100%        50%        0%
OC        PD-OC        50%         70%        0%
C1        PD-C1        40%         100%       0%
C2        PD-C2        0%          40%        80%
 
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 8.4)
§ 156.159  ORIGINATION OF PROPOSALS.
   Any person or group of persons may propose a Planned Development District in
accordance with the procedures hereinafter established. Further, the person or
group of persons making such proposal intends to act as developer or sponsor of
the development. A parcel or site proposed for a planned development need not
be under single ownership. However, if not under single ownership, the multiple
owners must have a contractual agreement to not developed separately, but in
accordance with a single, unitary plan, and in which the separate owners have
given their expressed intentions to enter into such private agreements and
assure its completion as planned to the satisfaction of the Commission.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 8.5)
§ 156.160  GENERAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The general procedure for establishing a PD is as follows.
      (1)   The petitioner to meet informally with the Planned Development Sub-
Committee to discuss general concepts of the development and to make sure
petitioner understands the process. This step is optional, but strongly
encouraged.
      (2)   The petitioner develops the preliminary development plans and plat
for all land involved in the PD.
      (3)   The petitioner files for rezoning to the PD classification and
submits the preliminary development plan and plat to the Plan Commission.
      (4)   The Planned Development Sub-Committee will review the preliminary
development plan and then meet with the petitioner within 35 days to make
comments.
      (5)   The petitioner will revise the plans (if necessary) and submit the
final development plan to the Plan Commission.
      (6)   The Plan Commission will schedule a public hearing for the rezoning
of the property and for review of the final development plan. The Plan
Commission will give a favorable or unfavorable recommendation to the Town
Council to grant the rezoning and final development plan.
      (7)   If the Plan Commission gives an unfavorable recommendation, the
petitioner may revise the final development plan and resubmit the information
or continue with the process with the Town Council with the unfavorable
decision of the Plan Commission.
      (8)   If the Plan Commission gives a favorable recommendation, the Town
Council will, at its following regularly scheduled meeting, review the rezoning
petition and final development plan and vote to approve or disapprove.
      (9)   If the Town Council disapproves the rezoning and final development
plan, the petitioner must wait one year before resubmitting another petition or
development plan.
      (10)   If the Town Council approves the rezoning and final development
plan, the land is officially rezoned and the petitioner may move forward with
the detailed plan approval process.
      (11)   The official zoning map must be amended to reflect the zoning
change, date of approval by the Town Council, and the Town Council case number.
      (12)   The petitioner shall submit the detailed plan 30 days prior to a
scheduled Plan Commission meeting for their review.
      (13)   When approved, the detailed plan will be stamped and signed by the
Plan Commission President and Secretary. The petitioner may begin site
development and procedures for building permits.
      (14)   All agreements shall be recorded as covenants with the County
Recorder and be clearly stated that they are enforceable by, as a minimum, the
Plan Commission.
      (15)   Upon 100% completion of the development the public properties
shall be deeded over to the community as per agreements. Also, the Plan
Commission or representative(s) will review the completed project for
compliance to the agreement.
   (B)   Detailed descriptions of each general step outlined above are written
in more detail in the following sections of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 8.6)
§ 156.161  FILING PROCEDURE.
   The authorization of a planned development (PD) shall be subject to the
following procedures.
   (A)   First, a petition for rezoning to the PD classification shall be
submitted. Said petition shall be signed by the owner or owners of all real
estate involved in the petition for the planned development, or shall have
attached thereto letters of consent to change to a PD classification by all
such owners prior to the filing.
   (B)   The petition shall include a preliminary development plan and plat for
any area proposed for development as a planned development. The petition,
preliminary development plan and plat shall be filed with the Plan Commission
for review at their next available, regularly scheduled meeting.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 8.7)
§ 156.162  PRELIMINARY DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   The following shall be included in the preliminary development plan:
      (1)   Proposed layout of streets, open space and other basic elements of
the plan;
      (2)   General description of, location of and types of structures on the
site;
      (3)   Proposals for handling traffic, parking, sewage disposal, drainage,
tree preservation and removal, lighting, signage, landscaping and other
pertinent development features;
      (4)   A separate location map, to scale, shall show the boundary lines of
adjacent land and the existing zoning of the area proposed to be developed as
well as the adjacent land;
      (5)   A general statement of the covenants to be made a part of the
planned development as well as the order and estimated time of development;
      (6)   A statement of the proposed order of development of the major
elements of the project, including whether the development will be in phases
and, if so, the order and content of each phase; and
      (7)   The land use categories within the development, including proposed
densities of said uses.
   (B)   The preliminary development plan shall be presented to the Planned
Development Sub-Committee of the Plan Commission for their review and comment,
to a scale ratio not to exceed 100 feet equals one inch. The preliminary plan
may include any additional graphics which will explain the features of the
development.
   (C)   Within 35 days after filing, the Planned Development Sub-Committee
shall consult with the petitioner regarding the petition and review all
comments. After such consultation the petitioner may make modifications to the
petition.
   (D)   After consultation with the Planned Development Sub-Committee and
after making any modifications to the proposed preliminary plans, the
petitioner shall file the proposed “final development plan”.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 8.8)
§ 156.163  FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   The final development plan shall:
   (A)   Include all documents included in the preliminary development plan, as
updated and/or amended;
   (B)   Include an index identifying all documents included in the preliminary
development plan;
   (C)   Include a cover sheet indicating that it is the final development plan
and indicating the date and case number; and
   (D)   Be bound together and all documents submitted on paper eight and one-
half inches by 11 inches in dimension, except for the maps, sketches, plans and
conceptual plat(s) which must be folded to eight and one-half inches by 11
inches.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 8.9)
§ 156.164  FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN HEARING.
   The petition, as modified, shall be reviewed by the Plan Commission. The
Commission may recommend approval, amendment or disapproval of the plan and may
impose any reasonable condition(s) with a recommendation for approval. If
approval is recommended, the final development plan shall be stamped “approved
final development plan” and be signed by the President and Secretary of the
Plan Commission. Once recorded a copy of the recorded documents shall be
permanently retained in the office of the Commission.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 8.10)
§ 156.165  APPROVAL OF DETAILED PLAN.
   (A)   Before development can occur, the petitioner shall present to the Plan
Commission a detailed plan specifying the location, composition, and general
engineering features of all lots, drainage, sewage, water supply facilities,
recreation facilities, site perimeter treatment, landscape plan and other site
development features including locations of proposed buildings. The Commission
shall then approve, amend or disapprove said detailed plans by motion, upon an
affirmative finding that the detailed plan is consistent with the approved
final development plan. Having so approved the detailed plan, the Commission
shall have no further authority to review or act thereon, except as to
enforcement, or the review of an amendatory ordinance, or as hereafter provided
for.
   (B)   The approved detailed plan shall be stamped “approved detailed plan”
and be signed by the President and Secretary of the Plan Commission with one
copy permanently retained in the office of the Plan Commission.
   (C)   Approval of the detailed plan shall be obtained within one year of the
adoption of the approved final development plan.
   (D)   The Zoning Administrator may from time to time approve minor
modifications of the approved detailed plan in a manner consistent with the
approved final development plan. Such modifications shall not include any
increase in density, any reduction in aesthetic treatments, any alteration of
frontage or general building location, any change in type of use or any change
in access points.
   (E)   The approved final development plan may provide for development of the
property in phases. If such phasing is included as a part of the approval of
the final development plan, the petitioner may submit partial detailed plans
which correspond to the phases involved. Such partial detailed plans, when
approved, shall be treated in the same manner as approved detailed plans for an
entire planned development.
   (F)   Approval of the detailed plan shall expire after a period of two years
from the approved phasing of the final development plan unless the development
is 75% complete in terms of public improvements including streets, parks,
walkways, utility installations and sanitary sewers or is consistent with the
approved phasing schedule. Determination of the amount of completion shall be
made by the Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 8.11)
§ 156.166  COVENANTS AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Covenants, when required by the Commission, shall be set forth in
detail. Furthermore, covenants shall provide for a provision for the release of
such restriction by execution of a document so stating and suitable for
recording signatures of the Commission President and Secretary upon
authorization by the Commission and signatures of all the owners of property in
the area involved in the petition for whose benefit the covenant was created.
Such covenants shall provide that their benefits be specifically enforceable by
the Commission. An executed recorded copy shall be provided to and maintained
in the Plan Commission office.
   (B)   The Commission shall require the recording of covenants by the County
Recorder for any reasonable public or semi-public purpose, including, but not
limited to, the allocation of land by the petitioner for public thoroughfares,
parks, schools, recreational facilities and other public and semi-public
purposes, as part of the platting process or via an other suitable legal
instrument.
   (C)   The Commission may require the recording of covenants based upon the
approved detailed plan for any other reasonable purpose, including but not
limited to, imposing development standards.  Such development standards may
include, but are not limited to, requirements as to the following:
      (1)   Lot area;
      (2)   Floor area;
      (3)   Ratios of floor space to land space;
      (4)   Area in which structures may be built (“buildable area”);
      (5)   Open space;
      (6)   Setback lines and minimum rear yards;
      (7)   Building separations;
      (8)   Height of structures;
      (9)   Signs;
      (10)   Off-street parking and loading space;
      (11)   Design standards; and
      (12)   Phasing of development.
   (D)   The petitioner shall be required to provide financial assurance for
the satisfactory installation of all public facilities in the form of bonds or
such other assurances as are required in the normal procedures of platting
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   Adequate provision shall be made for a private organization (i.e.,
homeowners associations) with direct responsibility to, and control by, the
property owners involved to provide for the operation and maintenance of all
common facilities if such facilities are a part of the planned development,
and, in such instance legal assurances shall be provided which show that the
private organization is self-perpetuating.
   (F)   All common facilities not dedicated to the public shall be maintained
by the aforementioned private organization in such a manner that adequate
access is provided at all times to vehicular traffic so that fire, police,
health, sanitation and public utility vehicles can serve the properties
contiguous or adjacent thereto, and so that said vehicles will have adequate
turning area. All streets and roadways not dedicated to the public shall be
operated and maintained at no expense to any governmental unit.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 8.12)
§ 156.167  RECORDING.
   (A)   All approved detailed plans, covenants, commitments, plats and
modifications thereof shall be recorded in the office of the County Recorder’s
office within 60 days after approval.
   (B)   Where upon completion of all development, the exact measurements, as
to the location of buildings, roads, infrastructure and structures erected
during the development, are deemed desirable for public record by recording,
the developer will submit a copy of the “approved detailed plan” with the exact
measurements. Once verified by the Plan Commission that the exact measurements
are substantially the same as indicated on the original approved detailed plan,
the Plan Commission shall reapprove, date and sign said amended approved
detailed plan, which the developer may then record.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 8.13)
§ 156.168  PERMITS.
   An improvement location permit shall be issued for all improvements proposed
by the planned development with full compliance to the approved detailed plan
once the plans have been recorded and two copies have been provided to the
Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 8.14)
§ 156.169  CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   No construction or installation work shall commence on any public
improvements until satisfactory plans and specifications have been submitted to
the Plan Commission and until the petitioner provides, at least 48 hours in
advance, notice to the Town Engineer or entity having jurisdiction of the
public facility, in order that inspections may be made as the work progresses.
   (B)   All development shall be in conformity with the approved detailed plan
and any material deviations from the approved detailed plan shall be subject to
appropriate enforcement action.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 8.15)
§ 156.170  EXTENSION, ABANDONMENT, EXPIRATION.
   (A)   An extension, not to exceed 12 months, for accomplishing any matters
set forth within this subchapter may be granted by the Plan Commission for good
cause shown.
   (B)   (1)   Upon the abandonment of a development authorized under this
section (abandonment shall be deemed to have occurred when no or minimal
improvements have been made pursuant to the approved detailed plan for nine (8)
consecutive months), or upon the expiration of three years from the approval of
the detailed plan for a development which has not been completed, the land will
revert to the base zoning district.
      (2)   The Plan Commission may grant up to a 12-month extension.
      (3)   If an extension for expiration is granted such extension shall be
recorded.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 8.16)
§ 156.171  RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   All proceedings brought under this section shall be subject to the rules of
procedure of the Plan Commission, where not described otherwise herein.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 8.17)
§ 156.172  LIMITATION OF REZONING.
   (A)   Any initiative of the Plan Commission to amend this chapter or
Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances, and that would affect an approved planned
development before its completion, shall not be enforced on the planned
development.
   (B)   Only in the case that the planned development is no longer in
conformity with the approved detailed plan or is not proceeding in accordance
with the time requirements imposed herein or by agreement, will the new
amendments of this chapter or
Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances apply.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 8.18)
SIGN REGULATIONS
§ 156.185  INTENT.
   The intent of this subchapter is to further the goals of the Comprehensive
Plan; avoid the proliferation of signage; encourage simplicity and readability
of signs; encourage signs to be compatible with the scale of buildings and the
surrounding area; to maintain and enhance the aesthetic environment of the
town; eliminate potential hazards to motorists and pedestrians resulting form
signs; and, promote the health, safety and welfare of the town.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 10.1)
§ 156.186  SIGN REGULATIONS THAT APPLY.
   Under the sections below are sign regulations which are arranged by type. To
determine which sign types apply to the subject zoning district, refer to the
“additional standards that apply” divisions for each zoning district. The four
digit codes noted in the “additional standards that apply” sections for each
zoning district can be found in the sections below. Only the four-digit codes
noted in the “additional standards that apply” division apply to that zoning
district.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 10.2)
§ 156.187  GENERAL SIGN STANDARDS (GS).
   GS-01: except as otherwise provided herein, it shall be unlawful for any
person to erect, construct, enlarge, move or covert any sign, or change the
permanent copy on an existing sign structure within the jurisdiction of the
town’s Advisory Plan Commission, or cause the same to be done without first
obtaining a sign permit from the Plan Commission.
   (A)   Inspection. Signs for which a permit is required may be inspected
periodically by the Plan Commission or Zoning Administrator for compliance with
this chapter and other codes of the town.
   (B)   Removal of sign.
      (1)   The Plan Commission or Zoning Administrator may order the removal
of any sign erected or maintained in violation of this subchapter. A 30 days’
written notice shall be given to the owner or business operator describing the
violation and to remove the sign or bring it into compliance. A three-day
notice shall be given for temporary or portable signs. The Plan Commission or
Zoning Administrator may remove a sign immediately and without notice if the
condition of the sign presents an immediate threat to the safety of the public.
      (2)   Any cost associated with signs removed by the Plan Commission and/
or his or her agent, pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter, shall be
reimbursed by the owner of said sign. Should said sign not be redeemed within
60 days of its removal, it may be disposed of in any manner deemed appropriate
by the town.
   (C)   Maintenance. All signs and components thereof shall be kept in good
repair and in safe, neat, clean and attractive condition. If failure to
maintain a sign is determined by the Plan Commission or Zoning Administrator, a
written notice will be given to the owner, business operator or lessee of the
property. Thirty days shall be given to the owner, business operator or lessee
of the property to comply to the regulations. After 30 days, if the owner/
business operator fails to comply, penalties shall be imposed according to §
156.999 of this chapter.
   (D)   Abandoned signs. A sign shall be removed by the owner of lessee of the
premises upon which the sign is located when the business which it advertises
is no longer conducted on the premises. If the owner or lessee fails to remove
the sign, the Plan Commission or Zoning Administrator shall give the owner 30
days written notice to remove it. Upon failure to comply with this notice, the
Plan Commission or Zoning Administrator may remove the sign at cost to the
property owner or lessee.
   (E)   Illuminated signs. All illuminated signs must meet the standards as
specified in the state’s Electrical Code, as adopted and amended by the state.
In addition, all illuminated signs shall comply with the following standards.
      (1)   No sign shall have blinking, flashing or fluttering lights, nor
shall any device be utilized which has a changing light intensity, brightness
or color, or give such illusion.
      (2)   The full number of illuminating elements shall be kept in
satisfactory working condition and immediately repaired or replaced if damaged
or burned out. Signs that are only partially illuminated shall meet all
electrical requirements for that portion directly illuminated.
      (3)   All electrical wiring for permanent signs shall be in conduit. All
electricity for signs shall have a disconnecting switch located in a readily
accessible place.
      (4)   The direct or reflected light from a primary light source shall not
create a traffic hazard to operators of motor vehicles on public and/or private
roadways.
      (5)   The light from any illuminated sign shall be so shaded, shielded or
directed such that the light intensity or brightness will not be objectionable
to the surrounding properties. No light shall shine directly onto adjacent
property.
   (F)   Exempt signs. The following signs are exempt from all provisions of
this chapter.
      (1)   Flags of any country, state, unit of local government, institution
of higher learning or similar institutional flags. No commercial messages or
logos are permitted on such flags.
      (2)   Names of building, date of erection, monumental citations,
commemorative tablets and the like when carved into stone, concrete or similar
material or made of bronze, aluminum or other permanent type construction and
made an integral part of the structure. No commercial messages or logos are
permitted on such integral signs.
      (3)   Public signs of a non-commercial nature and in the public interest
erected by or on the order of public officer(s) in the performance of public
duty, such as signs to promote safety, no trespassing, or traffic signs,
memorial plaques, signs of historical interest and signs directing people to
public and quasi-public facilities.
      (4)   Utility signs are permitted to mark cables and lines for public and
private utilities, except if determined to be a hazard by the Plan Commission.
      (5)   Seasonal or holiday signs, including lighting erected in connection
with the observance of holidays; provided that, such signs shall be removed no
later than 30 days following the holiday.
   (G)   Prohibited signs. The following types signs are expressly prohibited
in all zoning districts:
      (1)   Signs that utilize any motion picture, laser or visual projection
of images or copy in conjunction with any business or advertisement;
      (2)   Signs that emit audible sound, odor or visible matter;
      (3)   Signs that purport to be or are in imitation of, or resemble an
official traffic sign or signal or which bear the words “stop”, “slow”,
“caution”, “danger”, “warning” or similar words;
      (4)   Signs that may be construed as a light of an emergency or road
equipment vehicle;
      (5)   Signs that hide from view any traffic or roadway sign, signal or
device;
      (6)   Signs that interfere with the vision clearance area, as defined in
§
156.135 of this chapter;
      (7)   Signs that obstruct any door, fire escape, stairway or any opening
intended to provide entrance or exit for any building or structure; and
      (8)   Any sign that is not expressly permitted in this subchapter.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 10.3)
§ 156.188  TEMPORARY SIGN STANDARDS (TS).
   (A)   TS-01: the following temporary signs shall be permitted. No
freestanding sign shall be located within the vision clearance area.
Freestanding signs shall be a minimum of ten feet from edge of pavement. A
temporary sign permit is required unless otherwise specified.
      (1)   One non-commercial freestanding sign no larger than 12 square feet.
Real estate or garage/yard sale signs are considered non-commercial for the
purpose of this subchapter in addition to all other non-commercial signs. No
permit is required.
      (2)   One sign not more than 20 square feet in area pertaining to the
sale of agricultural products raised on the premises.
      (3)   One sign not over 64 square feet in area advertising the sale of
property in a subdivision under the following conditions.
         (a)   Such sign shall be located on some portion of the subdivision
being advertised for sale.
         (b)   Such sign shall be maintained only during such time as some
portion of the land advertised for sale remains unsold.
         (c)   Permit issued shall be issued for one-year periods and may be
renewed for additional one-year periods to allow time for reasonable display.
   (B)   TS-02: the following temporary signs shall be permitted. No
freestanding sign shall be located within the vision clearance area.
Freestanding signs shall be a minimum of ten feet from edge of pavement. A
temporary sign permit is required unless otherwise specified.
      (1)   One non-commercial freestanding sign no larger than 32 square feet.
Real estate or signs for an event of public interest (e.g., county fair or
church event) are considered non-commercial for the purpose of this subchapter
in addition to all other non-commercial signs. No permit is required.
      (2)   Streamers and pennants are permitted for grand openings or special
promotions. Such signs shall only be permitted under the following conditions.
         (a)   Such device shall not be not be used for a time to exceed 30
days in a six-month period.
         (b)   Such device shall not contain any flashing lights at anytime.
      (3)   Portable signs and banners are permitted for grand openings or
special promotions under the following conditions.
         (a)   Such sign shall not be not be used for a time to exceed 30 days
in a six-month period.
         (b)   Such sign shall not exceed 32 square feet.
         (c)   One portable sign is permitted per street frontage.
         (d)   Such sign shall not contain any flashing lights at anytime.
         (e)   Such sign shall not exceed nine feet in height.
      (4)   Off-site directional associated with a grand opening or special
promotion not to exceed six square feet or three feet in height. Such signs are
only permitted for the duration of the grand opening or special promotion.
      (5)   Construction signs are permitted only during under the following
conditions.
         (a)   Such sign shall not exceed 32 square feet in area.
         (b)   Such sign shall be permitted for the duration of the
construction period only.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 10.4)
§ 156.189  PERMANENT SIGN STANDARDS (PS).
   (A)   PS-01: the following signs shall be permitted. All signs require a
permit unless otherwise specified. No freestanding sign shall be located within
the vision clearance area. Freestanding signs shall be a minimum of 15 feet
from edge of pavement. No sign shall be located in the right-of-way without
approval of Town Council.
      (1)   One nameplate sign not exceeding a combined area of one square foot
in area is permitted on the primary structure. No permit is required. No
illumination is permitted.
      (2)   One sign in conjunction with a legally permitted home occupation is
permitted. Said sign must not exceed four square feet and shall not be
illuminated. No permit is required.
      (3)   Gateway signs for subdivisions in conjunction with a legally
permitted subdivision. Two signs are permitted per entrance. Said signs shall
not exceed six feet in height. Maximum size shall be 50 square feet in area.
      (4)   The following signs shall be permitted for institutional uses and
parklands. All signs require a permit unless otherwise specified. No
freestanding sign shall be located within the vision clearance area. No sign
shall be located in the right-of-way without approval of Town Council.
         (a)   One ground sign per entrance in conjunction with a legal
permitted use not exceeding six feet in height and 32 square feet in area. The
sign shall be located a minimum of 15 feet from edge of pavement.
         (b)   One wall sign in conjunction with a legal permitted use not
exceeding 24 square feet in area.
         (c)   Directional signs no more than three feet in height and no more
than six square feet. No permit is required.
         (d)   No illuminated sign shall be permitted within 50 feet of any
residential district unless it is so designed that it does not shed light on to
the district.
   (B)   PS-02: the following signs shall be permitted. All signs require a
permit unless otherwise specified. No freestanding sign shall be located within
the vision clearance area. Freestanding signs shall be a minimum of 15 feet
from edge of pavement. No sign shall be located in the right-of-way without
approval of Town Council.
      (1)   One nameplate sign not exceeding one square foot in area is
permitted per dwelling unit. No permit is required. No illumination is
permitted.
      (2)   One sign in conjunction with a legally permitted home occupation is
permitted per dwelling unit. Said sign must not exceed two square feet and
shall not be illuminated. No permit is required.
      (3)   Identity signs for multi-family projects or manufactured home parks
in conjunction with a legally permitted use. Two signs are permitted per
entrance. Said signs shall not exceed six feet in height. Maximum size shall be
50 square feet in area.
      (4)   The following signs shall be permitted for institutional uses and
parklands. All signs require a permit unless otherwise specified. No
freestanding sign shall be located within the vision clearance area. No sign
shall be located in the right-of-way without approval of Town Council.
         (a)   One ground sign per entrance in conjunction with a legal
permitted use not exceeding six feet in height and 32 square feet in area. The
sign shall be located a minimum of 15 feet from edge of pavement.
         (b)   One wall sign in conjunction with a legal permitted use not
exceeding 24 square feet in area.
         (c)   Directional signs no more than three feet in height and no more
than six square feet. No permit is required.
         (d)   No illuminated sign shall be permitted within 50 feet of any
residential district unless it is so designed that it does not shed light on to
the district.
   (C)   PS-03: the following signs shall be permitted. All signs require a
permit unless otherwise specified:
      (1)   Total sign area allowed per lot: one and one-fourth times the
length of building that faces the road equals the amount of signage allowed per
lot. For example: if a building is 100 feet wide, then 125 square feet of
signage would be allowed for the lot. Any combination of signs permitted under
this section may be used as long as they do not exceed the total area allowed
per lot. In addition, the following maximums apply.
         (a)   Under no circumstance may a ground sign exceed 80 square feet.
         (b)   Under no circumstance shall the total square footage of all
other signs exceed 100 square feet.
      (2)   Wall sign: wall signs shall be flushed to the building;
      (3)   Awning sign;
      (4)   Ground sign: one ground sign per lot not to exceed nine feet in
height. Sign area must be within the total sign area allotted per lot. Sign
shall be placed a minimum of ten feet from right-of-way. No sign shall be
located within the right-of-way without approval from Town Council.
      (5)   Window signs: non-illuminated window signs not exceeding 25% of the
window area are permitted. No permit is required. Illuminated window signs
containing a commercial message that can be seen from the road shall be counted
toward the total sign area.
      (6)   Directional signs: directional signs no more than three feet in
height and no more than six square feet. No permit is required and they shall
not be counted toward the total area allowed per lot.
      (7)   Illumination: no illuminated sign shall be permitted within 50 feet
of any residential district unless it is so designed that it does not shed
light on to the district.
   (D)   PS-04: the following signs shall be permitted. All signs require a
permit unless otherwise specified:
      (1)   Total sign area allowed per lot: one and one-half times the length
of building that faces the road equals the amount of signage permitted per lot.
For example: if a building is 100 feet wide, then 150 square feet of signage
would be permitted per lot. Any combination of signs permitted under this
section may be used as long as they do not exceed the total area allowed per
lot. In addition, the following maximums apply.
         (a)   Under no circumstance may a freestanding sign (or ground sign)
exceed 150 square feet.
         (b)   Under no circumstance shall the total square footage of all
other signs exceed 200 square feet.
      (2)   Wall signs: wall signs shall be flushed to the building;
      (3)   Awning sign;
      (4)   Freestanding signs: one freestanding sign per lot not to exceed 20
feet in height. Sign shall be placed a minimum of ten feet from the right-of-
way. Sign area must be within the total sign area allowed per lot;
      (5)   Window signs: non-illuminated window signs not exceeding 50% of the
window area are permitted. No permit is required. Illuminated window signs
containing a commercial message that can be seen from the road shall be counted
toward the total sign area.
      (6)   Bonus: if a ground sign of not more than nine feet in height is
used instead of a freestanding sign. The sign area allowed per lot may be
increased to two times the length of the building. For example: if the length
of the building is 100 feet, then the total area allowed per lot would be 200
square feet. The ground sign shall be placed a minimum of ten feet from right-
of-way.
      (7)   Directional signs: directional signs no more than three feet in
height and no more than six square feet. No permit is required and they shall
not be counted toward the total area allowed per lot.
      (8)   Illumination: no illuminated sign shall be permitted within 50 feet
of any residential district unless it is so designed that it does not shed
light on to the district.
   (E)   PS-05: the following signs shall be permitted. All signs require a
permit unless otherwise specified:
      (1)   Total sign area allowed per lot: two times the length of building
that faces the road equals the amount of signage permitted per lot. For
example: if a building is 100 feet wide, then 200 square feet of signage would
be permitted per lot. Any combination of signs permitted under this section may
be used as long as they do not exceed the total area allowed per lot. In
addition, the following maximums apply.
         (a)   Under no circumstance may a freestanding sign (or ground sign)
exceed 200 square feet.
         (b)   Under no circumstance shall the total square footage of all
other signs exceed 250 square feet.
      (2)   Wall signs: wall signs shall be flushed to the building;
      (3)   Awning sign;
      (4)   Freestanding signs: one freestanding sign per lot not to exceed 20
feet in height. Sign shall be placed a minimum of ten feet from the right-of-
way. Sign area must be within the total sign area allowed per lot;
      (5)   Window signs: non-illuminated window signs not exceeding 50% of the
window area are permitted. No permit is required and they shall not be counted
toward the total sign area. Illuminated window signs containing a commercial
message that can be seen from the road shall be counted toward the total sign
area;
      (6)   Bonus: if a ground sign of not more than nine feet in height is
used instead of a freestanding sign. The sign area allowed per lot may be
increased to 2.3 times the length of the building. For example if the length of
the building is 100 feet, then the total area allowed per lot would be 230
square feet. The ground sign shall be placed a minimum of ten feet from right-
of-way;
      (7)   Directional signs: directional signs no more than three feet in
height and no more than six square feet. No permit is required and they shall
not be counted toward the total area allowed per lot; and
      (8)   Illumination: no illuminated sign shall be permitted within 50 feet
of any residential district unless it is so designed that it does not shed
light on to the district.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 10.5)
NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURES, LOTS AND USES
§ 156.200  INTENT.
   (A)   Upon adoption of this chapter and zoning map, some buildings,
structures, lots, and uses may no longer conform to the regulations of the
zoning district that they are located.
   (B)   For this reason, this subchapter has been generated to provide the
rules, policies and regulations that apply to these buildings, structures, lots
and uses referred to as “legal non-conforming”.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 11.1)
§ 156.201  DISTINCTION BETWEEN ILLEGAL AND LEGAL NON-CONFORMING.
   (A)   A building, structure or lot which was constructed or is being used
without an approved building permit, improvement location permit or approval
from the BZA or Plan Commission is considered illegal non-conforming. An
illegal non-conforming property shall be subject to actions and penalties
allowed by this chapter and all other applicable town/township law and shall be
altered to conform with all applicable standards and regulations of this
chapter. Further, an illegal non-conforming building, structure, lot or use is
created at the fault of the owner, tenant or property manager.
   (B)   Legal non-conforming differs from illegal non-conforming in that the
reason for the non- conformance is caused by a change to this chapter. The
building, structure, lot or use has not changed, but due to the chapter change,
the property no longer conforms to the policies and standards of the zoning
district in which the property resides. When this situation occurs, the
property is deemed legal non-conforming or another term commonly used is
“grandfathered”.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 11.2)
§ 156.202  NON-CONFORMING BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Any continuously occupied, lawfully established structure or building
prior to the effective date of this chapter, or its subsequent amendments, that
no longer meets the design standards due to the reasons listed below shall be
deemed a legal non-conforming building(s) or structure(s).
   (B)   Legal non-conforming building(s) or structure(s) no longer meet one or
more of the following development standards of this chapter:
      (1)   Front, side and rear yard setbacks;
      (2)   Maximum lot coverage;
      (3)   Minimum main floor area;
      (4)   Minimum finished floor area;
      (5)   Height;
      (6)   Temporary structures;
      (7)   Landscaping;
      (8)   Parking;
      (9)   Accessory structures; and
      (10)   And any other provision of this chapter that is applicable to the
building or structure.
   (C)   A legal non-conforming building or structure may continue provided
that it remains the same or fits within the below described tolerances.
      (1)   Any legal non-conforming building(s) or structure(s) shall not be
enlarged or altered in a manner that increases its non-conformity but any
building(s) or structure(s) or portion thereof may be altered to decrease it
non-conformity.
      (2)   Any legal non-conforming building(s) or structure(s) which is
damaged or destroyed by more than 75% of its fair market value shall thereafter
conform to the regulations of the district in which it is located. All primary
residential structures are exempt from this (the 75%) rule.
      (3)   If a building or structure is moved for any reason, for any
distance, it shall thereafter conform to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 11.3)
§ 156.203  NON-CONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD.
   (A)   All legally established and recorded lots prior to the effective date
of this chapter, or its subsequent amendments, that no longer meet the lot
standards listed below shall be deemed a legal non- conforming lot of record.
   (B)   A legal non-conforming lot of record no longer meets one or more of
the following lot standards of this chapter:
      (1)   Lot area;
      (2)   Lot width;
      (3)   Lot depth;
      (4)   Lot frontage; and
      (5)   Any other provision of this chapter that is applicable to lots.
   (C)   Legal non-conforming lots of record may be built upon only if the
proposed use is permitted and all development standards of the applicable
zoning district of this chapter are met.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 11.4)
§ 156.204  NON-CONFORMING USES OF STRUCTURES, LAND OR STRUCTURES AND LAND IN
COMBINATION.
   (A)   Any continuous, lawful use of structures, land or structures and land
in combination established prior to the effective date of this chapter or its
subsequent amendments that is no longer a permitted use in the district where
it is located shall be deemed a legal non-conforming use.
   (B)   A legal non-conforming use may continue; provided, that it remains
otherwise lawful, subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   No existing structure devoted to a legal non-conforming use shall
be enlarged, expanded, increased, extended, constructed, reconstructed, moved
or structurally altered, except as to change the use of the structure to a use
permitted in the district in which it is located or as otherwise specified in
this chapter.
      (2)   No building or structure shall be constructed in connection with an
existing legal non- conforming use of land.
      (3)   Any legal non-conforming use of a structure may be extended
throughout any parts of a building which were plainly arranged or designed for
such use at the effective date of this chapter or its subsequent amendments,
but no such use shall be extended to occupy any land outside the building.
      (4)   In the case of a legal non-conforming use of structure, the
structure may be expanded two times only. Each of the two expansions may not
exceed 10% of the existing floor area. The expansion shall conform to all
applicable development standards except for landscaping, unless a variance of
developmental standards is received from the Board of Zoning Appeals. If the
structure is a commercial or industrial use in a residential district, §
156.132’s PK-03, PK-04 and PK-05 shall be used for parking standards.
      (5)   If no structural alterations are made, a legal non-conforming use
of structure or structure and land in combination may be changed to another
legal non-conforming use; provided that, the zoning administrator shall make
specific findings that the proposed use is equally appropriate or more
appropriate to the district than the existing legal non-conforming use. With
the exception that if the new use requires more parking or loading area than
the previous use, such new use will comply with the requirements of §§
156.132 and
156.133 of this chapter, unless a variance from developmental standards is
granted by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (6)   If a legal non-conforming use is discontinued or abandoned for six
consecutive months, except when government action impedes access to the
premises, any subsequent use of such land, structure or land and structure
shall conform to the provisions of this chapter.
      (7)   When a legal non-conforming use is superseded by a permitted use,
it shall thereafter conform to regulations of the district, the legal non-
conforming use may not thereafter be resumed.
      (8)   Where a legal non-conforming use applies to a structure and land in
combination, removal or destruction of the structure shall eliminate the non-
conforming structure of the land. Destruction is defined as damage of more than
75% of its fair market value at the time of destruction.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 11.5)
§ 156.205  NON-CONFORMING SIGNS.
   The following applies to legal non-conforming signs.
   (A)   Signs which existed prior to the time this chapter was passed and were
in conformance with previous ordinances will be legally non-conforming until
such time a major change is made to the sign. Major changes include changing
the copy, changing the size, changing the height, adding lights and/or
relocation.
   (B)   All non-conforming signs shall be kept in good repair, safe, neat,
clean and attractive condition. In the event non-conforming signs are not kept
in said condition or are demolished by any force whatsoever to the extent of
50% or more of the fair market value of the sign structure, said signs shall
then be made to conform to this chapter.
   (C)   Non-conforming signs which are structurally altered, relocated or
replaced shall comply immediately with all provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 11.6)
§ 156.206  REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   The following applies to legal non-conforming structures or buildings, and
legal non-conforming uses of structures, or structures and land in combination.
   (A)   Work may be done for ordinary repairs or replacement of walls,
heating, fixtures, wiring or plumbing; under the condition that the cubic
content existing when the structure became non-conforming shall not be
increased.
   (B)   If a structure or portion of a structure were to become unsafe or
condemned due to lack of repairs or maintenance, and is declared by an
authorized official to be unsafe or condemned due to physical condition; the
building or structure shall be restored, repaired or rebuilt within six months
of the declaration. If the improvements have not been made within the six
months, all future improvements must conform to all standards and regulations
within this chapter.
   (C)   If a building or structure becomes unsafe or unlawful due to physical
condition and is razed, the building or structure shall be rebuilt in
conformity with the district in which it is located.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening,
repairing or restoring to a safe condition of any building or structure or part
thereof declared to be unsafe by any official charged with protecting public
safety upon order of such official.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 11.7)
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
§ 156.220  MEMBERSHIP.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals (BZA) shall consist of and continue as a five-
member Board. Members shall be appointed pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-902.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 12.1)
§ 156.221  OFFICERS, MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Following his or her initial appointment to the BZA, each member shall
be appointed for a term of four years. Each term shall expire at midnight on
December 31 of the fourth year of the four-year term; however, members of the
Board of Zoning Appeals shall serve until his or her successor is appointed and
seated.
   (B)   At its first regularly scheduled meeting in each calendar year, the
Board shall select from its membership a Chairperson and a Vice Chairperson for
a one year term.
   (C)   The Vice Chairperson shall have the authority to act as chairman of
the Board during the absence or disability of the Chairperson.
   (D)   Upon resignation or replacement of the Chairperson or Vice Chairperson
as a member of the Board, the Board shall elect a successor at its next
regularly scheduled meeting.
   (E)   The Board shall appoint and fix the duties of a secretary, who is not
required to be a member of the Board. The Secretary shall be charged with such
duties as required under state statutes, town ordinances and these rules.
   (F)   If a vacancy occurs among the members of the Board, the appointing
authority shall appoint a member for the unexpired term of the vacating member.
The appointing authority shall be notified in writing by the Secretary when a
member has been absent for three consecutive meetings of the Board. Such
absences may constitute cause for removal from the Board by the appointing
authority under I.C. 36-7-4-906(f).
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 12.2)
§ 156.222  TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall have jurisdiction over all the land
subject to this chapter.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 12.3)
§ 156.223  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall have exclusive subject matter jurisdiction
for:
   (A)   Variance from development standards;
   (B)   Variances of use (use variances);
   (C)   Special exceptions; and
   (D)   Administrative appeals.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 12.4)
§ 156.224  RULES AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Rules and procedures. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall have sole
authority to adopt any and all rules under I.C. 36-7-4-916 and any and all
procedures concerning organization, selection of officers, forms for
applications, filing requirements, procedures, notices for and conduct of
meetings and public hearings.
   (B)   Facilities and funding. The town shall provide suitable facilities for
the holding of Board of Zoning Appeals meetings and hearings and the storage of
its records, documents and accounts, and in its annual budget to provide
sufficient funds for the functioning of said Board and its staff.
   (C)   Filing. All applications for variances, special exceptions and
requests for appeal shall be filed by the applicant with the staff of the Board
of Zoning appeals and in the form prescribed by said Board.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 12.5)
§ 156.225  HEARINGS.
   (A)   The Board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of
administrative appeals, special exceptions and variances.
   (B)   Public notice in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1-2 and I.C. 5-3-1-4 and due
notice to interested parties shall be given at least ten days before the date
set for the hearing.
   (C)   The party pursuing the appeal or applying for the special exception or
variance shall be required to assume costs of public notice and notice to
interested parties. Interested parties shall include, but are not limited to,
all properties adjacent within 600 feet or two properties deep whichever is
less of the subject site boundaries within the corporate boundary and only
directly adjacent properties outside the corporate limit.
   (D)   The Board may, by rule, determine who are interested parties, how
notice is to be given to them, and who is required to give that notice.
   (E)   Other persons may appear and present relevant evidence at such public
hearing.
   (F)   A person may not communicate with any member of the Board before the
hearing with intent to influence the member’s action on a matter pending before
the Board.
   (G)   Special meetings may be called by the Chairperson or by two members of
the Board upon written request to the Secretary. The Secretary shall send to
all members, at least three days before the special hearing, a special notice
fixing the time and place of the meeting. Written notice is not required if:
      (1)   The date, time and place of the special meeting are fixed in the
regular meeting;
      (2)   All members of the Board are present at that regular meeting; and
      (3)   The Secretary complies with the notice requirement of I.C. 5-14-
1.5.
   (H)   The Chairperson of the Board shall preside over meetings and hearings,
decide questions of order, subject to appeal by Board meetings, and preserve
decorum in the meeting room. The Chairperson may warn any person present that
particular conduct is a breach of courtesy and may order a person expelled from
the meeting for disruptive conduct.
   (I)   The Board shall use Robert’s Rules of Order when conducting its
meetings and hearings.
   (J)   The Board may set time limits on public input when deemed necessary.
   (K)   The Secretary shall keep minutes of its proceedings and record the
vote on all actions taken. The Board shall also make written findings of fact
in all cases heard by it. The minutes shall be presented to the Board at the
next succeeding regular meeting. When approved, the minutes shall be signed by
the Chairperson and attested by the Secretary.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 12.6)
§ 156.226  APPEARANCES.
   (A)   The petitioner or the petitioner’s agent must appear in person or by
counsel to present petition or remonstrance to the Board and for the Board to
consider the case. If no person appears on behalf of a petition, the petition
may be tabled until the following meeting or dismissed under division (B)
below.
   (B)   The Board’s Secretary or staff must be informed in writing prior to
the meeting if the petitioner requests a time extension. The Chairperson will
determine whether the petitioner’s reasons warrant an extension. If the
petitioner or the petitioner’s agent fail to appear at the meeting for which
the extension was given without sufficient reason, the petition may be
dismissed.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 12.7)
§ 156.227  ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   The order of business for a regular meeting shall be:
      (1)   Executive meeting;
      (2)   Call to order;
      (3)   Roll call and determination of quorum;
      (4)   Consideration of minutes of previous meeting;
      (5)   Old business (tabled or continued items);
      (6)   New business;
      (7)   Report of officers and committees;
      (8)   Communications, bills and expenditures; and
      (9)   Adjournment.
   (B)   The order of business for special meetings shall be:
      (1)   Call to order;
      (2)   Roll call and determination of quorum;
      (3)   The business for which the special meeting was called; and
      (4)   Adjournment.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 12.8)
§ 156.228  OFFICIAL ACTION.
   (A)   A majority of the members of the Board who are qualified to vote shall
constitute a quorum. Action of the Board shall not be official unless it is
authorized at a regular or properly-called special meeting by a majority of the
entire membership of the Board.
   (B)   Voting by the Board shall be by roll call vote of the members. All
members present shall vote on every question unless they are permitted to
abstain by the presiding officer.
   (C)   On all decisions on petitions before the Board of Zoning Appeals, the
Board shall adopt written findings of fact and a written decision.
   (D)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-909, a member of the Board of Zoning Appeals
may not participate in a hearing or decision of that Board concerning a zoning
matter in which he or she has a direct or indirect financial interest. The
Board shall enter in its records the fact that its member has such a
disqualification.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 12.9)
§ 156.229  APPEALS.
   (A)   Every decision of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be subject to
review by a writ of certiorari as prescribed in I.C. 36-7-4-1000 series.
   (B)   Such appeals shall be presented to a court of jurisdiction within 30
business days of the Board’s decision, and not thereafter.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 12.10)
§ 156.230  SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   To be eligible for the granting of a special exception under this
section, a person must first receive a determination from the Zoning
Administrator that a special exception is required for the intended use, change
of use or for the expansion, extension or enlargement of a use.
   (B)   There shall be no cases or applications, nor any particular situation
in which these rules authorize special exceptions without the approval of the
BZA. Further, no previous applications shall set a precedence for any other
application before the BZA.
      (1)   The Board may grant a special exception for a use in a district if,
after a hearing under, it makes findings of facts in writing, that:
         (a)   The proposal will not be injurious to the public health, safety,
morals and general welfare of the community;
         (b)   The requirements and development standards for the requested use
as prescribed by this chapter will be met;
         (c)   Granting the exception will not subvert the general purposes
served by this chapter and will not permanently injure other property or uses
in the same district and vicinity; and
         (d)   Te proposed use will be consistent with the character of the
district therein, the spirit and intent of this chapter and the town’s
Comprehensive Plan.
      (2)   When considering a special exception, the Board of Zoning Appeals
may take into consideration the following items as they relate to the proposed
use:
         (a)   Topography and other natural site features;
         (b)   Zoning of the site and surrounding properties;
         (c)   Driveway locations, street access and vehicular and pedestrian
traffic;
         (d)   Parking amount, location, design;
         (e)   Landscaping, screening, buffering;
         (f)   Open space and other site amenities;
         (g)   Noise production and hours of operation;
         (h)   Design, placement, architecture and building material of the
structure;
         (i)   Placement, design, intensity, height and shielding of lights;
         (j)   Traffic generation; and
         (k)   General site layout as it relates to its surroundings.
      (3)   The Board may impose such reasonable conditions upon its approval
as it deems necessary to find that the above criteria will be served.
      (4)   The Board may permit or require the owner of the parcel of property
to make a written commitment concerning the use or development of the parcel as
specified under I.C. 36-7-4-921 and have such commitment recorded in the County
Recorder’s Office.
      (5)   The Board may limit special exceptions to a specific individual
and/or a specific time period and for a specific use.
      (6)   A use authorized by special exception may not be changed, expanded,
extended or enlarged unless reauthorized by the Board under the procedures set
forth in these rules for granting a special exception.
      (7)   If the Board grants the special exception, it shall direct the
applicant to apply for a building permit and/or improvement location permit
within four months or the special exception will be void. If such application
complies with all ordinances and rules, a building permit and/or improvement
location permit for the use authorized by special exception shall be issued.
      (8)   A special exception, granted for a specific use ceases to be
authorized and is void if that use is not 50% established within a twelve-month
period of the date the special exception was granted. A special exception,
granted for a specific use ceases to be authorized and is void if that use is
discontinued at that site for a consecutive six-month period.
      (9)   A special exception may be terminated by the Board of Zoning
Appeals under the following conditions:
         (a)   Upon the filing of an application by an interested person or a
member of the staff, a public hearing is held with notice to the property
owner; and
         (b)   At the public hearing a finding is made by the Board that one or
more of the following has not been complied with:
            1.   The terms of this chapter;
            2.   Conditions of approval; and
            3.   Written commitments.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 12.11)
§ 156.231  DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Board may grant a variance from the development standards of this
chapter (such as height, bulk, area) if, after a public hearing, it makes
findings of facts in writing, that:
      (1)   The approval will not be injurious to the public health, safety,
morals and general welfare of the community;
      (2)   The use and value of the area adjacent to the property included in
the variance will not be affected in a substantially adverse manner; and
      (3)   The strict application of the terms of this chapter will result in
a practical difficulty. This situation shall not be self-imposed, nor be based
on a perceived reduction of or restriction of economic gain.
   (B)   The Board may permit or require the owner of a parcel of property to
make written commitments and record it in the County Recorder’s office
concerning the use or development of that parcel or may impose conditions upon
that grant of variance.
   (C)   A developmental standards variance granted by the Board shall run with
the parcel until such time as:
      (1)   The use of the variance ends; or
      (2)   The property conforms with this chapter as written.
   (D)   The Board of Zoning Appeals may enforce any condition and/or
commitment it has imposed as if it were a standard of this chapter.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 12.12)
§ 156.232  USE VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Board may grant a variance from use if, after a public hearing, it
makes findings of facts in writing, that:
      (1)   The approval will not be injurious to the public health, safety,
morals and general welfare of the community;
      (2)   The use and value of the adjacent areas to the subject property are
not adversely affected;
      (3)   The need for a variance stems from a condition unusual or peculiar
to the subject property itself;
      (4)   The strict application of the terms of this chapter will results in
an unnecessary hardship if they were applied to the subject property; and
      (5)   The approval of the variance does not contradict the goals and
objectives of the Comprehensive Plan.
   (B)   The Board may permit or require the owner of a parcel of property to
make written commitments and record it in the County Recorder’s office
concerning the use or development of that parcel or may impose conditions upon
that grant of variance.
   (C)   A use variance granted by a Board may run with the parcel or applicant
until such time as:
      (1)   The use of the variance ends, is vacated or unused for three months
consecutively;
      (2)   The property conforms with this chapter as written; or
      (3)   The property is sold.
   (D)   The Board of Zoning Appeals may enforce any condition and/or
commitment it has imposed as if it were a standard of this chapter.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 12.13)
§ 156.233  EXCLUSION.
   (A)   Nothing in these rules, regulations or orders issued pursuant to this
chapter shall be deemed to restrict or regulate the power of eminent domain by
the state or by any state agency. Nor shall they be deemed to authorize any
unit of government, legislative body, Plan Commission or Board of Zoning
Appeals to restrict or regulate the power of eminent domain by the state or a
state agency.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term STATE AGENCY shall mean and include
all agencies, boards, commissions, departments and institutions, including
state educational institutions of the state.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 12.14)
§ 156.234  AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Amendments to these rules of procedure may be made by the Board at any
regular meeting upon the affirmative vote of a majority of the members of the
Board.
   (B)   The suspension of any rule may be ordered at any meeting by a three-
fifths vote of the quorum.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 12.15)
§ 156.235  REPEAL.
   All previous rules and regulations heretofore adopted by the town’s Board of
Zoning Appeals are hereby expressly repealed, as of the effective date of these
rules.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 12.16)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 156.250  ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER.
   The Zoning Administrator in the town will have the principal responsibility
for administration and enforcing or coordinating the enforcement of this
chapter within the Plan Commission’s planning jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 13.1)
§ 156.251  EFFECT ON ANNEXATION OR VACATION ON ZONING.
   (A)   After the effective date of this chapter, areas annexed by the town
shall retain the Zoning District prior to annexation.
   (B)   Whenever any street, alley, public way, railroad right-of-way,
waterway or other similar area is vacated by proper authority, the zoning
districts adjoining each side of vacated areas shall be extended automatically
to the center of the vacated area. All areas included in the vacation shall
then and henceforth be subject to all appropriate regulations of the extended
zoning districts. In the event of a partial vacation, the adjoining zoning
district or zoning district nearest the portion vacated, shall be extended
automatically to include all of the vacated area. Any disputes as to the exact
zoning district boundaries shall be determined by the Zoning Administrator.
Appeals of the Zoning Administrator’s determination may be brought before the
Plan Commission.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 13.2)
§ 156.252  TOWN COUNCIL; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The powers and duties of the Town Council are described below. Duties should
be interpreted as activities that are obligations. Powers should be interpreted
as activities that are optional to be initiated.
   (A)   Town Council duties.
      (1)   Adopt, reject or amend the Comprehensive Plan, strategic plans,
this chapter or
Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances that have been certified and submitted by
the Plan Commission;
      (2)   Adopt, reject or amend proposals to amend or partially repeal the
text of the Comprehensive Plan, strategic plans, this chapter or
Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances that has been certified and submitted by the
Plan Commission;
      (3)   Adopt, reject or amend proposals to amend the official zoning map
certified and submitted by the Plan Commission;
      (4)   Adopt, reject or amend proposals for a Planned Development District
that have been certified and submitted by the Plan Commission;
      (5)   Adopt, reject or amend proposals to adopt or amend a fee schedule
that have been certified and submitted by the Plan Commission; and
      (6)   All duties as permitted by Indiana Code.
   (B)   Town Council powers.
      (1)   Initiate amendments to the text of the Comprehensive Plan,
strategic plans, this chapter and
Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances;
      (2)   Initiate amendments to the official zoning map; and
      (3)   All powers as permitted by Indiana Code.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 13.3)
§ 156.253  PLAN COMMISSION; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The powers and duties of the Plan Commission are described below. Duties
should be interpreted as activities that are obligations. Powers should be
interpreted as activities that are optional to be initiated.
   (A)   Plan Commission duties.
      (1)   Adopt and maintain a Town Council-approved Comprehensive Plan,
Zoning Ordinance and Subdivision Control Ordinance as authorized under state
law;
      (2)   Adopt and maintain rules and procedures for holding meetings,
holding public hearings, and administrating and enforcing the Comprehensive
Plan, Zoning Ordinance and Subdivision Control Ordinance;
      (3)   Maintain complete records of all meetings, hearings,
correspondences and affairs of the Plan Commission;
      (4)   Record and file bonds and contracts for development and land use
functions;
      (5)   Publish and make available to the public all plans, ordinances and
other related materia! that are the responsibility of the Plan Commission;
      (6)   Adopt and maintain a permitting process and seal used to certify
official or approved documents;
      (7)   Certify and submit recommendations to the Town Council including
new versions of and revisions to the Comprehensive Plan, Zoning Ordinance,
Subdivision Control Ordinance and Official Zoning Map;
      (8)   Certify and submit recommendations to the Town Council for adopting
a Planned Development District;
      (9)   Maintain monetary and fiscal records of the Plan Commission;
      (10)   Prepare and submit an annual budget to the Town Council;
      (11)   Approve or deny plats or replats of subdivisions;
      (12)   Approve or deny development plans and amendments to development
plans;
      (13)   Assign street numbers to new lots and structures, renumber lots
and structures, assign street names and approve or deny proposed street names
in new developments;
      (14)   Establish and maintain a Town Council-approved fee schedule that
assigns a fee to permits, processes, and official actions of the Plan
Commission in order to defray the administrative costs of such duties and
powers;
      (15)   Enforce regulations and procedures of the Comprehensive Plan,
Zoning Ordinance and Subdivision Control Ordinance to the extent of the local
resolutions, ordinances and state law; and
      (16)   All duties as permitted by Indiana Code.
   (B)   Plan Commission powers.
      (1)   Delegate to a committee or person the role as Zoning Administrator;
      (2)   Establish advisory committees as necessary made up of town/township
officials and the general public;
      (3)   Establish an executive committee;
      (4)   Seek funding assistance through grant programs as necessary;
      (5)   Distribute copies or summaries of the Comprehensive Plan, Zoning
Ordinance or Subdivision Control Ordinance to the general public and
development community; and
      (6)   All powers as permitted by Indiana Code.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 13.4)
§ 156.254  BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The powers and duties of the Board of Zoning Appeals are described below.
Duties should be interpreted as activities that are obligations. Powers should
be interpreted as activities that are optional to be initiated.
   (A)   Board of Zoning Appeals duties.
      (1)   Review and hear appeals of decisions made under this chapter by the
Zoning Administrator, Plan Commission staff, Building Commissioner, committees
or administrative boards or other body, except Plan Commission;
      (2)   Review, hear and approve or deny all petitions for special
exceptions based on the provisions of this chapter and Indiana Code;
      (3)   Review, hear and approve or deny all petitions for variances from
development standards (such as height, bulk or area) of this chapter;
      (4)   Review, hear and approve or deny all petitions for variances of use
regulations in this chapter;
      (5)   Hear and decide appeals of decisions made by the Planning Director,
Zoning Administrator and Building Commissioner; and
      (6)   All duties as permitted by Indiana Code.
   (B)   Board of Zoning Appeals powers.
      (1)   Hire, remove and determine job descriptions for support staff (as
necessary);
      (2)   Determine the compensation for support staff and BZA members as
provided within the annual budget of the Board of Zoning Appeals; and
      (3)   All powers as permitted by Indiana Code.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 13.5)
PROCESSES, PERMITS AND FEES
§ 156.265  TYPES OF PETITIONS.
   (A)   The town hereby requires that an application and filing fee be
submitted for the following formal petitions:
      (1)   Variances (developmental standards or use);
      (2)   Special exceptions;
      (3)   Improvement location permit;
      (4)   Certificate of occupancy;
      (5)   Subdivision plats/development plans;
      (6)   Planned developments;
      (7)   Zoning amendments (zoning map change);
      (8)   Administrative appeals;
      (9)   Voluntary annexations;
      (10)   Sign permit review (permanent and temporary);
      (11)   Building permits; and
      (12)   Change of use permits.
   (B)   All applications may be obtained through the Zoning Administrator’s
office. Fees shall be paid at the Zoning Administrator’s office at the time of
assignment of a docket number.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 14.1)
§ 156.266  PROCESSES PER TYPE OF PETITION.
   (A)   Variances. The following procedure applies to variance petitions:
      (1)   Submit a variance application, required supportive information and
application fee 30 days prior to the regularly scheduled Board of Zoning
Appeals meeting;
      (2)   Plan Commission will review the variance application and required
supportive information and make a favorable or unfavorable recommendation to
the Board of Zoning Appeals;
      (3)   BZA will then review the variance application, required supportive
information and opinion of the Plan Commission in a public meeting. The BZA may
approve, deny or table the petition. The BZA may add conditions to an approval.
Approvals shall only be granted upon finding of fact that there is a hardship;
and
      (4)   The intensity of the variance may be reduced at the public hearing
if approved by the BZA.
   (B)   Special exceptions. The following procedure applies to special
exception petitions:
      (1)   Submit a special exception application, required information and
application fee 30 days prior to the regularly scheduled Plan Commission
meeting;
      (2)   The Plan Commission shall review the application, required
information and testimony from the petitioner and public. The Plan Commission
shall then make a favorable, unfavorable recommendation to the BZA; and
      (3)   The BZA shall then review the special exception application,
required information, opinion of the Plan Commission, testimony of the
petitioner and testimony of the public at its next regularly scheduled public
meeting. The BZA may (the Board has discretionary powers) approve, deny or
table the petition. The BZA may add conditions to an approval.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 14.1)
§ 156.267  IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMITS.
   (A)   Permits required. No building .structure, or major infrastructure
shall be erected, moved, added to or structurally altered without an
improvement location permit and building permit issued by the Zoning
Administrator. No improvement location permit or building permit shall be
issued by the Zoning Administrator unless the project is in conformity with the
provision of this chapter. Changes of use or expansions of use also require an
improvement location permit and change or expansion of use permit.
   (B)   Application for an improvement location permit.
      (1)   All applications for improvement location permits shall be
accompanied by:
         (a)   The common address for subject property and parcel number;
         (b)   A site location map showing context around subject property
(aerial or USGS maps are preferred);
         (c)   Plans drawn to scale showing the actual dimensions and shape of
the lot to be built upon;
         (d)   The exact sizes and locations on the lot of all buildings, wells
and septic systems already existing, if any;
         (e)   The location and dimensions of the proposed building or
alteration;
         (f)   Building setback distances from all property lines, and from
existing and proposed road rights-of-way;
         (g)   Elevations of all sides of proposed buildings;
         (h)   Location of floodplain boundaries or wetlands; and
         (i)   Drainage outlets.
      (2)   The application shall also include such other information as
lawfully may be required by the Planning Commission or Zoning Administrator to
determine conformance with and provide for the enforcement of this chapter
including:
         (a)   Elevations of the existing or proposed building or alteration;
         (b)   Detailed description of the existing or proposed uses of the
building and land;
         (c)   The number of families, dwelling units or rental units the
building is designed to accommodate;
         (d)   Natural, physical or hazardous conditions existing on the lot;
and
         (e)   Landscape plan;
         (f)   Lighting plan; and
         (g)   Drainage plan.
      (3)   The approved plans and application materials shall be retained by
the Commission or Zoning Administrator.
   (C)   Expiration of permits.
      (1)   Initiation of work. If the work described in any improvement
location permit has not begun within four months from the date of issuance,
said permit shall expire; no written notice shall be given to the persons
affected.
      (2)   Completion of work. If the work described in any improvement
location permit has not been completed within two years for a primary structure
or one year for accessory structures of the date of issuance thereof, said
permit shall expire; no written notice of expiration shall be given to the
persons affected. Work shall not proceed unless and until a new improvement
location permit has been obtained.
      (3)   Extensions. The Zoning Administrator may give three extensions for
up to three months each for work completion. Requests for extensions must be
received within one months of the expiration. A fee will be charged.
   (D)   Construction according to permits and permit application. Improvement
location permits issued on the basis of plans and applications only authorize
the use, arrangement and construction set forth in such approved plans and
applications. Any other use, arrangement or construction not authorized shall
be deemed as a violation of this chapter and subject to an order of removal,
mitigation or penalty fees.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 14.3)
§ 156.268  SCHEDULE OF IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMITS.
   The town hereby requires that an improvement location permit/building permit
be obtained for the following:
   (A)   All residential dwellings;
   (B)   Mini-barns over 120 square feet without a foundation; or any size with
a foundation;
   (C)   Other detached residential accessory buildings (with foundation or
overhead structures);
   (D)   Detached and attached garages and carports;
   (E)   Temporary structures;
   (F)   Signs;
   (G)   Swimming pools (in-ground or above ground);
   (H)   Alterations, modification, remodeling or additions to all structures;
   (I)   Tents (commercial only);
   (J)   Demolition;
   (K)   All commercial, industrial and institutional buildings;
   (L)   Structures other than buildings (including satellite dish, towers,
antennas);
   (M)   Surface and subsurface drainage work (including land alteration)
excluding agricultural uses;
   (N)   Street cuts;
   (O)   Curb cuts;
   (P)   Storm sewer hookups;
   (Q)   Removal of trees and plants within buffer yards and approved
landscaping otherwise required by this chapter;
   (R)   Adding or subtracting dwelling units or leased space in multi-family
or commercial structures;
   (S)   Placement or moving of manufactured or mobile homes;
   (T)   Parking lot construction, alteration or removal;
   (U)   Ponds or lakes;
   (V)   Mineral extraction;
   (W)   Telecommunication facilities;
   (X)   Any exterior construction that adds to or alters the height, building
materials of the existing structure; and
   (Y)   Any change of use or expansion of use of property.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 14.4)
§ 156.269  CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   It shall hereby be declared unlawful and in violation of the provisions of
this chapter for any builder or property owner to allow any new or
significantly remodeled structure to become occupied or utilized prior to:
   (A)   Legally obtaining an improvement location permit/building permit;
   (B)   Passing a final inspection; and
   (C)   Receiving an certificate of occupancy permit from the Zoning
Administrator.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 14.5)
§ 156.270  SIGN PERMITS AND FEES.
   (A)   Application. Application for a permit shall be filed with the Plan
Commission and shall be accompanied by information as may be required by the
Plan Commission to assure compliance with the laws and regulations of the town,
including:
      (1)   Name and address of the property owner of the premises on which the
sign is located or is to be located;
      (2)   Name and address of the owner of the sign;
      (3)   Clear and legible drawings with description showing the location of
the sign which is the subject of the permit; and
      (4)   All signs on the same parcel or owned by the same business must be
noted.
   (B)   Permit fees. The permit fee as specified by the official fee schedule
shall be paid to the Clerk- Treasurer. If any sign is hereafter erected,
placed, installed or otherwise established on any property before obtaining a
permit as required herein, the fees specified shall be doubled. Payment of such
double fee shall not relieve any person from compliance with other provisions
of this code and penalties prescribed herein.
   (C)   Effect of sign permit issuance. A sign permit issued under the
provisions of this subchapter shall not be deemed to constitute permission or
authorization to maintain an unlawful sign, nor shall it be deemed as a defense
in an action to remove an unlawful sign.
   (D)   Nullification. A sign permit shall become null and void if work has
not been started within 12 months of the date of the permit or completed within
18 months of the date of the permit.
   (E)   Permit exceptions. The following shall not be considered as creating a
sign and therefore shall not be required to have sign permit unless other
specified.
      (1)   Changeable copy. The changing of advertising copy or message on an
approved sign such as a theater marquee and similar approved signs which are
specifically designed for use of replaceable copy.
      (2)   Maintenance. Painting, repainting, cleaning or other normal
maintenance and repair of a sign or sign structure unless a structural change
is involved, or a change in copy is involved.
      (3)   Exempt signs. Exempt signs as described in GS-01(A)(6).
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 14.6)
§ 156.271  TEMPORARY SIGN PERMITS AND FEES.
   (A)   Application. Application for a permit shall be filed with the Zoning
Administrator and shall be accompanied by information as may be required by the
Plan Commission to assure compliance with the laws and regulations of the town,
including:
      (1)   Name and address of the property owner of the premises on which the
sign is located or is to be located;
      (2)   Name and address of the owner of the sign; and
      (3)   Clear and legible drawings with description showing the location of
the sign which is the subject of the permit.
   (B)   Permit fees. The permit fee as specified by the official fee schedule
shall be paid to the Clerk- Treasurer. If any sign is hereafter erected,
placed, installed or otherwise established on any property before obtaining a
permit as required herein, the fees specified shall be doubled. Payment of such
double fee shall not relieve any person from compliance with other provisions
of this code and penalties prescribed herein.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 14.7)
§ 156.272  SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   (A)   The Town Council shall maintain an official fees schedule for permits
and processes outlined in this chapter. Penalties, collection procedures for
permits and penalties, appeals process and other petition processes pertaining
to this chapter are a part of this chapter. The fees schedule shall be
available to the public in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer and Zoning
Administrator. The Fees Schedule may be amended by a recommendation submitted
to the Town Council by the Planning Commission followed by the Town Council
approving said amendments by resolution.
   (B)   Until all applicable fees, charges and expenses have been paid in
full, no final action shall be taken on any permit application, appeal or
petition.
   (C)   Any person or persons who shall initiate construction of a structure
or change of use of structure or property prior to obtaining an improvement
location permit/building permit or any other required permit shall pay up to
three times the amount of the normal permit fee.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 14.8)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 156.285  AUTHORITY.
   The Plan Commission, Board of Zoning Appeals, Town Council and/or Zoning
Administrator are designated to enforce the provisions, regulations and intent
of this chapter.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 15.1)
§ 156.286  VIOLATIONS.
   Complaints made pertaining to this chapter shall be investigated by the
Zoning Administrator. Also, any violations suspected by the Plan Commission,
Town Council or Zoning Administrator shall be investigated by the Zoning
Administrator. Action may or may not be taken depending on the findings. The
degree of action will be to the discretion of the investigating person(s) and
should reflect what is warranted by the violation.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 15.2)
§ 156.287  INSPECTION OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   Investigations of property may be done so by the Zoning Administrator
either from a right-of-way without permission of the property owner, or
adjacent property (with permission), or from the property suspected of a
violation once the inspector has presented sufficient evidence of their
authorization and described the purpose of the inspection to the owner, tenant
or occupant at the time of the inspection.
   (B)   In the event that the investigator(s) is (are) denied entry, and
providing there is evidence of violation of this chapter, the Plan Commission,
Town Council or Zoning Administrator may apply to the court of jurisdiction to
invoke legal, equitable or special remedy for the enforcement of this chapter
or any applicable ordinances adopted under state code. The application shall
include the purpose, violation(s) suspected, property address, owner’s name, if
available, and all relevant facts. Additional information may be necessary as
requested by the court.
   (C)   The warrant issued shall order the owner, tenant or occupant to permit
entry by the Zoning Administrator for the purposes documented in the
application for the warrant.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 15.3)
§ 156.288  RESPONSIBILITY OF VIOLATIONS.
   The owner, tenant or occupant of any property or building, or part thereof,
shall be responsible for the violation. Architects, builders, developers or
agents thereof may also be found responsible for the violation if evidence of
their involvement or negligence is found. Ultimately, if fault is not clearly
found in whole or in part in persons other than the owner, the owner shall be
held responsible in whole or in part as warranted by the Plan Commission, Board
of Zoning Appeals, Town Council or Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 15.4)
§ 156.289  LIABILITY.
   A structure that is raised or converted, or land used in violation of this
chapter or its subsequent amendments may be deemed a common nuisance and the
owner or possessor of the structure, or land is liable for said nuisance.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 15.5)
§ 156.290  VIOLATIONS DURING THE CONSTRUCTION/BUILDING PROCESS.
   (A)   The Plan Commission or Zoning Administrator may place a stop-work-
order or violation notice on any lot improvement process. Stop work orders
shall be issued by written letter which shall state the violation and that work
or illegal activity must stop immediately until the matter is resolved. This
letter shall be posted in a conspicuous place or be delivered/mailed to the
owner, developer, property manager, tenant or occupant. The Plan Commission or
Zoning Administrator must meet with the person(s) served the stop work order
notice within seven days of such a request to meet. A memorandum of agreement
shall be drafted stating the conditions in which construction or action may be
resumed. This memorandum of agreement must be signed by the owner, developer,
property manager, tenant or occupant that has caused or is responsible for the
violation and the Zoning Administrator or Plan Commission President.
   (B)   Reasons for a stop work order include:
      (1)   Not complying with development standards and/or any regulations of
this chapter of
Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances;
      (2)   Not obtaining an improvement location permit;
      (3)   Not meeting the conditions or commitments of a special exception,
variance or building permit;
      (4)   Not meeting the conditions of development commitments, development
plans, detail plans or covenants which are enforceable by the Plan Commission;
      (5)   Not obtaining any other permit necessary for site/property
improvement as called out in local code, this chapter or
Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances; and
      (6)   Illegal use or expansion of use of building/structures or building/
structures and land in combination.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 15.6)
§ 156.291  TYPES OF VIOLATIONS.
   The following items shall be deemed civil zoning violations, enforceable by
the Plan Commission, Town Council and/or Zoning Administrator. Penalties may be
imposed based on the provisions set forth in this subchapter:
   (A)   The placement of a primary structure, secondary structure, sign,
structures or any other element determined by the Plan Commission or Zoning
Administrator to not conform to the provisions or explicit intent of this
chapter and that has not specifically been granted;
   (B)   The erection of a primary structure, secondary structure, sign,
accessory structure or any other element determined by the Plan Commission or
Zoning Administrator to not conform to the provisions or explicit intent of
this chapter and that has not specifically been granted;
   (C)   The maintenance of a primary structure, secondary structure, sign,
accessory structure or any other element including property maintenance
determined by the Plan Commission or Zoning Administrator to not conform to the
provisions or explicit intent of this chapter and that has not specifically
been granted;
   (D)   Failure to obtain an improvement location permit or building permit
when required;
   (E)   Conducting a use or uses that do not comply with the provisions or
explicit intent of this chapter,
Ch. 150,
154 and
155 of this code of ordinances and the Sign Ordinance, and which have not
specifically been granted;
   (F)   Any failure to comply with the development standards and/or any
regulations of th this chapter,
Ch. 150,
154 and
155 of this code of ordinances and the Sign Ordinance, improvement location
permit or building permit;
   (G)   Proceeding with work under a stop work order or a violation of a
memorandum of agreement; and
   (H)   Any failure to comply with commitments made in connection with a
rezoning, approval of a development plan, detailed plan, special exception,
variance or other similar or documentable commitment, including verbal
agreements during official Plan Commission, Town Council or BZA meetings.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 15.7)
§ 156.292  PROCEDURE FOR VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   There shall be a three-step procedure for violations of this chapter.
   (B)   These steps are as follows:
      (1)   The Plan Commission, Zoning Administrator or designated
representative of the Plan Commission or Town Council shall issue a notice of
fines and penalties to the person(s) who have committed, in whole or in part, a
violation. The notice of fines and penalties is a warning to the violator(s)
that a violation has been determined and that it must be corrected within 15
days of the mailed date of notice or posting of notice. If the violation has
been corrected within the 15 days from the date of the notice of fine and
penalties, no fines or penalties will be imposed.
      (2)   The Plan Commission, Zoning Administrator or designated
representative of the Plan Commission/Town Council shall issue a notice of
violation to the person(s) who have committed, in whole or in part, a
violation. The notice of violation is a citation that states and imposes the
fines and penalties for the violation. The person(s) in violation will have 15
days to pay said fees and/or comply with the penalties. The person(s) in
violation must correct the violation within 15 days or face additional notices
of violation.
      (3)   If the person(s) in violation refuse to pay or comply with the
penalties, or correct the violation, after notice, the Plan Commission or Town
Council may pursue court action through the court of jurisdiction. Fines and
liens against the property may also be pursued until the matter is resolved.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 15.8)
§ 156.293  APPEALS OR TRIALS.
   (A)   Any person receiving a notice of violation and/or fines may appeal the
violation and/or fine to the Board of Zoning Appeals or to the court of
jurisdiction. A written statement from the person in violation shall be
submitted to the Clerk-Treasurer via certified mail at least three days prior
to the date the fine is due.
   (B)   Fines due will be postponed until the BZA or court of jurisdiction
have made a ruling as to the violation and/or fine. The person(s) in violation
shall have 30 days to file for a hearing with the BZA or court of jurisdiction.
Also the person(s) in violation shall have a maximum of two years to complete
the hearing process with the BZA. Failure to meet these deadlines will
reinstate all fines due by the person(s) in violation.
   (C)   No additional notices will be issued by the Plan Commission in the
event the person(s) in violation has (have) submitted a written statement of
their intention to appeal or go to trial.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 15.10)
§ 156.294  ENFORCEMENT, REMEDIES AND INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   All remedies and enforcement shall comply with the powers set forth in I.C.
36-7-4-1000 et al. and all other applicable state law.
   (A)   The Plan Commission or any enforcement official designated by this
chapter may bring an action in the Circuit or Superior Court of the county to
evoke any legal, equitable or special remedy, for the enforcement of any
ordinance or regulation created under I.C. 36-7-4, and its subsequent
amendments this includes, but its not limited to, this chapter,
Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances, the Sign Ordinance and the like.
   (B)   The Plan Commission or any enforcement official designated by this
chapter may also bring an action in the Circuit or Superior Court of the county
to enforce:
      (1)   All agreements between Plan Commission or its designees which have
been recorded as covenants in connection with a subdivision plat, a development
plan or a planned development;
      (2)   All commitments made in accordance with I.C. 36-7-4 et al.; and
      (3)   All conditions imposed in accordance with I.C. 36-7-4 et al.
   (C)   The Board of Zoning Appeals, or any enforcement official designated by
this chapter may bring action in the Circuit or Superior Court of the county to
restrain a person violating I.C. 36-7-4 et al. or any ordinance adopted under
I.C. 36-7-4 et al., which includes, but its not limited to, this chapter,
Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances, the Sign Ordinance and the like.
   (D)   The Board of Zoning Appeals or any enforcement official designated by
this chapter may also bring an action in the Circuit or Superior Court of the
county for a mandatory injunction, directing to remove a structure erected in
violation of this chapter or applicable state code.
   (E)   If the Board of Zoning Appeals, or its designated enforcement official
is successful in its action, the respondent shall bear all costs of the action.
   (F)   An action to enforce a commitment made in accordance with I.C. 36-7-
4 et al. may be brought in the Circuit or Superior Court of the county by:
      (1)   Any person who is entitled to enforce a commitment made in
accordance with I.C. 36-7-4 et al. under the rules of the Plan Commission or
the Board of Zoning Appeals in force at the time the commitment was made; or
      (2)   Any other specially affected person who was designated in the
commitment.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 15.11)
§ 156.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Appeals by mandatory injunction in the Circuit
Court and/or Superior Court of the county against the owner or possessor of the
real estate, may require the removal of a structure erected in violation of
this chapter, or the removal of any use or condition in violation of this
chapter.
   (B)   In addition to any other remedies, including injunctive relief
provided herein, any person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity who
or which shall violate any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined in any sum not less than $50, nor more than $2,500, with each
day constituting a separate violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 12-30-2002, § 15.9)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ZONING MODIFICATIONS
      
II.   VACATIONS
      
III.   TERRITORIAL ESTABLISHMENT
      
IV.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I:  ZONING MODIFICATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
2003- 6-2-   Rezoning land located along the south side of Franklin Street west of S.R. 19 from
02    2003   “AG” Agriculture to “R4” Old Town Residential
2003- 6-16-  Rezoning several tracts of land from “AG” Agriculture/ Residential “R4” to “C2”
03    2003   Commercial
2004- 3-18-  Rezoning land commonly known as the New Horizon Development Center, located at 706
01    2004   West Main Street, from “R4” Residential District to “R5” Residential District
2004- 7-19-  Rezoning land located at 616 Marion Avenue from “R4” Residential District to “SC”
05    2004   Special Character Commercial
2005- 7-18-  Rezoning land located at 201 West Main Street from “R4” Residential District to
04    2005   “DC” Downtown Commercial
2005- 7-18-  Rezoning land located at 205 West Main Street from “R4” Residential District to
05    2005   “DC” Downtown Commercial
2005- 7-18-  Rezoning land located at 209 West Main Street from “R4” Residential District to
06    2005   “DC” Downtown Commercial
            
 
TABLE II:  VACATIONS
 
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
2004- 7-19-  Vacating an alley (petition by Edward J. Torongeau, Dempsey King, Richard
04    2004   Russell and Rob Moore of Moore’s Country Wood Crafting, Inc.)
2005- 1-17-  Amending Ord. 2004-04; vacating an alley (petition by Edward J. Torongeau,
01    2005   Dempsey King, Richard Russell and Rob Moore of Moore’s Country Wood Crafting,
             Inc.)
            
 
TABLE III:  TERRITORIAL ESTABLISHMENT
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Establishing the Jackson Fire Territory of Hamilton County
2011-01  3-21-2011   with the Township of Jackson Township and the Town of
                     Atlanta
2015-02  5-18-2015   Amending the Jackson Fire Territory of Hamilton County
                     interlocal cooperation agreement
                    
 
TABLE IV:  FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
80-2     11-19-1980  Granting a 15-year cable television franchise
(Prior Code, §§ 6:11:01—6:11:20)
87-1     5-6-1987    Granting a 15-year cable television franchise
(Prior Code, §§ 6:11:01—6:11:20)
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Section Code Section
I.C. Section                   Code Section
1-1-1-5                        10.04
1-1-1-7                        10.12
1-1-1-8                        10.06
1-1-4-5                        10.05
1-1-5-1                        10.11
1-1-6-1                        10.08
3-8-5-2(a)                     11.01
3-8-5-2(c)                     11.01
3-8-5-10                       11.01
3-8-6                          11.01
4-22-2                         156.002
5-2-1-9                        31.36
5-2-8-2                        33.001
5-3-1-2                        156.225
5-3-1-4                        156.225
5-3-1-1 through 5-3-1-9        30.08
5-11-10-1                      Ch. 33,
                               33.053
5-11-10-2                      Ch. 33,
                               33.052
5-14-1.5                       156.225
5-22                           33.023
5-22-4-3                       33.023
5-22-8-2                       33.021
5-22-15-21                     33.022
6-1.1-17-3                     33.036
6-1.1-17-1 through 6-1.1-17-19 33.037
7.1-3-9-3                      Ch. 114,
                               114.01
7.1-3-9-4                      Ch. 114,
                               114.01
8-1.5                          51.01
8-16-3-1                       12.07
8-23-17-6                      91.02
Title 9                        Ch. 70
9-4-1-27                       70.06
9-14                           74.02
9-18-12                        Ch. 74,
                               74.03
9-21-1-2 through 9-21-1-5      Ch. 72
9-21-1-2                       Ch. 70,
                               70.24
9-21-11-1 et seq.              72.08
9-21-11-8 et seq.              72.08
9-21-16-1 et seq.              Ch. 73
9-22                           Ch. 113,
                               113.27
9-22-1                         Ch. 74
9-22-1-1                       Ch. 74
9-22-1-13                      74.07
10-14-3                        34.01,
                               152.03
12-7-2                         156.002
12-7-2-28.4                    156.002
12-17.2-4-1                    156.002
12-28-4                        156.002
12-28-4-7                      156.040—
                               156.046
12-28-4-8                      156.040—
                               156.046
Title 13                       156.129
14-1-3-1 et seq.               Ch. 71,
                               71.39
                               Ch. 71,
14-16-1-1 et seq.              71.35,
                               71.39
14-28-1                        154.29
14-28-1-22                     156.130
14-28-1-26                     154.29
14-32                          152.31
14-34                          152.32
16-11-27-1 et seq.             156.136
16-41-27-1                     156.046,
                               156.136
22-1-5-6(e)(3)                 91.02
22-9-1-4 et seq.               91.02
22-9-5-6                       91.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.               91.01
22-9.5-2-2                     91.02
22-9.5-2-3                     91.02
22-9.5-2-4                     91.02
22-9.5-2-11                    91.02
22-9.5-2-13                    91.02
22-9.5-3                       91.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.               91.09
22-9.5-4-8                     91.10
22-9.5-5                       91.02
22-9.5-5-1                     91.03
22-9.5-6                       91.02,
                               91.10
22-11-14-1                     130.06
22-12-1-3                      150.45
22-12-1-17                     150.18
22-13-1-2                      150.17
22-13-2-7(b)                   150.17
22-15-3-1                      150.21
22-15-4                        150.18
25-25-2-1                      Ch. 111,
                               111.27
                               Ch. 113,
28-7-5-1 et seq.               113.01,
                               113.03
28-7-5-2                       113.02
31-27                          156.002
32-35                          156.002
Title 33                       Ch. 70
33-36-2-3                      130.99
Title 34                       Ch. 70
Title 36                       Ch. 70
36.923                         52.01,
                               52.05
                               Ch. 110,
36-1-2-15                      110.01,
                               Ch. 113,
                               113.25
36-1-2-2 through 36-1-2-23     12.01,
                               Ch. 30
36-1-3-2                       12.02
36-1-3-3                       12.03
36-1-3-4                       12.04
36-1-3-5                       12.04
36-1-3-6                       12.05
36-1-3-8                       12.06
36-1-3-8(a)(10)                10.99
36-1-3-8(9)                    Ch. 70,
                               70.99
36-1-3-8(10)                   Ch. 70,
                               70.99
36-1-3-9                       12.07
36-1-4-3                       130.02
36-1-4-6                       130.02
                               Ch. 110,
                               110.01,
                               Ch. 111,
36-1-4-11                      Ch. 112,
                               112.01,
                               Ch. 113,
                               113.01
36-1-4-3 through 36-1-4-17     12.08
36-1-5-1                       10.17
36-1-5-4                       10.18
36-1-5-5                       10.19
36-1-5-1 through 36-1-5-6      30.08
                               Ch. 92,
                               92.01,
                               92.25,
                               Ch. 93,
                               93.99,
                               Ch. 110,
                               110.01,
                               Ch. 111,
36-1-6-2                       Ch. 112,
                               112.01,
                               112.20,
                               112.99,
                               Ch. 113,
                               113.01,
                               113.25,
                               116.01,
                               130.03
                               Ch. 111,
36-1-6-3                       Ch. 112,
                               112.01
                               Ch. 92,
                               92.01,
                               92.25,
                               Ch. 93,
                               93.99,
                               Ch. 110,
                               110.01,
                               111.25,
36-1-6-4                       Ch. 112,
                               112.01,
                               112.20,
                               112.99,
                               Ch. 113,
                               113.01,
                               113.25,
                               116.01,
                               130.03
36-1-20.2                      31.02
36-1-21                        31.02
36-2-2                         31.21
                               Ch. 110,
                               110.01,
                               110.32,
                               Ch. 111,
                               111.03,
36-4-5-5                       111.25,
                               111.27,
                               113.27,
                               Ch. 115,
                               115.11,
                               116.06
36-4-6-11                      31.02
36-5-2-2                       10.15,
                               Ch. 30
36-5-2-3                       30.02,
                               30.03
36-5-2-8                       30.07
                               Ch. 50,
                               50.40,
                               Ch. 92,
                               92.01,
                               92.25,
                               Ch. 110,
36-5-2-9                       110.01,
                               111.25,
                               Ch. 112,
                               112.01,
                               113.01,
                               116.01,
                               130.02,
                               130.03
36-5-2-9.2                     30.04
36-5-2-9.4                     30.05,
                               31.02
36-5-2-10                      30.08
36-5-2-10.2                    30.09
36-5-3-2                       33.035
36-5-3-3                       33.036
36-5-3-4                       33.037
36-5-3-5                       33.037
36-5-4-4                       Ch. 33,
                               33.052
36-5-4-6                       Ch. 33,
                               33.053
36-5-4-7                       Ch. 33,
                               33.054
                               Ch. 92,
                               92.01,
                               110.01,
36-5-4-11                      113.01,
                               113.25,
                               116.01,
                               130.03
                               31.15,
36-5-6-2                       Ch. 92,
                               92.45
36-5-6-3                       31.16
36-5-6-5                       31.18
36-5-6-6                       31.19
36-5-6-7                       31.20
36-5-7-2                       31.35
36-5-7-3                       31.36,
                               31.38
36-5-7-4                       31.37
36-5-7-6                       31.38
36-7-1-2                       156.002
36-7-2-7                       Ch. 33,
                               33.055
36-7-4                         154.01,
                               156.294
36-7-4 et seq.                 156.003
36-7-4 et al.                  156.294
36-7-4(d)                      156.002
36-7-4-207(b)                  32.35
36-7-4-214                     32.35,
                               32.36
36-7-4-216                     32.37
36-7-4-217                     32.36
36-7-4-220                     32.38
36-7-4-223                     32.37
36-7-4-500 series              156.002
36-7-4-602                     156.013
36-7-4-602(b)                  156.013
36-7-4-602(c)                  156.013
36-7-4-607                     156.013
36-7-4-608                     156.013
36-7-4-700 series              156.002
36-7-4-902                     156.220
36-7-4-902(1)                  32.50
36-7-4-902(2)                  32.50
36-7-4-902(3)                  32.50
36-7-4-903                     32.51
36-7-4-905                     32.51
36-7-4-906                     32.51
36-7-4-906(f)                  32.54,
                               156.221
36-7-4-907                     32.53
36-7-4-909                     32.51,
                               156.228
36-7-4-916                     156.224
36-7-4-918.3                   156.002
36-7-4-921                     156.230
36-7-4-1000 series             156.229,
                               156.294
36-7-9                         150.40
36-7-9-1 et seq.               150.42,
                               150.47
36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28     150.41
36-7-9-2                       150.44
36-7-9-4                       150.44
36-7-9-14                      150.46
36-7-9-28                      150.99
                               Ch. 92,
36-7-10.1                      92.45,
                               92.47
36-7-10.1-3                    92.47
36-8-1-1 through 36-8-2-12     31.36
36-8-1-1 through 36-8-14-4     31.38
36-8-2-3                       Ch. 93,
                               93.01
                               92.01,
                               92.25,
                               110.01,
                               111.25,
                               Ch. 112,
                               112.01,
36-8-2-4                       112.20,
                               113.01,
                               113.25,
                               Ch. 115,
                               115.01,
                               116.01,
                               130.03
                               Ch. 92,
                               92.01,
36-8-2-8                       110.01,
                               111.25,
                               113.01,
                               113.25
                               110.01,
                               111.25,
36-8-2-9                       Ch. 112,
                               112.01,
                               112.20,
                               113.01
                               Ch. 92,
                               92.01,
                               92.25,
                               110.01,
                               111.25,
                               112.01,
36-8-2-10                      112.20,
                               113.01,
                               113.25,
                               Ch. 115,
                               115.01,
                               116.01,
                               130.03
                               110.01,
                               Ch. 111,
                               111.01,
36-8-2-11                      111.25,
                               112.01,
                               113.01,
                               115.01
36-9-7                         Ch. 70
36-9-23-1 through 36-9-23-36   Ch. 50,
                               Ch. 52
36-9-23-32                     52.09
36-9-23-33                     52.09
36-9-23-34                     52.09
36-9-27                        152.03
36-9-27-13                     156.129
                               
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2015 Code
Prior Code      2015 Code
1:3:01          11.02
2:1:01          12.01
2:2:01          12.02
2:2:02          12.03
2:2:03          12.04
2:2:04          12.05
2:2:05          12.06
2:2:06          12.07
2:3:01          12.08
2:4:01          10.17
2:4:02          10.18
2:4:03          10.19
4:1:01          70.01
4:1:02          70.02
4:1:03          70.03
4:1:04          70.04
4:1:05          70.05
4:1:06          70.06
4:1:07          70.07
4:1:08          70.99
4:2:01          70.20
4:2:02          70.21
4:2:03          70.22
4:2:04          70.23
4:2:05          70.24
4:2:06          70.24
4:2:07          70.25
4:2:08          70.26
4:2:09          70.27
4:2:10          70.28
4:2:11          70.29
4:2:12          70.29
4:2:13          70.30
4:2:14          70.31
4:2:15          70.32
4:2:16          70.33
4:2:17          70.34
4:2:18          70.35
4:2:19          70.36
4:2:20          70.37
4:2:21          70.38
4:2:22          70.39
4:2:23          70.40
4:2:24          70.40
4:3:01          70.55
4:3:02          70.56
4:3:03          70.57
4:3:04          70.58
4:3:05          70.59
4:3:06          70.60
4:3:07          70.61
4:4:01          Ch. 75 Schd. I
4:4:02          Ch. 75 Schd. II
4:4:03          Ch. 75 Schd. III
4:4:04          Ch. 75 Schd. IV
4:4:05          Ch. 76 Schd. I
4:4:07          70.08
4:4:08          70.09
4:4:09          70.99
4:5:01          73.01
4:5:02          73.02
4:5:03          73.03
4:5:04          73.04
4:5:05          73.05
4:5:06          73.06
4:5:07          73.07
4:5:08          73.08
4:5:09          73.09
4:5:10          73.10
4:5:11          73.11
4:5:12          73.12
4:5:13          73.99
4:6:01          72.01
4:6:02          72.02
4:6:03          72.03
4:6:04          72.04
4:6:05          72.05
4:6:06          72.06
4:6:07          72.07
4:6:08          72.08
4:6:09          72.09
4:6:10          72.99
4:7:01          74.01
4:7:02          74.02
4:7:03          74.03
4:7:04          74.04
4:7:05          74.05
4:7:06          74.06
4:7:07          74.07
4:7:09          74.09
4:7:10          74.10
4:8:01          72.20
4:8:02          72.21
4:8:03          72.22
4:8:04          72.23
4:8:05          72.99
4:9:01          71.35,
                71.99
4:9:02          71.36
4:9:03          71.37
4:9:04          71.38
4:9:05          71.39
4:9:06          71.40
4:9:07          71.41
5:1:01          92.01
5:1:02          92.02
5:1:03          92.03
5:1:04          92.04
5:1:05          92.05
5:1:06          92.05
5:1:07          92.06
5:1:08          92.06
5:1:09          92.07
5:1:10          92.08
5:1:11          92.09
5:1:12          92.10
5:1:13          92.11
5:1:14          92.12
5:1:15          92.99
5:2:01          92.25
5:2:02          92.26
5:2:03          92.27
5:2:04          92.28
5:2:05          92.99
5:2:06          92.29
5:2:07          92.30
5:3:01          92.45
5:3:02          92.46
5:3:03          92.47
5:3:04          92.48
5:3:05          92.49
5:3:06          92.99
5:4:01          93.01
5:4:02          93.02
5:4:04          93.04
5:4:05          93.05
5:4:06          93.06
5:4:07          93.07
5:4:08          93.08
5:4:09          93.09
5:4:10          93.10
5:4:11          93.11
5:4:12          93.12
5:4:13          93.13
5:4:14          93.14
5:4:15          93.15
5:4:16          93.99
5:5:01          151.01
5:5:02          151.99
5:6:01          151.02
5:6:02          151.99
5:7:01          90.01
5:7:02          90.02
5:7:03          90.03
5:7:04          90.04
5:7:05          90.05
5:7:06          90.06
5:7:07          90.07
5:7:08          90.08
5:7:09          90.09
5:7:10          90.11
5:7:11          90.99
5:8:01          71.20
5:8:02          71.21
5:8:03          71.22
5:8:04          71.99
5:8:05          71.99
5:8:06          71.23
5:9:01          150.40
5:9:02          150.41
5:9:03          150.42
5:9:04          150.43
5:9:05          150.43
5:9:06          150.44
5:9:07          150.44
5:9:08          150.45
5:9:09          150.46
5:9:10          150.99
5:9:11          150.47
6:1:01          110.01
6:1:02          110.02
6:1:03          110.20
6:1:04          110.21
6:1:05          110.22
6:1:06          110.23
6:1:07          110.24
6:1:08          110.25
6:1:09          110.25
6:1:10          110.26
6:1:11          110.27
6:1:12          110.28
6:1:13          110.29
6:1:14          110.30
6:1:15          110.31
6:1:16          110.32
6:1:17          110.33
6:1:18          110.34
6:1:19          110.35
6:1:20          110.36
6:1:21          110.03
6:1:22          110.03
6:1:23          110.04
6:1:24          110.05
6:1:25          110.99
6:1:26          110.06
6:2:01          111.01
6:2:02          111.02
6:2:03          111.03
6:2:04          111.03
6:2:05          111.03
6:2:06          111.03
6:2:07          111.03
6:2:08          111.03
6:2:09          111.04
6:2:10          111.05
6:2:11          111.06
6:2:12          111.07
6:2:13          111.08
6:2:14          111.03
6:2:15          111.09
6:2:16          111.10
6:2:17          111.99
6:3:01          111.25
6:3:02          111.26
6:3:03          111.27
6:3:04          111.27
6:3:05          111.27
6:3:06          111.27
6:3:07          111.27
6:3:08          111.27
6:3:09          111.27
6:3:10          111.28
6:3:11          111.29
6:3:12          111.30
6:3:13          111.31
6:3:14          111.32
6:3:15          111.33
6:3:16          111.34
6:3:17          111.35
6:3:18          111.36
6:3:19          111.27
6:3:20          111.27
6:3:21          111.37
6:3:22          111.99
6:4:01          112.01
6:4:02          112.02
6:4:03          112.03
6:4:04          112.04
6:4:05          112.05
6:4:06          112.05
6:4:07          112.06
6:4:08          112.99
6:5:01          113.01
6:5:02          113.02
6:5:03          113.03
6:5:04          113.03
6:5:05          113.03
6:5:06          113.03
6:5:07          113.03
6:5:08          113.03
6:5:09          113.03
6:5:10          113.03
6:5:11          113.03
6:5:12          113.03
6:5:13          113.04
6:5:14          113.05
6:5:15          113.06
6:5:16          113.07
6:5:17          113.08
6:5:18          113.09
6:5:19          113.03
6:5:20          113.10
6:5:21          113.99
6:6:01          114.01
6:6:02          114.02
6:6:03          114.03
6:7:01          115.01
6:7:02          115.02
6:7:03          115.03
6:7:04          115.04
6:7:05          115.05
6:7:06          115.06
6:7:07          115.07
6:7:08          115.08
6:7:09          115.09
6:7:10          115.10
6:7:11          115.11
6:7:12          115.12
6:7:13          115.13
6:7:14          115.99
6:7:15          115.14
6:8:01          112.20
6:8:02          112.21
6:8:03          112.22
6:8:04          112.22
6:8:05          112.99
6:9:01          116.01
6:9:02          116.02
6:9:03          116.03
6:9:04          116.04
6:9:05          116.05
6:9:06          116.06
6:9:07          116.99
6:9:08          116.07
6:10:01         113.25
6:10:02         113.26
6:10:03         113.27
6:10:04         113.27
6:10:05         113.28
6:10:06         113.29
6:10:07         113.27
6:10:08         113.99
6:10:09         113.30
6:11:01—6:11:2TSO Table IV
7:1:01          130.02
7:1:02          130.99
7:1:03          130.02
7:2:01          130.03
7:2:02          130.03
7:2:03          130.03
7:2:04          130.03
7:2:05          130.03
7:2:06          130.03
7:2:07          130.03
7:2:08          130.99
7:3:01          130.99
7:4:03          130.99
7:5:01          130.06
7:5:02          130.06
7:5:03          130.06
7:5:04          130.06
7:5:05          130.06
7:5:06          130.99
8:1:01          51.01
8:1:02          51.02
8:1:03          51.03
8:1:04          51.04
8:1:05          51.05
8:1:06          51.06
8:1:07          51.07
8:1:08          51.09
8:1:09          51.09
8:1:10          51.10
8:2:01          51.20
8:2:02          51.21
8:2:03          51.22
8:2:04          51.23
8:2:05          51.24
8:2:06          51.24
8:2:07          51.25
8:2:08          51.26
8:3:01          52.01
8:3:02          52.02
8:3:03          52.03
8:3:04          52.04
8:3:05          52.05
8:3:06          52.06
8:3:07          52.07
8:3:08          52.08
8:3:09          52.09
8:3:10          52.10
8:5:01          50.20
8:5:02          50.21
8:5:03          50.22
8:5:04          50.23
8:5:05          50.24
8:5:06          50.25
8:5:07          50.26
8:5:09          50.99
8:6:01          50.40
8:6:02          50.41
8:6:03          50.42
9:1:01          153.01
9:1:02          153.02
9:1:03          153.03
9:1:04          153.04
9:1:05          153.05
9:1:06          153.06
9:1:07          153.99
9:1:08          153.07
9:1:09          153.08
                
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.  Date Passed Code Section
77-Z-107  - -         153.04,
                      153.06
77-Z-100  - -         153.08
S-1       4-4-1968    52.01—
                      52.05
                      51.01—
-         5-1-1969    51.07,
                      51.09,
                      51.10
S-2       5-1-1969    52.06—
                      52.09
-         5-4-1977    11.02
                      155.001—
                      155.006,
                      155.020—
                      155.023,
-         10-19-1977  155.035—
                      155.040,
                      155.055—
                      155.063,
                      155.075—
                      155.084
                      51.01—
78-W-101  2-1-1978    51.07,
                      51.09,
                      51.10
                      51.01—
78-W-104  5-19-1978   51.07,
                      51.09,
                      51.10
80-2      11-19-1980  TSO Table IV
1981-1    2-4-1981    151.01,
                      151.99
                      90.01—
81-2      3-23-1981   90.11,
                      90.99
                      51.01—
1982-01   1-20-1982   51.07,
                      51.09,
                      51.10
                      153.01—
82-3      6-16-1982   153.08,
                      153.99
                      74.01—
82-15     12-31-1982  74.07,
                      74.09,
                      74.10
82-16     12-31-1982  70.20—
                      70.40
82-17     12-31-1982  70.55—
                      70.61
                      72.20—
82-19     12-31-1982  72.23,
                      72.99
                      70.08,
                      70.09,
                      70.99,
                      73.01—
                      73.12,
82-20     12-31-1982  73.99;
                      Ch. 75 Schd. I,
                      II,
                      III,
                      IV;
                      Ch. 76 Schd. I
                      72.01—
82-21     12-31-1982  72.09,
                      72.99
                      70.01—
                      70.09,
                      70.99;
82-22     12-31-1982  Ch. 75 Schd. I,
                      II,
                      III,
                      IV;
                      Ch. 76 Schd. I
                      92.25—
82-23     12-31-1982  92.30,
                      92.99
82-24     12-31-1982  151.02,
                      151.99
                      116.01—
82-25     1-19-1983   116.07,
                      116.99
82-26     1-19-1983   130.03,
                      130.99
                      93.01,
                      93.02,
82-27     1-19-1983   93.04—
                      93.15,
                      93.99
                      92.01—
82-28     2-2-1983    92.12,
                      92.99
                      92.45—
82-29     2-2-1983    92.49,
                      92.99
                      112.20—
82-30     2-2-1983    112.22,
                      112.99
                      115.01—
82-31     2-2-1983    115.14,
                      115.99
                      112.01—
82-32     2-2-1983    112.06,
                      112.99
                      111.25—
82-33     2-2-1983    111.37,
                      111.99
                      113.01—
82-34     2-2-1983    113.10,
                      113.99
                      111.01—
82-35     2-2-1983    111.10,
                      111.99
82-36     2-2-1983    130.99
82-37     2-2-1983    114.01—
                      114.03
82-39     2-2-1983    50.40—
                      50.42
                      113.25—
82-40     2-2-1983    113.30,
                      113.99
                      110.01—
                      110.06,
82-41     2-2-1983    110.20—
                      110.36,
                      110.99
                      50.20—
82-44     5-4-1983    50.26,
                      50.99
                      51.01—
82-45     5-4-1983    51.07,
                      51.09,
                      51.10
82-46     5-4-1983    130.02,
                      130.99
82-48     6-15-1983   51.20—
                      51.26
82-49     9-7-1983    130.99
                      70.08,
                      70.09,
                      70.99,
                      73.01—
                      73.12,
82-51     11-2-1983   73.99;
                      Ch. 75 Schd. I,
                      II,
                      III,
                      IV;
                      Ch. 76 Schd. I
                      92.01—
82-52     11-2-1983   92.12,
                      92.99
                      111.01—
82-53     11-2-1983   111.10,
                      111.99
                      111.25—
82-54     11-2-1983   111.37,
                      111.99
                      70.08,
                      70.09,
                      70.99;
82-18     12-31-1983  Ch. 75 Schd. I,
                      II,
                      III,
                      IV;
                      Ch. 76 Schd. I
                      92.25—
84-1      6-20-1984   92.30,
                      92.99
                      70.08,
                      70.09,
                      70.99;
84-2      11-7-1984   Ch. 75 Schd. I,
                      II,
                      III,
                      IV;
                      Ch. 76 Schd. I
                      71.35—
82-42     2-2-1985    71.41,
                      71.99
                      51.01—
86-2      6-18-1986   51.07,
                      51.09,
                      51.10
                      51.01—
86-3      11-5-1986   51.07,
                      51.09,
                      51.10
                      90.01—
86-4      11-5-1986   90.11,
                      90.99
87-1      5-6-1987    TSO Table IV
                      70.08,
                      70.09,
                      70.99;
88-1      1-20-1988   Ch. 75 Schd. I,
                      II,
                      III,
                      IV;
                      Ch. 76 Schd. I
                      70.08,
                      70.09,
                      70.99;
88-2      2-17-1988   Ch. 75 Schd. I,
                      II,
                      III,
                      IV;
                      Ch. 76 Schd. I
88-3      7-20-1988   52.06—
                      52.09
88-6      8-17-1988   52.06—
                      52.09
                      150.15—
                      150.19,
89-1      3-1-1989    150.21—
                      150.27,
                      150.99
                      92.01—
89-4      9-20-1989   92.12,
                      92.99
                      92.45—
89-5      9-20-1989   92.49,
                      92.99
                      52.25—
90-3      3-21-1990   52.35,
                      52.99
                      70.08,
                      70.09,
                      70.99;
91-2      4-3-1991    Ch. 75 Schd. I,
                      II,
                      III,
                      IV;
                      Ch. 76 Schd. I
                      110.01—
                      110.06,
91-3      6-19-1991   110.20—
                      110.36,
                      110.99
92-02     8-5-1992    52.26
                      51.01—
92-04     12-2-1992   51.07,
                      51.09,
                      51.10
                      70.08,
                      70.09,
                      70.99;
93-2      5-5-1993    Ch. 75 Schd. I,
                      II,
                      III,
                      IV;
                      Ch. 76 Schd. I
                      70.08,
                      70.09,
                      70.99;
94-1      3-2-1994    Ch. 75 Schd. I,
                      II,
                      III,
                      IV;
                      Ch. 76 Schd. I
                      51.01—
94-02     6-15-1994   51.07,
                      51.09,
                      51.10
                      70.08,
                      70.09,
                      70.99;
95-03     8-2-1995    Ch. 75 Schd. I,
                      II,
                      III,
                      IV;
                      Ch. 76 Schd. I
95-04     10-18-1995  70.55—
                      70.61
98-01     3-16-1998   94.01,
                      94.99
98-02     4-20-1998   Ch. 75 Schd. V
2000-3    10-2-2000   130.99
                      90.01—
2001-02   4-2-2001    90.11,
                      90.99
                      156.001—
                      156.014,
                      156.025—
                      156.029,
                      156.040—
                      156.046,
                      156.060—
                      156.065,
                      156.080—
                      156.088,
                      156.100—
                      156.106,
                      156.120—
                      156.141,
2002-05   12-30-2002  156.155—
                      156.172,
                      156.185—
                      156.189,
                      156.200—
                      156.206,
                      156.220—
                      156.235,
                      156.250—
                      156.254,
                      156.265—
                      156.272,
                      156.285—
                      156.294,
                      156.999
2003-02   6-2-2003    TSO Table I
2003-03   6-16-2003   TSO Table I
2004-01   3-18-2004   TSO Table I
2004-04   7-19-2004   TSO Table II
2004-05   7-19-2004   TSO Table I
2005-01   1-17-2005   TSO Table II
2005-04   7-18-2005   TSO Table I
2005-05   7-18-2005   TSO Table I
2005-06   7-18-2005   TSO Table I
                      51.01—
2005-7    8-15-2005   51.07,
                      51.09,
                      52.10
2005-08   8-15-2005   52.06—
                      52.09
2005-11   10-17-2005  50.23
                      152.01—
2005-12   11-21-2005  152.17,
                      152.99
                      152.30—
2005-13   11-21-2005  152.41,
                      152.99
                      71.20—
2005-14   11-21-2005  71.23,
                      71.99
2006-01   3-6-2006    150.01,
                      150.99
                      150.40—
2006-02   3-20-2006   150.47,
                      150.99
2007-01   4-9-2007    156.040—
                      156.046
2007-3    8-20-2007   130.06,
                      130.99
                      51.40—
2007-04   10-15-2007  51.47,
                      51.99
                      91.01—
2008-03   7-21-2008   91.10,
                      91.99
2009-03   4-6-2009    156.040—
                      156.046
2009-04   4-6-2009    156.040—
                      156.046
2009-05   4-6-2009    156.044
2010-02   2-1-2010    52.06—
                      52.09
2010-03   3-1-2010    52.06—
                      52.09
2011-01   3-21-2011   TSO Table III
2012-01   1-23-2012   150.01
2012-02   1-23-2012   156.002
2012-03   1-26-2012   130.01,
                      130.99
2012-04   3-19-2012   Ch. 76 Schd. III
2012-06   7-2-2012    11.01
2012-08   12-17-2012  50.01—
                      50.09
2013-02   5-20-2013   92.47,
                      92.99
                      71.01—
2013-03   7-15-2013   71.07,
                      71.99
                      154.01—
                      154.14,
                      154.25—
                      154.32,
2014-05   11-3-2014   154.45,
                      154.46,
                      154.60—
                      154.65,
                      154.99
2014-08   12-15-2014  90.10
2015-02   5-18-2015   TSO Table III
2015-03   8-3-2015    92.46,
                      92.99
2015-05   10-19-2015  91.02
2016-01   6-20-2016   33.080
2016-04   9-19-2016   Adopting Ordinance
                      50.20,
R-2017-01 4-3-2017    50.22—
                      50.24
                      74.02,
                      74.05,
                      74.06,
                      74.09,
                      74.10,
2017-02   6-5-2017    Ch. 75 Schd. I,
                      II,
                      Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                      90.99,
                      92.04,
                      92.28,
                      93.02
2017-05   12-29-2017  50.50
2018-01   8- -2018    92.04
2018-03   10-15-2018  30.02
2018-04   10-15-2018  11.01
2018-06   12-3-2018   52.06
2019-02   2-4-2019    93.05
2019-03   2-4-2019    92.04
                      92.47,
2019-04   6-3-2019    92.48,
                      92.99
2020-03   8-17-2020   Ch. 75 Schd. I
                      150.01,
2020-06   11-2-2020   150.20—
                      150.27,
                      150.99
                     
 
