City of Aurora, Indiana
Code of Ordinances
2023 S-8 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 2022-016, passed 12-19-22; and
State legislation current through 2023 Indiana Legislative Services, Pamphlet
No. 3
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the city of Aurora shall be
designated as the Code of Aurora and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation, shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, MUNICIPALITY, or TOWN. The city of Aurora,
Indiana.
   CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as modified
by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
   COUNTY. Dearborn County, Indiana.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
   OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
   PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
   PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
   STATE. The State of Indiana.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
   WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
   YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed; equivalent to the words
YEAR OF OUR LORD.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this municipality shall be by the
following rules, unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of
the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
"and/or," if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, such
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of such act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this city for the transaction of all municipal
business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the Common Council requiring publication shall take
effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise expressly
provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in anywise be effected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall by itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the Common Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   If an IC cite is included in the history, this indicates that
the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (IC 36-4-5-3) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-85).
      (2)   If an IC cite is set forth as a "statutory reference" following the
text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information.
Example:
   § 31.10 MAYOR.
      The executive authority of the city shall be vested in and exercised by
the Mayor.
   (Ord. 10, passed 1-1-80)
   Statutory reference:
      For the powers and duties of the Mayor, see IC 36-4-5-3
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whenever in this code or in any ordinance of the city, or rules or
regulations promulgated by any officer or agency thereof, under authority
invested by law or ordinance, any act is prohibited or is made or declared to
be unlawful or an offense or the doing of any act is required, or the failure
to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided
therefor, the violation of any of such provisions of this code, ordinance, rule
or regulation shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $2500. Every day any
violation of this code or any such ordinance, rule or regulation shall continue
shall constitute a separate offense.
('74 Code, §1-6) (Am. Ord. 91-5, passed 5-6-91)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
       Chapter
         
30.   COMMON COUNCIL
         
31.   CITY OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
         
32.   DEPARTMENTS, COMMISSIONS AND BOARDS
         
33.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
         
34.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
         
35.   REGIONAL PORT AUTHORITY
         
36.   FUNDS
         
37.   CITY POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: COMMON COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Council membership
   
30.02   Rules of procedure
   
30.03   Council to appoint utilities committee
   
30.04   Designations of ordinances and resolutions
   
30.05   Councilmanic districts
   
30.06   Council to approve grants submitted
§ 30.01 COUNCIL MEMBERSHIP.
   The Common Council of the city shall be composed of five members.
§ 30.02 RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Mayor shall decide all questions of order subject to an appeal to
the Council by any member whose motion to appeal shall be seconded.
   (B)   When any member is about to speak or deliver any matter to Council he
shall call for recognition and upon being recognized shall confine himself to
the question and avoid personalities.
   (C)   No member shall impeach the motive of any other member's vote or
argument.
   (D)   If any member shall in anyway transgress the rules of Council, the
Mayor shall and any member or Council may, call him to order unless permitted
to explain, which permission shall only be granted upon motion, duly seconded
of another member. If the question of order be decided against him he shall be
liable to the censure of the Council, if the case requires it, but if the
decision be in his favor he shall be at liberty to proceed.
   (E)   Expulsion of a member shall require a 2/3 vote of the members elect.
   (F)   No member shall speak more than twice on the same subject, except by
the unanimous consent of the Council, nor more than once in any event until
every other member shall have spoken, except the mover who shall be entitled to
close the debate.
   (G)   When any motion is made and seconded it shall be stated by the City
Clerk-Treasurer before any debate shall be had thereon.
   (H)   The vote on ordinances and resolutions must be decided by the ayes and
nays recorded in the minutes.
   (I)   A motion to amend an amendment shall always be in order.
   (J)   If any question contains more than one proposition, it shall be
divided on the demand of any member.
   (K)   When a resolution is offered or a report or other matter presented,
the chair may take the reception thereof for granted, unless objection is made,
in which event a formal motion shall be required.
   (L)   Robert's Rules of Order shall govern the council in all cases to which
they are applicable and not inconsistent with the standing rules and orders of
the Council.
('74 Code, § 2-11)
§ 30.03 COUNCIL TO APPOINT UTILITIES COMMITTEE.
   All municipally-owned utilities shall be operated and controlled by a
committee of all members of the Common Council.
('74 Code, § 2-12) (Ord. 65-1, passed - -65)
§ 30.04 DESIGNATIONS OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   All ordinances and resolutions shall be numbered in the following manner:
The ordinances and resolutions shall receive a number beginning with either all
four digits of the year in which they were passed or with the last two digits
of the year in which they were passed, followed by a dash, and then the number
of such ordinance or resolution in proper sequence as has been passed in that
year; provided however, that in order to distinguish between a resolution and
an ordinance, the number of a resolution shall have a capital letter "R"
immediately following the last two digits of the year in which it was passed,
and placed before the dash.
('74 Code, § 2-1) (Ord. 63-1, passed - -63)
§ 30.05 COUNCILMANIC DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CITY. Refers to the city of Aurora;
      COUNCIL. Refers to the Common Council of the city of Aurora;
      PRECINCT. Refers to the precinct by that name as established by the Board
of Commissioners of the County of Dearborn, and as approved by the State
Election Board under IC 3-11-1.5, in existence on the effective date of this
section.
   (B)   The Council is composed of five members. Four members of the Council
are selected from the districts established under this section. One member of
the Council is elected at large by the voters of the whole city. Each voter in
the entire city is to vote for one candidate for at large membership and one
candidate for each of the Councilmanic districts. The at-large candidate and
the candidate from each district receiving the most votes from the whole city
shall be elected to the legislative body.
   (C)   The Council divides the city into the following districts to include
the following census blocks, or portions thereof, that are located within the
incorporated boundary of the city, for the purpose of conducting elections of
Council Members:
      (1)   Center 1: 2000-2003, 2018, 2040, 2041, 2046, 2047, 2058-2078, 3017-
3024, 4000-4015, 4026, 4037, 4040-4047, 4056, 4057.
      (2)   Center 2: 1000-1005, 1008, 1018-1134, 1036, 2016-2018, 2020-2025,
2030-2032, 2034-2039, 2042-2045, 2048-2057, 3002-3006.
      (3)   Center 3: 1006, 1007, 1009-1013, 1015-1017, 1035, 1074, 1075, 2000-
2002, 2004, 2005, 2008-2012, 2014, 2015, 2080.
      (4)   Center 4: 3000, 3001, 3010, 3011, 3013-3016, 3027-3040, 3042-3055,
3060-3063, 4017-4020, 4022, 4023, 4029-4036, 4050-4055, 4058-4060, 4063-4066.
   (D)   If any part of the city is not included in one of the districts
established by this section, that territory is included within the district
that:
      (1)   Is contiguous to that territory; and
      (2)   Contains the smallest population (as defined in IC 1-1-4-5).
   (E)   If any part of the city is included in more than one of the districts
established by this section, that territory is included within the district
that:
      (1)   Is one of the districts in which the territory is described in this
section;
      (2)   Is contiguous to that territory; and
      (3)   Contains the smallest population (as defined in IC 1-1-4-5).
   (F)   The Council adopts a map depicting the districts established under
this section and incorporates the map by reference into this section. Two
copies of this map are filed in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer for public
inspection as required by IC 36-1-5-4. If a conflict exists between the
districts as depicted on the map and as described in this section, the
description in this section prevails.
   (G)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the city shall forward a signed copy of this
section to the Circuit Court Clerk of Dearborn County and shall request the
Clerk to include a copy of this section in the records of the Dearborn County
Election Board.
(Ord. 2002-15, passed 11-6-02; Am. Ord. 2012-014, passed 12-17-12)
§ 30.06 COUNCIL TO APPROVE GRANTS SUBMITTED.
   The City Council must approve grants submitted on behalf of the city.
(Ord. 2009-004, passed 12-21-09)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Bond of officials and employees
   
31.02   Old age and survivor's insurance
   
31.03   Mileage expense
   
31.04   Discrimination prohibited
   
31.05   Drug-free workplace policy
   
31.06   Advance of claim payments
   
31.07   Expenses for promotion of city
   
31.08   Conflict of interest; nepotism
Appointed Officials
   
31.15   City Clerk-Treasurer; offices combined
   
31.16   Deputy Clerk-Treasurer
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 BOND OF OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The bonds of the following city officers and employees shall be in the
following amounts:
      (1)   Clerk-Treasurer, $25,000
      (2)   City Attorney, $8,500
      (3)   Police officers, including chief, $8,500
      (4)   Superintendent of utilities, $8,500
   (B)   The city may take advantage of the blanket bond coverage permitted
under IC 5-4-1- 18.
   (C)   All utilities employees shall be under a blanket bond in the amount of
$10,000.
('74 Code, § 2-9) (Ord. 85, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 170, passed - - ; Am. Ord.
398, passed - - )
§ 31.02 OLD AGE AND SURVIVOR'S INSURANCE.
   (A)   The city hereby elects coverage under the old age and survivor's
insurance as authorized by IC 5-10.1-3-1 et seq.
('74 Code, § 2-2)
   (B)   All positions shall be covered under the old age and survivor's
insurance adopted by division (A) except:
      (1)   Part-time positions, normally requiring 600 hours per year or less.
      (2)   Positions, the compensation for which is on a fee basis.
      (3)   Elected legislative officials.
      (4)   Elected executive officials.
      (5)   Elected judicial officials.
('74 Code, § 2-3)
   (C)   For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of Title II, Section
218, of the Federal Social Security Act and amendments thereof, the agreement
entered into between the state agency with the approval of the Governor and the
Social Security Administrator is made a part of §
31.02 and shall constitute an integral part of the federal agreement between
the city and the state agency and shall become a part of the agreement or
modification of the agreement between the state and the Social Security
Administrator. The city hereby explicitly agrees that it will fully perform the
obligation of a political subdivision under such agreement. ('74 Code, § 2-4)
(Ord. 68-6, passed - -68)
§ 31.03 MILEAGE EXPENSE.
   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized and directed to pay the sum of $.25½ per
mile for reimbursing mileage expenses for city business to all city employees
and officials presently entitled thereto under the code of ordinance of the
city and the statutes of the state.
(Ord. 91-12, passed 8-5-91)
§ 31.04 DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The Common Council of the city hereby adopts a policy promoting
compliance with federal civil rights legislation and prohibits the city's
agencies, departments, officials, representatives, authorized agents and
employees from discrimination in its hiring or employment practices against any
person, on the basis of race, color, national origin, age, handicap, sex or
religion.
   (B)   The Common Council resolves that all employment practices are to
provide that all individuals be recruited, hired, assigned, advanced,
compensated and retained on the basis of their qualifications, and treated
equally in these and all other respects without regard to race, color,
religion, age, sex, marital status, handicap, or national origin. It shall be
considered the responsibility of every department head or supervisory employee
to further the implementation of this policy and to insure conformance by their
subordinates. Department heads or supervisory personnel as well as those
responsible for hiring new employees must take all necessary action in
elimination of possible discrimination towards employees and applicants for
employment with the city in all categories and levels of employment and
employee relations.
   (C)   The Common Council hereby designates, as set forth by ordinance, a
representative of the city to monitor compliance with the city's policy of non-
discrimination and to receive complaints regarding potential or possible civil
rights violations.
   (D)   The Common Council hereby requires the head of each department of the
city, including but not limited to, the Police Department, Volunteer Fire
Department, and the Utility Department, to monitor within their own department
the city policy of non-discrimination and he shall be responsible for reporting
any known or potential violation of this policy.
(Res. 1994-7, passed 9-6-94; Am. Res. 1995-2, passed 4-3-95)
§ 31.05 DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE POLICY.
   (A)   Overview. Whereas, the city makes a commitment to provide employees a
safe working environment, to ensure that employees, equipment and operating
practices comply with health and safety standards, and to maintain public
confidence in the city and its employees. Since the city values each employee,
it offers employees assistance in dealing with alcohol and drug abuse problems.
   (B)   Policy. 
      (1)   Whereas, the city requires all employees to report for work in a
condition that allows them to perform their duties in a safe and efficient
manner. Employees will not be permitted to work under the influence of alcohol
or with prohibited drugs in their systems thereby affecting job performance.
      (2)   Violation of any provision of this section will be considered just
cause for disciplinary action, up to and including discharge, even for a first
offense. In addition, refusal to adhere to any part of the policy may be
considered an act of insubordination and also may lead to disciplinary action,
up to and including discharge.
      (3)   This section and related procedures may be modified by the city at
any time in order to comply with any applicable federal, state or local laws,
or to better serve the needs of the city.
   (C)   Prohibited drugs.
      (1)   PROHIBITED DRUGS are defined as illegal substances, including
controlled substances as defined in the Controlled Substance Act (21 USC 8120
and 21 CFR 1308.11-1308.15), and prescription-controlled substances that have
not been prescribed by a licensed physician or dentist for specific treatment
purposes for the employee. Abuse of prescription or over-the-counter drugs will
also be treated as a substance abuse problem under this section.
      (2)   This section prohibits the illegal use, sale, transfer,
distribution, possession, or unlawful manufacture of narcotics, drugs, or other
controlled substances while on the job or on city premises (including vehicles
used for city business). These include, but are not limited to, marijuana,
cocaine, crack, PCP, heroin, LSD, amphetamines, hallucinogens, and
barbiturates. Any illegal substances found on such premises will be turned over
to the state police and may lead to criminal prosecution.
   (D)   Alcohol.
      (1)   The use of alcohol on the job or on city premises is prohibited,
unless such use is non-abusive and is part of an authorized official event held
off city premises. The use of alcohol in vehicles used for city business is
strictly prohibited.
      (2)   Alcohol possession applies to all open or unsealed alcoholic
beverage containers. Such containers are not allowed on the job or on city
premises, unless their possession is part of an authorized official event.
Possession of such containers in vehicles used for city business is never
authorized.
   (E)   Reporting violations.
      (1)   As a condition of employment, employees must abide by the terms of
this section and report any conviction to the city under a criminal drug
statute for violations occurring on or off city premises when conducting city
business. Report of a conviction must be made to the city within five business
days after the conviction. The city will then notify the appropriate
contracting officer within ten days after receiving notice from either the
employee or from another source. (These requirements are mandated by the Drug-
Free Workplace Act of 1988.)
      (2)   An employee who is involved with off-the-job illegal drug activity
may be considered in violation of this section. In determining whether
disciplinary action will be imposed for this activity, the city will consider
the circumstance of each incident, including but not limited to, any adverse
effect the employee’s actions may have on its customers, other employees, the
public, or the city’s reputation and image.
      (3)   Any questions regarding the reporting of violations should be
directed to the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (F)   Employee rehabilitation.
      (1)   Health maintenance is primarily a personal responsibility and it is
the individual’s responsibility to correct unsatisfactory job performance or
behavioral problems caused by alcohol or drug abuse. In an effort to assist
employees, the city will provide various means for employees and their family
members to remain aware of the dangers of substance abuse in the workplace, and
to overcome drug- and alcohol-related problems.
      (2)   Employees with a personal, alcohol- or drug-related problem are
encouraged to volunteer to participate in a approved rehabilitation program,
upon referral from the Employee and Family Assistance Program, before work
performance becomes affected.
      (3)   Participation in a rehabilitation program will not be considered a
barrier to employment nor a cause for disciplinary action. Employees will not
be disciplined merely because of participation in a rehabilitation program, or
excused from the disciplinary consequences of conduct in violation of this
section or any other city policies or job requirements.
      (4)   Any employee identified through a city investigation as having a
substance abuse problem also may not avoid disciplinary action by requesting to
participate in an approved rehabilitation program.
      (5)   Circumstances in each case will be evaluated to determine the
course of action to be taken (i.e., whether the employee will be offered the
opportunity to participate in a rehabilitation program and/or will be subject
to discipline).
   (G)   Testing.
      (1)   The city will not ask employees to submit to random alcohol or drug
tests.
      (2)   Alcohol or drug tests may be required for employees in the
following circumstances:
         (a)   When unsatisfactory job performance or other employee behavior
is reasonably indicative of substance abuse.
         (b)   During and after participation in a drug or alcohol
rehabilitation program for a reasonable period of time as determined by the
city.
         (c)   Whenever an employee is involved in an accident while operating
a city vehicle or motorized city equipment during the course of duties of
employment.
         (d)   When required by law.
      (3)   if a supervisor identifies an employee with a behavior pattern and/
or job performance reasonably indicative of substance abuse, the supervisor
(with the concurrence of the next level of supervision) may recommend that the
employee have a fitness-for-duty examination by a physician designated by the
city. The physician will determine whether a fitness-for-duty examination is
necessary, and whether alcohol or drug tests will be required.
      (4)   Pre-employment drug testing is part of the pre-employment physical.
The method of testing will be determined by the city. Applicants who test
positive for prohibited drugs in their systems will not be offered employment.
Any questions regarding reappiication opportunities should be directed to the
Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2014-005, passed 5-5-14)
§ 31.06 ADVANCE OF CLAIM PAYMENTS.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer for the city, and its various departments, and the
Aurora Municipal Utility Department is hereby authorized to disburse money for
lawful or ongoing city, city departments (Police, Fire, and the like), Aurora
Park Board, Aurora Recreation and Community Center, and municipal utility
purposes for claims submitted to the Clerk-Treasurer for the following kinds of
expenses as they occur:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from the United States
government, its agencies, or its political subdivisions;
      (2)   License or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges, including, but not
limited to: telephone, internet service, cable television, electric bills, and/
or cellular telephone;
      (5)   General grant programs where advance funding is not prohibited and
the contracting party posts sufficient security to cover the amount advanced;
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance or service agreements;
      (8)   Leases or rental agreements;
      (9)   Bond or coupon payments;
      (10)   Payroll;
      (11)   State, federal, or county taxes;
      (12)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances;
      (13)   Other expenses described by ordinance; or
      (14)   Vendors that supply the following items: general use signage for
the city, utility department and various departments of the city or utility
department; parts and repair services for city, utility or various city or
utility department vehicles and/or equipment; trash and debris removal service
for the city (does not include the contract for solid waste removal provided as
a city service to residents); cleaning supplies; general usage office supplies;
or, toiletries and bathroom supplies.
   (B)   Each payment of expenses listed hereinabove must be supported by a
fully itemized invoice or bill and certification by the Clerk-Treasurer of the
city, and the Board of Public Works and Safety of the city, having jurisdiction
over the payment of the claims, shall at its next regular or special meeting
following the pre-approved payment of the expenses, review and allow the claim.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall provide a list of claims paid for the City
Council to review and allow the claim at its next regular or special meeting
following the pre-approved payment of the expense.
(Ord. 2002-11, passed 8-7-02; Am. Ord. 2008-05, passed 4-21-08; Am. Ord. 2013-
010, passed 11-18-13)
§ 31.07 EXPENSES FOR PROMOTION OF CITY.
   The Mayor and City Manager are hereby authorized to budget and appropriate
funds from the general fund of the city, or the gaming revenue fund of the
city, to reimburse city officials for certain expenses incurred in promoting
the best interest of the city. Such expenses may include, but are not
necessarily limited to, rental of meeting places, meals, decorations,
memorabilia, awards, holiday cards, expenses incurred in promoting economic and
residential development, and expenses incurred in developing relationships with
other units of government or with other groups of a civic or governmental
nature as deemed in the best interest of the city by the Mayor or City Manager.
(Ord. 2012-009, passed 10-15-12; Am. Ord. 2017-003, passed 6-5-17)
§ 31.08 CONFLICT OF INTEREST; NEPOTISM.
   (A)   The city finds that it is necessary and desirous to adopt a policy of
conduct with regard to nepotism in the employment with the city and in
contacting with the city in order to continue to be able to provide local
government services to its residents and to comply with the new laws effective
July 1, 2012 known as IC 36-1-20.2 and IC 36-1-21, respectively.
   (B)   On July 1, 2012 the city shall have a nepotism and a contracting with
a unit policy that complies with the minimum requirements of IC 36-1-20.2
(hereinafter nepotism policy) and IC 36-1-21 (hereinafter contracting with a
unit by a relative policy) and implementation will begin.
   (C)   The city nepotism policy is hereby established effective July 1, 2012
by adopting the minimum requirements and provisions of IC 36-1-20.2, and
including all future supplements and amendments thereto which become law from
time to time, and making them a part hereof as if fully set out herein. In
addition a copy of IC 36-1-20.2 nepotism in effect on July 1 is attached to
Resolution 2012-002, passed June 18, 2012.
   (D)   The city contracting with a unit by a relative policy is hereby
established effective July 1, 2012 by adopting the minimum requirements and
provisions of IC 36-1-21, and including all future supplements and amendments
thereto which become law from time to time, and making them a part hereof as if
fully set out herein. In addition a copy of the IC 36-1-21 contracting with a
unit in effect on July 1 is attached to Resolution 2012-002, passed June 18,
2012.
   (E)   The city finds that both IC 36-1-20.2 and IC 36-1-21 specifically
allow a unit to adopt requirements that are more stringent or detailed and that
more detailed are necessary.
   (F)   The city further finds that a single member of the Common Council
cannot act for the Common Council to make work assignments, compensation,
grievances, advancement or a performance evaluation without prior authority of
a majority of the Common Council and therefore without such authority by the
majority he or she will not be in the direct line of supervision. See IC 36-4-
6-11.
   (G)   The city finds that a single member of governing bodies, boards or
commissions with authority over employees in the city cannot act for the
governing body to make work assignments, compensation, grievances, advancement
or a performance evaluation without prior authority of a majority of the body,
board or commission when a statute provides that a majority is needed to act,
and therefore, without such authority by the majority the single member will
not be in the direct line of supervision.
   (H)   All elected and appointed officials and employees of the city are
hereby directed to cooperate fully in the implementation of the policies
created by this section and demonstrating compliance with these same policies.
   (I)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance
and certifications connected with the nepotism policy is a violation and may
result in the discipline, including termination, of an employee or a transfer
from the direct line of supervision or other curative action. An elected or
appointed official of the city who fails to abide by or cooperate with the
implementation, with the compliance and with mandated certifications of the
nepotism policy may be subject to action allowed by law.
   (J)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance
and certifications connected with the contracting with unit by a relative
policy is a violation and may result in the discipline, including termination,
of an employee or a curative action. An elected or appointed official of the
city who fails to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, with the
compliance and with mandated certifications of the contracting with unit by a
relative policy may be subject to action allowed by law.
   (K)   The policies created by this section are hereby directed to be
implemented by any of the following actions:
      (1)   Posting a copy of this section in its entirety in at least one of
the following locations in the city where it posts employer posters or other
notices to its employees;
      (2)   Providing a copy of this section to its employees and elected and
appointed officials;
      (3)   Providing or posting a notice of the adoption of this section; or
      (4)   Any such other action or actions that would communication the
policies established by this section to its employees and elected and appointed
officials. Upon the taking of any of these actions the policies are deemed
implemented by the city.
   (L)   A copy of the provisions of IC 36-1-20.2 and IC 36-1-21 effective July
1, 2012 are annexed and attached to Resolution 2012-002, passed June 18, 2012.
   (M)   Two copies of IC 36-1-20.2 and IC 36-1-21, and as supplemented or
amended, are on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer for the city for
public inspection as may be required by IC 36-1-5-4.
(Res. 2012-002, passed 6-18-12)
APPOINTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.15 CITY CLERK-TREASURER; OFFICES COMBINED.
   The offices of City Clerk and City Treasurer shall be held and administered
by the same person. ('74 Code, § 2-10) (Ord. 95, passed - - )
§ 31.16 DEPUTY CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   There is hereby established the position of Deputy Clerk-Treasurer who
shall serve at the pleasure of the Clerk-Treasurer of the city and have such
powers and duties as authorized and provided under the laws of the state of
Indiana.
   (B)   There shall be one and only one Deputy of the Clerk-Treasurer who
shall be entitled to be compensated for the duties he performs in an amount as
is established by ordinance.
(Ord. 1981-8, passed 5-4-81; Am. Ord. 1989-1, passed 1-16-89)
CHAPTER 32: DEPARTMENTS, COMMISSIONS AND BOARDS
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Establishment of executive departments for administrative functions of
city
Department of Parks and Recreation
   
32.10   Establishment
   
32.11   Appointment; composition
   
32.12   Terms; vacancies
   
32.13   Officers
   
32.14   Powers and duties
   
32.15   Annual budget; gifts, donations and subsidies
   
32.16   Deputy park clerk and park custodian
Planning Commission
   
32.25   Establishment
   
32.26   Composition
   
32.27   Election of officers; powers and duties
Commission of Economic Development
   
32.40   Establishment
   
32.41   Composition; appointment of members; powers
Board of Aviation Commissioners
   
32.50   Establishment
Historic Preservation Commission
   
32.60   Definitions
   
32.61   Historic Preservation Commission
   
32.62   Powers and duties of Historic Preservation Commission
   
32.63   Approval by City Council required
   
32.64   Further surveying and mapping
   
32.65   Relationship to zoning districts
   
32.66   Certificate of appropriateness required
   
32.67   Application for certificate of appropriateness
   
32.68   Action on applications for certificates of appropriateness
   
32.69   Development standards
   
32.70   Appeal provisions
   
32.71   Maintenance
   
32.72   Visual compatibility
   
32.73   Visual compatibility factors
   
32.74   Enforcement, penalties and judicial review
   
32.75   Recording the fact of historic district designation
   
32.76   Severability
   
32.77   Conservation districts
   
32.78   Paint colors
   
32.79   Interested parties
Board of Public Works Purchasing Agency
   
32.85   Established
Redevelopment Commission
   
32.90   Established
Redevelopment Autrhority
   
32.95   Established
Reserved
   
32.105   Reserved
Marriage Office
   
32.110   Creation
   
32.111   Marriage Office powers and duties
   
32.112   Service charge schedule
   
32.113   Waiver of charges authorized
   
32.114   All charges belong to municipality - personal fees prohibited
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS FOR ADMINISTRATIVE FUNCTIONS OF
CITY.
   (A)   The executive departments, to perform efficiently the administrative
functions required to fulfill the needs of the city's citizens, shall be and
are:
      (1)   Department of finance or administration;
      (2)   Department of law;
      (3)   Department of public works;
      (4)   Department of public safety;
      (5)   Department of parks and recreation;
      (6)   Department of human resources and economic development;
      (7)   Municipal Plan Commission.
   (B)   The head of each of these departments is and shall be under the
jurisdiction of the Mayor.
(Ord. 1982-17, passed 7-6-82)
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
§ 32.10 ESTABLISHMENT.
   Under the provision of I.C. 36-10-3 there is hereby created a municipal
Department of Parks and Recreation.
(Ord. 87-13, passed 10-19-87)
§ 32.11 APPOINTMENT; COMPOSITION.
   A Park and Recreation Board shall be created and composed of four members
appointed by the Mayor on the basis of their interest in and knowledge of parks
and recreation. No more than two members shall be of the same political party.
(Ord. 87-13, passed 10-19-87; Am. Ord. 88-2, passed 3-7-88; Am. Ord. 2017-12,
passed 12-4-17)
§ 32.12 TERMS; VACANCIES.
   (A)   Upon establishment of the Park and Recreation Board, the terms of the
members initially appointed shall be:
      (1)   One member for a term of one year;
      (2)   One member for a term of two years;
      (3)   One member for a term of three years; and
      (4)   One member for a term of four years.
   (B)   As a term expires, each new appointment shall be made by the Mayor for
a term of four years. All terms expire on the first Monday in January, but a
member shall continue in office until his successor is appointed. If an
appointment for a new term is not made by the Mayor by the first Monday in
April the incumbent shall serve another term. If a vacancy occurs, the Mayor
shall appoint a new member for the remainder of the unexpired term.
(Ord. 87-13, passed 10-19-87)
§ 32.13 OFFICERS.
   At its first regular meeting in each year, the Park and Recreation Board
shall elect a President and Vice-President. The Vice-President shall have
authority to act as the President of the Board during the absence or disability
of the President. The Board may select a Secretary either from within or
without its own membership.
(Ord. 87-13, passed 10-19-87)
§ 32.14 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Park and Recreation Board shall have the power to perform all acts
necessary to acquire and develop sites and facilities and to conduct such
programs as are generally understood to be park and recreation functions. In
addition the Board shall have all the powers and duties listed in I.C. 36-10-3.
(Ord. 87-13, passed 10-19-87)
§ 32.15 ANNUAL BUDGET; GIFTS, DONATIONS AND SUBSIDIES.
   The Park and Recreation Board shall prepare and submit an annual budget in
the same manner as other departments of city government as prescribed by the
State Board of Accounts. The Board may accept gifts, donations, and subsidies
for park and recreation purposes.
(Ord. 87-13, passed 10-19-87)
§ 32.16 DEPUTY PARK CLERK AND PARK CUSTODIAN.
   (A)   There is hereby established the position of Assistant Park Clerk who
shall serve at the pleasure of the Park Clerk of the city and have such powers
and duties as authorized and provided in the laws of the state of Indiana.
   (B)   There is hereby established the position of Park Custodian who shall
serve at the pleasure of the Department of Parks and Recreation and have such
powers and duties as delegated by the Board of Parks and Recreation and as
provided under the laws of the state of Indiana.
   (C)   There shall be one and only Assistant Park Clerk and Park Custodian
who shall be entitles to be compensated for the duties he or she performs in an
amount as is established by ordinance.
(Ord. 1989-3, passed 2-6-89)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 32.25 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created and established a City Planning Commission.
('74 Code, § 2-21) (Ord. 568, passed - - )
§ 32.26 COMPOSITION.
   The membership of the City Planning Commission shall be in accordance with
the laws of the state. The official members are hereby designated to be: Three
members to be appointed by the Common Council from persons in the city
government, the term of such appointed members to be coexistent with the term
of office to which he has been elected or appointed; and four citizen members
to be appointed by the Mayor, no more than two of whom shall be of the same
political party. Two of such citizen members shall be appointed for a term of
three years to expire on the first Monday of January the third year after their
appointment; and the remaining two shall be appointed for a term of four years
to expire the first Monday of January on the fourth year following their
appointment. Thereafter as the terms expire, each new appointment shall be for
a term of four years.
('74 Code, § 2-22) (Ord. 568, passed - - )
§ 32.27 ELECTION OF OFFICERS; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the City Planning Commission to organize and elect
one of its members as Chairperson, one of its members as Vice-Chairperson and
one of its members as Secretary. The City Planning Commission shall hold
hearings for the purpose of recommending to the Common Council the adoption of
an ordinance regulating and restricting the use of land and the location of
buildings and structures, including sanitary and safety standards. This
authority shall not be construed as a limitation on the City Planning
Commission, but the Commission shall have authority to make recommendations as
may be authorized by the laws of the state.
('74 Code, § 2-23) (Ord. 568, passed - - )
COMMISSION OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
§ 32.40 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created a board of economic development to be known as "The
Aurora Economic Development Commission."
('74 Code, § 2-24) (Ord. 68-21, passed - - )
§ 32.41 COMPOSITION; APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS; POWERS
   The Commission of Economic Development shall be composed of three members
appointed in conformance with state law. The commission shall have all the
powers conferred by state law, including the power to acquire real estate or
personal property and to repair or remodel existing structures in order to
promote the economic welfare of the city.
('74 Code, § 2-25) (Ord. 68-21, passed - - )
BOARD OF AVIATION COMMISSIONERS
§ 32.50 ESTABLISHMENT
   A Board of Aviation Commissioners is formed in compliance with IC 8-22-2-
1 et seq.
(Ord. 77-4, passed 4-18-77)
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
§ 32.60 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTERATION. Any material change in the external architectural features of
any historic structure within an historic district.
   PRESERVATION COMMISSION or COMMISSION. As used in this subchapter, means
Historic Preservation Commission of the City of Aurora, Indiana.
   DEMOLITION. The substantial deterioration or complete or substantial removal
or destruction of any historic structure or any structure which is located
within an historic district.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT. A concentration of buildings, structures, objects, spaces
or sites which may be limited to the boundaries of a property containing a
single building, structure, object or site and have been designated by
ordinance by the City Council, or for which application for such listing is
pending with the Historic Preservation Commission; provided, that the Historic
Preservation Commission will determine within 90 days of receipt of an
application pursuant to §
32.62 of this subchapter whether to list such property, and any property not so
listed will not be considered historic districts under the terms of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 1993-18, passed 12-6-93)
§ 32.61 HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Historic Preservation Commission of
the City of Aurora, Indiana. The Historic Preservation Commission shall consist
of not less than three nor more than nine voting members. The voting members
shall be appointed by the Mayor subject to the approval of the City Council.
Voting members shall serve for a term of three years; however, the initial
terms of members shall be for one year, two years and three years in order for
the terms to be staggered. Any vacancies shall be filled within 90 days for the
duration of the term of the member who is being replaced.
   (B)   Voting members shall be residents of the city who are interested in
the preservation and development of historic districts. To the extent available
to the community, the Historic Preservation Commission shall include
professional members from the disciplines of architecture, architectural
history, preservation planning, archaeology, or other historic preservation-
related disciplines, such as urban planning, American studies, art history,
American civilization, cultural geography or cultural anthropology.
   (C)   The Mayor may appoint such advisory members as the Common Council
considers appropriate.
   (D)   The City Building Inspector shall serve as the ex officio
administrator of the Historic Preservation Commission. The Building Inspector
shall provide staff assistance to the Historic Preservation Commission, act as
the Commission's Secretary, and issue certificates of appropriateness as
directed by the Commission.
   (E)   Members of the Commission shall serve without compensation but may be
paid for reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their duty.
   (F)   The Commission shall elect from its membership a Chairperson and Vice
Chairperson who shall serve for one year and who may be reelected. The
Commission shall adopt rules for the transaction of its business not
inconsistent with this subchapter. The rules must include the time and place of
regular meetings and the procedure for the calling of special meetings.
Meetings of the Commission must be open to the public in accordance with the
Open Door Law and a public record shall be kept of the Commission's
resolutions, proceedings and actions.
   (G)   The Commissions shall hold regular meetings, at least monthly, except
when it has no business pending.
   (H)   Each official of the city who has responsibility for building
inspection, building permits, planning, or zoning, shall provide any such
technical, administrative, and clerical assistance as may be requested by the
Commission. The attorney for the city is the attorney for the Commission.
However, the Commission may employ other legal counsel authorized to practice
law in Indiana if it considers it to be necessary or desirable.
(Ord. 1993-18, passed 12-6-93)
§ 32.62 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Historic Preservation Commission shall be concerned with those
elements of the development, redevelopment, rehabilitation and preservation
that affect visual quality in an historic district. However, the Commission may
not consider details in design, interior arrangements, or building features, if
those details, arrangements or features are not subject to public view and may
not make any requirement except for the purpose of preventing development,
alteration, or demolition in an historic district obviously incongruous with
the historic district.
   (B)   The Commission shall conduct a survey to identify historic buildings,
structures, and places located within the city; however, neither the survey nor
any other action of the Commission shall affect any property not located within
the city limits.
   (C)   Based on its survey, the Commission shall submit to the City Council a
map describing the boundaries of an historic district or historic districts. A
district may be limited to the boundaries of a property containing a single
building, structure or site. The map may divide a district into primary and
secondary areas.
   (D)   Owners of property in fee simple wishing to establish an historic
district which includes their property may petition the Commission to consider
drawing and submitting a map of said property to the City Council for its
approval. The Commission may establish in its rules criteria to be met before
it considers a petition.
   (E)   The Commission shall classify and designate on the map all buildings
and structures within each historic district described on the map. Buildings
and structures shall be classified as historic or non-historic, in the
following manner:
      (1)   Historic. Historic buildings and structures must possess identified
historic or architectural merit of a degree warranting their preservation. They
may be further classified as:
         (a)   Exceptional;
         (b)   Excellent;
         (c)   Notable; or
         (d)   Of value as part of the scene.
      In lieu of the further classification set forth in subdivisions (a)
through (d), the Commission may devise its own system of further classification
of historic buildings and structures.
      (2)   Non-historic. Those buildings and structures not classified on the
map as historic.
   (F)   The Commission may promote public interest in historic preservation by
initiating and carrying on a public relations and community education program.
   (G)   Staff Approvals.
      (1)   The Commission may authorize the staff of the Commission, on behalf
of the Commission, to grant or deny an application for a certificate of
appropriateness under the terms and conditions set forth in (2) below.
      (2)   The Commission must specify the types of applications for minor
classifications of work that the staff of the Commission is authorized to grant
or deny. The staff may not be authorized to grant or deny an application for a
certificate of appropriateness for the following:
         (a)   The demolition of a building, structure or site.
         (b)   The moving of a building or structure.
         (c)   The construction of an addition to a building or structure.
         (d)   The construction of a new building or structure.
(Ord. 1993-18, passed 12-6-93; Am. Ord. 1997-13, passed 11-3-97)
§ 32.63 APPROVAL BY CITY COUNCIL REQUIRED.
   The map setting forth the historic district boundaries and building
classifications must be submitted to, and approved in an ordinance by, the
Common Council before the historic district is established and the building
classifications take effect.
(Ord. 1993-18, passed 12-6-93)
§ 32.64 FURTHER SURVEYING AND MAPPING.
   The Historic Preservation Commission may conduct additional surveys, and
draw and submit additional maps for approval of the City Council as it
considers appropriate.
(Ord. 1993-18, passed 12-6-93)
§ 32.65 RELATIONSHIP TO ZONING DISTRICTS.
   The historic district regulation provided in this subchapter is intended to
preserve and protect the historic or architecturally worthy buildings,
structures, sites, monuments, streetscapes, squares, and neighborhoods of the
historic districts. Zoning districts lying within the boundaries of the
historic districts are subject to the regulations for both the zoning district
and the historic district. If there is a conflict between the requirements of
the historic district, the more restrictive requirements shall apply.
(Ord. 1993-18, passed 12-6-93)
§ 32.66 CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS REQUIRED.
   Except as provided in §§
32.77 and
32.78 of this subchapter, a certificate of appropriateness must be issued by
the Historic Preservation Commission before a permit is issued for, or work is
begun, on any of the following:
   (A)   Within all areas of the historic district:
      (1)   The demolition of any building;
      (2)   The moving of any building;
      (3)   A conspicuous change in the exterior appearance of historic
buildings by additions, construction, alteration (including the deletion of an
external architectural and historic feature), or maintenance involving exterior
color changes;
      (4)   Any new construction of a principal building or accessory building
or structure subject to view from a public way;
   (B)   Within a primary area of the historic district:
      (1)   A change in walls and fences or construction of walls and fences,
if along public ways; or
      (2)   A conspicuous change in the exterior appearance of non-historic
buildings subject to view from the public way by additions, reconstruction,
alteration or maintenance involving exterior color change.
(Ord. 1993-18, passed 12-6-93)
§ 32.67 APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS.
   An application for certificates of appropriateness may be made in the office
of the appropriate city administrator on forms provided by that office which
shall be subject to the following requirements:
   (A)   The Historic Preservation Commission may adopt as part of its rules,
filing requirements which it finds reasonable and necessary to expedite the
business of the Historic Preservation Commission. These rules may include, but
are not limited to, filing deadlines and application requirements such as
sketches, drawings, photographs, descriptions, or other information which the
Historic Preservation Commission requires to make a decision.
   (B)   A fee of $25 shall be charged for such application to cover the cost
of processing the application.
   (C)   Applications are to be received two weeks prior to the regularly
scheduled Historic Preservation Commission meeting.
(Ord. 1993-18, passed 12-6-93; Am. Ord. 2016-013, passed 9-12-16)
§ 32.68 ACTION ON APPLICATIONS FOR CERTIFICATES OF APPROPRIATENESS.
   (A)   The Historic Preservation Commission may advise and make a
recommendation to the applicant before acting on an application for a
certificate of appropriateness.
   (B)   If a completed application for a certificate of appropriateness is not
acted on by the Historic Preservation Commission within 60 days after it is
filed, a certificate of appropriateness shall be deemed denied. If the
certificate is approved and issued within 60 days, the application shall be
processed in the same manner as applications for building or demolition permits
required by the city, if any, are processed. If no building or demolition
permits are required by the city, the applicant may proceed with the work
authorized by the certificate.
   (C)   If the Historic Preservation Commission denies an application for a
certificate of appropriateness within 60 days after it is filed, the
certificate may not be issued. The Historic Preservation Commission must state
its reason for the denial in writing, and advise the applicant. An application
that has been denied may not be processed as an application for a building or
demolition permit, and does not authorize any work by the applicant.
   (D)   The Historic Preservation Commission may grant an extension of the 60-
day limit prescribed by divisions (B) and (C) if the applicant agrees to it.
(Ord. 1993-18, passed 12-6-93; Am. Ord. 2014-018, passed 12-15-14)
§ 32.69 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   An historic building or structure or any part of or appurtenance to
such a building or structure, including stone walls, fences, light fixtures,
steps, paving and signs may be moved, reconstructed, altered, or maintained
only in the manner that would preserve the historic architectural character of
the building, structure or appurtenance.
   (B)   An historic building may be relocated to another site only if it is
shown that preservation on its current site is inconsistent with division (A).
(Ord. 1993-18, passed 12-6-93)
§ 32.70 APPEAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to preserve historic districts that are
important to the education, culture, traditions and economic values of the city
and to afford the city historical organizations, and other interested persons
the opportunity to acquire or to arrange for the preservation of these
buildings.
   (B)   If the Historic Preservation Commission denies the issuance of a
certificate of appropriateness for the demolition of a building or structure, a
demolition permit may be issued by other agencies and a building may be
demolished, but only after establishing all of the following:
      (1)   The property owner must demonstrate to the Historic Preservation
Commission that a building or structure is incapable of earning an economic
return on its value as appraised by a licensed real estate appraiser.
      (2)   The property owner shall file with the administrator documented
evidence that a good faith effort is being made to sell or otherwise dispose of
such property at fair market value to any public or private person or agency
which gives a reasonable assurance of its willingness to preserve and restore
such property. Such documented evidence shall be provided at the property
owner's expense and shall include:
         (a)   The offering price;
         (b)   The date the offer of sale is to begin;
         (c)   The names and addresses of listing real estate agent, if any;
         (d)   A copy of an advertisement to run in the same manner as the
notice in subdivision (c) above which offers the property for sale; and
         (e)   An appraisal of the property's fair market value by a qualified
real estate appraiser.
   (C)   Notice of the proposed demolition must be given for a period fixed by
the Historic Preservation Commission, based on the Historic Preservation
Commission's classification on the approved map, but not less than 60 days nor
more than one year. Notice must be posted on the premises of the building or
structure proposed for demolition in a location clearly visible from the
street. In addition, notice must be published in a newspaper of general local
circulation at least three times before demolition, with the first publication
not more than 15 days after the application for a permit to demolish is filed,
and the final publication at least 15 days before the date of the permit.
   (D)   The Historic Preservation Commission may approve a certificate of
appropriateness at any time during the notice period under subdivision (c)
above. If the certificate is approved, a demolition permit shall be issued
without further delay and demolition may proceed.
(Ord. 1993-18, passed 12-6-93)
§ 32.71 MAINTENANCE.
   Historic buildings shall be maintained to meet the applicable requirements
established under state and local laws for buildings generally.
(Ord. 1993-18, passed 12-6-93)
§ 32.72 VISUAL COMPATIBILITY.
   Except as provided in §
32.78 of this subchapter, the construction of a new building or structure, and
the moving, reconstruction, alteration, major maintenance, or repair involving
a color change conspicuously affecting the external appearance of any non-
historic building, structure, or appurtenance within the primary area must be
generally of a design, form, proportionment, mass, configuration, building
material, texture, color, and location on a lot compatible with the buildings
in the historic district (particularly with buildings designated as historic)
and with squares and places to which it is visually related.
(Ord. 1993-18, passed 12-6-93)
§ 32.73 VISUAL COMPATIBILITY FACTORS.
   Except as provided in §
32.78 of this subchapter, within the primary area of the historic district, new
buildings and structures, as well as buildings, structures and appurtenances
that are moved, reconstructed, materially altered, repaired or changed in
color, must be visually compatible with buildings, squares and places to which
they are visually related generally in terms of the following visual
compatibility factors:
   (A)   Height. The height of proposed buildings must be visually compatible
with adjacent buildings.
   (B)   Proportion of building's front facade. The relationship of the width
of the building to the height of the front elevation must be visually
compatible to buildings, squares, places to which it is visually related.
   (C)   Proportions of openings within the facility. The relationship of the
width of the windows to the height of the windows in a building must be
visually compatible with buildings, squares, and places to which it is visually
related.
   (D)   Rhythm of solids to voids in front pacades. The relationship of solids
to voids in the front facade of a building must be visibly compatible with
buildings, squares, places to which it is visually related.
   (E)   Rhythm of spacing of building on streets. The relationship of a
building to open space between it and adjoining buildings must be visually
compatible to the buildings, squares and places to which it is visually
related.
   (F)   Rhythm of entrances and porch projections. The relationship of
entrances and porch projections to sidewalks of the building must be visually
compatible to the buildings, squares, places to which it is visually related.
   (G)   Relationship of materials, texture, and color. The relationship of the
materials, texture, and color of the facade of a building must be visually
compatible with the predominant materials used in the buildings to which it is
visually related.
   (H)   Roof shapes. The roof shape of a building must be visually compatible
with the buildings to which it is visually related.
   (I)   Walls of continuity. Appurtenances of a building such as walls,
wrought iron fences, evergreen landscape masses, and building facades must form
cohesive walls of enclosure along the street, if necessary to insure visual
compatibility of the building to the buildings, squares, and places to which it
is visually related.
   (J)   Scale of a building. The size of a building, and the building mass of
a building in relation to open spaces, windows, door openings, porches, and
balconies must be visually compatible with the buildings, squares, and places
to which it is visually related.
   (K)   Directional expression of front elevation. A building must be visually
compatible with the buildings, squares, places to which it is visually related
and its directional character, including vertical character, horizontal
character, or non-directional character.
(Ord. 1993-18, passed 12-6-93)
§ 32.74 ENFORCEMENT, PENALTIES AND JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   (A)   Any person, whether as principal, agent, owner, lessee, tenant,
contractor, builder, architect, engineer, or otherwise, who violates any
provision of this subchapter shall be subject to a fine as follows for each
offense:
      (1)   Not less than $10 nor more than $2,500, for demolition.
      (2)   Not less than $10 nor more than $300 for all other offenses. Each
day of the existence of any violation of this subchapter shall be a separate
offense.
   (B)   The erection, construction, enlargement, alteration, repair,
demolition, color change, moving, or maintenance of any building, structure or
appurtenance which has begun, continued, or maintained contrary to any
provisions of this subchapter is hereby declared to be a nuisance and in
violation of this subchapter and unlawful. The city may institute a suit for
injunction in the Circuit Court or Superior Court of the County to restrain any
person or government unit from violating any provision of this subchapter and
to cause such violation to be prevented, abated, or removed. Such action may
also be instituted by any property owner who is adversely affected by the
violation of any provision of this subchapter.
   (C)   The remedies provided for in this section shall be cumulative and not
exclusive and shall be in addition to any other remedies provided by law.
   (D)   Any person or party aggrieved by a decision or action taken by the
Historic Preservation Commission shall be entitled to a judicial review thereof
in accordance with IC 4-21.5-5.
(Ord. 1993-18, passed 12-6-93)
§ 32.75 RECORDING THE FACT OF HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGNATION.
   The boundaries of any historic district may be recorded in the Office of the
Dearborn County Recorder.
(Ord. 1993-18, passed 12-6-93)
§ 32.76 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this subchapter is adjudged
unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder
of this subchapter shall not be affected thereby.
(Ord. 1993-18, passed 12-6-93)
§ 32.77 CONSERVATION DISTRICTS.
   (A)   In an ordinance approving the establishment of an historic district,
the city may provide that the establishment occur in two phases. Under the
first phase, which lasts three years from the date the ordinance is adopted, a
certificate of appropriateness is required only for the activities described in
§
32.66(A)(1), (2) and (4) of this subchapter. At the end of the first phase, the
district becomes fully established and, subject to division (B), a certificate
of appropriateness must be issued by the Commission before a permit may be
issued for, or work may begin, on an activity described in §
32.66 of this subchapter.
   (B)   The first phase described in division (A) of this section continues
and the second phase does not become effective if a majority of the property
owners in the district object to the Commission, in writing, to the requirement
that certificates of appropriateness be issued for the activities described in
§
32.66(A)(3), (B)(1) and (2) of this subchapter. The objections must be received
by the Commission not earlier than 180 days or later than 60 days before the
third anniversary of the adoption of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1993-18, passed 12-6-93)
§ 32.78 PAINT COLORS.
   In an ordinance approving the establishment of an historic district, the
city may exclude changes in paint colors from the activities requiring the
issuance of a certificate of appropriateness under §
32.66 of this subchapter before a permit may be issued or work begun.
(Ord. 1993-18, passed 12-6-93)
§ 32.79 INTERESTED PARTIES.
   (A)   As used in this section, "interested party" means one of the
following:
      (1)   The executive of the city;
      (2)   The legislative body of the city;
      (3)   The agency having land use planning jurisdiction over historic
district designated by the ordinance adopted under this subchapter;
      (4)   A neighborhood association, whether incorporated or unincorporated,
a majority of whose members are residents of an historic district designated by
an ordinance adopted under this subchapter;
      (5)   An owner or occupant owning or occupying property located in an
historic district established by an ordinance adopted under this subchapter;
      (6)   Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, Inc. or any of its
successors; or
      (7)   The State Historic Preservation Officer designated under IC 14-21-
1-19.
   (B)   Every interested party has a private right of action to enforce and
prevent violation of a provision of this subchapter or an ordinance adopted
under or pursuant to this subchapter in accordance with IC 36-7-11, and with
respect to any building, structure or site within an historic district, has a
right to restrain, enjoin, or enforce by a restraining order or injunction,
temporarily or permanently, any person from violating the provision of this
subchapter or an ordinance adopted under or pursuant to this subchapter in
accordance with IC 36-7-11.
   (C)   The interested party does not have to allege or prove irreparable harm
or injury to any person or property to obtain relief under this section.
   (D)   The interested party bringing an action under this section does not
have to post a bond unless the Court, after a hearing, determines that a bond
should be required in the interest of justice.
   (E)   The interested party that brings an action under this section is not
liable to any person for damages resulting from bringing or prosecuting the
action unless the action was brought without good faith or without a reasonable
belief that a provision of this subchapter, or of an ordinance adopted by the
city under this subchapter, had been, or was about to be violated.
   (F)   An interested party who obtains a favorable judgment in an action
under this section may recover a reasonable attorney's fee and court costs from
the person against whom judgment was rendered.
   (G)   An action arising under this section must be brought in the Circuit or
Superior Court of the county in which the historic district lies and no change
of venue from the county shall be allowed in the action.
   (H)   The remedy provided in this section is in addition to other remedies
that may be available at law or in equity.
(Ord. 1993-18, passed 12-6-93)
BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS PURCHASING AGENCY
§ 32.85 ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The City of Aurora Board of Public Works Purchasing Agency (the
“Purchasing Agency”) is established as the purchasing agency for the City of
Aurora.
   (B)   The Purchasing Agency shall have all the powers and duties authorized
under I.C. 5-22, as may be supplemented from time to time by ordinances adopted
by the Council and policies adopted by the Purchasing Agency.
   (C)   The Purchasing Agency shall act as the purchasing agency for every
agency, board, office, branch, bureau, commission, council, department or other
establishment of the City of Aurora.
   (D)   The Purchasing Agency may designate, in writing, any employee of the
City of Aurora as a purchasing agent.
(Ord. 1998-4, passed 6-6-98)
Cross-reference:
   Purchasing rules and policies, see §§
37.01 through
37.12
REDEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
§ 32.90 ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The Common Council of the city now deems it to be in the best interest
of the city and its citizens to afford a maximum opportunity for
rehabilitation, redevelopment or economic develop-ment of areas by private
enterprise and the city by establishing a department of redevelopment.
   (B)   The Common Council hereby establishes the Department of Redevelopment
of the city. The department will be controlled by a board of five members known
as the Aurora Redevelopment Commission.
   (C)   Pursuant to IC 36-7-14 and IC 36-7-25 (the "Act"), all of the
territory within the corporate boundaries of the city will be a special taxing
district to be known as the Aurora Redevelopment District for the purpose of
levying and collecting special benefit taxes for redevelopment and economic
development purposes as provided in the Act. The Common Council finds and
determines that all of the taxable property within this special taxing district
will be considered to be benefitted by the redevelopment projects and economic
development projects carried out under the Act to the extent of the special
taxes levied under the Act.
   (D)   (1)   The Mayor of the city shall appoint three of the five members of
the Aurora Redevelopment Commission.
      (2)   The term of office of the members of the Aurora Redevelopment
Commission shall commence from the date of their appointment and expire on
January 1.
(Ord. 2001-02, passed 3-14-01)
REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
§ 32.95 ESTABLISHED.
   (A) The city hereby creates a redevelopment authority under IC 36-7-14.5
(the "Act") to be known as the Aurora Redevelopment Authority ("Authority") as
a separate body corporate and politic and as an instrumentality of the city.
   (B)   The Authority is organized for the following purposes:
      (1)   Financing, constructing, and leasing local public improvements to
the commission;
      (2)   Financing and constructing additional improvements to local public
improvements owned by the Authority and leasing them to the commission;
      (3)   Acquiring all or a portion of one or more local public improvements
from the commission by purchase or lease and leasing these local public
improvements back to the commission, with any additional improvements that may
be made to them;
      (4)   Acquiring all or a portion of one or more local public improvements
from the commission by purchase or lease to fund or refund indebtedness
incurred on account of those local public improvements to enable the commission
to make a savings in debt service or lease rental obligations or to obtain
relief from covenants that the commission considers to be unduly burdensome;
and
      (5)   Any other purposes permitted by the Act, including the issuance of
bonds to finance local public improvements.
   (C)   The Board of Directors of the Authority shall be composed of three
members who are residents of the city and shall be appointed by the Mayor for
three year terms from January 1 following their appointment.
(Ord. 2001-08, passed 8-8-01)
RESERVED
§ 32.105 RESERVED.
MARRIAGE OFFICE
§ 32.110 CREATION.
   There is hereby authorized and established a municipal service, to be called
the City of Aurora Marriage Office (henceforth referred to as “Marriage
Office”), to be a companion to and associated with marriage solemnizations
performed by the proper officer pursuant to and under the authority of IC 31-7-
5-1.
(Ord. 2016-001, passed 3-7-16)
§ 32.111 MARRIAGE OFFICE POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   In order to support the organization and administration of the
Marriage Office as well as carry out the collection of service charges, there
is hereby established in the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer a Marriage
Office to be under the supervision of its administrator, who shall be the
Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   The Marriage Office is:
      (1)   Hereby authorized and empowered:
         (a)   To charge and collect on behalf of the municipality such service
charges as hereinafter may be identified and authorized for the performance of
marriage solemnizations to be paid by the parties desiring the service; and
         (b)   To provide such materials and forms as may be desirable and
proper to efficiently administer the purposes and objects of this chapter, this
may include the development of a uniform application form to be used in support
of the Marriage Office, subject to applicable provisions of IC 36-5-6-6(2) and
(3) and IC 5-11-9-2;
      (2)   Hereby instructed and directed:
         (a)   To design and provide an application form to be used in support
of the Marriage Office which contains the same information called for and
indicated in the most current versions of State Form 27553, or the successor of
that form, known as the record of marriage, time, date, place of the wedding
service, and such other information as may be reasonably related to the
administration of this service; and
         (b)   To develop, compile, and maintain records of the services
offered, charges collected, and such other information as may be desirable and
to transmit a report of the activities of the bureau from time to time to the
municipal legislative body.
(Ord. 2016-001, passed 3-7-16)
Statutory reference: 
   Clerk-treasurer authorized to conduct solemnization of marriages, see IC 31-
7-5-1.
§ 32.112 SERVICE CHARGE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The service charges as set forth and contained in the following
schedule of charges are hereby found and determined to be reasonable and just
rates reasonably related to the administration of the marriage office and its
delivery of services.
   (B)   The users of services administered and provided by the Marriage Office
will be charged a standard service charge to support the following basic
services:
      (1)   Performance of the solemnization by the proper municipal officer
authorized pursuant to IC 31-11-6 et seq. at the premises of the City of Aurora
during regular business hours.
      (2)   A pre-solemnization meeting in which the users deliver to the
Clerk-Treasurer's Office the wedding license as issued by the proper authority
outlined in IC 31-11-4.
      (3)   Authorization and selection of vows and ceremony by users.
      (4)   Preparation of the license and forms by the Clerk-Treasurer and the
posting by USPS completed certificates for delivery to the proper circuit court
clerk as the issuing authority.
   (C)   The Wedding Office may charge and collect charges for the additional
services outlined in the schedule of charges. Such charges are cumulative and
will be in addition to the standard ceremony charge to be paid by users of the
services of the Bureau.
   (D)   The following schedule of fees and charges is authorized: City of
Aurora Wedding Office standard ceremony fee: $100.
   (E)   If the Clerk-Treasurer cancels for any reason, the nonrefundability of
the fee will be waived and all charges will be refunded upon proper
application.
(Ord. 2016-001, passed 3-7-16)
Statutory reference: 
   Charges and fees required to be reasonably related to cost of service, see
IC 36-1-3-8(6).
§ 32.113 WAIVER OF CHARGES AUTHORIZED.
   The Clerk-Treasurer may waive in pan or in whole the service charges and
fees herein authorized and established when, in the Clerk-Treasurer’s judgment,
such waiver is proper and desirable; provided, that such waiver shall be
regularly recorded with the user application and such waivers will be included
in the office’s report made from time to time to the legislative body.
(Ord. 2016-001, passed 3-7-16)
§ 32.114 ALL CHARGES BELONG TO MUNICIPALITY - PERSONAL FEES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   All charges and amounts collected by the office pursuant to this
chapter shall:
      (1)   Be deposited and credited to the Parks Improvement Fund upon its
receipt;
      (2)   Not belong to or be the property of any public official, including
the Clerk-Treasurer or a deputy, employee, or appointee serving under same, but
shall belong to and be the property of the municipality;
      (3)   Not be construed as a personal fee for service contemplated under
any other authority nor be construed as a fee, allowance, tax, or charge as
outlined and proscribed under IC 5-7-2, 33-16-27, and 36-5-6-6(10);
      (4)   Be construed as collected and charged by the “City of Aurora
Marriage Office” on behalf of the City of Aurora, not for the benefit of any
public officer or any individual.
   (B)   Any public official, including the Clerk-Treasurer or a deputy,
employee, or appointee serving under same, is hereby prohibited from personally
receiving and shall not charge or collect any fee or amount for services
performed under this chapter that is not authorized or not deposited with the
municipality, according to its terms.
(Ord. 2016-001, passed 3-7-16)
CHAPTER 33: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
33.01   Police pension fund established
   
33.02   Assessing charges for handgun applications; firearms training fund
   
33.03   Clothing allowance
   
33.04   Salary; longevity pay and computation of overtime
   
33.05   Vacation; compensatory time; personal days
§ 33.01 POLICE PENSION FUND ESTABLISHED.
   A police officer's pension fund and a Board of Trustees of the Police
Officer's Pension Fund is hereby established.
('74 Code, § 2-5) (Ord. 346, passed - - )
§ 33.02 ASSESSING CHARGES FOR HANDGUN APPLICATIONS; FIREARMS TRAINING FUND.
   (A)   The Chief of Police acting for the Aurora Police Department shall
assess and collect the sum of $5 from each applicant for a transfer of a
handgun as the statutory fee for the services and the statutory search of law
enforcement records as set forth in I.C. 35-47-2-10.
   (B)   The $5 fee so assessed and collected shall be deposited as follows:
      (1)   Three dollars to the state general fund;
      (2)   Two dollars into the Police Department firearms training fund to be
used by this Department for the purpose of training law enforcement officers of
the city in the proper use of firearms or other law enforcement duties.
   (C)   The following procedure shall be followed for accounting for the
handgun transfer fees:
      (1)   A Receipt, General Form No. 352 shall be issued by the intake
officer for each fee collected;
      (2)   These collected fees shall be remitted once each week to the Clerk-
Treasurer;
      (3)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall issue an official receipt for such
remittance specifying on such receipt the number of general receipts accounted
for (example: General Receipts Nos. 14-16, $15);
      (4)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall receipt the fees to a separate fund in
the ledger of receipts and disbursements titled "Firearms Training Fund" and
deposit such receipts in the municipality's general corporation bank account (a
separate depository account is not required);
      (5)   The $3 for the state shall be paid to the Treasurer of State
without appropriation and sent to the Auditor of State along with General Form
No. 366 (1983).
   (D)   Expenditures from the "Firearms Training Fund" shall be authorized by
the Chief of Police, limited to the approved uses provided in the law, and paid
without appropriation upon the basis of a claim filed, allowed and paid in the
regular manner.
(Ord. 1983-9, passed 11-7-83)
§ 33.03 CLOTHING ALLOWANCE.
   The Common Council, pursuant to I.C. 36-8-4-4, hereby establishes an annual
clothing allowance for all members of the Police Department, other than
dispatchers. The allowance for the year 2001 shall be $800 for all members of
the Police Department ($400 to be paid to each full-time member in January and
$400 to be paid in August), and $400 for police dispatchers ($200 to be paid to
each full-time dispatcher in January and $200 to be paid in August). All
members receiving said annual cash clothing allowance are hereby required to
furnish and maintain all of his/her uniforms and clothing necessary for the
performance of their duties as a member of the Police Department or as a
dispatcher.
(Ord. 1993-9, passed 6-7-93; Am. Ord. 1995-6, passed 7-10-95; Am. Ord. 1996-6,
passed 7-2-96; Am. Ord. 1997-5, passed 7-7-97; Am. Ord. 1998-8, passed 7-28-98;
Am. Ord. 1999-11, passed 8-9-99; Am. Ord. 2000-5, passed 8-14-00)
§ 33.04 SALARY; LONGEVITY PAY AND COMPUTATION OF OVERTIME.
   (A)   Police officer pay is based on performance of duty (merit), education,
and longevity of service to the citizens and the city Police Department.
   (B)   The base salary shall be paid weekly by the Clerk-Treasurer to each
designated payee as mutually determined between said payee and the Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (C)   Merit pay increases will be based on the performance evaluations
conducted in April and October of each year, using the standardized performance
evaluation form. The evaluation process considers overall job performance with
consideration given to the difficulty of the work assignments or particular
cases assigned. Merit increases are warranted only when the police and
communications officer's overall performance and evaluation for the preceding
year exceeds expectations or is outstanding.
   (D)   There is hereby established longevity pay for those patrol officers of
the city who are uniformed officers covered under the Police Pension Fund and
for communications officers with the Police Department. Such longevity shall be
paid semi-annually and shall be determined in the following manner:
Years of Employment (Longevity)     Additional Salary Per Week
(Based on Anniversary Date of Hire)
Years of Employment (Longevity)     Additional Salary Per Week
(Based on Anniversary Date of Hire)
   After 0 to 2 ½               $0.00
   After 2 ½ to 4 ½            $16.80
   After 4 ½to 6 ½             $33.60
   After 6 ½ to 8 ½            $50.40
   After 8 ½ to 10 ½           $67.20
   After 10 ½ to 12 ½          $84.00
   After 12 ½ to 15 ½          $100.80
   After 15 ½ to 18 ½          $117.60
   After 18 ½ to 20 ½          $134.40
   After 20 ½ and over          $151.20
 
   Such percentages shall be based upon the income of the employee eligible to
receive longevity pay for the 26 weeks prior to the pay date.
   (E)   (1)   A 28 day work period has been established for the purpose of
overtime pay computation. This arrangement is in accordance with Section 7(k)
of the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA).
      (2)   All compensable time worked in excess of 171 hours in the
established 28 day work period shall be compensated on an overtime basis or the
percentage of hours per pay period for the equivalent thereof. The Chief of
Police is responsible for scheduling officer’s shifts and may schedule officers
in 8, 10 or 12 hours or other shifts so long as there is compliance with the
provisions of the FLSA. For example, during a two-week period, for 12-hour
shifts, hours in excess of 85 hours shall be paid at one and one-half times the
regular rate of pay.
      (3)   Compensatory time off may be given by the city in lieu of monetary
overtime compensation in accordance with Section 7(k) and 7(o) of the FLSA.
      (4)   Compensatory time will be earned at the rate of one and one-half
hours for each hour worked over 171 hours in the 28 day work period established
herein or the percentage of hours per pay period for the equivalent thereof.
      (5)   The Chief of Police is authorized to enforce that no accumulation
of compensatory time in excess of 24 hours per officer is permitted. Pursuant
to Section 7(o)(4) of the FLSA, upon termination from employment, the employee
shall be paid for unused compensatory time at a rate of compensation that is
the higher of (a) the average regular rate of the employee during the last
three years of employment or (b) the final regular rate of the employee.
      (6)   This arrangement shall apply only to employees of the city Police
Department who are not otherwise exempt from overtime pay provisions of the
FLSA, and who are engaged in law enforcement activities as defined in the
regulations of the Department of Labor.
      (7)   Civilian employees of the Police Department, namely communications
officers, are not considered to be engaged in law enforcement activities and
shall therefore be paid overtime for hours worked over 40 hours in a seven day
work period.
      (8)   The civilian employees, the dispatchers, in the past, have not been
allowed compensatory time off in lieu of monetary payment for overtime hours.
      (9)   The civilian employee, including dispatchers, shall be paid on a
cash basis at the rate of one and one-half the employee's regular hourly rate,
for hours worked over 40 hours in a seven day period.
      (10)   Compensatory time off will not be allowed the civilian employees,
including communications officers, of the Police Department.
      (11)   With prior approval from the Chief of Police, police officers will
earn a minimum of two hours compensatory time for court appearances and
meetings with the prosecutor, if the officer is not scheduled to work a normal
shift on that date.
   (F)   The base salary for the fiscal year beginning January 1, 2018 of the
following police and communications officers should be and is hereby fixed and
determined as follows:
Position                     Employment Type      Salary
Chief of Police*             Full time exempt     $25.23 per hour
Lieutenant                   Full time non-exempt $22.56 per hour
Sergeant                     Full time non-exempt $22.25 per hour
Police Investigator          Full time non-exempt $21.79 per hour
Police Office First Class (2 Full time non-exempt $21.63 per hour
positions)
Police Officer               Full time non-exempt $21.00 per hour
Probationary Police Officer  Full time non-exempt $18.45 per hour
Communications Officer or    Full time non-exempt $9.00 - 15.56 per hour
Department Clerk
*   Chief of Police salary designation shall be considered salaried
position as opposed to hourly and exempt from the provisions of the
FLSA.
 
(Ord. 1993-6, passed 6-7-93; Am. Ord. 1995-8, passed 7-10-95; Am. Ord. 1996-8,
passed 7-2-96; Am. Ord. 1997-6, passed 7-7-97; Am. Ord. 1998-7, passed 7-28-98;
Am. Ord. 1999-16, passed 12-20-99; Am. Ord. 2000-4, passed 8-14-00; Am. Ord.
2000-8, passed 12-13-00; Am. Ord. 2004-06, passed 9-20-04; Am. Ord. 2005-03,
passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2005-04, passed 4-4-05; Am. Ord. 2005-14, passed 9-19-05;
Am. Ord. 2006-14, passed 9-20-06; Am. Ord. 2008-03, passed 1-1-08; Am. Ord.
2008-09, passed 9-22-08; Am. Ord. 2008-009, passed 9-21-09; Am. Ord. 2009-002,
passed 12-21-09; Am. Ord. 2010-003, passed 9-28-10; Am. Ord. 2011-001, passed
9-19-11; Am. Ord. 2012-006, passed 9-17-12; Am. Ord. 2012-008, passed 10-15-12;
Am. Ord. 2013-001, passed 2-18-13; Am. Ord. 2013-009, passed 10-21-13; Am. Ord.
2014-14, passed 11-3-14; Am. Ord. 2017-010, passed 11-6-17; Am. Ord. 2018-012,
passed 9-10-18; Am. Ord. 2018-016, passed 11-12-18; Am. Ord. 2018-017, passed
11-12-18; Am. Ord. 2019-011, passed 6-10-19)
§ 33.05 VACATION; COMPENSATORY TIME; PERSONAL DAYS.
   (A)   Vacation benefit policy. The vacation policy of the city Police
Department shall be as set forth hereinafter and is based on a 40-hour work
week even if officers work an average in excess of 40 hours per week:
 
Years of Employment (Longevity)     Number of Vacation Days Per Year
(Based on Anniversary Date of Hire)
After 6 months                      1 full week
After 1 year                        2 full weeks
After 5 years                       3 full weeks
After 10 years                      4 full weeks
After 15 years                      5 full weeks
After 20 years                      6 full weeks
 
   (B)   Non-Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA); sick leave.
      (1)   The city provides paid sick leave benefits to all regular full-time
employees for periods of temporary absence due to illness or injuries. The
employees will earn sick leave at the rate of six days per year.
      (2)   Sick leave is to be used for the following reasons only:
         (a)   Injury or illness of the employee; and
         (b)   To avoid jeopardizing the health of other employees.
      (3)   Employees can accrue sick leave up to 90 days in order to provide
income assistance for illness or injury. Sick time shall be taken in no less
than four hour increments.
      (4)   Employees will notify their supervisor of absence due to sickness
at least three hours before the beginning of their shift or regular work hour,
or no later than one hour under mitigating circumstances. The supervisor shall
also be informed by the employee on each subsequent day of sickness and shall
be kept informed as to the extent of the illness and the anticipated day of
return to work.
      (5)   Employees will be required to provide a physician's certification
of illness and the ability to resume work for sick leave after three days. If
an employee is off work because of illness and the sick leave runs out, the
department head should contact the Board of Works in order to obtain an
extended leave of absence and to make continued arrangements for continued
insurance coverage.
      (6)   Supervisors shall keep documented records of absences whether they
are reported or not. Unreported absences due to alleged sickness will result in
disciplinary action. Any other abuses of sick leave may also result in
disciplinary action.
      (7)   Sick leave benefits will be calculated on the basis of the
employee's base pay rate at the beginning of the absence and will not include
any special forms of compensation such as shift differentials. An employee's
base pay rate is determined by dividing the weekly rate of pay by the hours
normally worked.
      (8)   Vacation or personal time may be used to supplement sick leave, but
sick leave may not, under any circumstances, be used to supplement or add to
vacation or personal time.
      (9)   The Clerk-Treasurer must be provided a written report of the
employee sick days used each pay period.
      (10)   Sick pay incentive plan. The city agrees to pay a $500 bonus to
any police employee that misses zero sick time during the calendar year. The
employee cannot report to work sick in order to collect the bonus.
      (11)   “Line of duty” injuries are exempt from aforementioned policies
subject to review and approval by Board of Public Works.
   (C)   Compensatory time policy. Compensatory time off shall be accumulated
to increments of eight hours after which the member of the Police Department
accumulating compensatory time shall be paid the equivalent of one 8-hour day
of compensatory time, provided that the provisions of §
33.04(E) have been met.
   (D)   Personal day benefit policy. Police officers shall be permitted to
take six paid days per year as personal days at 12 hours of pay, but shall take
no more than one such personal day per month. These personal days are non-
cumulative from year-to-year. Dispatchers shall be permitted to take 12 paid
days per year as personal days at eight hours of pay, but shall take no more
than one such personal day per month. These personal days are non- cumulative
from year to year.
   (E)   Holiday pay. Members of the Police Department shall receive holiday
pay as follows: If officer is working, the officer is paid at one and one-half
hours regular rate of pay. If officer is not working, the officer is paid at
regular rate of pay for eight hours for the following holidays:
 
New Year’s DaThanksgiving Day
Good Friday    Christmas Eve
Memorial Day   Christmas Day
July 4th       New Year’s Eve
Labor Day
 
   (F)   Termination or resignation. Termination or resignation results in a
loss of unused sick or personal days. Vacation days are prorated to the date of
termination or resignation.
   (G)   Salary review policy. All police and communications officers salaries
are reviewed during the annual budget process set by the city, and upon
approval are effective at the beginning of the next city fiscal year beginning
January 1.
      (1)   Cost of living adjustment policy (across-the-board adjustments).
Each police and communications officer may automatically receive an increase in
salary as determined by the city for all city employees for cost of living.
      (2)   Merit pay increase benefit policy.  In addition to across-the-board
adjustments, each police and communications officer may receive an additional
increase of 2% of his/her base pay for exceeding expectations in job
performance and 3% of his/her base pay for outstanding job performance as
determined by the Chief of Police and reviewed by the Board of Public Works and
Safety.
      (3)   Change in job responsibility. A police or communications officer's
salary may be reviewed upon any change in job responsibility deemed significant
by the Police Chief to warrant a review before the annual budget process.
   (H)   (1)   To encourage city residency for Police Officers employed by the
city, a housing benefit payment will be made available to those officers
interested in purchasing a home within the incorporated limits of the city. A
one-time cash benefit of $5,000 will be made available at closing of the
purchase of a home of primary residence. The benefit is forgivable pro-rata at
$1,000 per year and must be paid back to the city by the officer when the home
ceases to become a primary residence, at the time of sale of the property
withing five years from the date of purchase or the officer ceases employment
with the City Police Department.
      (2)   At the end of the first five-year period, the officer may then
apply for an additional benefit of up to $5,000 to be applied toward a lump-sum
principal payment on any remaining mortgage balance. The benefit is forgivable
pro-rata at $1,000 per year and must be paid back to the city by the officer
when the home ceases to become a primary residence, at the time of sale of the
property within five years from the date of purchase or the officer ceases
employment with the City Police Department.
      (3)   In addition to a cash housing benefit, the Board of Public Works
may also consider a forgivable land grant benefit to those officers interested
in participating in the construction of a new home of primary residence on a
city owned property that may be available for an “in-fill” housing construction
project to achieve neighborhood revitalization goals and objectives.
(Ord. 1995-8, passed 7-10-95; Am. Ord. 1996-8, passed 7-2-96; Am. Ord. 1997-6,
passed 7-7-97; Am. Ord. 1998-7, passed 7-28-98; Am. Ord. 1999-16, passed 12-20-
99; Am. Ord. 2000-4, passed 8-14-00; Am. Ord. 2000-8, passed 12-13-00; Am. Ord.
2001-09, passed 9-10-01; Am. Ord. 2004-06, passed 9-20-04; Am. Ord. 2005-03,
passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2005-04, passed 4-4-05; Am. Ord. 2005-14, passed 9-19-05;
Am. Ord. 2006-14, passed 10-2-06; Am. Ord. 2008-03, passed 1-1-08; Am. Ord.
2008-009, passed 9-22-08)
CHAPTER 34: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Construction of chapter
   
34.02   Composition
   
34.03   Fire Chief; powers and duties
   
34.04   Deputy Fire Chief; appointment
   
34.05   Fire Safety Officer
   
34.06   Physical examinations
   
34.07   Insignia or badge of office
   
34.08   Use of fire department equipment
   
34.09   Compensation and assessment of fines
Fire Companies; Organization, Membership and Operation
   
34.20   Selection of captains and lieutenants
   
34.21   Bylaws and constitution
   
34.22   Election of officers
   
34.23   Duties
   
34.24   Taking equipment out of city
   
34.25   Regulation of membership and operations
   
34.26   Charges; fire suppression and hazardous spills
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 CONSTRUCTION OF CHAPTER.
   Provisions of this chapter are intended to set out insofar as practicable,
the appointment, qualifications, duties and authorities of the officers and
members of the Fire Department and are not to be construed so as to limit the
duties and authorities of such person.
('74 Code, § 5-5) (Ord. 554, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2000-9, passed 12-13-00)
§ 34.02 COMPOSITION.
   The Fire Department shall consist of a Chief and as many companies as shall
be authorized by the Common Council.
('74 Code, § 5-6) (Ord. 554, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2000-9, passed 12-13-00)
§ 34.03 FIRE CHIEF; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall have one Fire Chief who shall be appointed
by the Mayor; but no person shall be appointed to the office of Fire Chief who
has not been a member of the Fire Department for at least five years prior to
his appointment.
   (B)   After his appointment the Fire Chief shall be in charge of and
responsible for personnel and equipment in the city Fire Department.
('74 Code, § 5-7)
   (C)   Presence at fire. It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief whenever a
fire shall break out in the city to immediately go to the place of such fire
and to take proper measures to have the engines and other apparatus arranged in
the most advantageous position.
   (D)   Command at fires. The Fire Chief shall have the sole and absolute
command at all fires, over all other officers and members of the Fire
Department and all others persons who may be present at the fire. He shall take
all proper measures for the extinguishing of the fire, for the protection of
the property, for the preservation of order and for the enforcement and
observance of all state and municipal laws, as well as the rules and
regulations of the Fire Company.
   (E)   Deputy State Fire Marshal. The Fire Chief shall have the power to
inspect houses, buildings, factories or businesses of any kind as well as lots,
yards and any other location where a fire hazard may exist or may be reasonably
thought to exist. He shall have the authority at all reasonable times to
examine any and all premises as often as he may deem necessary for the
protection of property and lives from fire hazard.
   (F)   Reports to Council; maintenance of apparatus. It shall be the duty of
the Fire Chief to report to the Common Council at their first meeting in the
months of May and November of each year, and at any time when ordered by the
Council to do so, the condition of the Fire Department, the number of members,
the names of the members who have moved from the city, resigned or who have
been expelled. He shall also at the same time report the condition of the
engines, hoses, hooks and ladders and all other apparatus pertaining to the
Fire Department. He shall further report the condition of the buildings in
which they are kept and he shall recommend such alterations to and improvement
in the apparatus of the Fire Department and such additional apparatus and
appliances as he may deem necessary. He shall see that all apparatus for the
extinguishing of fires belonging to the city are kept in perfect order.
   (G)   Repair, etc., of apparatus, etc. The Fire Chief shall order and direct
all repairs and purchase all necessary apparatus for the Fire Department upon
the order of the Common Council; however, when immediate and prompt action is
necessary he may order repairs and make purchases on the order of the committee
of the Fire Department, but such committee shall not have the power to expend
in excess of $500 within any two week period; provided, further, that the
promotion of and maintenance of proper and suitable equipment, no equipment
shall be purchased on the part of the Common Council without the approval of
the Fire Chief of the city.
('74 Code, § 5-8)
   (H)   When the Fire Chief resigns or is succeeded in office, for any reason
other than expulsion, he shall continue to be a member of the volunteer fire
department. ('74 Code, § 5-9)
(Ord. 554, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2000-9, passed 12-13-00)
§ 34.04 DEPUTY FIRE CHIEF; APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall have one Deputy Fire Chief who shall be
appointed by the Fire Chief but no person shall be appointed to the office of
Deputy Fire Chief who has not been a member of the Fire Department for at least
five years prior to his appointment.
   (B)   Upon his appointment, the Deputy Fire Chief shall be in charge of and
responsible for all fire prevention, inspection, the Fire Prevention Bureau,
and enforcement of all city and state fire codes.
   (C)   Duties and powers generally. It shall be the duty of the Deputy Fire
Chief whenever fire shall break out in the city to immediately go to the place
of such fire and to aid the Chief and Assistant Chiefs in their duties.
   (D)   The Deputy Fire Chief shall have the power to inspect houses,
buildings, factories or businesses of any kind as well as lots, yards and any
other location where fire hazards may exist or may be reasonably thought to
exist. He shall have the authority at all reasonable times to examine all
premises as often as he may deem necessary for the protection of property and
lives from fire hazard.
   (E)   The Deputy Fire Chief shall act as an administrative assistant to the
Fire Chief.
   (F)   The Deputy Fire Chief shall assist the Chief in the investigation into
the causes of all fires.
   (G)   When the Deputy Fire Chief resigns or is succeeded in office, for any
reason other than expulsion, he shall continue to be a member of the volunteer
fire department.
(Ord. 1987-5, passed 4-20-87; Am. Ord. 2000-9, passed 12-13-00)
§ 34.05 FIRE SAFETY OFFICER.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall have one Fire Safety Officer who shall be
appointed by the Fire Chief but no person shall be appointed to the office of
Fire Safety Officer who has not been a member of the Fire Department for at
least five years prior to his appointment.
   (B)   Upon his appointment, the Fire Safety Officer shall be in charge of
and be responsible for all fire safety at fire scenes and at the Fire
Department and during all training sessions, including all apparatus and
equipment safety.
   (C)   The Fire Safety Officer shall report any safety violations or safety
issues to the Fire Chief.
   (D)   The Fire Safety Officer is responsible for keeping up to date all fire
safety and health issues and informing the Fire Chief of these issues,
according to the state fire codes.
   (E)   When the Fire Safety Officer resigns his position or is succeeded in
office, for any reason other than expulsion, he shall continue as a member of
the volunteer fire department.
(Ord. 2000-9, passed 12-13-00)
§ 34.06 PHYSICAL EXAMINATIONS.
   (A)   Required. All city firefighters under 45 years of age shall undergo a
physical examination by a medical doctor every two years. Any firefighter 45
years of age or older shall have a physical examination annually.
   (B)   Reports - distribution of copies. A copy of the report of the doctor
on the examination shall be presented to each firefighter and a copy shall be
filed in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   Reports - review. The doctor's report shall be reviewed by the Fire
Department Committee of Council when filed.
   (D)   Hearing on determination of unfitness. If the doctor's report contains
information or recommendations to the effect that such firefighter is not in
sufficiently good health to enable him to continue as a firefighter, such
firefighter shall be called before the Committee for a hearing and
determination as to his future service as a firefighter of the city.
('74 Code, § 5-13) (Ord. 67-8, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2000-9, passed 12-13-00)
§ 34.07 INSIGNIA OR BADGE OF OFFICE.
   (A)   The Chief, Deputy Fire Chief or other officers shall wear such hat or
badge as shall designate their office and rank.
   (B)   The Chief, Deputy Fire Chief or other officers when clothed with their
proper badge of office shall have the authority to require any person or
persons present at a fire to work in extinguishing the fire or in aiding to
save the property from destruction or avoiding personal injury in such places
and in such manner as they or either of them shall direct and to order all
bystanders who are unemployed or whose assistance is not required, to remove to
such distance as the Chief or Deputy Fire Chief may prescribe. Such Chief,
Deputy Fire Chief and other officers shall have all the powers of police
officers during the continuance of the fire to suppress disturbances, to arrest
any person who may commit a breach of the peace, do injury to the property of
another or to any public property, violate any of the ordinances of the city or
the state pertaining to fire emergencies or refuse or neglect any order given
by any officers and to conduct the offender before proper magistrate or commit
him to jail or county prison until a legal hearing can be had.
('74 Code, § 5-14) (Ord. 554, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1981-6, passed 4-20-81; Am.
Ord. 2000-9, passed 12-13-00)
§ 34.08 USE OF FIRE DEPARTMENT EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter the headquarters of the Fire
Department or any branch thereof in the city and remove therefrom for private
use any fire hose, fire ladders or other property belonging to the Fire
Department without first obtaining permission so to do from the Mayor, or the
Fire Chief, or in their absence, from the Chief of Police of the city.
('74 Code, § 5-4) (Ord. 51, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2000-9, passed 12-13-00)
§ 34.09 COMPENSATION AND ASSESSMENT OF FINES.
   (A)   The city shall provide compensation for the regular members of the
Fire Department at a rate prescribed by the Common Council for each fire or
fire/rescue call, the 12 regular training sessions, the four vehicle
extrication sessions, and the 12 maintenance sessions. If any member fails to
attend 20% of the fire or fire/rescue calls in the year from January through
December, then that member shall not be compensated by the city for any amount.
   (B)   Fire or fire/rescue call is defined as a call placed to the Fire
Department in which a fire apparatus arrives on scene and the fire personnel
perform their duties.
   (C)   The Common Council can, with the advisement of the Fire Chief, assess
fines for failing to attend a fire or fire/rescue call, the regular training,
vehicle extrication training, or maintenance session, as long as the fine does
not exceed the amount of compensation.
   (D)   The Fire Chief shall report the number of fire or fire/rescue calls,
regular training sessions, vehicle extrication training sessions, and
maintenance training sessions on the regular council meeting at June and
December sessions to determine compensation. Any fire or fire/rescue call,
regular training, etc. occurring after the December council meeting shall be
tabulated on the following year's numbers.
(Ord. 2000-9, passed 12-13-00)
FIRE DEPARTMENT; ORGANIZATION, MEMBERSHIP AND OPERATION
§ 34.20 SELECTION OF CAPTAINS AND LIEUTENANTS.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall have three Captains, three First Lieutenants
and three Second Lieutenants chosen from its membership by the Fire Chief.
   (B)   No person shall be appointed to the position of Captain who has not
been a member of the Fire Department for at least five years prior to
appointment.
   (C)   No person shall be appointed to the positions of a First or Second
Lieutenant who has not been a member of the Fire Department for at least two
years prior to the appointment.
   (D)   When a Captain and First or Second Lieutenant resigns or is succeeded
in office, for any reason other than expulsion, he shall continue as a member
of the volunteer fire department.
('74 Code, § 5-11) (Ord. 1981-6, passed 4-20-81; Am. Ord. 2000-9, passed 12-13-
00)
§ 34.21 BYLAWS AND CONSTITUTION.
   Members of the Fire Department may form a constitution and enact such bylaws
for their own government and regulation as they see fit not inconsistent with
or repugnant to this code or the laws of the state.
('74 Code, § 5-11) (Ord. 2000-9, passed 12-13-00)
§ 34.22 ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
   Members of the Fire Department shall elect such other officers according to
the provisions of the bylaws which they shall adopt, as is deemed by them to be
proper for the function of the Company, provided, however, that all Companies
shall provide for the election of a Secretary who shall keep any and all
records of the Company including a record of each member, his name, age and
occupation along with the date of such member's election to the Company.
('74 Code, § 5-11) (Ord. 2000-9, passed 12-13-00)
§ 34.23 DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to cause their engine, or
engines, hose, hooks and ladders and any and all other necessary equipment to
be conveyed to a place where any fire may occur in any area allocated to them,
to apply and use such upon the directions of the Fire Chief, the Deputy Fire
Chief or officers in charge, and after such fire is extinguished, to return the
same on order of the proper officer to the engine house and as soon as possible
thereafter to clean the engine and apparatus thoroughly. All equipment shall
not only be cleaned, but shall be put in such condition as to be adequate for
response to another fire. Such company is also required to respond whenever the
Chief or Deputy Fire Chief or any other line officer shall direct and if any
member of the Company shall willfully neglect to perform any of the duties
aforesaid such member shall forfeit and pay a fine (to be determined by the
Common Council on the advice of the Fire Chief) and shall be subject to
suspension by the Chief or Deputy Fire Chief subject to the proceedings as
herein stated in regard to such suspension or removal of a member by the Fire
Chief or officer in charge. Such officer in charge shall have the power and
authority and duties as stated for the Fire Chief, such to include a report to
the Common Council and notification to the member of potential suspension.
('74 Code, § 5-11) (Ord. 2000-9, passed 12-13-00)
§ 34.24 TAKING EQUIPMENT OUT OF CITY.
   Taking equipment out of city. A Fire Company may not leave the city with
equipment other than that designated by the Mayor. The rules of the Ohio-
Indiana Firefighting Associations and the provisions of the Dearborn County
Fire Chiefs Association Mutual Aid Agreement shall apply to such departure of
equipment from the city.
('74 Code, § 5-11) (Ord. 554, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2000-9, passed 12-13-00)
§ 34.25 REGULATION OF MEMBERSHIP AND OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Qualifications generally. No person shall be made a member of any city
Fire Company unless he or she is able-bodied, is at least 18 years of age and
is first approved for membership by the Common Council. Any person between the
ages of 18 years and 21 years shall not be allowed nor permitted to operate or
drive any Fire Department truck or Fire Department vehicle until he or she
attains the age of 21 years.
   (B)   Elections. After a person has made an application for membership into
the Fire Department, a committee made up of the Fire Chief, Deputy Fire Chief
and seven regular Fire Department members elected by the regular membership of
the department and a representative of the Board of Works, by election, either
accept or reject such proposed member. Election meetings shall require the
attendance of the majority of its members and the vote of the majority of those
so attending shall be required for the acceptance or rejection of such
application. If the proposed member is accepted by the committee, in such an
election, then the secretary shall report in writing to the Common Council at
its next regular session, the name, age, occupation and date of election of
such proposed member.
   (C)   Maximum age. No member shall remain as an active member after
attaining the age of 65.
   (D)   Insubordination. Any firefighter who shall fail to attend any fire
without a reasonable excuse, disobey or refuse to obey the orders of the
superior officer, leave while a fire is in progress or before the order
authorizing departure is given, without first obtaining the permission of the
officer in command, be found drunk or in the state of intoxication while on
duty either during the time of the fire or before the Company shall have been
dismissed by the officer in command or be guilty of any action of
insubordination shall be subject to expulsion from the Fire Department. The
violation of any one of the items herein specified or any combination thereof
shall constitute grounds for expulsion. The Chief, Deputy Fire Chief or any
other officer or member in command at any time of any violations, or for any
other good cause, shall suspend such violating member forthwith. Failure to do
so shall constitute grounds for such officer's dismissal by the majority vote
of all the elected members of the Common Council or their successors. Such
officer in command at the time of the violation shall report such suspension in
writing to the Common Council and to the violating member at least 24 hours
before the next regular session of the Common Council. Such report shall state
in a concise manner the cause or causes of such suspension and the reason
therefor. Such suspended member, if he or she so desires, may appear before the
Common Council in order to defend himself or herself. If no action is taken by
the Common Council at such regular meeting in way of confirmation of such
suspension, then such member shall be reinstated; provided however, that the
Common Council may remove any member of any company for good cause by majority
vote of their full membership. However, any such member shall be entitled to a
24-hour notice of the proposed removal. Although not limited to the following
or the foregoing acts or failures to act, the violation of any of the bylaws or
rules of the company to which a person is a member shall constitute a good
cause for suspension or removal.
   (E)   Calling for help from outside city. No person or members of the Fire
Department, other than the Fire Chief, or in his or her absence, the officer in
command, shall have the authority to call out-of-city companies to a fire, or
to order the removal of any equipment from a fire.
   (F)   Qualification as truck driver. Before any member can drive any
particular truck he or she must be qualified to drive that particular truck.
Only the Fire Chief can sign such qualifications and designate which truck or
trucks said member is qualified to drive.
   (G)   Attendance. All members shall be required to attend eight training and
six business sessions each year from January to December. Any member not
attending eight training sessions will be demoted to a probationary member. Any
probationary member not attending eight sessions shall be expelled from the
department. Any member or probationary member missing a session can contact a
department officer within four days to arrange a makeup session in lieu of a
regular session.
('74 Code, § 5-12) (Ord. 554, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 64-8, passed - -64; Am.
Ord. 68-2, passed - -68; Am. Ord. 86- , passed 8-25-86; Am. Ord. 2000-9, passed
12-13-00; Am. Ord. 2010-005, passed 11-18-10)
§ 34.26 CHARGES; FIRE SUPPRESSION AND HAZARDOUS SPILLS.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall impose a charge on the owner of property or
vehicle or responsible property as permitted by law for each fire when fire
suppression occurs under I.C. 36-8-12-16 and each hazardous material incident
or spill under I.C. 36-8-12-13 as follows:
      (1)   For initial response with a fire engine, a fire truck or a fire
apparatus, including a hazardous material response unit, or a fire rescue unit
dispatched on a fire or hazardous material incident, $250 per response vehicle
except command/control vehicle, which is $100 per vehicle.
      (2)   For each hour or fraction thereof as on-scene assistance, $150 per
response unit and $50 per command/control vehicle.
      (3)   For expendable materials such as absorption materials, emulsifiers,
or other agents used in cleanup operations, the actual replacement cost of
those materials.
      (4)   For collection of debris, chemicals, fuel, or contaminated
materials resulting from a spill, the actual cost of removal and disposal at an
authorized location.
   (B)   The Fire Department shall impose a charge of $250 for each extrication
with extrication equipment. In addition, the Fire Department shall require
compensation/reimbursement from insurance companies for material used or broken
and/or any assistance required from an environmental clean up company for any
hazardous material incident. The monies obtained by these methods shall be
placed in an account used for assistance in compensation for firemen, training,
and/or equipment purchases.
(Ord. 2000-9, passed 12-13-00)
CHAPTER 35: REGIONAL PORT AUTHORITY
Section
   
35.01   Establishment
   
35.02   Board of Directors
   
35.03   Procedure
   
35.04   Compensation of Board members
§ 35.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A Port Authority to be known as the Southeast Indiana Regional Port
Authority is hereby established and shall have the powers and jurisdiction
enumerated and set forth in IC § 8-10-5-1 et seq., as amended from time to
time.
(Ord. 2013-006, passed 9-19-13; Am. Ord. 2014-011, passed 6-16-14; Am. Ord.
2014-016, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 2016-017, passed 10-3-16)
§ 35.02 BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
   (A)   The Port Authority shall be governed by a Board of Directors
consisting of 12 members, who shall be appointed by the mayors of the three
cities, with the consent and advice of their respective common councils, and by
the County Commission, whose memberships and appointments shall consist of the
following categories:
      (1)   The Mayor of the City of Aurora;
      (2)   The Mayor of the City of Greendale;
      (3)   The Mayor of the City of Lawrenceburg;
      (4)   One member from the Dearborn County Board of Commissioners;
      (5)   Two at-large representatives appointed by the Mayor of the City of
Aurora;
      (6)   Two at-large representatives appointed by the Mayor of the City of
Greendale;
      (7)   Two at-large representatives appointed by the Mayor of the City of
Lawrenceburg; and
      (8)   Two at-large representatives appointed by the Dearborn County
Commissioners.
   (B)   At the time of appointment, a director must be a resident of one of
the following:
      (1)   The political subdivision from which the director is appointed; or
      (2)   The county within which the Port Authority is established; provided
that, at all times a majority of the directors must be residents of the
political subdivision from which the members are appointed.
   (C)   The Directors of the Port Authority first appointed shall serve
staggered terms. The two at-large representatives from Aurora shall serve an
initial term of one year; the two at-large representatives from Greendale shall
serve an initial term of two years; the two at-large-representatives from
Lawrenceburg shall serve an initial term of three years; and the two at-large
representatives from Dearborn County shall serve an initial term of four years.
Thereafter, each successor director shall serve a term of four years, except
that any person appointed to fill a vacancy shall be appointed to only the
remainder of the unexpired vacant term, and any director shall be eligible for
reappointment. The mayors of the cities who appoint their respective at-large
representatives may individually remove the at-large director appointed by the
respective mayor at any time for misfeasance, nonfeasance, or malfeasance in
office.
(Ord. 2013-006, passed 9-19-13; Am. Ord. 2014-011, passed 6-16-14; Am. Ord.
2014-016, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 2016-017, passed 10-3- 16; Am. Ord. 2020-
001, passed 2-10-20)
§ 35.03 PROCEDURE.
   The directors shall elect one of their membership as Chairman, another as
Vice-Chairman, and shall designate their terms of office, and shall appoint a
Secretary who need not be a director, A majority of the Board of Directors
shall constitute a quorum, the affirmative vote of which shall be necessary for
any action taken by the Port Authority. No vacancy in membership of the Board
shall impair the rights of a quorum to exercise all the rights and perform all
the duties of the Port Authority. The elected Chairman shall not vote on
actions of the Board of Directors, unless his or her vote is required to decide
a tie vote among the other directors.
(Ord. 2013-006, passed 9-19-13; Am. Ord. 2014-011, passed 6-16-14; Am. Ord.
2014-016, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 2016-017, passed 10-3-16)
§ 35.04 COMPENSATION OF BOARD MEMBERS.
   Each member of the Board of Directors shall be entitled to receive from the
Port Authority such sum of money as the Board of Directors may determine as
compensation for the director's services as a director, and reimbursement for
the director's reasonable expenses in the performance of the director's duties.
(Ord. 2013-006, passed 9-19-13; Am. Ord. 2014-011, passed 6-16-14; Am. Ord.
2014-016, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 2016-017, passed 10-3-16)
CHAPTER 36: FUNDS
Section
   
36.01   Cumulative Capital Development Fund
   
36.02   Park and Recreation Cumulative Building Fund
   
36.03   Clerk's Record Perpetuation Fund
   
36.04   Gaming Revenue Fund
   
36.05   City Court Operations Fund
   
36.06   FEMA/SEMA Hazard Mitigation Grant Program Funds
   
36.07   Rainy Day Fund
   
36.08   Confidential Fund
   
36.09   DC Public Safety Fund
   
36.10   DC Public Safety Asset Improvement Fund
   
36.11   ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund 176
   
36.12   Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund
Cross reference:
   Rental Registration and Inspection Fund, see §
99.04
§ 36.01 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   The City Council resolves that a need now exists for the establishment
of a Cumulative Capital Development Fund for the following purposes: to provide
money for any purpose for which property taxes may be imposed within the
municipality as described in IC 36-9-15.5-2.
   (B)   This Board will adhere to the provisions of IC 36-9-15.5-6. The
proposed Fund will not exceed $0.05 on each $100 of assessed valuation. Said
tax rate will be levied beginning with taxes for 2022 payable 2023.
   (C)   Proofs of publication of the public hearing held on the eighteenth day
of April, 2022, and a certified copy of Resolution 2022-007 shall be submitted
to the Department of Local Government Finance of the State of Indiana as
provided by law. This Cumulative Fund is subject to the approval of the
Department of Local Government Finance.
(Ord. 93-1, passed 2-1-93; Am. Res. 2022-007, passed 4-18-22)
§ 36.02 PARK AND RECREATION CUMULATIVE BUILDING FUND.
   (A)   The city approves the establishment of the City of Aurora Park and
Recreation Cumulative Building Fund, hereinafter referred to herein as the Fund
for the purposes of building, remodeling, and repair of park and recreation
facilities.
   (B)   To provide for such Fund, the city shall levy a tax not to exceed
$0.05 on each $100 of assessed valuation of taxable property within the city
which shall be levied annually beginning with the first tax levy after approval
by the State Board of Tax Commissioners and shall continue for a period not to
exceed ten years.
   (C)   The establishment of this Fund is subject to a public hearing being
held by the city Park and Recreation Board and approval by the State Board of
Tax Commissioners. The decision of the State Board of Tax Commissioners with
respect to the proposed tax levy is final and conclusive.
   (D)   The tax shall be collected and held in a special fund which shall be
known as the City of Aurora Park and Recreation Cumulative Building Fund. This
Fund shall not be expended for a purpose other than the purposes for which it
was levied.
   (E)   Expenditures may be made from the Fund only after an appropriation has
been made in the manner provided by statute for making other appropriations.
(Ord. 1995-9, passed 7-10-95; Am. Ord. 1996-1, passed 2-5-96)
§ 36.03 CLERK'S RECORD PERPETUATION FUND.
   (A)   There is established a fee schedule to be charged by the city for
copies of official documents maintained by the City of Aurora Clerk Treasurer's
Office. All fees are to be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer of the city for entry
into the Record Perpetuation Fund.
   (B)   There is established a Clerk's Record Perpetuation Fund for purposes
of depositing all fees paid for the copy and transmission of documents. The
funds in the Record Perpetuation Fund are to be used for the preservation of
city records and the improvement of city recordkeeping systems and equipment
all by local appropriation.
   (C)   Pursuant to IC § 5-14-3-8(d), the City of Aurora does hereby establish
a fee schedule for the certification and/or copying of public records held by
the City of Aurora. Said fee schedule shall be as follows:
      (1)   Document certification fee. Five dollars per document.
      (2)   Copy fee. Ten cents per page for copies that are not color copies
and $0.25 per page for color copies.
      (3)   The City of Aurora may not charge a fee if a person requests any of
the following:
         (a)   To inspect a public record;
         (b)   If the request requires the City of Aurora to search for,
examine, or review the public record to determine whether the public record may
be disclosed; and
         (c)   To provide an electronic copy of the public record by electronic
mail. However, the City of Aurora may charge a fee for the public record
transmitted by electronic mail if the fee for the public record is authorized
under:
            1.   IC § 5-14-3-8(f) or (j); or
            2.   IC § 5-14-3-6(c).
(Ord. 1996-12, passed 11-4-96; Am. Ord. 2016-014, passed - -16; Am. Ord. 2018-
003, passed 4-9-18)
§ 36.04 GAMING REVENUE FUND.
   (A)   There is established the Gaming Revenue Fund into which the Clerk-
Treasurer is hereby authorized and directed to deposit all gaming revenue funds
received from Rising Sun, Indiana and Lawrenceburg, Indiana and any other
entity from which the city receives similar funds; and
   (B)   The city will expend such funds in accordance with law and upon
approval of the Common Council.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 1-6-97)
§ 36.05 CITY COURT OPERATIONS FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Aurora City Court Operations Fund into
which the Clerk-Treasurer of the City of Aurora is hereby authorized and
directed to deposit all revenue funds (excepting revenues authorized to be
receipted into Records Perpetuation Fund) received from the Judge and Clerk of
the Aurora City Court.
   (B)   All expenses and obligations that the Aurora City Court may incur are
to be paid out of the Fund in accordance with the law and upon approval of the
Common Council of the City of Aurora, Indiana.
(Ord. 1998-14, passed 12-7-98)
§ 36.06 FEMA/SEMA HAZARD MITIGATION GRANT PROGRAM FUNDS.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Hazard Mitigation Grant Fund into
which the Clerk-Treasurer of the City of Aurora is hereby authorized and
directed to deposit all Hazard Mitigation Grant Funds received from F.E.M.A.
and S.E.M.A..
   (B)   The City of Aurora will expend such funds in accordance with law and
upon approval of the Common Council of the City of Aurora, Indiana.
(Ord. 1998-10, passed 9-1-98)
§ 36.07 RAINY DAY FUND.
   (A)   Creation of Rainy Day Fund. There is hereby established a Rainy Day
Fund to receive transfers of unused and unencumbered funds raised by a general
or special tax levy on taxable property within the city wherever the purpose of
such tax levy has been fulfilled and an unused and unencumbered balance
remains.
   (B)   Purposes of the Fund. The funds on deposit in the Rainy Day Fund may
be used for the operation of the city and its various departments, when the
city does not have sufficient levies or funds to pay such costs, including, but
not limited to , salaries and wages, costs of services, supplies, equipment,
capital improvements, repairs and similar expenditures.
   (C)   Transfer to Fund. On or before December 31 of each year, the City
Council shall determine the amount, if any, of any unused and unencumbered
funds available to be transferred to the Rainy Day Fund, which transfer may not
exceed more than 10% of the city's total budget for that fiscal year.
   (D)   Appropriations. The City Council of the city may authorize the
expenditure of funds from the Rainy Day Fund by appropriations made in the same
manner as other funds are appropriated that receive tax monies, upon making a
finding that the proposed use of the funds is consistent with the intent of the
Fund.
(Ord. 2002-16, passed 12-4-02)
§ 36.08 CONFIDENTIAL FUND.
   (A)   Pursuant to statutory powers granted a municipality under IC 36-1-3-
1 et seq. there is created within the City of Aurora a Confidential Fund for
the use of the Aurora Police Department.
   (B)   All funds making up the Confidential Fund shall be appropriated in the
manner authorized by state statute.
   (C)   That to the fullest extent permitted by law, confidential
investigative information shall not be disclosed as public information to
protect police investigations and the safety of Aurora Police Department
officers.
   (D)   Use of the Confidential Fund shall be governed by the procedures of IC
36-1-8-3 related to petty cash funds.
   (E)   The Confidential Fund line item appropriation will be set in
accordance to the City of Aurora Police Department budgetary needs and annual
departmental budget as approved by the City of Aurora Common Council annually
during the city budget cycle approval process. Accounting procedures in place
as adopted and implemented by the city, the State Board of Accounts accounting
guidelines and the City of Aurora Police Department Standard Operating
Procedure (General Order 03-10) shall be followed.
   (F)   Additional revenue for the Confidential Fund will be supplemented by
the collection of drug seizure monies and search warrants. Unused funds within
the Confidential Fund shall be maintained throughout the fund's existence and
may only be used as needed by the City of Aurora Police Department in
accordance to confidential fund requirements.
   (G)   The authority for the appropriation will exist until terminated by
ordinance of the City of Aurora Common Council.
(Ord. 2016-010, passed 6-6-16)
§ 36.09 DC PUBLIC SAFETY FUND.
   (A)   Creation. There is hereby established a DC Public Safety Fund to
receive Dearborn County Local Option Income Tax funds specifically raised for
the purpose of Public Safety.
   (B)   Purposes of the fund. The funds on deposit in the DC Public Safety
Fund may be used for the operation of the Police and Fire Departments and any
other use deemed appropriate for the public safety within the City of Aurora,
including, but not limited to, salaries and wages, supplies, equipment, health
insurance benefits, repairs and similar expenditures.
   (C)   Appropriations. The City Council of the City of Aurora may authorize
the expenditure of funds from the DC Public Safety Fund by appropriation in the
same manner as other funds appropriated that receive tax monies, upon making a
finding that the proposed use of the funds is consistent with the intent of the
fund.
(Ord. 2019-004, passed 5-13-19)
§ 36.10 DC PUBLIC SAFETY ASSET IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   (A)   Creation. There is hereby established a DC Public Safety Asset
Improvement Fund to receive Dearborn County Local Option Income Tax funds
specifically raised for the purpose of public safety.
   (B)   Purposes of the fund. The funds on deposit in the DC Public Safety
Asset Improvement Fund may be used for the purchase, repair and maintenance of
capital assets used in the operation of the Police and Fire Departments and any
other department use deemed appropriate for the public safety within the City
of Aurora.
   (C)   Appropriations. The City Council of the City of Aurora may authorize
the expenditure of funds from the DC Public Safety Asset Improvement Fund by
appropriation in the same manner as other funds appropriated that receive tax
monies, upon making a finding that the proposed use of the funds is consistent
with the intent of the fund.
(Ord. 2019-005, passed 5-13-19)
§ 36.11 ARP CORONAVIRUS LOCAL FISCAL RECOVERY FUND 176.
   (A)   Pursuant to State Examiner Directive 2021-1, the Common Council of the
city do hereby create Fund Number 176, which is a special, non-reverting fund
that shall be designated as the ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund.
   (B)   Any monies deposited into said Fund may only be utilized for the
following purposes:
      (1)   To respond to the public health emergency with respect to the
Coronavirus Disease (COVID-19) or its negative economic impacts, including
assistance to households, small businesses, and nonprofits, or aid to impacted
industries such as tourism, travel, and hospitality;
      (2)   To respond to workers performing essential work during the COVID-19
public health emergency by providing premium pay to eligible workers of the
city, that are performing such essential work, or by providing grants to
eligible employers that have eligible workers who perform essential work;
      (3)   For the provision of government services to the extent of the
reduction in revenue of the city due to the COVID-19 public health emergency
relative to revenues collected in the most recent full fiscal year of the city
prior to the public health emergency;
      (4)   To make necessary investments in water, sewer, or broadband
infrastructure; and/or
      (5)   Any other purpose permitted, pursuant to the directives of 603(c)
of the Social Security Act.
   (C)   Funds made available may be transferred to a private non- profit
organization (as that term is defined in Paragraph 17 of Section 401 of the
McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act - 42 U.S.C. 11360(17)), a public benefit
corporation involved in the transportation of passengers or cargo, or a special
purpose unit of state or local government.
   (D)   Funds must be appropriated, disbursed pursuant to the plan outlined,
and disbursed pursuant to the normal claims process in IC 5-11-10-1.6.
   (E)   The Common Council of the city hereby establishes the ARP Plan. The
Common Council shall hold a public meeting to discuss the use of the Funds
described herein and appropriate the Funds accordingly.
(Ord. 2021-003A, passed 4-12-21)
§ 36.12 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   (A)    The City Council resolves that a need now exists for the
establishment of a Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund for the following
purposes: to provide money for any purpose for which property taxes may be
imposed within the municipality as described in IC 36-9-16.
   (B)   This Board will adhere to the provisions of IC 36-9-16. The proposed
fund will not exceed $0.0333 on each $100 of assessed valuation. Said tax rate
will be levied beginning with taxes for 2022 payable 2023.
   (C)   Proofs of publication of the public hearing held on the eighteenth day
of April, 2022, and a certified copy of Resolution 2022-006 shall be submitted
to the Department of Local Government Finance of the State of Indiana as
provided by law. This Cumulative Fund is subject to the approval of the
Department of Local Government Finance.
(Res. 2022-006, passed 4-18-22)
CHAPTER 37: CITY POLICIES
Section
Purchasing Rules and Policies
   
37.01   Purchases of supplies manufactured in the United States
   
37.02   Small business set-aside purchases
   
37.03   Protection of offers; status of documents as public records
   
37.04   Discussion with offerors responding to a request for proposals
   
37.05   Delay of opening offers
   
37.06   Evidence of financial responsibility
   
37.07   Use of RFP for purchases of designated types of supplies
   
37.08   Modification and termination of contracts
   
37.09   Purchase of services
   
37.10   Publication of notices
   
37.11   Receiving offers
   
37.12   Small purchases
   
37.13   Credit card purchases
Capital Assets Policy
   
37.20   Capital assets policy
Investments
   
37.25   City investment policy
ACH and Online Banking Policy
   
37.30   ACH and online banking policy
Materiality
   
37.35   Materiality threshold
Internal Control Standards
   
37.45   Internal control standards
Americans with Disabilities Act
   
37.55   Notice under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
   
37.56   Grievance procedure under the American with Disabilities Act
Public Records Request Policy and Fee Schedule
   
37.70   Policy and fee schedule
Cross-reference:
   Board of Public Works Purchasing Agency, see
§ 32.85
§ 37.01 PURCHASE OF SUPPLIES MANUFACTURED IN THE UNITED STATES.
   Supplies manufactured in the United States shall be specified for all city
purchases and shall be purchased unless the city determines that:
   (A)   The supplies are not manufactured in the United States in reasonably
available quantities;
   (B)   The prices of the supplies manufactured in the United States exceeds
by an unreasonable amount the price of available and comparable supplies
manufactured elsewhere;
   (C)   The quality of the supplies manufactured in the United States is
substantially less than the quality of comparably priced available supplies
manufactured elsewhere; or
   (D)   The purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States is not in
the public interest.
(Ord. 1998-6, passed 6-22-98)
§ 37.02 SMALL BUSINESS SET-ASIDE PURCHASES.
   The City of Aurora, Indiana determines to establish criteria for determining
qualifications as a small business and to identify specific supplies for small
business set aside purchases.
   (A)   Qualifications. A business qualifies as a small business if it
qualifies as a small business under standards established by the Indiana
Department of Commerce.
   (B)   Businesses that are not small businesses:
      (1)   A wholesale business, if its average annual sales for its most
recently completed fiscal year exceeds $4 million;
      (2)   A construction business, if its average annual receipts for the
preceding three fiscal years exceeds $4 million;
      (3)   A retail business or business selling services, if its annual sales
and receipts exceed $500,000; and
      (4)   A manufacturing business, if it employs more than 100 persons.
   (C)   Specific supplies eligible for small business set-aside. The City of
Aurora will develop a list of specific supplies eligible for the small business
set-aside, which the list shall be incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 1998-6, passed 6-22-98)
§ 37.03 PROTECTION OF OFFERS; STATUS OF DOCUMENTS AS PUBLIC RECORDS.
   (A)   Protections of offers prior to opening. The purchasing agent shall
retain all offers received in a secure location prior to the date and time at
which offers will be opened in order to prevent disclosure of the contents
prior to the opening of the offers.
   (B)   Unobstructed evaluation of offers. After offers have been opened, the
purchasing agent shall be responsible for maintaining the offers in such a
manner as to permit evaluation of the offers by the persons responsible for
evaluating the offers.
   (C)   Register of proposals. The purchasing agent shall prepare a register
of proposals for each request for proposals issued which shall contain
information concerning the proposals available for public inspection and
copying. Proposals may not be disclosed.
(Ord. 1998-6, passed 6-22-98)
§ 37.04 DISCUSSIONS WITH OFFERORS RESPONDING TO A REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS.
   The purchasing agent may conduct discussions with, and best and final offers
may be obtained from responsible offerors who submit proposals determined to be
reasonably susceptible of being selected for a contract award.
(Ord. 1998-6, passed 6-22-98)
§ 37.05 DELAY OF OPENING OFFERS.
   When the Common Council makes a written determination that its in the city's
best interests, offers may be opened after the time stated in the solicitation.
The date, time and place of the rescheduled opening must be announced at the
time and place of the originally scheduled opening.
(Ord. 1998-6, passed 6-22-98)
§ 37.06 EVIDENCE OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Purchases less than $25,000. The purchasing agent may not require
evidence of financial responsibility when the estimated cost of a purchase is
less than $25,000.00.
   (B)   Purchases between $25,000 and $100,000. The solicitation may include a
requirement that an offeror provide evidence of financial responsibility. If
evidence of financial responsibility is required, the solicitation must
indicate the kind of evidence that will be acceptable. If a bond or certified
check is required, it may not exceed 10% of the estimated cost of the purchase.
   (C)   Purchases over $100,000. The solicitation shall include a requirement
that an offeror provide evidence of financial responsibility and must indicate
the kind of evidence that will be acceptable. If a bond or certified check is
required, it may not exceed 10% of the estimated cost of the purchase.
   (D)   Small business set-aside. The purchasing agent may determine that no
evidence of financial responsibility shall be required for a small business
set-aside purchase.
(Ord. 1998-6, passed 6-22-98)
§ 37.07 USE OF RFP FOR PURCHASES OF DESIGNATED TYPES OF SUPPLIES.
   The City of Aurora Board of Public Works Purchasing Agency determines that:
   (A)   It is either not practicable or not advantageous to purchase certain
types of supplies by sealed competitive bidding; and
   (B)   Receiving proposals is the preferred method of purchasing the
following types of supplies: A list of supplies shall be developed by the Board
of Public Works and is to be incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 1998-6, passed 6-22-98)
§ 37.08 MODIFICATION AND TERMINATION OF CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Price adjustments. The purchasing agent may include provisions to
permit price adjustments in a purchase contract. The following provisions for
price adjustments may be included:
      (1)   Price adjustments must be computed by agreement on a fixed price
adjustment before the beginning of the pertinent performance or as soon after
the beginning of performance as possible;
      (2)   Price adjustments must be computed by unit prices specified in the
contract or subsequently agreed upon;
      (3)   Price adjustments must be computed by costs attributable to the
events or situations under such clauses with adjustment of profit or fee, all
as specified in the contract or subsequently agreed upon;
      (4)   Price adjustments must be computed in such other manner as the
contracting parties may mutually agree upon; or
      (5)   In the absence of agreement by the parties, price adjustments must
be computed by a unilateral determination by the governmental body of the costs
attributable to the events or situations under such clauses with adjustment of
profit or fee, all as computed by the governmental body in accordance with
applicable rules adopted by the governmental body.
   (B)   Adjustments in time of performance. The purchasing agent may include
provisions in a purchase contract concerning adjustments for time of
performance under the contract.
   (C)   Unilateral rights of purchasing agent. The purchasing agent may
include in a purchase contract provisions dealing with the unilateral right of
the purchasing agent to order changes in the work within the scope of the
contract or to order temporary work stoppage or delays in time of performance.
   (D)   Quantity variations. The purchasing agent may include in a purchase
contract provisions dealing with variations between the estimated quantities of
work in a contract and the actual quantity delivered.
(Ord. 1998-6, passed 6-22-98)
§ 37.09 PURCHASE OF SERVICES.
   The City of Aurora Board of Public Works Purchasing Agency determines that
each department may purchase services in whatever manner the purchaser
determines to be reasonable.
(Ord. 1998-6, passed 6-22-98)
§ 37.10 PUBLICATION OF NOTICES.
   (A)   Invitation for bids.
      (1)   All notices of invitation for bids shall be published in accordance
with I.C. 5-3-1 in the Aurora Journal Press and posted at Aurora City Hall and
the local post office.
      (2)   The purchasing agent shall schedule the publication of notice to
provide a reasonable amount of time for preparation and submission of bids. The
notice will be published two times, at least one week apart. The second
publication must occur at least ten days prior to the date the bids will be
opened.
   (B)   Request for proposals.
      (1)   All notices of request for proposals shall be published in
accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 in the Aurora Journal Press and posted at Aurora
City Hall and the local post office.
      (2)   The purchasing agent shall schedule the publication of notice to
provide a reasonable amount of time for preparation and submission of
proposals. The notice will be published two times, at least one week apart. The
second publication must occur at least seven days prior to the date the
proposals will be opened.
   (C)   Request for specifications.
      (1)   All notices of request for specifications shall be published in
accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 in the Aurora Journal Press and posted at Aurora
City Hall and the local post office.
      (2)   The purchasing agent shall schedule the publication of notice to
provide a reasonable amount of time for preparation and submission of
proposals. The notice will be published two times, at least one week apart. The
second publication must occur at least seven days prior to the date the
proposals will be opened.
   (D)   Electronic notices. Whenever a notice or other material, including
specifications, an invitation for bids, request for proposals or request for
specifications, is sent by mail, the purchasing agent may also send the notice
or other material by electronic means, provided that the transmission of the
information is at least as efficient as mailing the information.
(Ord. 1998-6, passed 6-22-98)
§ 37.11 RECEIVING OFFERS.
   (A)   Opening of offers.
      (1)   Bids received in response to an invitation for bids must be opened
publicly in the presence of at least one or more witnesses at the time and
place designated in the invitation for bids.
      (2)   Proposals received in response to a request for proposals must be
opened so as to avoid disclosure of the contents to competing offerors during
the process of negotiation.
      (3)   Proposals received in response to a request for specifications may
be opened as specified in the request for specifications.
   (B)   Electronic receipt of offers.
      (1)   The purchasing agency may receive electronic offers in response to
an invitation to bid, request for proposals or request for specifications.
      (2)   An electronic offer may only receive an electronic offer if:
         (a)   The solicitation includes the procedure for the electronic
transmission of the offer; and
         (b)   The purchasing agency receives the offer on fax machine or other
system with a security feature that protects the contents of an electronic
offer with the same degree of protections as provided to an offer not
transmitted electronically.
   (C)   Correction and withdrawal of bids.
      (1)   An offeror may correct inadvertent errors in a bid up to the time
at which bids will be opened by supplementing the erroneous bid and submitting
a revised bid. A bidder may not supplement an inadvertently erroneous bid after
the time at which the bids were opened.
      (2)   A bidder may withdraw a bid containing inadvertent errors up to the
time at which bids will be opened and for a period of not more than 24 hours
after the time at which bids were opened.
   (D)   Cancellation of solicitation. When the purchasing agent makes a
written determination that it is in the city's best interests, the purchasing
agent may cancel a solicitation or reject all offers, provided that the
solicitation included information concerning the procedure for cancellation.
(Ord. 1998-6, passed 6-22-98)
§ 37.12 SMALL PURCHASES.
   The purchasing agent may purchase supplies with an estimated cost of less
than $25,000 on the open market without inviting or receiving quotes.
(Ord. 1998-6, passed 6-22-98)
§ 37.13 CREDIT CARD PURCHASES.
   (A)   The City Council authorizes the Clerk-Treasurer to obtain a credit
card(s) in the name of the city for the customary purchase of materials,
supplies and reservation and travel expenses for the city. The Clerk-Treasurer
is authorized to pay any annual fees for such credit card(s). The Clerk-
Treasurer shall endeavor to pay the monthly statement balance in full so that
finance charges are not incurred.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be responsible for and maintain control over
the credit card(s) and all invoices, receipts, and documentation supporting all
charges and shall maintain a suitable accounting system to monitor the
possession, use and return of all credit card(s). The Clerk-Treasurer shall
verify each charge appearing on the monthly statement with the invoices,
receipts, and documentation prior to payment. The Clerk-Treasurer shall assign
and pay the charges from the appropriate budget fund.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer may provide the credit cards to certain city
employees to purchase materials, supplies or for reservation and travel
expenses deemed necessary to perform his or her task. Each city employee shall
immediately return to the Clerk-Treasurer/Department Head copies of all
invoices, receipts, supporting charge documentation.
   (D)   No credit card issued in the name of the City of Aurora shall be used
by any person for a private purchase.
   (E)   Each payment of expenses must be supported by a fully itemized invoice
or bill with certification of the Clerk-Treasurer. The City Council shall
review and allow the claim at the next regular or special meeting following the
preapproved payment of the expense.
(Ord. 2009-005, passed 12-21-09)
CAPITAL ASSETS POLICY
§ 37.20 CAPITAL ASSETS POLICY.
   (A)   Classification of assets. Capital assets are personal and real
property used in the operations of the government that have an expected
estimated useful life beyond a single period. Capital assets are to include any
item that falls into one of the following categories:
      (1)   Land;
      (2)   Infrastructure;
      (3)   Buildings;
      (4)   Improvements other than buildings;
      (5)   Machinery, equipment and vehicles;
      (6)   Books and other; and
      (7)   Construction in progress.
   (B)   Capitalization thresholds. 
      (1)   To be considered a capital asset for financial reporting records,
an item must be at or above the capitalization threshold and have a unit
historical cost of $5,000 or more. Assets will remain part of the property
record until they are retired or are disposed of, sold, traded in, etc.
regardless of net book value amount.
      (2)   The capitalization threshold for the following classes of assets
shall be:
         (a)   Land:                   N/A
         (b)   Land improvements:          $5,000
         (c)   Buildings:                $5,000
         (d)   Machinery and equipment:          $5,000
         (e)   Vehicles:                $5,000
         (f)   General infrastructure:          $5,000
         (g)   Construction in progress:          N/A
      (3)   With regard to improvements to buildings and general
infrastructure, a capital outlay must be significant and increase capacity,
increase efficiency, or extend the asset’s estimated useful life beyond the
original expectation.
      (4)   Capital assets with a historical cost of less than $5,000 may be
included in capital asset tracking with consultation of the Department Head or
Clerk-Treasurer. However, no assets will be tracked with a value of less than
$500.
   (C)   Historical cost or estimated historical costs.
      (1)   Capital assets are recorded at historical cost which includes any
ancillary charges necessary to place the asset into its intended location and
condition for use.
      (2)   Ancillary charges include, for example, freight and transportation
charges, site preparation costs, and professional fees. Engineering costs
(internal and external) include related preliminary project and environmental
studies; project estimating, design, and planning (drawings and
specifications); and construction engineering, construction management,
construction inspection and project payment. Donated capital assets are
recorded at their estimated fair market value at the time of acquisition.
   (D)   Responsibility for property record maintenance.
      (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer will ensure that reporting for capital assets
is being exercised by establishing a Master Capital Asset Inventory, both
initially and periodically in subsequent years.
      (2)   The Supervisor of Public Works, Utilities Superintendent, Director
of Parks and Recreation, Police Chief, Fire Chief and City Manager shall review
the inventory list of all city capital assets annually by December 31 of each
year.
      (3)   The Clerk-Treasurer will ensure that reporting for capital assets
is being exercised by establishing a Master Capital Asset Inventory, both
initially and periodically in subsequent years. The Clerk-Treasurer will
further ensure that the capital assets report will be updated no less than
annually to reflect all improvements, additions, retirements, and transfers to
reflect the new, annual capital asset balance for financial reporting purposes
and said deadlines.
(Ord. 2020-011, passed 12-14-20)
INVESTMENTS
§ 37.25 CITY INVESTMENT POLICY.
   (A)   The Investment Officer for purposes of this section shall be the
elected Clerk-Treasurer for the City of Aurora, Indiana.
   (B)   Investments made under the authority of this section must be made in
accordance with provisions of IC 5-13.
   (C)   The total investments outstanding under authority of this section
shall not exceed 25% of the total portfolio of funds invested by the City of
Aurora, including balances in transaction accounts.
   (D)   The authority to invest funds under this section shall expire at four
years from the date of adoption of this section.
   (E)   Investments made under the authority of this section may have a stated
maturity date more than two years, but not more than five years, from the
initial date of investment purchase or entry into an investment repurchase
agreement.
(Ord. 2012-010, passed 10-15-12; Am. Ord. 2019-001, passed 1-14-19)
ACH AND ONLINE BANKING POLICY
§ 37.30 ACH AND ONLINE BANKING POLICY.
   (A)   Automatic clearing house (ACH) transactions. ACH transactions are
hereby authorized for the Clerk-Treasurer to make certain payments via ACH.
Authorized payments are payroll, bond payments and payments for monthly bills.
Also authorized are any funds received via ACH.
   (B)   Electronic Funds Transfers (EFT) including online transfers. The City
Council authorizes the use of online transfers for the purpose of transferring
funds to the account payable checking account from the general checking account
as it relates to services in the process of paying claims/invoices.
2022 S-7
66   Aurora - Administration
   (C)   Documentation. The Clerk-Treasurer is required to maintain adequate
documentation of the above referenced transactions for future audit, as
provided by law.
(Ord. 2020-012, passed 12-14-20)
MATERIALITY
§ 37.35 MATERIALITY THRESHOLD.
   (A)   The Common Council of the city hereby endorses the Clerk-Treasurer’s
policy as found in Appendix A of Ord. 2016-008.
   (B)   The Common Council of the city calls upon the Clerk-Treasurer, city
officials, employees, and agents to enforce and comply with the policy on
materiality and process for reporting material items and to report noteworthy
items to the State Board of Accounts.
   (C)   The Common Council of the city directs the Clerk-Treasurer to monitor,
as necessary compliance with the policy on materiality and process for
reporting material items and report noteworthy items to the Common Council of
the city.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall advise the Common Council of the city of any
changes in the policy on materiality and process for reporting material items.
(Ord. 2016-008, passed 5-2-16)
INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS
§ 37.45 INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   (A)   The City of Aurora adopts as policy the internal control standard as
set forth-by the Indiana State Board of Accounts Uniform Internal Control
Standards for Indiana Political Subdivisions manual as expressly written and
published by the Indiana State Board of Accounts in September 2015, as amended
from time to time.
   (B)   As required by statute, all erroneous or irregular variances, losses,
shortages, or thefts of local government funds or property shall be reported
immediately to the State Board of Accounts. The City Council will seek
establish an appropriate materiality threshold (dollar amount of variance,
loss, shortage or theft that requires reporting) and may approve or modify the
threshold amount as deemed appropriate. The City Council will communicate the
materiality threshold in a detailed policy that shall distinguish between cash
and other types of assets, maintenance of documentation and resolution of
incidents that do not meet the materiality threshold.
   (C)   All appropriate city personnel will receive appropriate training on
the internal controls standards and procedures. “Personnel” is defined as an
officer, or employee whose official duties include receiving, processing,
depositing, disbursing, or otherwise having access to funds that belong to the
Federal government, state government, a political subdivision, or another
governmental entity. As required by statute, the fiscal officer of the city
(Clerk-Treasurer) will file annual certification of training with the Indiana
State Board of Accounts.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer's office, in coordination with the City Council of
Aurora, will develop, maintain and train personnel on internal controls
standards and policies and all new personnel shall receive training timely. All
city officers, elected officials and employees are required to comply with the
policy. The policy will be integrated into the Employee Handbook. Employees who
fail to comply with this policy are subject to disciplinary action, up to but
not. limited to termination of their employment.
(Ord. 2016-011, passed - -16)
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning Internal Controls, see IC § 5-11-1-27.
AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT
§ 37.55 NOTICE UNDER THE AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (ADA).
   (A)   The City of Aurora ("City") adopts the 2010 Americans with
Disabilities Act (ADA) Standards for accessible design and the 2005 Guidelines
for Accessible Public Rights. In accordance with the requirements of Title II
of the ADA of 1990, the city will not discriminate against qualified
individuals with disabilities on the basis of disability in its service,
programs, or activities.
   (B)   The city does not discriminate on the basis of disability in its
hiring or employment practices and complies with all regulations promulgated by
the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission under Title I of the ADA.
   (C)   The city will generally, upon request, provide appropriate aids and
services leading to effective communication for qualified persons with
disabilities so they can participate equally in the city's programs, services,
and activities, including qualified sign language interpreters, documents in
braille, and other ways of making information and communications accessible to
people who have speech, hearing, vision, or other impairments.
   (D)   The city will make all reasonable modification of policies and
procedures to ensure that people with disabilities have an equal opportunity to
enjoy all of its programs, services and activities. For example, individuals
with service animals are welcome in the city offices, even where pets are
generally prohibited.
   (E)   Anyone who requires an auxiliary aid or service for effective
communication, or modification of policies and procedures to participate in a
program, service, or activity of the city should contact the ADA Coordinator at
the Office of the Clerk-Treasurer as soon as possible, but no later than 48
hours before the scheduled event. The ADA Coordinator can be contacted at:
City of Aurora
ADA Coordinator—Clerk-Treasurer
Aurora City Hall
Third and Main Streets
P.O. Box 158
Aurora, Indiana 47001
(812)926-1777
   (F)   The ADA does not require the city to take any action that would
fundamentally alter the nature of its programs or services, or imposes an undue
financial or administrative burden.
   (G)   Complaints that a program, service, or activity of the city is not
accessible to persons with . disabilities should be directed to the ADA
Coordinator at the address or phone number listed above.
   (H)   The city will not place a surcharge on a particular individual with a
disability or any group of individuals with disabilities to cover the cost of
providing auxiliary aid/services or reasonable modifications of policy, such as
retrieving items from locations that are open to the public but are not
accessible to persons who use wheelchairs.
(Res. 2012-009, passed 12-31-12)
§ 37.56 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE UNDER THE AMERICAN WITH DISABILITIES ACT.
   (A)   The grievance procedure established below is intended to adhere to the
standards outlined in the ADA. The procedure must be used by anyone who wishes
to file a complaint alleging discrimination on the basis of disability in the
provisions of services, activities, programs, or benefits provided by the city.
   (B)   The complaint should be in writing and contain information about the
alleged discrimination such as name, address, phone number of complainant and
location, date, and description of the alleged discriminatory action or issue.
The city's adopted grievance form must be used to lodge a complaint. The city's
adopted grievance form is attached at the end of this plan. Alternative means
of filing complaints, such as personal interviews or recording of the complaint
will be made available for persons with disabilities upon their request. The
complaint should be submitted by the grievant and/or his/her designee as soon
as possible, but no later than 180 calendar days after the alleged violation
to:
City of Aurora
ADA Coordinator—Clerk-Treasurer
Aurora City Hall
Third and Main Streets
P.O.Box 158
Aurora, IN 47001
(812) 926-1777
   (C)   Within 15 calendar days after receipt of the complaint, the ADA
Coordinator, or his designee, will meet with the complainant to discuss the
complaint and the possible resolutions. Within 15 calendar days of the meeting,
the ADA Coordinator, or his designee, will respond in writing, and where
appropriate, in a format accessible to the complainant, such as large print,
braille, or audio tape. The response will explain the position of the city
regarding the complaint, and will offer options for substantive resolution of
the complaint when applicable.
   (D)   If the response by the ADA Coordinator, or his designee, does not
satisfactorily resolve the issue, the complainant, or his/her designee, may
appeal the decision within 15 calendar days after receipt of the city's
response. The initial appeal shall be to the city's ADA Coordinator. Within 15
calendar days after receipt of the appeal, the ADA Coordinator, or his
designee, shall meet again with the complainant to discuss the appeal and
possible resolutions. Within 15 calendar days after the appeal meeting, the ADA
Coordinator, or his designee, will respond in writing, and, where appropriate,
in a format accessible to the complainant. The written appeal response will
offer final resolution of the complaint.
   (E)   All written complaints received by the ADA Coordinator, or his
designee, appeals to the ADA Coordinator, or his designee, and responses from
the ADA Coordinator, or his designee, will be retained by the city for at least
three years.
(Res. 2012-009, passed 12-31-12)
PUBLIC RECORDS REQUEST POLICY AND FEE SCHEDULE
§ 37.70 POLICY AND FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Pursuant to IC § 5-14-3-3(a)(2), any person may inspect and copy the
public records of the City of Aurora during the regular business hours of the
City of Aurora. A request for inspection or copying must identify with
reasonable particularity the record being requested and must be in writing. The
written request must be submitted to the Clerk Treasurer of the City of Aurora.
   (B)   (1)   Pursuant to IC § 5-14-3-3(b), within a reasonable time after the
written request is received by the City of Aurora, the City of Aurora shall
either:
         (a)   Provide the requested copies to the person making the request;
or
         (b)   Allow the person to make copies on the agency's equipment or on
the person's own equipment.
      (2)   If the City of Aurora makes copies for the person, said person
shall be charged in accordance with the Fee Schedule adopted by division (D)
(below) of this section.
   (C)   Original copies of public records held by the City of Aurora may not
be removed from the office of the Clerk Treasurer of the City of Aurora. All
copying of public records must occur at the office of the Clerk Treasurer of
the City of Aurora.
   (D)   Pursuant to IC § 5-14-3-8(d), the City of Aurora does hereby establish
a fee schedule for the certification and/or copying of public records held by
the City of Aurora. Said fee schedule shall be as follows:
      (1)   Document certification fee. Five dollars per document;
      (2)   Copy fee. Ten cents per page for copies that are not color copies
and $0.25 per page for color copies.
   (E)   The City of Aurora may not charge a fee if a person requests any of
the following:
      (1)   To inspect a public record;
      (2)   If the request requires the City of Aurora to search for, examine,
or review the public record to determine whether the public record may be
disclosed;
      (3)   To provide an electronic copy of the public record by electronic
mail. However, the City of Aurora may charge a fee for the public record
transmitted by electronic mail if the fee for the public record is authorized
under:
         (a)   IC § 5-14-3-8(f) or (j); or
         (b)   IC § 5-14-3-6(c).
   (F)   If the City of Aurora maintains or contracts for the maintenance of
the public record in an electronic data storage system, the City of Aurora
shall make reasonable efforts to provide to the person making a request to copy
all of the disclosable data contained in the records on paper, disk, tape,
drum, or any other method of electronic retrieval if the medium requested is
compatible with the City of Aurora's storage system.
   (G)   If the public record being requested is in an electronic format, the
City of Aurora shall provide the public record in either electronic or paper
format, at the option of the person making the public records request. However,
the City of Aurora is not required to change the format of the public record.
   (H)   The City of Aurora hereby reserves the right to deny, either in part
or in full, any written public records request as permitted by IC § 5-14-3.
(Ord. 2018-004, passed 3-9-18)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
       Chapter
         
50.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
         
51.   GAS
         
52.   SEWERS
         
53.   WATER
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
Collection Procedure
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Preparation of garbage, trash, rubbish or the like
   
50.03   Placement of garbage, trash, rubbish or the like
   
50.04   Removal of defective containers
   
50.05   Uncovering containers after placement for collection
   
50.06   Fees for dumping garbage and refuse
   
50.07   Heavy and special trash pick up
   
50.08   Yard waste
   
50.09   Alternative disposal methods
   
50.10   Fees for garbage collection
Recycling
   
50.20   Placement of recycling containers
Hazardous Waste
   
50.30   Prohibited
 
   
50.99   Violations and penalties
COLLECTION PROCEDURE
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Whenever
any words and phrases used herein are not defined herein, but are defined in
the state laws regulating the disposal of garbage and refuse, any such
definition therein shall be deemed to apply to such words and phrases used
herein, except when the context otherwise requires.
   HAZARDOUS TRASH. A waste with properties that make it dangerous or capable
of having a harmful effect on human health or the environment.
   HEAVY/SPECIAL TRASH. Any form or type of garbage, solid wastes, junk,
electronic devices or other disposable refuse which, because of size, weight,
unusual quantity, character, or source of generation cannot be properly placed
in containers, which is otherwise ineligible for collection under the city’s
normal garbage collection service.
(Am. Ord. 2022-008, passed 6-13-22)
§ 50.02 PREPARATION OF GARBAGE, TRASH, RUBBISH OR THE LIKE.
   (A)   Any garbage, trash, rubbish or other materials to be picked up and
disposed of shall be placed in nonleaking metal or plastic containers with
tight-fitting lids. Any such single container shall be no larger than 60
gallons and shall weigh no more than 50 pounds.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to place items upon or
alongside any city street, alley, sidewalk or other public way, within public
view for collection and disposal, which do not properly fit within a suitable
and durable container under this section. Any items not in a suitable container
may be passed over and refused for collection. Any large items that cannot be
placed in a suitable container or bag hereunder, such as furniture or
mattresses, will not be collected by the city; they shall be otherwise disposed
of by the person or entity who owns, possesses, or is in charge or in control
of, any dwelling or real property where solid waste is created or accumulated.
   (C)   Every person or entity who owns, possesses, or is in charge or control
of, any dwelling or real property where solid waste is created or accumulated
shall dispose of garbage in the manner specified in this section and
subchapter. It shall not be an excuse or defense that a landowner is leasing
the real property to a tenant, or is not otherwise personally using the
property himself or herself.
('74 Code, § 11-6) (Ord. 73-3, passed - - 73; Am. Ord. 2014-008, passed 6-16-
14; Am. Ord. 2022-008, passed 6-13-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.03 PLACEMENT OF GARBAGE, TRASH, RUBBISH OR THE LIKE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place any garbage, trash,
rubbish or other materials upon or alongside any city street, alley, sidewalk
or other public way for collection and disposal, unless such garbage, trash,
rubbish and other materials are contained and enclosed in a suitable container
under §
50.01.
   (B)   Any such garbage, trash, rubbish or other materials shall not be
placed upon or alongside any city street, alley, sidewalk or other public way,
or within public view, for collection and disposal until 3:00 p.m. or later the
day before scheduled garbage collection. Any garbage containers emptied after
garbage collection shall be removed from public view no later than 7:00 p.m. on
the same day as garbage collection, unless garbage collection was unforeseeably
postponed. However, it shall not be a violation of this provision for garbage
to be placed for collection in a suitable and durable container at any time
within public alleys that are located within the area enclosed by Third Street,
Exporting Street, Importing Street and Judiciary Street.
('74 Code, § 11-7) (Ord. 73-3, passed - -73; Am. Ord. 2014-008, passed 6-16-14;
Am. Ord. 2022-008, passed 6-13-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.04 REMOVAL OF DEFECTIVE CONTAINERS.
   Any garbage can or other garbage container that leaks or does not have a
tight-fitting lid, when emptied into any collection truck, may be confiscated
and hauled away as a public nuisance without any liability to the owner
thereof. If any such cans or containers are confiscated hereunder, any garbage
placed for future collection shall still be placed in a suitable container
under §
50.01.
('74 Code, § 11-9) (Ord. 73-3, passed - -73; Am. Ord. 2014-008, passed 6-16-14)
§ 50.05 UNCOVERING CONTAINERS AFTER PLACEMENT FOR COLLECTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove the lid from, uncover, open or
untie any can or container described herein, while it is positioned upon or
alongside a city street, alley sidewalk or other public way awaiting collection
or disposal.
('74 Code, § 11-10) (Ord. 73-3, passed - - 73; Am. Ord. 2014-008, passed 6-16-
14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.06 FEES FOR DUMPING GARBAGE AND REFUSE.
   City residents, may dump garbage and refuse at the city dumping site at the
following rates.
   (A)   Forty-five dollars ($45) per pick-up truck, heaping loads may be
subject to additional charges of up to twice the rate;
   (B)   Seventy-five dollars ($75) per trailer, trailers over 14 feet in
length may be subject to additional charges of up to twice the rate; and
   (C)   One hundred dollars ($100) per dump truck, nothing larger than a one-
ton dump truck will be accepted.
(Ord. 2006-17, passed 10-2-06; Am. Ord. 2009-003, passed 12-21-09; Am. Ord.
2014-017, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 2022-008, passed 6-13-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.07 HEAVY AND SPECIAL TRASH PICK UP.
   The city, at its discretion, shall provide pick-up and disposal of heavy and
special trash for premises within the city, provided that the procedures,
terms, and conditions of this section are complied with as follows.
   (A)   Requests for heavy or special trash pick-up. Heavy or special trash as
defined under §
50.01 will be picked up by special arrangement and upon request submitted to
and approved by the Superintendent of Public Works or their designee. The
request must specify the type and quantity of heavy or special trash for which
collection is sought, and should be submitted at least one working day in
advance of the proposed time of collection.
   (B)   Time of pick-up. An approximate time for heavy or special pick-up
shall be arranged and agreed upon between the requestor and the Superintendent
of Public Works or their designee when the request is submitted and approved.
Pick-up will be provided only during normal working hours of the public works
employees. The requestor shall be responsible for having all items or materials
properly placed and available for pick-up at the indicated time, and upon
failure to do so shall nevertheless be liable for payment of applicable fees as
hereafter provided unless specific notice to cancel the pick-up is given to the
Superintendent of Public Works or their designee prior to the time that a truck
is dispatched to make the pick-up.
   (C)   Placement for pick-up. Items or materials to be collected under this
section shall be placed at the curb or in any other location as directed by the
Superintendent of Public Works or their designee. Heavy or special trash items
or materials shall not be placed for pick-up along with regular collection
service refuse unless specifically so authorized by the Superintendent of
Public Works or their designee.
   (D)   Service charges. For collection and disposal of heavy or special
trash, the requestor must pay to the city the following initial service
charges.
      (1)   Ninety dollars ($90) per load requiring a truck, heaping loads may
be subject to additional charges of up to twice the rate;
      (2)   One hundred and fifty dollars ($150) per load requiring a trailer,
trailers over 14 feet in length may be subject to additional charges of up to
twice the rate; and
      (3)   Two hundred dollars ($200) per load requiring a one-ton dump truck,
nothing larger than a one-ton dump truck will be accepted.
      (4)   Additional charges as may be applicable under division (E) below.
      (5)   Charges owing under this section shall be paid prior to collection
unless otherwise authorized by the Superintendent of Public Works or their
designee, and shall be deposited in the General Fund.
   (E)   Hazardous materials or special handling. The Superintendent of Public
Works or their designee may, in their full discretion, refuse to provide pick-
up service for heavy or special trash which includes any hazardous materials
which would require special equipment or personnel in excess of the normal crew
complement of a collection truck, which must be made other than during normal
working hours, or which would otherwise require any special handling or
disposal methods. The items or materials may be accepted as a condition that
the requestor pay all additional costs.
(Am. Ord. 2022-008, passed 6-13-22)
§ 50.08 YARD WASTE.
   (A)   Yard waste pick up is provided to city residents. Residents may
dispose of yard waste and brush and yard waste cut in lengths not to exceed ten
feet nor smaller than two and one-half feet. All small brush or chips shall be
placed in unlined containers, no larger than 40 gallons and weighing less than
50 pounds, at the curb. All tree removals or large trimming accumulations shall
be placed at the front property line for removal. Additional fees might be
applicable for larger and/or heavy loads. However, where tree removals or large
trimming accumulations result from the work of private contractors, such
contractors shall be required to dispose of their own accumulations of brush
and trash.
   (B)   Yard waste will be picked up in accordance with regular trash pickup.
   (C)   Special pickup for leaves shall be placed for collection starting
October 1 to December 15, at the curb or edge of road for weekly collection in
open piles free of vines and limbs.
(Am. Ord. 2022-008, passed 6-13-22)
§ 50.09 ALTERNATIVE DISPOSAL METHODS.
   Any other method of solid waste disposal not covered by these rules shall be
reviewed by the Superintendent of Public Works or their designee for the
purpose of evaluating and establishing a proper method of handling special
disposal methods.
(Am. Ord. 2022-008, passed 6-13-22)
§ 50.10 FEES FOR GARBAGE COLLECTION.
   (A)   Effective January 1, 2023 and continuing to December 31, 2027,
inclusive, solid waste collection fees shall be billed per household, per
month, per unit, unless changed by further ordinance of City Council. Said fee
shall be applied as a line item on the customer’s utility service bill.
      (1)   The fee and rate for garbage collection shall be:
         (a)   Year 2023: $13.50 per household, per month, per unit.
         (b)   Year 2024: $14.18 per household, per month, per unit.
         (c)   Year 2025: $14.88 per household, per month, per unit.
         (d)   Year 2026: $15.63 per household, per month, per unit.
         (e)   Year 2027: $16.41 per household, per month, per unit.
      (2)   Optional 96-gallon totes will be available for an additional $2.50
fee per tote in unlimited supply within the city.
   (B)   A unit shall be any residential dwelling unit and any commercial or
industrial unit that does not produce excessive garbage that exceeds the amount
of garbage that can be regularly collected with weekly on-street garbage
collection. The Utility Superintendent of the City Utility Department shall
have the authority to determine whether a particular unit is producing
excessive garbage. If a unit is producing excessive garbage, the owner must
supply the owner’s own garbage collection service and will not be charged any
fee hereunder.
   (C)   The owner of any multi-family residential building containing five or
more dwellings shall have the option of providing the owner’s own garbage
collection through use of a privately paid dumpster service and will not be
charged any fee hereunder upon providing proof of any such dumpster service.
(Ord. 2012-012, passed 12-17-12; Am. Ord. 2015-012, passed 12-7-15; Am. Ord.
2017-002, passed 6-5-17; Am. Ord. 2017-016, passed 12-4-17; Am. Ord. 2022-008,
passed 6-13-22; Am. Ord. 2022-016, passed 12-19-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
RECYCLING
§ 50.20 PLACEMENT OF RECYCLING CONTAINERS.
   It is hereby resolved by the Common Council that the Dearborn County Solid
Waste Management District is hereby authorized to place two recycling
containers, to be provided by Rumpke, on property which it owns or has a right
to utilize and further agrees to keep the area surrounding such containers
clean and picked up through the use of its own personnel.
(Res. 1993-4, passed 7-12-93)
HAZARDOUS WASTE
§ 50.30 PROHIBITED.
   The city will not accept hazardous waste which includes any solid waste
that, because of its quantity, concentration, or physical, chemical or
infectious characteristics may:
   (A)   Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an
increase in serious irreversible, or incapacitating reversible, illness; or
   (B)   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or the
environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, or disposed of, or
otherwise managed.
(Ord. 2006-17, passed 10-2-06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.99 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any violation of §§
50.01 through
50.10 may be enforced under §
10.99, general penalty provision, and may be enforced administratively through
the city’s Code Hearing Officer.
   (B)   In addition to penalties under §
10.99, the city may act to bring compliance with the provisions of §§
50.01 through
50.10 and place a lien against property for costs, pursuant to the provisions
of IC 36-1-6-2. Continuous enforcement orders (as defined in IC 36-7-9-2) can
be enforced, and liens may be assessed, without the need for additional notice,
so long as the original notice to the property owner, and others with a
substantial property interest, was served by certified mail, first-class mail,
personal service, or similar service.
(Ord. 2014-008, passed 6-16-14; Am. Ord. 2022-008, passed 6-13-22)
CHAPTER 51: GAS
Section
Rates and Charges
   
51.01   Schedule of rates and charges
   
51.02   Nonrecurring charges
   
51.03   Gas cost adjustment
   
51.04   Temporary service
   
51.05   Special rates and charges; gas service to city
   
51.06   Meters
   
51.07   Bill for monthly service; due date for payment
   
51.08   Gas service subsequent to completion of system
   
51.09   Utility rules and regulations
   
51.10   Rates and charges for firm transportation services
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.01 SCHEDULE OF RATES AND CHARGES.
   There shall be and hereby are established for the use of and the service
rendered by the municipal gas utility of the city, the following rates and
charges:
   (A)   Rates and Charges for General Natural Gas Services.
      (1)              Rates
                  per THERM
         First   8 THERMS per month   $0.5633
         Next   12 THERMS per month   $0.2612
         Next   980 THERMS per month   $0.2101
         Next   1,000 THERMS per month   $0.1809
         Over   2,000 THERMS per month   $0.1690
      (2) Minimum charge per month.
         Excluding gas used for space heating purposes    $3.33 per meter per
month.
      (3)   Minimum charge per month.
         Including gas used for space heating purposes        $15.78
      (4)   Gas cost adjustment factor. The above rates will be subject to a
gas cost adjustment factor occasioned solely by changes in the cost of
purchased gas. An application for an adjustment to the rate shall be filed
quarterly with the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission to be applicable for a
three-month period.
   (B)   Rates and Charges for Large Firm Industrial Gas Service.
      (1)              Rates
                  per THERM
         First   2,000 THERMS per month       $0.1845
         Next   18,000 THERMS per month    $0.1793
         Next   40,000 THERMS per month    $0.1622
         Next   50,000 THERMS per month    $0.1554
         Next   110,000 THERMS per month    $0.1333
      (2)   Minimum charge per month.
            Per meter per month - $678.52
      (3)   Gas cost adjustment factor. The above rates will be subject to a
gas cost adjustment factor occasioned solely by changes in the cost of
purchased gas. An application for an adjustment to the rate shall be filed
quarterly with the Public Service Commission to be applicable for a three-month
period.
   (C)   Tap-In Fees. A tap-in fee shall be paid for all new services installed
at customer's request, based on the following schedule:
 
Meter Size                          Fees
0 to 150 inches of service line     $700.00
151 to 500 inches of service line   $1,000.00
501 to 1,000 inches of service line $1,250.00
1,000 or above                      Industrial - to be set by Utility Board
 
(Ord. 87-3, passed 3-16-87; Am. Ord. 1997-8, passed 9-8-97; Am. Ord. 2022-010,
passed 12-19-22)
§ 51.02 NONRECURRING CHARGES.
   (A)   Bad check charge. A charge of $10 shall be collected for processing a
check for reason of insufficient funds.
   (B)   Reconnection charge.
      (1)   When service is turned off for non-payment of bills, or whenever
for any reason beyond the control of the utility, a re- establishment of
service is required by any one customer more than once in a twelve-month
period, a charge of $50 will be collected by the utility from the customer in
advance to cover a part of the cost of discontinuance and re-establishment of
service.
      (2)   Further in the case service is disconnected because of fraudulent
use thereof, additional monies shall be charged in an amount to be determined
by the Utility Superintendent for expenses incurred by the utility by reason of
such fraudulent use, together with an estimated bill for gas used, before
service is reconnected.
   (C)   Collection or deferred payment charge. All bills for gas service not
paid within 15 days from the due date thereof as stated in such bills shall be
subject to the collection or deferred payment charge of 10% of the first $3 and
3% on the excess over $3 of the net billing.
   (D)   Customer visit to collect delinquent bill charge. Any time the utility
is required to make a visit to a customer to collect a delinquent bill, a fee
of $5 will be collected from the customer.
(Ord. 87-3, passed 3-16-87; Am. Ord. 1997-8, passed 9-8-97; Am. Ord. 2018-007,
passed 6-11-18; Am. Ord. 2018-008, passed 6-11-18)
§ 51.03 GAS COST ADJUSTMENT.
   Any increase or decrease in the cost of gas occasioned by increases or
decreases in the cost of gas purchased from the pipeline supplier, the cost of
contractual gas storage and storage transportation, and the net cost of gas
injected into and withdrawn from storage shall be applied to the prevailing
rates in accordance with the order of the Public Service Commission in Cause
No. 37091 approved August 3, 1983.
(Ord. 87-3, passed 3-16-87; Am. Ord. 1997-8, passed 9-8-97)
§ 51.04 TEMPORARY SERVICE.
   For temporary service, the customer shall pay the entire cost or furnish all
labor, material and all other necessary expenses incurred in supplying gas
service for a temporary purpose or use and a rate for gas 20% higher than the
above plus $5 for turning on and turning off the gas.
(Ord. 87-3, passed 3-16-87; Am. Ord. 1997-8, passed 9-8-97)
§ 51.05 SPECIAL RATES AND CHARGES; GAS SERVICE TO CITY.
   No free service of the gas utility shall be furnished to any person, firm,
organization or corporation, public or private, and all rates and charges shall
be non-discriminatory, provided that the Common Council reserves the right to
impose special rates and charges in cases where particular circumstances render
the regular rates inadequate or unjust. For gas service rendered to the city,
regular rates therefor shall be charged against the city, and payment made from
the funds thereof to the Gas Utility Fund.
(Ord. 87-3, passed 3-16-87; Am. Ord. 1997-8, passed 9-8-97)
§ 51.06 METERS.
   Gas shall be supplied only through meters, and the meters shall be read
monthly by the city. A separate meter shall be required for each consumer and
for each dwelling unit, and no gas shall be purchased for re-sale.
(Ord. 87-3, passed 3-16-87; Am. Ord. 1997-8, passed 9-8-97)
§ 51.07 BILL FOR MONTHLY SERVICE; DUE DATE FOR PAYMENT.
   Bills shall be rendered and due monthly. If paid within 15 days from the due
date thereof as stated in the bill, the net bill shall be the amount to be
paid. If not paid within 15 days from the due date thereof as stated in the
bill, the customer shall be considered delinquent in payment, and the gross
bill, which includes the collection charge, shall be the amount to be paid. The
company may at any time subsequent to the due date and prior to the payment of
the gross bill, and after serving notice of cut-off of service, discontinue a
customer's service. Failure to receive a bill shall not entitle the customer to
pay only the net bill if he fails to make the payment within said 15 day
period, nor shall it affect the right of the company to cut off and discontinue
service for non-payment.
(Ord. 1997-8, passed 9-8-97)
§ 51.08 GAS SERVICE SUBSEQUENT TO COMPLETION OF SYSTEM.
   All applications or gas service subsequent to completion of the system will
be served in accordance with the Utility Rules and Regulations in effect at
that time.
(Ord. 87-3, passed 3-16-87; Am. Ord. 1997-8, passed 9-8-97)
§ 51.09 UTILITY RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Meter deposits, refunding of deposits, billing of monthly service; due date
for payment; service charges; tap-in fees, setting off of unpaid bills against
refunds of meter deposits, refunds due to mistakes in billing or meter reading,
applications for service, service connections, inside piping and service lines,
customer's responsibilities, equipment or location permits, notice of change of
address by customers, rules pertaining to city utility property and the
protection thereof, installation of meters, meter reading, access to customer's
premises, termination of customer's gas service, the liability of the city
utility, delays due to strikes, use of night depository and job work orders,
and other such matters shall be governed by the Utility Rules and Regulations
in effect at the time, copies of which are on file with the utility.
(Ord. 87-3, passed 3-16-87; Am. Res. 91-4, passed 5-6-91; Am. Ord. 1997-8,
passed 9-8-97)
§ 51.10 RATES AND CHARGES FOR FIRM TRANSPORTATION SERVICES.
   (A)   Availability. Available to any manufacturing customer that has an
annual usage of 400,000 therms or greater, or is one of multiple accounts under
similar ownership at the same location whose combined annual usage is 400,000
therms or greater, and has agreed to receive wholesale gas from a third-party
supplier other than the city’s municipal gas utility. The customer receiving
transportation services under this tariff agrees that the city will be held
harmless by the customer against increases, any overrun quantity charges or
penalties by its supplier for nomination under- or over-charges.
   (B)   Character of service. This rate schedule applies to the provision of
transportation service. Gas service provided hereunder shall be metered and
billed separately from gas service provided under any other rate schedule. The
customer receiving transportation services under this firm transportation rate
has agreed to purchase wholesale gas commodity from a third-party supplier. The
city will not monitor over- or under-nomination of gas ordered versus gas used.
The customer will be billed, at the rates stated below, for all gas passing
through customer’s meter on a monthly basis, regardless of amount of gas
purchased by the customer through third-party gas suppliers that may enter the
city’s gas system by passing through the city’s gas service gate. If customer’s
over- or under-purchase or nomination of gas supply impacts other city
municipal gas utility customers through gas cost adjustments, customer agrees
to be billed and pay for any applicable amounts of adjustments caused
hereunder.
   (C)   Customer billing. Customer requesting service under this firm
transportation rate will be responsible for the following charges.
      (1)   Net monthly bill. The city will deliver to the customer the monthly
gas volume, adjusted for shrinkage. The shrinkage is equal to the city’s system
unaccounted for gas percentage as determined in the city’s last general rate
adjustment. The net monthly bill for each firm transportation customer shall be
computed in accordance with the following charges:
      (2)   (a)   Distribution charge.
 
First 2,000 therms per month  $0.1871 per therm
Next 18,000 therms per month  $0.1818 per therm
Next 40,000 therms per month  $0.1645 per therm
Next 50,000 therms per month  $0.1576 per therm
Over 110,000 therms per month $0.1352 per therm
Minimum charge (applies to “net monthly bill” only)
Per meter per month           $688.15
 
         (b)   Bills shall be rendered and due monthly. If paid within 17 days
from date thereof, as stated on bill, the net amount shall be paid. If not paid
within 17 days, the gross bill includes the collection charge, as shown on
Appendix C, and is the amount to be paid.
   (D)   Demand/reservation charges. Any customer qualifying for service under
this firm transportation rate shall reimburse the city a proportionate share of
the demand and/or reservation charges paid to Sycamore Gas Company (“Sycamore”)
or its successor to a proportionate share that the demand and/or reservation
charge is based on the qualifying customer’s annual usage. The demand/
reservation charge per therm will be based on the Commission’s approval of
Sycamore’s demand charge component of its gas cost adjustment (GCA) factor. The
customer will be required to pay the Commission-approved demand/reservation
charge per therm times the billing volumes determined above in the “(C)(1) Net
monthly bill” caption. If Sycamore removes the qualifying customer’s volumes in
computing the demand and/or reservation charges billed to the city, then the
qualifying customer would not be responsible for any reimbursement to the city
under this division.
   (E)   Sycamore Gas Company’s distribution charge. Any customer qualifying
for service under this firm transportation rate shall reimburse the city for a
proportionate share of Sycamore’s distribution charge paid by the city. This
charge will be based on the Commission-approved distribution charge reflected
on Sycamore’s filed tariff times the billing volumes determined above in the “
(C)(1) Net monthly bill” caption.
   (F)   Metering equipment charges. Any customer qualifying for service under
this firm transportation rate will be required to pay for installation of
electronic metering equipment at the location of customer’s meter upon the
city’s specifications, along with all monthly maintenance and monitoring fees
associated with ongoing monitoring, maintenance and software licenses related
to electronic monitoring.
   (G)   Collection/refund of GCA variances. Any customer qualifying for
service under this firm transportation rate will be subject to past GCA
variances incurred when said customer was being served under the large firm
industrial gas service. The city shall make a calculation showing past
variances that are yet to be collected or refunded to customers served under
the general gas service or large firm industrial gas service. If the city’s
calculation reflects an over-collection, the customer seeking service under
this firm transportation rate will be refunded or issued a credit on their pro-
rata share of the city’s over-collection. The total GCA variance applicable to
all customers, whether an over-collection or under-collection, shall be divided
by the previous 12 months total sales (in therms) to determine “the per therm
amount.” The actual 12 months usage (in therms) of the customer seeking service
under this firm transportation rate shall be multiplied by the per therm amount
and be refunded in case of an over collection GCA variance, or collected in the
case of an under-collection GCA variance as a one-time lump sum on the
customer’s bill. This refund, in the case of an over-collection, or receipt, in
the case of an under-collection, will be reflected in the city’s GCA
calculations and adjustments at the time the applicable customer switches rate
classes.
   (H)   Normal temperature adjustment charge. Any customer qualifying for
service under this firm transportation rate shall be subject to a normal
temperature adjustment charge, which will be calculated and based on Sycamore
Gas Company’s normal temperature adjustment tariff sheet. Each firm
transportation customer will pay its proportionate share of the city’s NTA
charges from Sycamore Gas.
   (I)   Nomination and balancing provisions. Any customer qualifying for
service under this firm transportation rate shall be subject to additional
charges or credits if the monthly actual usage is in excess of, or less than
the monthly nominations. The customer will provide nominated monthly volumes to
the city and Sycamore Gas at least seven days prior to the period of
transportation of the nominated volumes. For any period of nomination, a firm
transportation customer may not nominate more than 10% of its average actual
usage for immediately preceding three calendar years for the same period of
time as the current nominated period, without first obtaining the written
consent of the city for a larger nomination. For instance, if the customer is
nominating gas purchase for July through September 2015, that nomination may
not exceed 10% of the customer’s actual usage averaged over 2012, 2013 and 2014
during the months of July through September. The customer receiving
transportation services under this firm transportation rate shall be obligated
to balance its total monthly usage with the total monthly deliveries of
customer-owned gas by the pipeline. A monthly imbalance quantity shall exist
when the customer’s total monthly usage is greater than or less than its total
monthly deliveries. Firm transportation customers will be cashed out on a
monthly basis for any imbalances. Cash out amounts will be determined in
accordance with Sycamore Gas Company’s Appendix D, Nomination and Balancing
Provisions, filed with the Indiana Regulatory Commission.
   (J)   Other charges. Service hereunder shall be subject to the utility’s
rules and regulations charges set forth in the rules and regulations shall also
apply.
   (K)   Returning to large firm industrial gas service. A firm transportation
customer that has voluntarily returned to large firm industrial gas service
from the firm transportation service must remain on large firm industrial gas
service for not less than 12 months before returning to firm transportation
service, unless expressly authorized by the city. Once returning to large firm
industrial gas service status, customer shall be subject to all terms of the
applicable tariffs relating to large firm industrial gas service.
(Ord. 2022-010, passed 12-19-22)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Depositing objectionable wastes on public or private property
   
52.03   Discharge of sewage or other polluted waters to natural outlets
   
52.04   Owner responsible to install suitable toilet facilities
   
52.05   Privies, septic tanks and other facilities
   
52.06   Destroying or tampering with municipal sewage works
   
52.07   Right of entry for purpose of inspection; indemnification; easements on
private property
Private Sewage Disposal System
   
52.20   Connecting building sewer to private sewage disposal system
   
52.21   Permit required; fee
   
52.22   Superintendent to inspect installations
   
52.23   Compliance with state board of health
   
52.24   Maintenance of private sewage disposal facilities
   
52.25   Connecting building sewer to public sewer
   
52.26   Noninterference with additional requirements
Building Sewers and Connections
   
52.35   Permit required
   
52.36   Classes of permits; fees
   
52.37   Costs to be borne by owner; indemnification
   
52.38   Separate building sewer required for every building; exception
   
52.39   Use of old building sewers with new buildings
   
52.40   Building sewer specifications
   
52.41   Gravity flow of building drain to public sewer
   
52.42   Connection of surface runoff or groundwater to public sewer
   
52.43   Connection of building sewer to public sewer; conformance with
applicable regulations
   
52.44   Inspection of connection to public sewer
   
52.45   Barricades and lights around sewer excavations; restoration of streets
Use of Public Sewers
   
52.55   Discharge of stormwater and other unpolluted drainage
   
52.56   Prohibited discharges to public sewers
   
52.57   Restricted discharges; authority of superintendent to prohibit or
require special treatment
   
52.58   Pretreatment or equalization of waste flows
   
52.59   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
52.60   Maintenance of pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities
   
52.61   Control manhole; measurements, tests and analyses
   
52.62   Industrial wastes; special agreement
New Sewer Connections
   
52.65   Construction of new combined sewers
   
52.66   Sanitary sewer connections to existing combined sewers
   
52.67   Connection of storm and sanitary sewers to existing combined sewers
Rates and Charges
   
52.75   Persons subject to charges
   
52.76   Schedule of charges
   
52.77   Readjustment of rates
   
52.78   Billings procedure
   
52.79   Tap-in charge
   
52.80   Account of operation and maintenance expenses and debt service
   
52.98   Notice of violation; violators shall be liable to city for expenses
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
and dispensing of food and from the handling, storage and sale of product.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade or business, as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   INFILTRATION. The water entering a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from the ground, through such means as, but not limited to,
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections or manhole walls. Infiltration does
not include, and is distinguished from, INFLOW.
   INFLOW. The water discharged into a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from such sources as, but not limited to, roof drains and
downspouts, cellar, yard and area drains, foundation drains, unpolluted cooling
water discharged, drains from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross
connections from storm sewers, catch basins, storm waters, surface runoff,
street wash water or drainage. INFLOW does not include, and is distinguished
from, INFILTRATION.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow without distinguishing the source.
   INSPECTOR. The person duly authorized by the city, through its Board of
Control of Aurora Utilities, to inspect and approve the installation of
building sewers and their connection to the public sewer system.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than ½ inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights and is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of the
sanitary drainage system inside the walls of any building, which receives the
discharge from soil or waste stacks and branches and conveys the same to a
point three feet outside the building walls where it connects with its
respective building sewer.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
groundwaters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments together with such
ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STORM DRAIN or STORM SEWER. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters
and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other than unpolluted
cooling water.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the municipal sewage works of the city
or his authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS.  Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
('74 Code, § 12-1) (Ord. 73-30, passed - -73; Am. Ord. 1999-13, passed 8-2-99)
§ 52.02 DEPOSITING OBJECTIONABLE WASTES ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
('74 Code, § 12-2) (Ord. 73-30, passed - -73)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.03 DISCHARGE OF SEWAGE OR OTHER POLLUTED WATERS TO NATURAL OUTLETS.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city or
in any area under the jurisdiction of the city any sewage or other polluted
waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with
subsequent provisions of this chapter.
('74 Code, § 12-26) (Ord. 73-30, passed - -73)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.04 OWNER RESPONSIBLE TO INSTALL SUITABLE TOILET FACILITIES.
   The owners of all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the city and abutting
on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located a public
sanitary or combined sewer of the city, is hereby required at his expense to
install suitable toilet facilities therein and to connect such facilities
directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter within 90 days after date of official notice to do so; provided, that
such public sewer is within 100 feet of the property line.
('74 Code, § 12-14) (Ord. 73-30, passed - -73)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.05 PRIVIES, SEPTIC TANKS AND OTHER FACILITIES.
   Except as provided in this chapter, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
('74 Code, § 12-3) (Ord. 73-30, passed - -73)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.06 DESTROYING OR TAMPERING WITH MUNICIPAL SEWAGE WORKS.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the municipal sewage works. Any person violating
this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest.
('74 Code, § 12-4) (Ord. 73-30, passed - -73)
§ 52.07 RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR PURPOSE OF INSPECTION; INDEMNIFICATION; EASEMENTS ON
PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   The Superintendent, Inspector and other duly authorized employees of
the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The
Superintendent or his representatives shall have no authority to inquire into
any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper
or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and
source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) of this section, the Superintendent or duly authorized
employees of the city shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises
established by the Utility Company and the Company shall be held harmless for
injury or death to the city employees and the city shall indemnify the Company
against loss or damage to its property by city employees and against liability
claims and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the
Company and growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such
may be caused by negligence or failure of the Company to maintain safe
conditions as required in §
52.61(A).
   (C)   Entry onto property on which city holds easement. The Superintendent
and other duly authorized employees of the city bearing proper credentials and
identification shall be permitted to enter all private properties through which
the city holds a duly negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not limited
to, inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of
any portion of the sewage works lying within such easement. All entry and
subsequent work, if any, on such easement, shall be done in full accordance
with the terms of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private
property involved.
('74 Code, § 12-36) (Ord. 73-30, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 52.99
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM
§ 52.20 CONNECTING BUILDING SEWER TO PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.
   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
52.04, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this chapter.
('74 Code, § 12-37) (Ord. 73-30, passed - -73)
§ 52.21 PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE.
   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal system the
owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the Superintendent. The
application for such permit shall be made on, a form furnished by the city,
which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other
information as are deemed necessary by the Superintendent. A permit and
inspection fee of $25 dollars shall be paid to the city at the time the
application is filed.
('74 Code, § 12-38) (Ord. 73-30, passed - -73)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.22 SUPERINTENDENT TO INSPECT INSTALLATIONS.
   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Superintendent.
He shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction and, in
any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the Superintendent when
the work is ready for final inspection, and before any underground portions are
covered. The inspection shall be made within 48 hours of the receipt of notice
by the Superintendent.
('74 Code, § 12-39) (Ord. 73-30, passed - -73)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.23 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE BOARD OF HEALTH.
   (A)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all requirements and recommendations of the State
Board of Health.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system
employing subsurface soil absorption facilities unless written approval thereof
by the appropriate health officer or his duly authorized assistant has been
filed with the Superintendent.
   (C)   No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any
natural outlet.
('74 Code, § 12-40) (Ord. 73-30, passed - -73)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.24 MAINTENANCE OF PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL FACILITIES.
   The owner of a private sewage disposal system shall operate and maintain the
private sewage disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no
expense to the city.
('74 Code, § 12-43) (Ord. 73-30, passed - -73)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.25 CONNECTING BUILDING SEWER TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   (A)   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to such sewer within 60 days and the private sewage disposal system
shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank-run gravel or dirt. ('74
Code, § 12-42)
   (B)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system as provided in §
52.23, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with
this chapter and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage
disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material. ('74
Code, § 12-41)
(Ord. 73-30, passed - -73)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.26 NONINTERFERENCE WITH ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed to interfere with
any additional requirements that may be imposed by the appropriate health
officer or state or county sanitarian.
('74 Code, passed - - ) (Ord. No. 73-30, passed - -73)
Penalty, see § 52.99
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 52.35 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Clerk-Treasurer.
('74 Code, § 12-15) (Ord. 73-30, passed - -73)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.36 CLASSES OF PERMITS; FEES.
   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits: For residential and
commercial service, and for service to establishments producing industrial
wastes. In either case, the owner or his agent shall make application on a
special form furnished by the city. The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the inspector. A permit and inspection fee of $5
for a residential or commercial building sewer permit and $15 for an industrial
building sewer permit shall be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer at the time the
application is filed.
('74 Code, § 12-16) (Ord. 73-30, passed - -73)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.37 COSTS TO BE BORNE BY OWNER; INDEMNIFICATION.
   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the city
from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer.
('74 Code, § 12-17) (Ord. 73-30, passed - -73)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.38 SEPARATE BUILDING SEWER REQUIRED FOR EVERY BUILDING; EXCEPTION.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
('74 Code, § 12-18) (Ord. 73-30, passed - -73)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.39 USE OF OLD BUILDING SEWERS WITH NEW BUILDINGS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Inspector, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
('74 Code, § 12-19) (Ord. 73-30, passed - -73)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.40 BUILDING SEWER SPECIFICATIONS.
   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building sewer
and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the requirements of the
Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
('74 Code, § 12-21) (Ord. 73-30, passed - -73)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.41 GRAVITY FLOW OF BUILDING DRAIN TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any building
drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage
carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
('74 Code, § 12-20) (Ord. 73-30, passed - -73)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.42 CONNECTION OF SURFACE RUNOFF OR GROUNDWATER TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation
drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a
building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
('74 Code, § 12-22) (Ord. 73-30, passed - -73)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.43 CONNECTION OF BUILDING SEWER TO PUBLIC SEWER; CONFORMANCE WITH
APPLICABLE REGULATIONS.
   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall conform to
the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules
and regulations of the city or the procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9. All
such connections shall be made airtight and watertight. Any deviation from the
prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the Superintendent
before installation.
('74 Code, § 12-23) (Ord. 73-30, passed - -73)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.44 INSPECTION OF CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   (A)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Inspector
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer.
   (B)   The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Inspector or
his representative.
('74 Code, § 12-24) (Ord. 73-30, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.45 BARRICADES AND LIGHTS AROUND SEWER EXCAVATIONS; RESTORATION OF STREETS.
   (A)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
   (B)   Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in
the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
('74 Code, § 12-25) (Ord. 73-30, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 52.99
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 52.55 DISCHARGE OF STORMWATER AND OTHER UNPOLLUTED DRAINAGE.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof downspouts, surface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water, unpolluted industrial process waters or any other form of inflow
to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers
or to a natural outlet approved by the superintendent with the exception of
roof downspouts (see division (C) below). Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged, on approval of the superintendent,
to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural water outlet.
   (C)   Any person having roof downspouts connected to the combined sewer
shall disconnect them from the sewer wherever deemed possible by the
superintendent.
('74 Code, § 12-27) (Ord. 73-30, passed - -73; Am. Ord. 1999-13, passed 8-2-99)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.56 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES TO PUBLIC SEWERS.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
   (B)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 6.0 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works.
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with the proper
operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes, cinders,
sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood,
unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails and
paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole or ground by garbage
grinders.
('74 Code, § 12-28) (Ord. 73-30, passed - -73)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.57 RESTRICTED DISCHARGES; AUTHORITY OF SUPERINTENDENT TO PROHIBIT OR
REQUIRE SPECIAL TREATMENT.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following described
substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion of
the Superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage
treatment process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream,
or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a
nuisance. In forming his opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of
subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The substances prohibited are:
   (A)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150° F (65° C).
   (B)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 milligrams per liter or containing
substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32° and
150° F (0° and 65° C).
   (C)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation and
operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of ¾ horsepower (0.75
horse power metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and approval of
the Superintendent.
   (D)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron, pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not.
   (E)   Any waters or wastes containing trace amounts of heavy metals, iron,
chronium, copper, zinc and similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes
exerting an excessive chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such
material received in the composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds
the limits established by the Superintendent for such materials.
   (F)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other
public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
   (G)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such halflife or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations.
   (H)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.0.
   (I)   Materials which exert or cause:
      (1)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids outside the range
of 200 to 300 mg/l, such as, but not limited to fullers earth, lime slurries,
and lime residues, or of dissolved solids outside the range of 200 to 300 mg/l,
such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate.
      (2)   Excessive discoloration, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions.
      (3)   BOD outside the range of 200 to 250 mg/l, chemical oxygen demand,
or chlorine requirements in such quantities as to constitute a significant load
on the sewage treatment works.
      (4)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
"slugs".
   (J)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
('74 Code, § 12-29) (Ord. 73-30, passed - -73)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.58 PRETREATMENT OR EQUALIZATION OF WASTE FLOWS.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged, to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or
possess the characteristics enumerated in §
52.57, and which in the judgment of the Superintendent may have a deleterious
effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving waters or which
otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the
Superintendent may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes.
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers.
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge.
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of §
52.62 of this chapter; or
      (5)   Require a suitable combination of the provisions of divisions (A)
(1) to (4) above.
   (B)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the
requirements of all applicable provisions of this code and other codes and
ordinances of the city and laws of the state.
('74 Code, § 12-30) (Ord. 73-30, passed - -73)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.59 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Inspector, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts or any flammable wastes, sand or other
harmful ingredients; except, that such interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the Superintendent, and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
('74 Code, § 12-31) (Ord. 73-30, passed - -73)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.60 MAINTENANCE OF PRETREATMENT OR FLOW-EQUALIZING FACILITIES.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for
any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his expense.
('74 Code, § 12-32) (Ord. 73-30, passed - -73)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.61 CONTROL MANHOLE; MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSES.
   (A)   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense
and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
('74 Code, § 12-33)
   (B)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of "Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater", published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at a control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premise is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from
24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pH's are determined from periodic
grab samples.)
('74 Code, § 12-34) (Ord. 73-30, passed - -73)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.62 INDUSTRIAL WASTES; SPECIAL AGREEMENT.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the industrial concern.
('74 Code, § 12-35) (Ord. 73-30, passed - -73)
NEW SEWER CONNECTIONS
§ 52.65 CONSTRUCTION OF NEW COMBINED SEWERS.
   It shall be unlawful to construct any new combined sewers.
(Ord. 1999-13, passed 8-2-99)
§ 52.66 SANITARY SEWER CONNECTIONS TO EXISTING COMBINED SEWERS.
   Any new sanitary sewer construction that is a tributary to an existing
combined sewer shall be designed and constructed to minimize or delay inflow
from entering the combined sewer.
(Ord. 1999-13, passed 8-2-99)
§ 52.67 CONNECTION OF STORM AND SANITARY SEWERS TO EXISTING COMBINED SEWERS.
   A separate connection point shall be provided for each new sanitary and
storm sewer connection to the combined sewer system, such that, the connection
points facilitate disconnection of the storm sewer from the combined sewer for
connection to a separate storm sewer should become available.
(Ord. 1999-13, passed 8-2-99)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 52.75 PERSONS SUBJECT TO CHARGES.
   The owner of every lot, parcel or building that is connected with and uses
the city sewer system shall be charged for sewer service.
('74 Code, § 12-6) (Ord. 452, passed - - )
§ 52.76 SCHEDULE OF CHARGES.
   (A)   There shall be and are hereby established for the use of the service
rendered by the municipal sewage works of the city, the following rates and
charges. The effective date for each set of rates and charges shall be
effective                           , 2022 and shall remain in effect
thereafter until further action of the City Common Council.
      (1)   The following base rate charges are tied to the diameter of the
meter servicing the property and shall be paid monthly by users regardless of
actual usage.
Residential/Commercial Inside City Limits          Outside City Limits
Meter Size             Residential/Commercial Base Residential/Commercial Base
                       Rate Regardless of Usage    Rate Regardless of Usage
Residential/Commercial Inside City Limits          Outside City Limits
Meter Size             Residential/Commercial Base Residential/Commercial Base
                       Rate Regardless of Usage    Rate Regardless of Usage
5/8 inch meter         $4.20                       $4.83
1 inch meter           $10.50                      $12.08
1 and 1/2 inch meter   $24.36                      $28.01
2 inch meter           $42.00                      $48.30
3 inch meter           $94.50                      $108.68
4 inch meter           $168.00                     $193.20
6 inch meter           $382.20                     $439.53
 
      (2)   A minimum monthly charge shall be incurred, pursuant to the
diameter of the water meter, which shall include the base rate as set forth in
division (A)(1) herein, and shall be charged regardless of actual usage.
                       Inside City Limits        Outside City Limits
Residential/Commercial Residential/Commercial    Residential/Commercial
Meter Size             Minimum Charge Regardless Minimum Charge Regardless of
                       of Usage                  Usage
                       Inside City Limits        Outside City Limits
Residential/Commercial Residential/Commercial    Residential/Commercial
Meter Size             Minimum Charge Regardless Minimum Charge Regardless of
                       of Usage                  Usage
5/8 inch meter         $30.19                    $34.72
1 inch meter           $75.48                    $86.80
1 and 1/2 inch meter   $175.10                   $201.37
2 inch meter           $301.90                   $347.19
3 inch meter           $679.28                   $781.17
4 inch meter           $1,207.60                 $1,388.74
6 inch meter           $2,747.29                 $3,159.38
 
      (3)   The users shall be billed the following rate per 1,000 gallons of
usage over and above the calculated minimum charge, which includes the base
rate and the gallon usage as set forth herein and in division (C)(2).
 
Inside City Limits               Outside City Limits
Residential/Commercial Rate      Residential/Commercial Rate
Per 1,000 Gallons of Water Usage Per 1,000 Gallons of Water Usage
$11.30                           $13.00
 
   (B)   These rates and charges shall be collected from and paid by the owner
of every lot, parcel of real estate or building, pursuant to the number of
meters servicing the user, that is connected to or is served by the municipal
sewage system.
   (C)   Measurement of gallonage of sewage shall be based upon a figure from
municipal water meter readings of each municipal water customer. The sewage
rates and charges shall be based on the quantity of the water used on , in or
about the property or premises subject to such rates and charges.
('74 Code, § 12-7) (Ord. 72-1, passed - -72; Am. Ord. 1980-4, passed 5-5-80;
Am. Ord. 89-11, passed 12-11-89; Am. Ord. 1995-4, passed 5-9- 95; Am. Ord.
2006-12, passed 5-31-06; Am. Ord. 2006-18, passed 11-20-06; Am. Ord. 2018-009,
passed 7-9-18; Am. Ord. 2021-001, passed 4-13-21; Am. Ord. 2022-011, passed 12-
19-22)
§ 52.77 READJUSTMENT OF RATES.
   Any person charged with the rates as set out in §
52.76 who is dissatisfied therewith by reason of peculiar or unusual use of
occupancy of any premises and who alleges peculiar or unusual uses of the sewer
system may file application with the common council for special classification
and the Common Council may at any time upon notice published at least once not
less than ten days preceding a specified meeting consider a revision or
readjustment of such rates by reason of peculiar or unusual use and occupancy
of premises as a class and revise the rates and charges accordingly.
('74 Code, § 12-8) (Ord. 452, passed - - )
§ 52.78 BILLINGS PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The charges for the use and service of the municipal sewer system
shall be billed monthly on the first day of each month in each year and all
bills for such service shall be payable within 15 days after rendition. If any
such bill is not paid within 30 days such charges shall be deemed delinquent
and the City Attorney is hereby authorized and directed to enforce and collect
any such charges remaining delinquent for 30 days. The Clerk-Treasurer shall
render the bills for sewer use and service and such bills shall be collected
and accounted for by him in the manner prescribed by law and the proceedings
pursuant to which the sewage works (revenue) bonds of the city are being
authorized and issued. ('74 Code, § 12-9) (Ord. 452, passed - - )
   (B)   All patrons and customers of the municipal sewer system shall pay the
charges when they are billed by the city sewer utility according to the terms
and conditions set forth on such bill. ('74 Code, § 12-10) (Ord. 474, passed -
- )
   (C)   Provisions concerning billing and disconnection procedures shall be as
set forth in §
51.11(L).
   (D)   The charges for the use and service of the municipal sewer system
shall be billed to the owners of the premises; provided, that with the written
consent of any such owner and the application by the tenant of any premises who
is not the owner, filed with the Clerk-Treasurer accompanied by appropriate
security or indemnity in an amount and of a kind approved by the Clerk-
Treasurer, the bills for such use and service of the sewer system may be
rendered to the tenant. However, this shall not be a waiver or release of the
obligation of such owner to pay such charges in the event they are not paid by
the tenant.
('74 Code, § 12-12) (Ord. 452, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.79 TAP-IN CHARGE.
   (A)   The tap-in charge for connecting into the municipal sanitary sewer
system is $500 plus cost of materials and labor and other expenses for lateral
sewer to curb or customer property line.
   (B)   Such charge shall be paid by the owner of each and every lot, parcel
of real estate or building that is connected with and uses the sewer works by
or through any part of the sewage system of the city or that in any way uses or
is served by the sewer works.
('74 Code, § 12-13) (Ord. 72-21, passed - -72; Am. Ord. 1980-4, passed 5-5-80;
Am. Ord. 93-12, passed 7-12-93; Am. Ord. 1995-4, passed 5-9-95)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.80 ACCOUNT OF OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE EXPENSES AND DEBT SERVICE.
   Prior to May 1 of each year, the Clerk-Treasurer shall prepare and present
to the Board of Trustees an accounting of operation and maintenance expenses
and debt service for the immediately preceding calendar year, and the Common
Council shall, upon receiving said accounting, effect any change in the monthly
sewer rates and charges necessary to produce revenues proportionate to costs
for each user.
('74 Code, § 12-14) (Ord. 77-3, passed 5-5-77)
§ 52.98 NOTICE OF VIOLATION; VIOLATORS SHALL BE LIABLE TO CITY FOR EXPENSES.
   (A)   Notice to correct; action to be taken after notice. Any person found
to be violating any provision of this chapter except §
52.06 shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of the
violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction
thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice,
permanently cease all violations. ('74 Code, § 12-5(a))
   (B)   Liability to city for expenses, etc. Any person violating any of the
provisions of this chapter shall become liable to the city for any expense,
loss or damage occasioned the city by reason of such violation. ('74 Code, §
12-5(c))
(Ord. 73-30, passed - -73; Am. Ord. 1999-13, passed 8-2-99)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit provided
for in §
52.98(A) shall be guilty of a violation and on conviction thereof shall be
fined in the amount not exceeding $2500 for each violation. Each day in which
any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
('74 Code, § 12-5(b)) (Ord. 73-30, passed - -73; Am. Ord. 1999-13, passed 8-2-
99)
CHAPTER 53: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Taking water from fire hydrants
   
53.02   Fluoridation of water
Rates and Charges
   
53.15   Schedule of rates and charges
   
53.16   Payment of bills
   
53.17   Measurement of gallonage of sewage
   
53.18   Customer visit to collect delinquent bill
Cross Connections
   
53.25   Cross connections prohibited
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 TAKING WATER FROM FIRE HYDRANTS.
   No person shall take water from any fire hydrant in the city, except for the
purpose of extinguishing fires, washing the engine and apparatus or exercising
such, nor shall any person or persons open any fireplug and leave such
uncovered.
('74 Code, § 5-3)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 53.02 FLUORIDATION OF WATER.
   The public water supply of the city shall be fluoridated according to and
within the standards and recommendations established, determined and fixed by
the State Board of Health.
('74 Code, § 16-3) (Ord. 67-5, passed - - )
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 53.15 SCHEDULE OF RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   There shall be and are hereby established for the use of the service
rendered by the municipal water works of the city, the following rates and
charges. The effective date for each set of rates and charges shall be set
forth below:
      (1)   These rates and charges are effective immediately:
                     Rate per 1,000 Gallons
Consumption per Month Inside City Limits Outside City Limits
                      Rate per 1,000 Gallons
Consumption per Month  Inside City Limits Outside City Limits
First 5,000 gallons    $3.10              $3.70
Next 15,000 gallons    2.85               3.40
Next 30,000 gallons    2.40               2.95
Next 50,000 gallons    2.00               2.60
Next 400,000 gallons   1.60               2.25
Next 500,000 gallons   1.05               1.80
Over 1,000,000 gallons 0.90               1.00
 
      (2)   These rates and charges are effective August 1, 2021:
 
                     Rate per 1,000 Gallons
Consumption per Month Inside City Limits Outside City Limits
First 5,000 gallons   $4.22              $5.03
Next 15,000 gallons   3.88               4.62
Next 30,000 gallons   3.26               4.01
Next 50,000 gallons   2.72               3.54
Next 400,000 gallons  2.18               3.06
 
   (B)   Minimum Charge. Each user shall pay a minimum charge in accordance
with the following applicable size of meter installed, for which the user will
be entitled to the quantity of water set out in the following schedule of rates
and charges. The effective date for each set of rates and charges shall be set
forth below:
      (1)   These rates and charges are effective immediately:
             Monthly
Size of Meter Inside City Limits Outside City Limits
             Monthly
Size of Meter Inside City Limits Outside City Limits
5/8-inch      $7.20              $8.60
3/4-inch      10.00              11.70
1-inch        14.30              17.05
1½-inch      24.05              28.70
2-inch        64.25              77.70
3-inch        68.85              105.00
4-inch        95.70              115.52
6-inch        200.65             249.50
 
      (2)   The following rates and charges shall be effective August 1, 2021:
             Monthly
Size of Meter Inside City Limits Outside City Limits
             Monthly
Size of Meter Inside City Limits Outside City Limits
5/8-inch      $9.79              $11.70
3/4-inch      13.60              15.91
1-inch        19.45              23.19
1½-inch      32.71              39.03
2-inch        87.38              105.67
3-inch        93.64              142.80
4-inch        130.15             157.11
6-inch        272.88             339.32
 
   (C)   Private fire protection service. Each user utilizing private fire
protection equipment shall be charged for the use of the specified equipment
shall be charged for the use of the specified equipment in accordance with the
following chart. The effective date for each set of rates and charges shall be
set forth below:
      (1)   These rates are effective immediately:
Private Fire Protection Service Inside City Limits Outside City Limits
(Extinguishing Fires Only)
Private Fire Protection Service         Inside City Limits Outside City Limits
(Extinguishing Fires Only)
Hydrant rental - per hydrant - per year $318.38            $381.90
Hose Connection (standpipes ) - per
month
1½-inch line                           12.62              15.27
2-inch line                             17.06              20.48
2½-inch line                           19.16              23.03
3-inch line                             21.26              25.51
Sprinklers - per month
4-inch line                             33.99              40.74
6-inch line                             50.93              61.22
8-inch line                             84.90              101.85
10-inch line                            148.56             178.11
12-inch line                            212.10             254.72
 
      (2)   The following rates and charges shall be effective August 1, 2021:
         Private Fire Protection Service       Inside        Outside
         (Extinguishing Fires Only)       City Limits        City Limits
         Hydrant rental - per hydrant - per year       $433.00      $519.38
         Hose Connection (standpipes ) - per month
          1½-inch
line                  17.16         20.59                          2-inch line
                  23.20          27.85
          2½-inch line                   26.06         31.32      
          3-inch line                  28.91         34.69
         Sprinklers - per month
          4-inch line                  46.23         55.41
          6-inch line                  69.26         83.26
          8-inch line                  115.46      138.52
          10-inch line                202.04      242.23
          12-inch line                  228.46      346.42
   (D)   Public Fire Protection Rental.
 
Hydrant rental - per hydrant - per year: $433.00
 
   (E)   Sale for Resale. The entities described below shall be charged the
following rate for water: The effective date for each set of rates and charges
shall be set forth below:
      (1)   This rate and charge is effective immediately:
 
Town of Dillsboro and Hogan Water Company Rate Per 1,000 Gallons
All Consumption Per Month:                $1.88
 
      (2)   The following rates and charges shall be effective August 1, 2021:
         Town of Dillsboro and Hogan Water Company      Rate Per 1,000 Gallons
         All Consumption Per Month:                $2.56
   (F)   Tap-In-Fees. Each user at the time he or she is connected with the
water works system, shall pay a charge to cover the costs of tapping the main,
furnishing and laying service pipe, corporation and stop cocks, service and
meter box and installing the meter in an amount in accordance with the
following schedule. The effective date for each set of rates and charges shall
be set forth below:
      (1)   These rates are effective immediately:
 
Size of Meter                       Tap-In Fee
5/8 inch to 3/4 inch                $1,000.00
For any meter size greater  than 5/ An amount equal to the cost of materials
8 inch to 3/4 inch                  and labor, but  in no event shall the
                                    tap-in fee be less than $1,000.00.
 
   (G)   Temporary Users. Water furnished to temporary users such as
contractors, circuses, etc., shall be charged on the basis of the metered
gallon rates hereinbefore set forth as estimated and established by the
Waterworks Superintendent.
   (H)   Collection and Deferred Payment Charges. All bills for water services
not paid within 15 days from the due date thereof, as stated in such bills,
shall be subject to the collection or deferred payment charge of 10% on the
first $3.00 and 3% on the excess over $3.
   (I)   Reconnection Charge.
      (1)   When service is turned off for non-payment of a bill, or whenever
for any reason beyond the control of the water utility a re-establishment of
service is required, a charge of $50 will be made by the water utility to be
paid by the customer to cover the cost of re-establishment of service.
   (J)   Customer Visit to Collect Delinquent Bill. Whenever the water utility
makes a visit to the customer in order to collect a delinquent bill or account,
whatever the reason for the delinquency or non-payment, a fee of $5 will be
charged to the customer for each visit made by the utility.
   (K)   Bad Check Charge.  Whenever the water utility has a check returned by
the bank for the reason of insufficient funds or for which the check has been
returned marked account closed, the water utility shall charge the customer a
fee of $25 for each check so returned.
(Ord. 81-10, passed 7-6-81; Am. Ord. 85-3, passed 5-28-85; Am. Ord. 1996-3,
passed 5-6-96; Am. Ord. 2005-17, passed 10-3-05; Am. Ord. 2021-002, passed 4-
13-21)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 53.16 PAYMENT OF BILLS.
   All patrons and customers of the municipal waterworks system shall pay the
charges when they are billed by the City Department of Waterworks according to
the terms and conditions set forth on such bills. ('74 Code, § 16-1) (Ord. 474,
passed - - )
§ 53.17 MEASUREMENT OF GALLONAGE OF SEWAGE.
   Measurement of gallonage of sewage shall be based upon a figure from
municipal water meter readings of each municipal water customer.
(Ord. 1996-3, passed 5-6-96)
§ 53.18 CUSTOMER VISIT TO COLLECT DELINQUENT BILL.
   There is established a new charge, the Customer Visit to Collect Delinquent
Bill fee, which shall be in the amount set forth in §
53.15(J).
(Ord. 1996-3, passed 5-6-96)
CROSS CONNECTIONS
§ 53.25 CROSS CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   A CROSS CONNECTION  shall be defined as any physical connection or
arrangement between two otherwise separate systems, one of which contains
potable water from the City of Aurora, Aurora Utilities, water system, and the
other, water from a private source, water of unknown or questionable safety, or
steam, gases, or chemicals, whereby there may be a flow from one system to the
other, the direction of flow depending on the pressure differential between the
two systems.
   (B)   No person, firm, or corporation shall establish or permit to be
established or maintain or permit to be maintained any cross connection. No
interconnection shall be established whereby potable water from a private,
auxiliary, or emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply
of the City of Aurora, Aurora Utilities, may enter the supply or distribution
system of the municipality, unless such private, auxiliary, or emergency water
supply and the method of connection and use of such supply shall have been
approved by the Aurora Utilities Board and by the Indiana Department of
Environmental Mangement in accordance with 327 IAC 8-10.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Aurora Utilities Department and the city
to cause inspections to be made of all properties served by the public water
system where cross connections with the public water system is deemed possible.
The frequency of inspections and re-inspections based on potential health
hazards involved shall be established by the Aurora Utilities Board.
   (D)   Upon presentation of credentials, the representative of the Aurora
Utilities Department shall have the right to request entry at any reasonable
time to examine the property served by connection to the public water system of
the city for cross connections. On request, the owner, lessee, or occupant of
any property so served shall furnish to the inspection agency any pertinent
information regarding the piping system or systems on such property. The
refusal of access or refusal of requested pertinent information shall be deemed
evidence of the presence of cross connections.
   (E)   The Aurora Utility Department is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue water service to any property wherein any connection in violation
of this section exists, and to take such other precautionary measures deemed
necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water system.
Water service shall be discontinued only after reasonable notice is served on
the owner, lessee, or occupants of the property or premises where a violation
is found or suspected to exist. Water service to such property shall not be
restored until the cross connection(s) has been eliminated in compliance with
the provisions of this section.
   (F)   If it is deemed by the Aurora Utility Department that a cross
connection or any emergency endangers public health, safety, or welfare and
requires immediate action, and a written finding to that effect is filed with
the Clerk of the city and delivered to the consumer’s premises, service may be
immediately discontinued. The consumer shall have an opportunity for hearing
within ten days of such emergency discontinuance.
   (G)   All consumers using toxic or hazardous liquids, all hospitals,
mortuaries, wastewater treatment plants, laboratories, and all other hazardous
users install and maintain a reduced pressure principal backflow preventer in
the main water line serving each building on the premises. The backflow
preventer must be installed in an easily accessible location not subject to
flooding or freezing.
   (H)   The reduced pressure principal backflow preventers shall not be
installed below ground level.
   (I)   This section does not supersede the Indiana Plumbing Code, the IDEM
Rule 327 IAC 8-10 or any plumbing or utility connection ordinances of the city,
but is supplementary to them.
   (J)   If, in the judgment of the Superintendent of Water, an approved
backflow prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public water
system, the Superintendent of Water will given notice to the water consumer to
install such an approved device immediately. The water consumer shall, at his
or her own expenses, install such an approved device at a location and in a
manner approved by the Superintendent of Water and shall have inspections and
tests made of such approved devices as required by the Superintendent of Water
and in accordance with the IDEM Rule 327 IAC 8-10.
(Ord. 2013-004, passed 5-20-13)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
         
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
         
73.   BICYCLES
         
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
         
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
         
76.   EQUIPMENT VIOLATIONS
         
77.   MOTORIZED CARTS AND OTHER SIMILAR DEVICES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Short title
   
70.02   Definitions
   
70.03   Application and effect of provisions
   
70.04   Required obedience to traffic code
   
70.05   Certain nonmotorized traffic to obey traffic regulations
   
70.06   Use of roller skates and toy vehicles
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.15   Authority to install
   
70.16   Manual and specifications
   
70.17   When required for enforcement purposes
   
70.18   Presumption of legality
   
70.19   Obedience to official devices required
   
70.20   Common Council to designate crosswalks and establish safety zones
   
70.21   Traffic lanes
Administration and Enforcement
   
70.30   Authority of Police and Fire Department officials
   
70.31   Records of traffic violations
   
70.32   Police Department to investigate accidents; fee for motor vehicle
accident report
   
70.33   Emergency traffic control
   
70.34   Fee for inspections
   
70.35   Failure to obey citation
   
70.36   Disposition of traffic fines and forfeitures
   
70.37   Official misconduct
   
70.38   Duties of City Attorney
   
70.39   Deferral program
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This title may be known and cited as the Traffic Code.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
§ 70.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Whenever any
words and phrases used herein are not defined herein, but are defined in the
state laws regulating the operation of vehicles, any such definition therein
shall be deemed to apply to such words and phrases used herein, except when the
context otherwise requires.
   ALLEY  or ALLEYWAY(S).  A street intended to provide access to the rear or
side of lots or buildings in urban districts and not intended for the purpose
of through vehicular traffic.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE.  Vehicles of the Fire Department, police
vehicles, and such ambulances as are operated by or for health and hospital
corporations. However, ambulances and other vehicles which are owned by
persons, firms or corporations other than hospitals, and are used in emergency
services, may be designated as emergency vehicles, if such vehicles are
authorized to operate as such by the Public Service Commission of Indiana.
   BICYCLE.  Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
ride, having two tandem wheels either of which is more than 14 inches in
diameter.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT.  The territory contiguous to and including a street when
the property along one or both sides is zoned for business uses as provided in
the B-1 and B-2 and B-3 or M (manufacturing), including any overlays, for these
zoning districts.
   COMMON COUNCIL.  A simple majority vote of the elected governing body of the
city, which consists of four Council members and the Mayor and is called the
Common Council.
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
street measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway, regardless of the presence of pavement markings.
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface.
   DRIVER.  Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   HOLIDAY.  The following days of the year shall be designated as holidays:
the first day of January, commonly known as New Year's Day; the last Monday of
May, commonly known as Memorial Day; July fourth, commonly known as
Independence Day; the first Monday of September, commonly known as Labor Day;
the fourth Thursday of November, commonly known as Thanksgiving Day; and
December twenty-fifth, commonly known as Christmas Day.
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two streets which join one another at, or approximately at, right
angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different streets
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
      (2)   Where a street includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of each roadway of such divided street by an intersecting street
shall be regarded as a separate intersection. In the event such intersecting
street also includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then every crossing of
two roadways of such streets shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
      (3)   The junction of any alley with a street shall not constitute an
intersection.
   LOADING ZONE. A space reserved for the exclusive use of vehicles during the
loading or unloading of passengers or property.
   METER PARKING SPACE.  Any marked-off parking space within the parking meter
zone which is, or is to be, regulated by use of a parking meter.
   OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD.  Whenever certain hours are named herein, they shall
mean standard time or daylight-saving time, as may be in current use in the
city.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.  All signs, signals, markings and devices
not inconsistent with this title placed or erected, by authority of a public
body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning or
guiding traffic.
   PARK  or  PARKING.  The standing or leaving of a vehicle, either occupied or
not, upon a public street for a period of time in excess of five minutes.
   PARKING METER or  MECHANICAL PARKING TIME INDICATOR.  Any mechanical device
erected at any parking space by authority of this traffic code to indicate the
length of time during which a vehicle may be parked in a particular metered
parking place.
   PARKING SPACE  or PARKING PLACE.  A designated portion of the surface of a
street of sufficient length and depth to accommodate a vehicle of reasonable
dimensions to be parked. Such designated portion shall be specified and marked
off as provided in this traffic code.
   PEDESTRIAN.  Any person afoot.
   PERSON.  Every natural person, firm, co-partnership, association or
corporation.
   POLICE OFFICER.  Every officer of the Police Department or any officer,
including reserve officers, authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to make
arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT.  The territory contiguous to and including a street when
the property along both sides is zoned for residential uses as provided in the
R-1, R-2 and R-3 zoning districts.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY.  The right of one vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a lawful
manner in preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching under such
circumstances of direction, speed and proximity as to give rise to danger of
collision unless one grants precedence to the other.
   ROADWAY  or DRIVE. That portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a
street includes two or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY , as used
herein, shall refer to any such roadway separately, but not to all such
roadways collectively.
   SIDEWALK.  That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines, of a roadway and the adjacent property lines, intended for use by
pedestrians.
   STAND  or STANDING. The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
receiving or discharging passengers.
   STATE LAW.  Indiana laws regulating and relating to motor vehicles and their
operation.
   STOP.  When required means complete cessation from movement.
   STOP or STOPPING. When prohibited means any halting, even momentarily, of a
vehicle, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with
other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic-control sign or signal.
   STREET.  The entire width between boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained, when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel.
   TRAFFIC.  Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars and
other conveyances, either singly or together, while using any street for
purposes of travel.
   TRAFF1C-CONTROL SIGNAL.  Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternatively directed to stop and
permitted to proceed.
   TRUCK.  Every motor vehicle designed, used or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property.
   VEHICLE.  Every device in, upon or by which any person o r property is or
may be transported or drawn upon a highway, excepting devices moved by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
   WORKSITE  or WORK ZONE. An area temporarily designated by sign or other
manner for city or utility employees to perform tasks on or near city streets/
alleys/drives or other roadways.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
§ 70.03 APPLICATION AND EFFECT OF PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this traffic code relating to the operation of
vehicles refer exclusively to the operation of vehicles upon streets and alleys
except where a different place is specifically referred to in a given section.
   (B)   This traffic code shall be so interpreted and construed as to effect
its general purpose to make uniform the law of those local authorities which
enact it.
   (C)   This traffic code shall not have a retroactive effect and shall not
apply to any accident or any violation occurring prior to the effective date of
this traffic code.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
§ 70.04 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CODE.
   (A)   It is unlawful and a municipal ordinance violation for any person to
do any act forbidden, or fail to perform any act required, in this traffic
code.
   (B)   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the drivers of all
vehicles owned or operated by the United States, this state, or any political
subdivision of the state, subject to such specific exceptions as are set forth
in this traffic code or in the state vehicle code.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.05 CERTAIN NONMOTORIZED TRAFFIC TO OBEY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   Every person propelling a pushcart or riding an animal or driving any
animal-drawn vehicle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the rights and
shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by
this traffic code, except those provisions of this traffic code which by their
very nature can have no application.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.06 USE OF ROLLER SKATES AND TOY VEHICLES.
   No person upon roller skates, or riding in or by means of any coaster, toy
vehicle, or similar device, shall go upon any roadway except while crossing a
street on a crosswalk. When so crossing, such person shall be granted all of
the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to pedestrians.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
Penalty, see § 70.99
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.15 AUTHORITY TO INSTALL.
   The Common Council shall place and maintain official traffic-control devices
when and as required under the traffic ordinances of this city to make
effective the provisions of said ordinances, and may place and maintain such
additional official traffic-control devices as it may deem necessary to
regulate, warn or guide traffic under the traffic ordinances of this city or
the state vehicle code.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
§ 70.16 MANUAL AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   All traffic-control signs, signals, and devices shall conform as nearly as
practical to the Indiana Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets
and Highways. All signs and signals required hereunder for a particular purpose
shall, so far as practicable, be uniform as to type and location throughout the
city. All traffic-control devices so erected, and not inconsistent with the
provisions of state law or this traffic code, shall be official traffic-control
devices.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
§ 70.17 WHEN REQUIRED FOR ENFORCEMENT PURPOSES.
   No provision of this traffic code for which official traffic-control devices
are required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the time and
place of the alleged violation an official device is not in proper position and
sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a
particular section does not state that official traffic-control devices are
required, such section shall be effective even though no devices are erected or
in place.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
§ 70.18 PRESUMPTION OF LEGALITY.
   (A)   Whenever official traffic-control devices are placed in positions
approximately conforming to the requirements of this traffic code, such devices
shall be presumed to have been so placed by the official act or direction of
lawful authority, unless the contrary shall be established by competent
evidence.
   (B)   Any official traffic-control device placed pursuant to the provisions
of this traffic code and purporting to conform to the lawful requirements
pertaining to such devices shall be presumed to comply with the requirements of
this traffic code, unless the contrary shall be established by competent
evidence.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
§ 70.19 OBEDIENCE TO OFFICIAL DEVICES REQUIRED.
   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic-control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code, unless otherwise directed by a police officer,
and subject to all exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency
vehicle.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.20 COMMON COUNCIL TO DESIGNATE CROSSWALKS AND ESTABLISH SAFETY ZONES.
   The Common Council is hereby authorized to designate and maintain, by
appropriate devices, marks, or lines upon the surface of the roadway,
crosswalks at intersections where in its opinion there is particular danger to
pedestrians crossing the roadway, and at such other places as it may deem
necessary.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
§ 70.21 TRAFFIC LANES.
   The Common Council is hereby authorized to mark traffic 1anes upon the
roadway of any street or highway under jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.30 AUTHORITY OF POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the officers of the Police Department or such
officers as are assigned by the Chief of Police to enforce all street traffic
laws of this city and all state vehicle laws.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to enforce the street
traffic regulations of the city and state vehicle laws, to make arrests for
traffic violations, to investigate accidents, to cooperate with officers of the
city in the administration of the traffic laws and in developing ways to
improve traffic conditions, and to carry out those duties specially imposed
upon the Department by the traffic ordinances of this city.
      (2)   Officers of the Police Department, or such officers as are assigned
by the Chief of Police, are hereby authorized to direct all traffic by voice,
hand or signal in conformance with traffic laws, provided that, in the event of
a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians,
officers of the Police Department may direct traffic as conditions may require
notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
   (B)   Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct or assist the police in directing traffic in the immediate vicinity.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
§ 70.31 RECORDS OF TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS.
   The Police Department shall keep a record of all violations of the traffic
ordinances of the city or of the state vehicle laws of which any person has
been charged, together with a record of the final disposition of all such
alleged offenses. Such record shall be so maintained as to show all types of
violations and the total number of each.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
§ 70.32 POLICE DEPARTMENT TO INVESTIGATE ACCIDENTS; FEE FOR MOTOR VEHICLE
ACCIDENT REPORT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to investigate traffic
accidents and to arrest and assist in the prosecution of those persons charged
with violations of law causing or contributing to such accidents. (Ord., passed
11-20-78)
   (B)   In consideration of the police providing a motor vehicle accident
report, the Police Department shall collect a fee of $10 for each report from
the applicant for same. This fee shall be placed in the "Accident Report
Account" pursuant to IC 9-26-2 et seq. The account shall be used for the
purposes set forth in IC 9-26-2 et seq.
(Ord. 1981-19, passed 11-2-81; Am. Ord. 1981-21, passed 12-7-81; Am. Ord. 2006-
09, passed 4-17-06)
§ 70.33 EMERGENCY TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   The Chief of Police may authorize the temporary placing of official traffic-
control devices when required by an emergency. The Chief of Police shall notify
the Mayor of his actions as soon thereafter as is practicable.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
§ 70.34 FEE FOR INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   As authorized by IC 9-17-2-12, a fee of $10 shall be collected by the
Police Department for each inspection made by them of motor vehicles,
semitrailers and recreational vehicles required by IC 9-17-2-12.
   (B)   All such fees or monies collected by virtue of such inspection shall
be deposited by the Clerk-Treasurer in a special vehicle inspection fund to be
designated the Vehicle Inspection Fund and should be appropriated for law
enforcement purposes only.
(Ord. 1988-5, passed 7-1-88; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
§ 70.35 FAILURE TO OBEY CITATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate his written promise to appear
given to an officer upon the issuance of a traffic citation regardless of the
disposition of the charge for which such citation was originally issued.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
Penalty, see 70.99
§ 70.36 DISPOSITION OF TRAFFIC FINES AND FORFEITURES.
   All fines or forfeitures collected upon conviction or upon the forfeiture of
bail of any person charged with a violation of any of the provisions of this
traffic code shall be paid into the city treasury and deposited in the "General
Fund."
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
§ 70.37 OFFICIAL MISCONDUCT.
   Failure, refusal or neglect on the part of any judicial or other officer or
employee receiving or having custody of any such fine or forfeiture, either
before or after deposit, to comply with the foregoing provisions of this
section shall constitute misconduct in office and shall be ground for removal
therefrom.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
§ 70.38 DUTIES OF CITY ATTORNEY.
   The prosecution of the ordinance violation in Court, or before a local
hearing officer, is brought in the name of the City of Aurora by the City of
Aurora Attorney. The violation must be proved by a preponderance of the
evidence (not beyond a reasonable doubt) and in accordance with IC 34-28-5.
(Ord. Revised 4-17-06; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06; Am. Ord. 2012-011,
passed 12-17-12; Am. Ord. 2013-003, passed 4-1-13)
§ 70.39 DEFERRAL PROGRAM
   (A)   The City of Aurora Attorney may establish a deferral program for
deferring actions brought under the Traffic Code. Actions may be deferred under
this program if:
      (1)   The defendant in the action agrees to conditions of a deferral
program offered by the City of Aurora which may include community restitution
or service in lieu of a monetary judgment;
      (2)   The defendant pays to the Clerk of the City of Aurora, in
accordance with IC 34-28-5-1 and IC 33-37-4-2(e), an initial user's fee of $52
and monthly user's fee in the amount of $10 per month for each month the person
remains in the deferral program; and court costs in the amount of $70 for a
moving violation or other court costs as ordered for non-moving violations.
      (3)   The deferral agreement is filed with the Dearborn Superior Court
No. 1.
   (B)   When a defendant complies with the terms of the deferral agreement the
City of Aurora will dismiss the cause of action with prejudice.
(Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06; Am. Ord. 2012-011, passed 12-17-12)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by law, every person
convicted of a violation of any provision of this traffic code, other than
speeding, shall be punished by a fine of $25 for the first offense, $50 for the
second offense, and $100 for the third offense and each offense thereafter. For
speeding violations, the fines shall be as follows:
      1-20 mph over the posted limit   $3 fine
      21-25 mph over the posted limit   $8 fine
      26-35 mph over the posted limit   $35 fine
      36 and above            $50 fine
   (B)   The above fines will be doubled for all violations which occur in a
worksite or workzone.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06; Am. Ord. 2012-011,
passed 12-17-12)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
   
71.01   Authority to place devices altering normal course for turns
   
71.02   Limitations on turning around
   
71.03   One-way streets and alleys
   
71.04   Intersections where stop or yield required
   
71.05   Yield right-of-way at alley exit
   
71.06   Speed limits
   
71.07   Entering obstructed intersection or crosswalk
   
71.08   Parades; funeral and other processions
   
71.09   Boarding or alighting from vehicles
   
71.10   Unlawful riding in or on vehicles
   
71.11   Driving on sidewalks prohibited
   
71.12   Pedestrians at railroad crossings
   
71.13   Containment of truck loads
   
71.14   Improper passing; driving left of center
   
71.15   Unsafe start
   
71.16   Unsafe movement
   
71.17   Failure to dim headlights
   
71.18   Reckless driving
§ 71.01 AUTHORITY TO PLACE DEVICES ALTERING NORMAL COURSE FOR TURNS.
   The Common Council is authorized to place official traffic-control devices,
within or adjacent to intersections, indicating the course to be traveled by
vehicles turning at such intersections; and such course to be traveled as so
indicated may conform to, or be other than as prescribed by law.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
§ 71.02 LIMITATIONS ON TURNING AROUND.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction upon any street in a business district.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 5-17-06)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.03 ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   The Common Council is hereby authorized to determine and designate one-way
streets or alleys and shall place and maintain official traffic-control devices
giving notice thereof. No such designation shall be effective unless such
devices are in place.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
§ 71.04 INTERSECTIONS WHERE STOP OR YIELD REQUIRED.
   The Common Council is hereby authorized to determine and designate
intersections where a particular hazard exists and to determine whether
vehicles shall stop at one or more entrances to any such intersection, in which
event it shall cause to be erected a stop sign at every such place where a stop
is required, or whether vehicles shall yield the right-of-way to vehicles on a
different street at such intersection, in which event it shall cause to be
erected a yield sign at every place where obedience thereto is required.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
§ 71.05 YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY AT ALLEY EXIT.
   The driver of a vehicle about to enter a street from an alley shall yield
the right-of-way to any vehicles or pedestrians approaching on the street.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.06 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   The state traffic laws regulating the speed of vehicles shall be
applicable upon all streets within this city, except as this traffic code, as
authorized by state law, hereby declares and determines, upon the basis of a
traffic engineering investigation, that certain speed regulations shall be
applicable upon specified streets or in certain areas (see
Chapter 74, Schedule I for such specified streets). In that event, it shall be
unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle at a speed in excess of any speed so
determined when signs are in place giving notice thereof.
   (B)   Except when a special hazard exists that requires lower speed for
compliance with state law, the maximum lawful speed limit in an alley shall be
ten miles per hour; and no person shall drive a vehicle in an alley in excess
of such limit.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06; Am. Ord. 2012-002,
passed 4-16-12)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.07 ENTERING OBSTRUCTED INTERSECTION OR CROSSWALK.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he is operating without obstructing the passage of
other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic-control signal
indication to proceed.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.08 PARADES; FUNERAL AND OTHER PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   Each driver in a funeral or other procession shall drive as near to
the right-hand edge of the roadway as practicable and shall follow the vehicle
ahead as close as is practicable and safe.
   (B)   No procession or parade except funeral processions, the United States
Armed Forces, the military forces of this state and the forces of the Police
and Fire Departments shall occupy, march, or proceed along any street except in
accordance with a permit issued by the Chief of Police and such other
regulations as are set forth which may apply.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.09 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLES.
   No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.10 UNLAWFUL RIDING IN OR ON VEHICLES.
   No person shall ride on any vehicle upon any portion thereof not designed or
intended for the use of passengers. This section shall not apply to an employee
engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty or to persons riding within truck
bodies in space intended for merchandise.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.11 DRIVING ON SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall drive any vehicle upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area except
upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.12 PEDESTRIANS AT RAILROAD CROSSINGS.
   No pedestrians shall pass through, around, over, or under any crossing gate
or barrier at a railroad grade crossing while such gate or barrier is closed or
is being opened or closed.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.13 CONTAINMENT OF TRUCK LOADS.
   Any person hauling stone, ice, mortar, oil, rubbish or any material shall
see that the vehicle shall be of adequate dimensions and tight, so that none of
such material shall fall from such vehicle. Any material falling from a vehicle
shall be promptly removed from the street by the driver, and the driver shall
be responsible for any damage done.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.14 IMPROPER PASSING; DRIVING LEFT OF CENTER.
   A vehicle shall be driven only in the correct direction on the right half of
the road and shall not pass another vehicle traveling in the same direction or
be left of center unless:
   (A)   The right half of the road is closed for an emergency or for repairs;
or
   (B)   The road has three or more marked lanes (including a turning lane).
(Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.15 UNSAFE START.
   A person may not start a stopped or parked vehicle until movement can be
made with reasonable safety.
(Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.16 UNSAFE MOVEMENT.
   A vehicle may not slow down, stop, turn or change direction or lanes unless
said movement can be done with reasonable safety and the driver gives
appropriate notice with audible horn or turning signal or other device.
(Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.17 FAILURE TO DIM HEADLIGHTS.
   A driver of a vehicle must dim the vehicle's headlights from its bright or
blinding headlights when meeting another vehicle or pedestrian.
(Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.18 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   A driver may not drive at an unreasonably high or low rate of speed,
endanger the safety or property of others, block proper flow of traffic, pass
improperly, or drive in or out of line of traffic.
(Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
Penalty, see § 70.99
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Signs or markings indicating angle parking
   
72.02   Parking not to obstruct traffic
   
72.03   Parking restricted in alleys
   
72.04   Parking for certain purposes prohibited
   
72.05   No stopping, standing or parking near hazardous or congested places
   
72.06   Obedience to parking signs or markings
   
72.07   Truck parking restricted
   
72.08   Standing or parking prohibitions
   
72.09   Standing or parking prohibited at alleys
   
72.10   Parking in public center-block parking lots restricted
   
72.11   Standing in loading zone
   
72.12   Stopping, standing or parking restricted or prohibited on certain
streets
   
72.13   Parking, standing of authorized emergency vehicles
   
72.14   Commercial and recreational vehicles; on-street parking
   
72.15   Parking with direction of traffic
   
72.16   Long-term parking on city property prohibited
Emergency Snow and Hazardous Weather Conditions
   
72.25   Definitions
   
72.26   Snow route; designation; annual review
   
72.27   Declaration of snow removal
   
72.28   Traffic regulations for snow removal condition
   
72.29   Impounding vehicles during times of emergency
Parking Meters
   
72.40   Establishment of parking meter zones
   
72.41   Installation of parking meters
   
72.42   Parking in metered spaces
   
72.43   Deposit of coins; time limits
   
72.44   Overtime parking
   
72.45   Use of slugs prohibited
   
72.46   Tampering with meter
   
72.47   Payment of parking meter fines
   
72.48   Disposition of proceeds
Violations and Enforcement
   
72.60   Citation on illegally parked vehicle
   
72.61   Failure to comply with traffic citation attached to parking vehicle
   
72.62   Presumption in reference to illegal parking
   
72.63   Impounding vehicles
   
72.64   Impounding vehicles of scofflaws
 
   
72.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 SIGNS OR MARKINGS INDICATING ANGLE PARKING.
   The Common Council shall determine upon what streets angle parking shall be
permitted and shall mark or sign such streets, but such angle parking shall not
be indicated upon any federal-aid or state highway within this city.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
§ 72.02 PARKING NOT TO OBSTRUCT TRAFFIC.
   No person shall park any vehicle upon a street, other than an alley, in such
a manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of
the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.03 PARKING RESTRICTED IN ALLEYS.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stand or park such
vehicle in any alley for a period of time longer than five minutes for the
loading or unloading of passengers or 30 minutes for the loading or unloading
of materials.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.04 PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park a vehicle upon any roadway for the principal purpose of
displaying such vehicle for sale, or washing, greasing or repairing such
vehicle except repairs necessitated by an emergency.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.05 NO STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING NEAR HAZARDOUS OR CONGESTED PLACES.
   (A)   The Common Council is hereby authorized to determine and designate by
proper signs places in which the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles
would create an especially hazardous condition or would cause unusual delay to
traffic.
   (B)   When official signs are erected at hazardous or congested places, as
authorized herein, no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any such
designated place.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.06 OBEDIENCE TO PARKING SIGNS OR MARKINGS.
   In those locations that have been officially signed or marked for parking on
the streets or in municipal parking lots, no person shall park or stand a
vehicle other than within any markings and at the orientation indicated by such
signs or markings.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.07 TRUCK PARKING RESTRICTED.
   (A)   Business district. In a business district, no such trucks shall park
upon any street or alley within the corporate limits of the city longer than
one hour, excepting that such vehicles may park for a sufficient time to make
deliveries or pick up merchandise, wares, goods, chattels and supplies in the
regular course of business, provided such parking does not interrupt the
regular flow of traffic and does not create a hazard for the safety of others
and provided such parking complies with all other parking regulations in force
in the city.
   (B)   Residential district. No person owning, leasing, possessing or
operating a truck, trailer, tractor or tractor and trailer, taller, wider and
longer than a conventional station wagon, or pickup truck, shall be permitted
to park the same upon any street or alley within the residential district of
the corporate limits of the city, excepting that such vehicles may park for a
sufficient time to make deliveries or pick up merchandise, provided such
parking does not interrupt the regular flow of traffic and does not create a
hazard for the safety of others.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.08 STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITIONS.
   At any time it shall be unlawful to permit any vehicle to be parked or to
stand in any of the following places, except when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic control device.
   (A)   In any intersection.
   (B)   In a crosswalk.
   (C)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of a
point of the curb immediately opposite the end of a safety zone.
   (D)   Within 30 feet of a traffic signal, beacon or sign on the approaching
side, unless otherwise indicated by signage.
   (E)   Within 20 feet of any intersection or crosswalk, unless otherwise
indicated by signage.
   (F)   At any place where the standing of a vehicle will reduce the usable
width of the roadway for moving traffic to less than 18 feet.
   (G)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant.
   (H)   At any place where the vehicle would block the use of a driveway.
   (I)   On any sidewalk or parkway.
   (J)   On a street with curbing other than on the roadway portion.
(Ord. 2022-05, passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.09 STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALLEYS.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle on a street in any manner which
would block the full use of the access to an alley.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.10 PARKING IN PUBLIC CENTER-BLOCK PARKING LOTS RESTRICTED.
   No person shall park any vehicle longer than 12 hours during any 24
consecutive hours in any public center-block parking lot.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.11 STANDING IN LOADING ZONE.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle for any purpose or period of
time other than for the expeditious loading of passengers or materials in any
place marked as a loading zone during hours and days when the regulations
applicable to such curb loading zone are effective, and then only for a period
not to exceed five minutes for passengers or 30 minutes for materials.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.12 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING RESTRICTED OR PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN
STREETS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section and
Chapter 75, Schedules I and
II, prohibiting the standing or parking of a vehicle shall apply at all times
or at those times herein specified or as indicated on official signs except
when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to avoid conflict with other traffic or
in compliance with the directions of a police officer or official traffic-
control device.
   (B)   The provisions of this section and
Chapter 75, Schedules I and
II, imposing a time limit on parking shall not relieve any person from the duty
to observe other and more restrictive provisions prohibiting or limiting the
stopping, standing or parking of vehicles in specified places or at specified
times.
   (C)   Whenever, by this section or any other ordinance of this city, any
parking time limit is imposed or parking is prohibited on designated streets,
it shall be the duty of the Common Council to erect appropriate signs giving
notice thereof; and no such regulations shall be effective unless said signs
are erected and in place at the time of any alleged offense.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
§ 72.13 PARKING, STANDING OF AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the
law or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm, may park or
stand, irrespective of the provisions of this traffic code.
   (B)   The foregoing provision shall not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to park or stand with due regard for the safety
of all persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the
consequences of his reckless disregard for the safety of others.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
§ 72.14 COMMERCIAL AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES; ON-STREET PARKING.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE.  Any truck, bus, school bus, private bus, any
form of tractor, or any form of trailer, as those terms are defined under IC 9-
13-2 et seq.
      (2)   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A motor home, camper, camper-trailer, house
trailer, similar vehicles or attachments commonly known as "RV's", and trailers
designed or used for hauling boats or small watercraft.
   (B)   Exceptions. However, the parking restrictions as hereafter provided in
this section do not apply to small integrated vehicles such as pick-up trucks,
minibuses, vans, or small motor homes or campers, consisting of parts
permanently mounted on a single chassis, and which vehicles commonly may be
used for ordinary purposes of private transportation as well as for commercial
or recreational purposes and do not exceed 18 feet in length nor seven feet in
width; nor to commercial vehicles which are stopped or parked for a period of
time reasonably necessary for the purpose of loading or unloading cargo or
passengers when no suitable off-street parking or loading facility is available
for such purpose. Except as otherwise permitted, it shall be unlawful and shall
be considered a violation of this section for any person to:
      (1)   Park any commercial vehicle at any time; or
      (2)   Park any recreational vehicle during the months of October through
March;
   on the right of way of any public street, alley, or thoroughfare (exclusive
of a state highway or state maintained route) within the city.
   (C)   Enforcement.
      (1)   If any commercial or recreational vehicle as the same is defined in
division (A) above is found parked in violation of division (A) above, in any
area where signs are posted indicating the applicable parking restrictions
hereunder, the enforcement officer shall immediately cite such vehicle for a
parking violation in the manner provided for in §
72.99(D). However, if signs are not posted, the officer shall first serve upon
the registered owner of the vehicle, in person if possible, or by attaching the
same to the vehicle if personal service is not possible, a notice in the form
prescribed by the Chief of Police stating that the vehicle is in violation of
this section and must within 24 hours be removed from the public streets and
lawfully parked on private premises (not merely moved to a different public
parking space) or the owner shall be liable for payment of a fine. If such
recreational or commercial vehicle is not removed, such vehicle shall be cited
for a violation in the manner provided by §
72.99. Any commercial and recreational vehicle which becomes subject to
citation for unlawful parking under this section may also be towed under the
provisions of this section as hereinafter set forth.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the police officers of the city, acting in
accordance with the instructions of the Chief of Police, to report:
         (a)   The street which will indicate the area or space that the
vehicle is occupying, and, or has been parking in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter.
         (b)   The state license number of such vehicle.
         (c)   The maker of such vehicle.
         (d)   The time during which such vehicle is parked in violation of any
of the provisions of this section.
         (e)   Any other facts, a knowledge of which is necessary for a
thorough understanding of the circumstances attending such violation.
      (3)   Each such police officer shall also attach to such commercial or
recreational vehicle a notice to the owner or operator thereof that such
vehicle has been parked in violation of the provisions of this section and
instructing such owner or operator to report to the police station of the city,
in regard to such violation.
(Ord. 2002-02, passed 3-18-02; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.15 PARKING WITH DIRECTION OF TRAFFIC.
   All vehicles that are parallel parked shall be parked in a direction that is
with the flow of traffic.
(Ord. 2006-11, passed 4-3-06; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.16 LONG-TERM PARKING ON CITY PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   Unless a more restrictive period is set forth under
Chapter 75, Schedules I and
II or elsewhere in the Code, no vehicle, truck (as those terms are defined by §
70.02), commercial vehicle, or recreational vehicle (as those terms are defined
by §
72.14), shall be parked on any city street, right-of-way, or in any public lot
for a period longer than 24 hours. For a vehicle to be deemed not in violation
of this section, the vehicle shall be removed from the city street, right-of-
way, or public lot in which it is located and lawfully parked on private
premises, and not merely moved to a different public parking location within
the city.
(Ord. 2018-018, passed 11-12-18)
EMERGENCY SNOW AND HAZARDOUS WEATHER CONDITIONS
§ 72.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUSHING SNOW.  Moving an amount of snow that may impede or unnecessarily
hamper traffic flow.
   SNOW.  Any precipitation depositing any accumulation on the streets
including snow, sleet, hail, ice or freezing rain.
   SNOW REMOVAL CONDITION.  A normal declaration by the Snow Removal
Coordinator that in his or her opinion the actual or expected precipitation of
snow will create hazardous or dangerous street and sidewalk conditions. This
declaration shall take one of the following forms, to-wit: snow emergency,
residential emergency, and weather disaster.
      (1)   RESIDENTIAL EMERGENCY.  A snow removal condition which addresses
all non-snow routes (residential streets).
      (2)   SNOW EMERGENCY.  The snow removal condition which addresses all
designated snow routes (main routes).
      (3)   WEATHER DISASTER.  A formal declaration by the Snow Removal
Coordinator that occurrence or imminent threat of widespread or severe damage,
injury of loss of life or property resulting from a snow storm requires
emergency action to avert danger, damage or distress.
   SNOW REMOVAL COORDINATOR.  The Mayor of the City of Aurora or, in his or her
absence, the City Street Commissioner.
   SNOW ROUTES.  All streets in the city so designated and marked.
   VEHICLES.  All self-propelled, motorized, licensed vehicles using city
streets and highways excluding public transportation conveyances.
(Ord. 1979-6, passed 5-7-79; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
§ 72.26 SNOW ROUTE; DESIGNATION; ANNUAL REVIEW.
   (A)   The committee on streets and alleys shall designate streets which are
heavily traveled and are necessary thoroughfares for the movement of vehicle
traffic through the city as snow routes. An annual review of the snow routes by
the City Street Commissioner and the Common Council Committee on Streets and
Alleys shall be done and written report filed with the City Clerk by July 1 of
each year.
   (B)   All streets designated as snow routes shall be posted with suitable
signs or markers.
(Ord. 1979-6, passed 5-7-79; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
§ 72.27 DECLARATION OF SNOW REMOVAL.
   (A)   When in the opinion of the Snow Removal Coordinator, the actual or
expectant precipitation of snow will create hazardous or dangerous highway
conditions for vehicular or pedestrian traffic, he or she shall have the
authority to declare a snow removal condition.
   (B)   When declaring a snow removal condition, the Snow Removal Coordinator
shall designate one of the following conditions to be in effect: a snow
emergency, a residential emergency, or a weather disaster.
   (C)   A snow removal condition shall be declared by the Snow Removal
Coordinator by issuing a press release to the local radio, television and news
services.
   (D)   Snow removal conditions shall continue in force and effect until the
Snow Removal Coordinator declares it to be over in the same manner as provided
in division (C) of this section.
(Ord. 1979-6, passed 5-7-79; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
§ 72.28 TRAFFIC REGULATIONS FOR SNOW REMOVAL CONDITION.
   (A)   Snow emergency. When the Snow Removal Coordinator has declared a snow
emergency, the following traffic regulations shall be in effect:
      (1)   No vehicles shall be parked on a snow route.
      (2)   The pushing of snow onto any city street by any individual is
prohibited.
      (3)   Any vehicle parked, stalled, incapable of moving under its own
power, or left unattended upon any street designated as a snow route shall be
ticketed and/or towed away and/or impounded.
      (4)   Parking prohibitions on snow routes shall remain in effect until
the snow emergency is cancelled or modified by the Snow Removal Coordinator as
per §
72.27(D).
   (B)   Residential emergency. When the Snow Removal Coordinator has declared
a residential emergency, the following traffic regulations shall be in effect:
      (1)   Parking shall be allowed on all snow routes.
      (2)   Parking shall be banned weekdays between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and
4:30 p.m. on all streets not designated as snow routes in accordance with the
following schedule:
         (a)   Even numbered days - no parking on east/west streets.
         (b)   Odd numbered days - no parking on north/south streets.
      (3)   Any vehicle parked, stalled, incapable of moving under its own
power, or left unattended upon any street in violation of division (A)(3) of
this section shall be ticketed and/or towed away and/or impounded.
      (4)   Parking bans as established under division (B)(2) of this section
shall remain in force and effect on a rotating basis until the entire street
has been cleared to the curb line, or until the residential emergency has been
cancelled by the Snow Removal Coordinator as per §
72.27(D).
      (5)   The pushing of snow onto any city street by any individual is
prohibited.
   (C)   Weather disaster. When the Snow Removal Coordinator has declared a
weather disaster, the following traffic regulations shall be in effect:
      (1)   The Snow Removal Coordinator shall have the power to limit traffic
within the city. Anyone traveling on city streets without a valid emergency
reason shall be subject to the penalties provided herein.
      (2)   The Snow Removal Coordinator shall have the power to establish any
and/or all parking restrictions which, in his or her opinion, are necessary to
insure the health and safety of the citizens of the city. Any vehicle parked,
stalled, incapable of moving under its own power, or left unattended upon any
street in violation of these restrictions shall be ticketed and/or towed away
and/or impounded.
      (3)   The Snow Removal Coordinator shall have the power to designate
vehicles such as city vehicles, four-wheel drive vehicles, and snow vehicles as
"temporary emergency vehicles" if, in his or her opinion, such designation is
necessary to insure the health and safety of the citizens of the community. Any
individual abusing the services of these or other city emergency vehicles shall
be subject to the penalty provisions of this act and shall reimburse the city
for all costs expended in responding to any false call.
      (4)   The Snow Removal Coordinator shall have the power to take whatever
action is reasonably necessary to insure health, safety, and welfare of the
citizens during a weather disaster.
      (5)   All traffic restrictions, parking bans and any other action taken
during a weather disaster by the Snow Removal Coordinator shall remain in
effect until the weather disaster has been cancelled by the Snow Removal
Coordinator as provided for in this subchapter.
      (6)   The pushing of snow onto any city street by an individual is
prohibited.
      (7)   Any individual abusing the services of city emergency vehicles
shall be subject to the penalty provision of this subchapter and shall
reimburse the city for all costs expended in responding to any false call.
(Ord 1979-6, passed 5-7-79; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
§ 72.29 IMPOUNDING VEHICLES DURING TIMES OF EMERGENCY.
   The Police Department or its designee may remove or impound any unoccupied
or unattended vehicle upon any street which constitutes a definite hazard or
obstruction to the movement of traffic in times of emergency such as fires,
riots, civil emergencies, natural disasters, street cave-ins, snow emergencies,
residential emergencies, weather disasters, or any other emergency.
(Ord. 1979-6, passed 5-7-79; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
PARKING METERS
§ 72.40 ESTABLISHMENT OF PARKING METER ZONES.
   The Common Council may establish parking meter zones at those locations
where it is determined on the basis of a traffic engineering investigation that
the installation of parking meters is necessary to regulate parking. Within
such zones the parking of vehicles upon streets or municipally owned lots shall
be required by parking meters with a fee specified between the hours specified
on any day except legal holidays.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 86-3, passed - -86; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed
4-17-06)
§ 72.41 INSTALLATION OF PARKING METERS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall install parking meters in all parking meter
zones which may be established by Council from time to time upon the curb
immediately adjacent to each designated parking space. Said meters shall be
capable of being operated upon the deposit therein of a coin of United States
currency as specified on the meter.
   (B)   Each parking meter shall be so designed, constructed and installed
that, upon the expiration of the time period registered by the deposit of one
or more coins, as provided herein, it will indicate by an appropriate signal
that the lawful parking meter period has expired and, during said period of
time and prior to the expiration thereof, will indicate the interval of time
which remains of such period.
   (C)   Each parking meter shall bear thereon a legend indicating the days and
hours when the requirement to deposit coins therein shall apply, the value oft
he coins to be deposited, and the 1imited period of time for which parking is
lawfully permitted in the parking meter zone in which such meter is located.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
§ 72.42 PARKING IN METERED SPACES.
   (A)   The Common Council shall designate the parking space adjacent to each
parking meter for which such meter is to be used by appropriate markings upon
the curb and/or the pavement of the street. Parking meter spaces so designated
shall be of appropriate length and width so as to be accessible from the
traffic lanes of such street.
   (B)   No person shall park a vehicle in any such designated parking meter
space during the restricted or regulated time applicable to the parking meter
zone in which such meter is located so that any part of such vehicle occupies
more than one such space or protrudes beyond the markings designating such
space, except that a vehicle which is of a size too large to be parked within a
single designated parking meter zone shall be permitted to occupy two adjoining
parking meter spaces when coins shall have been deposited in the parking meter
for each space so occupied as is required in this subchapter for the parking of
other vehicles in such space.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.43 DEPOSIT OF COINS; TIME LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall park a vehicle in any parking space upon a street
alongside of an exit to which a parking meter has been installed during the
restricted and regulated time applicable to the parking meter zone in which
such meter is located, unless a coin or coins of United States currency of the
appropriate denomination as provided in this subchapter shall have been
deposited therein or shall have been previously deposited therein for an
unexpired interval of time and said meter has been placed in operation.
   (B)   No person shall permit a vehicle to remain in a metered parking space
beyond the time limit provided by the deposit of coins in the parking meter.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not relieve any person from the
duty to observe other and more restrictive provisions of this traffic code and
the state vehicle code prohibiting or limiting the stopping or parking of
vehicles.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.44 OVERTIME PARKING.
   The fact that a vehicle is parked in a metered parking space when the time
indicated on the parking meter of the same shows no parking permitted, unless a
deposit of a proper coin is made as provided in this subchapter, shall be
deemed prima facie evidence of the unlawful parking of such vehicle by the
owner and/or operator thereof.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
§ 72.45 USE OF SLUGS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall deposit or attempt to deposit in any parking meter any slug,
button or any other device or substance as substitutes for coins of United
States currency.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.46 TAMPERING WITH METER.
   No person shall deface, injure, tamper with, open or willfully break,
destroy or impair the usefulness of any parking meter.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.47 PAYMENT OF PARKING METER FINES.
   It shall be the duty of the police officers of this city to attach to any
vehicle parked in violation of this subchapter a notice to the owner or
operator thereof that such vehicle has been parked in violation of a provision
of this subchapter and instructing such owner or operator to report as directed
on the notice or at the police office of the city in regard to such violation.
Each such owner or operator may within two hours of the time when such notice
was attached to such vehicle, pay to the city in the manner provided for such
payment as a penalty for full satisfaction of such violation the sum of $.25.
If payment is made after the initial two-hour period, it shall be the sum of
$1. Any person having more than three such violations during any one month
shall pay the sum of $1 for each violation in excess of such three.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
§ 72.48 DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS.
   (A)   The coins required to be deposited in parking meters as provided in
this subchapter are levied and assessed as fees to cover the regulation and
control of parking upon public streets; the costs of parking meters; their
installation, supervision, repair and maintenance; regulating the parking of
vehicles in parking meter zones; and the costs of acquiring, improving, and
operating public off-street parking facilities.
   (B)   The coins deposited in parking meters shall be collected by the duly
authorized agents of the City Clerk-Treasurer and shall be deposited in a
special fund to be known as the "Parking Meter Fund".
   (C)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall pay from such Fund the expenses
incurred for the purchase, installation, service, supervision, and maintenance
of the meters; of making collections from such parking meters; and of the
enforcement of the provisions of this subchapter applicable to parking meter
zones. The net proceeds of the operation of parking meters in said Fund, after
the payment of such costs and expenses, shall be used for parking studies and
for the acquisition, improvement, and operation of public off-street parking
facilities as the Common Council shall from time to time direct.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
VIOLATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 72.60 CITATION ON ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLE.
   Whenever any motor vehicle without driver is found parked, standing or
stopped in violation of any of the restrictions imposed by ordinance of this
city or by state law, the officer finding such vehicle shall take its
registration number; may take any other information displayed on the vehicle
which may identify its user; and shall conspicuously affix to such vehicle a
traffic citation, on a form provided by the City Clerk-Treasurer, for the
driver to answer to the charge against him within five days during the hours
and at a place specified in the citation.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
§ 72.61 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH TRAFFIC CITATION ATTACHED TO PARKING VEHICLE.
   If a violator of the restrictions on stopping, standing or parking under the
traffic laws or ordinances does not appear in response to a traffic citation
affixed to such motor vehicle within a period of five days, the Clerk Treasurer
of the city shall refer the matter to the City Attorney for further
prosecution.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06; Am. Ord. 2012-011,
passed 12-17-12)
§ 72.62 PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING.
   (A)   In any prosecution charging a violation of any law or regulation
governing the standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular
vehicle described in the complaint was parked in violation of any such law or
regulation, together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was
at the time of such parking the registered owner of such vehicle, shall
constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered owner of
such vehicle was the person who parked or placed such vehicle at the point
where, and for the time during which, such violation occurred.
   (B)   The foregoing stated presumption shall apply only when the procedure
as prescribed in this subchapter has been followed.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
§ 72.63 IMPOUNDING VEHICLES.
   (A)   When authorized by the laws of this state, members of the Police
Department may remove a vehicle from a street or highway to the nearest garage
or other place of safety or to a garage designated or maintained by the city.
   (B)   Whenever an officer removes a vehicle from a street as authorized in
this section, and the officer knows or is able to ascertain from the
registration records in the vehicle the name and address of the owner, such
officer shall immediately cause to be given notice in writing to such owner of
the fact of such removal, the reasons therefore, and the place to which such
vehicle has been removed. In the event any such vehicle is stored in a public
garage, a copy of such notice shall be given to the proprietor.
   (C)   Whenever an officer removes a vehicle from a street under this section
and is unable to give the notice to the owner as hereinbefore provided, and in
the event the vehicle is not returned to the owner within a period of three
days, then the officer shall immediately cause to be sent a written report of
such removal by mail to the State of Indiana, Bureau of Motor Vehicles, whose
duty it is to register motor vehicles, and shall file a copy of such notice
with the proprietor of any public garage in which the vehicle may be stored.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
§ 72.64 IMPOUNDING VEHICLES OF SCOFFLAWS.
   (A)   Whenever a police officer has knowledge that a person has failed to
satisfy five or more parking or traffic citations and that an arrest warrant
has been issued for such person for these citations, and whenever the officer
finds any vehicle registered in the name of such person upon any street, he or
she may impound or immobilize such vehicle.
   (B)   Immobilization of a vehicle under this section shall be in a manner as
to prevent its operation by means of a device which will cause no damage to the
vehicle unless the vehicle is moved. Notice of immobilization shall be attached
to the vehicle in a conspicuous manner.
   (C)   After impounding or immobilizing a vehicle under this section, notice
shall be given in writing to its owner.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by law, every person
convicted of a violation of any provisions of this chapter shall be punished by
a fine upon the following fine schedule:
      First offense                  $20
      Second offense               $50
      Third offense, and each thereafter         $100
   (B)   Any fee hereunder may be paid to the Clerk Treasurer for the city,
with all such fines being deposited into the city’s General Fund.
   (C)   In any addition to the monetary penalty hereinabove provided, any
vehicle parked in violation of this section, may be moved by the Police
Department and all towing, storage and expense charges shall be paid by the
owner or operator of the vehicle towed directly to the authorized towing
service. Neither the Police Department nor the authorized towing service is
liable for loss or damage to the vehicle during its removal or storage.
(Ord. 1979, passed 5-7-79; Am. Ord. 2002-02, passed 3-12-02; Am. Ord. 2006-09,
passed 4-17-06; Am. Ord. 2012-011, passed 12-17-12)
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES
Section
   
73.01   Violation of regulations prohibited; duty of parent or guardian
   
73.02   Traffic regulations to apply to persons riding bicycles
   
73.03   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
73.04   Parking
   
73.05   Riding on sidewalks
   
73.06   Attaching bicycle to poles
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS PROHIBITED; DUTY OF PARENT OR GUARDIAN.
   (A)   It is a violation for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to
perform any act required in this chapter.
   (B)   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.02 TRAFFIC REGULATIONS TO APPLY TO PERSONS RIDING BICYCLES.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by this traffic code, except as to special regulations in this chapter
and except as to those provisions of this traffic code which by their nature
can have no application.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
§ 73.03 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic-control devices applicable to vehicles unless otherwise directed by a
police officer.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.04 PARKING.
   No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb, upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle, against a
building, or at the curb in such manner as to afford the least obstruction to
pedestrian traffic.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.05 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   No person shall ride a bicycle, skateboard, roller blades/roller
skates or scooter (motorized or non-motorized) upon a sidewalk within a
business district.
   (B)   Whenever any person is riding a bicycle, skateboard, roller blades/
roller skates or scooter (motorized or non-motorized) upon a sidewalk in a non-
business district, such person shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian
and shall give an audible signal before overtaking and passing such pedestrian.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2005-1, passed 1-17-05; Am. Ord. 2006-09,
passed 4-17-06)
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.06 ATTACHING BICYCLE TO POLES.
   Any person may park near, and secure to any publicly-owned pole or post for
a period of not more than 12 consecutive hours, unless an official traffic-
control device or any applicable law or ordinance prohibits parking or securing
bicycles at that location. No bicycle shall be secured to any tree, fire
hydrant, or police or fire call box. No bicycle shall be secured in any manner
so as to impede the normal and reasonable movement of pedestrian or other
traffic.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2005-1, passed 1-17-05; Am. Ord. 2006-09,
passed 4-17-06)
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   Every person convicted of a violation of any provision of this chapter shall
be punished by a fine of not more than $5 and court costs or by impounding of
such person's bicycle for a period not to exceed 30 days or by any combination
thereof.
(Ord., passed 11-20-78; Am. Ord. 2005-1, passed 1-17-05; Am. Ord. 2006-09,
passed 4-17-06)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
74.01   Worksite/work zone
   
74.02   Speed to be reasonable and prudent for driving conditions
   
74.03   Schedule I - Speed limits
   
74.04   Schedule II - Restricted turns
   
74.05   Schedule III - One-way streets and alleys
   
74.06   Schedule IV - Stop streets
   
74.07   Schedule V - Multi-way stop intersections
   
74.08   Schedule VI - Yield streets
   
74.09   Schedule VII - Load restrictions
   
74.10   Schedule VIII - Truck traffic prohibited
§ 74.01 WORKSITE/WORK ZONE.
   Vehicles traveling through a worksite or work zone within the city limits
shall drive at a reasonable rate to ensure the safety of city workers or
utility workers, said rate must be at least ten m.p.h. below the posted speed
limit.
(Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 74.02 SPEED TO BE REASONABLE AND PRUDENT FOR DRIVING CONDITIONS.
   A person must use reasonable care to drive at a speed that is reasonable and
prudent for the actual and potential driving conditions, said speed may be less
than the posted speed limit, in order to avoid collisions with other vehicles,
pedestrians, emergency vehicles or in worksite/work zones.
(Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 74.03 SCHEDULE I - SPEED LIMITS.
   It is hereby determined, upon the basis of a traffic engineering
investigation, that the speed permitted by state law on the following streets
or portion thereof is different than is reasonable and safe under the
conditions found to exist there and it is hereby declared that the maximum
speed limit on these segments shall be as herein stated at the times specified
herein when signs are erected giving notice:
Street Location Maximum Speed When applicable Ord. No. Date
Street          Location         Maximum Speed When applicable Ord. No. Date
Billingsley Dr. Sunnyside to US  20            all times                
                50
Bridgeway       Third St. to     20            all times       2016-006 6-6-16
                Fourth St.
Center St.      West Conwell to  20            all times                
(Northbound)    Railroad
Cobb Rd.        Sunnyside to     20            all times                
(Eastbound)     East End
Exporting       Fourth St. to    20            all times                
(Northbound)    Third St.
Fourth Street   Mechanic to Main 20            all times       2016-006 6-6-16
                St.
George St.      Johnson St. to   20            all times                
(Northbound)    US 50
Hanover Ave.    Westside Dr. to  20            all times                
(Northbound)    North End
Hilltop Dr.     US 50 to         30            all times       2016-006 6-6-16
                Pleasantview
Hillview Dr.    Sunnyside to     20            all times                
                South End
Indiana Ave.    US 50 to         20            all times                
                Railroad Ave.
Indiana Ave.    Forest St. to    20            all times                
(Northbound)    North End
Lincoln St.     Winter St. to    20            all times                
(Northbound)    West Conwell
Lower John St.  Access Rd. to
(Southbound)    John st, to      15            all times                
                Alley south end
Main St.        Third to Fourth  20            all times       2016-006 6-6-16
(Southbound)    St
Manchester St.  Washington to    20            all times                
(Southbound)    Moore St.
Moore St.       Manchester to US 20            all times                
                50
Park Ave.       City limit
(Eastbound)     boundary to      20            all times       2012-002 4-16- 2
                Manchester St.
Pleasant View                   20            all times       1981-1   2-16-81
Dr.
Ridge Rd.       Sunnyside to     20            all times                
(Southbound)    Maple Dr.
Third St.       Mechanic to Main 20            all times                
(Eastbound)     St.
Conwell St.     US 50 to Fourth  30            all times                
                St
All other roads in the city have a maximum of 30 m.p.h.
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.04 SCHEDULE II - RESTRICTED TURNS.
   The Common Council is hereby authorized to determine those locations at
which drivers of vehicles shall not make a right, left or U turn, and shall
place proper signs at such locations. The making of such turns may be
prohibited between certain hours of any day and permitted at other hours, in
which event the same shall be plainly indicated on the signs; or they may be
removed when such turns are permitted. The restricted maneuvers are as follows:
Street Direction of Cross Street Restricted When Restricted Ord. No. Date
       Travel                    Maneuver
Street        Direction of Cross Street  Restricted When       Ord. No. Date
              Travel                     Maneuver   Restricted
Indiana Ave.  Southbound   Conwell St.   U turn     all times
                           (W.)
Judiciary     Southbound   Second St.    Right turn all times
Judiciary     Northbound   Second St.    Left turn  all times
Mechanic St.  Southbound   Second St.    Right turn all times
Mechanic St.  Northbound   Second St.    Left turn  all times
Park Entrance Southbound   Park Circular Left turn  all times
Dr.
 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 74.05 SCHEDULE III - ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   The following street or alley segments shall be designated as one-way:
Street or Alley Location Direction of Travel Ord. No. Date
Street or Alley      Location              Direction of Travel Ord. No. Date
Alley between lot 28
and lots 37 and 38
(between the hours
of 9:00 a.m. to 6:00
p.m. Mondays,
Tuesdays,                                  West                1982-10  4-5-82
Wednesdays,
Thursdays and
Saturdays, and
between 9:00 a.m. to
8:00 p.m. Fridays)
Broadway St.         Between George St.    West                2005-10  8-15-05
                     and Square St.
Second St.           Bridgeway to          East                - -      - -
                     Judiciary
Second St.           Between Main St. and  South               84-4     - -84
                     Judiciary St.
Square St.           Between Broadway St.  South               2005-10  8-15-05
                     and Johnson St.
Washington St.       Manchester St. to     East                - -      - -
                     Harrison
W. Fourth St.        R.R. crossing west to East                89-12    1- 90
                     R.R. crossing east
 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 74.06 SCHEDULE IV - STOP STREETS.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, all streets at the following
intersections shall be stop streets; and drivers of all vehicles shall stop as
required by state law before entering the described intersection:
Stop Street Cross Street Ord. No. Date
Stop Street                   Cross Street                    Ord. No. Date
Bridgeway Street              Third Street                    1980-24  12-1-80
Bridgeway Street              Second Street                   1980-24  12-1-80
Broadway Street               George Street                   1980-24  12-1-80
Center Street                 West Conwell Street             1980-24  12-1-80
Center Street                 Railroad Avenue (West)          1980-24  12-1-80
Center Street                 Railroad Avenue (East)          1980-24  12-1-80
Cochran Street                Railroad Avenue (West)          1980-24  12-1-80
Cottage Drive                 Hanover Avenue                  1980-24  12-1-80
David Drive                   Hillview Drive                  1980-24  12-1-80
Deborah Drive                 Woodlawn Avenue                 1980-24  12-1-80
Dewers Street                 Market Street                   1980-24  12-1-80
Dinah Drive                   Deborah Drive                   1980-24  12-1-80
Donna Drive                   Woodlawn Avenue                 1980-24  12-1-80
Exporting Street (Southbound
and turning Eastbound on      Conwell Street                  1997-7   9-8-97
Fourth Street)
Exporting Street (Southbound
and turning Eastbound on      Conwell Street                  1997-15  11-3-97
Fourth Street)
Exporting Street              Fourth Street                   1980-24  12-1-80
Exporting Street              Third Street                    1980-24  12-1-80
Farrar Drive                  Hillview Drive                  1980-24  12-1-80
Fifth Street                  Judiciary Street                1980-24  12-1-80
Fifth Street                  Main Street                     1980-24  12-1-80
Fifth Street                  Mechanic Street                 1980-24  12-1-80
Fifth Street                  Bridgeway Street                1980-24  12-1-80
Forest Street                 Indiana Avenue                  1980-24  12-1-80
Fourth Street                 Judiciary Street                1980-24  12-1-80
Fourth Street                 Main Street                     1980-24  12-1-80
Fourth Street                 Mechanic Street                 1980-24  12-1-80
Fourth Street                 Bridgeway Street                1980-24  12-1-80
Fourth Street                 Exporting Street                1980-24  12-1-80
Gaff Street                   West Conwell Street             1980-24  12-1-80
Harrison Avenue               Washington Street               1980-24  12-1-80
Henry Street                  Hanover Avenue                  1980-24  12-1-80
Hillcrest Road                Woodlawn Avenue                 1980-24  12-1-80
Indiana Avenue (Northbound)   US Route 50 access road         1980-24  12-1-80
Johnson Street                George Street                   1980-24  12-1-80
Langtree Street               Market Street                   1980-24  12-1-80
Lewis Street                  Hanover Street                  1980-24  12-1-80
Lewis Street                  Walker Avenue                   1980-24  12-1-80
Lincoln Street                West Conwell Street             1980-24  12-1-80
Lower Dillsboro Road          Indiana Road                    1980-24  12-1-80
Manchester Street             Moore Street                    1980-24  12-1-80
Mary Kay Lane                 Hillview Drive                  1980-24  12-1-80
Mechanic Street               Third Street                    1980-24  12-1-80
Mechanic Street               Second Street                   1980-24  12-1-80
Myrtle Lane                   Hillview Drive                  1980-24  12-1-80
Old West Conwell Street       West Conwell Street (Southside) 1992-18  1-4-93
(Westbound)
Park Avenue                   Manchester Street               1980-24  12-1-80
Park Avenue (Eastbound and    Richmond Street                 1996-13  11-4-96
Westbound)
Park Driveway (Northbound)    Park Avenue                     1980-24  12-1-80
Pattison Street               West Conwell Street             1980-24  12-1-80
Pattison Street               Railroad Avenue (East)          1980-24  12-1-80
Pleasant View Drive           Hilltop Drive                   1981-1   2-16-80
Pruyn Street (Eastbound)      West Conwell Street             1980-24  12-1-80
Pruyn Street                  Railroad Avenue (East)          1980-24  12-1-80
Railroad Avenue (East)        Indiana Avenue                  1980-24  12-1-80
Railroad Avenue (West)        Indiana Avenue                  1980-24  12-1-80
Richmond Street               Park Avenue                     1980-24  12-1-80
Ridge Avenue                  Maple Street                    1980-24  12-1-80
Second Street                 Exporting Street                1980-24  12-1-80
Second Street                 Bridgeway Street                1980-24  12-1-80
Second Street                 Mechanic Street                 1980-24  12-1-80
Second Street                 Judiciary Street                1980-24  12-1-80
Summit Drive                  Pleasantview Drive              1980-24  12-1-80
Sunset Drive                  Hilltop Drive                   1980-24  12-1-80
Third Street                  Exporting Street                1980-24  12-1-80
Upper Indiana Avenue          Lower Indiana Avenue            1980-24  12-1-80
Walker Avenue                 Westside Drive                  1980-24  12-1-80
Washington Street             Manchester Street               1980-24  12-1-80
West Fourth Street            Conwell Street                  1980-24  12-1-80
West Fourth Street            West Conwell Street             1980-24  12-1-80
West Moore Street             Hanover Avenue                  1980-24  12-1-80
Westside Drive (Eastbound)    Hanover Avenue                  1980-24  12-1-80
Woodlawn Avenue (Southwest-   Billingsley Drive               1980-24  12-1-80
bound)
Woodlawn Avenue               Buena Vista Avenue              1980-24  12-1-80
Woodlawn Avenue (Both         Deborah Drive                   1999-9   7-12-99
directions)
Woodlawn Avenue
(Eastbound-except for right   Billingsley Drive               1999-9   7-12-99
turns onto Billingsley Drive)
 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 74.07 SCHEDULE V - MULTI-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, all streets at the following
intersections shall be stop streets; and drivers of all vehicles shall stop as
required by state law before entering the described intersection:
 
Intersection                 Ord. No. Date
Bridgeway St. and Second St. - -      - -
Mechanic St. and Second St.  - -      - -
Mechanic St. and Third St.   2016-007 5-2-16
 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 74.08 SCHEDULE VI - YIELD STREETS.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, these streets at the following
intersections shall be yield streets; and drivers of all vehicles on these
streets shall yield the right-of-way as required by state law before entering
the described intersection:
Yield Street Cross Street Ord. No. Date
Yield Street    Cross Street            Ord. No. Date
Center Street   Forest Street           1980-24  12-1-80
Cochran Street  Forest Street           1980-24  12-1-80
Grant Street    Old West Conwell Street 1992-18  1-4-93
Hilltop Drive   Pleasant View Drive     1981-1   2-16-81
House Street    Richmond Street         1980-24  12-1-80
Railroad Avenue Gaff Street             1980-24  12-1-80
Sherman Street  Grant Street            1980-24  12-1-80
Winter Street   West Conwell Street     1980-24  12-1-80
                                               
 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 74.09 SCHEDULE VII - LOAD RESTRICTIONS.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall oper-ate any
vehicle with a gross weight in excess of the amounts specified at any time upon
any of the streets or parts of streets described as follows:
 
Street                 Location               Gross Weight Limit Ord. No. Date
George St.             Importing St. to       5 tons             - -      - -
                       Morrison St.
Fourth St. (Westbound) Water St. to Judiciary 4 tons             - -      - -
                       St.
 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 74.10 SCHEDULE VIII - TRUCK TRAFFIC PROHIBITED.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall operate any
truck with a gross weight in excess of 9,000 pounds, ex-cept that such
restrictions shall not prohibit the necessary local operation on such streets
for the purpose of picking up or deliver-ing materials. Trucks are restricted
from the following streets:
Street Location Ord. No. Date
Street                  Location                              Ord. No. Date
Dewers St. (Westbound)  Market St. to Fifth St.               - -      - -
Exporting St.           Third St. to Second St.               88-3     5-2-88
George St. (Northbound) Morrison St. to Johnson St.           - -      - -
Hilltop Dr.(Eastbound)  US Rte. 50 to Pleasant Dr.            - -      - -
Main Street             Between Importing St and Third Street 1997-2   2-3-97
Third St.               Exporting St. to Main St.             88-3     5-2-88
Woodlawn Avenue         In its entirety                       1992-17  11-2-92
 
Penalty, see § 70.99
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Parking prohibited at certain times
   
II.   Customer and visitor parking
   
III.   Loading zones
   
IV.   Angle parking permitted
SCHEDULE I. PARKING PROHIBITED AT CERTAIN TIMES.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall stand or park
a vehicle during the hours and days specified within the district or upon any
of the streets described as follows:
Street Side Location When Restricted Ord. No. Date
Street        Side   Location       When           Ord. No.             Date
                                    Restricted
Aspen Ridge   Both                  all times      2004-01      2-16-04
Center St.    East   Franklin St.   all times      - -                  - -
                     to North end
                     Exporting St.
Fourth St.    North  to 1/4 block   all times      - -                  - -
                     East
George St.    West   Johnson St. to all times      - -                  - -
                     Morrison St.
                     Sherman St. to
Grant St.     East   1/4 block      all times      - -                  - -
                     North
Hanover Ave.  East   Westside Dr.   all times      - -                  - -
                     to North end
Harrison St.  North  Harrison Ave.  all times      - -                  - -
                     to US Rte. 50
Harrison Ave. West   Harrison St.   all times      - -                  - -
                     to SR 148
Henry St.     South  Hanover Ave.   all times      - -                  - -
                     to Walker Ave.
                     block South of
                     Sycamore St.
Indiana Ave.  East   to 1/4 block   all times      - -                  - -
                     South of
                     Sycamore St.
Judiciary St. East   Importing St.  all times      - -                  - -
                     to Second St.
                     Importing St.
Judiciary St. West   to 1/4 block   all times      - -                  - -
                     South
Manchester    East   Washington St. all times      - -                  - -
St.                  to Moore St.
                     block West of
                     House St. to
Park Ave.     North  1/4 block East all times      - -                  - -
                     of Richmond
                     St.
                     Richmond St.
Park Ave.     South  to 1/4 block   all times      - -                  - -
                     East
Park Circular Inside West, S.W. &   all times      - -                  - -
Dr.                  South Portion
                     1/4 block
                     South of W.
Pruyn St.     West   Conwell St. to all times      - -                  - -
                     block South of
                     W. Conwell St.
Railroad Ave.        Indiana Ave.
(S.)          South  to 1/4 block   all times      - -                  - -
                     East
Richmond St.  West   Sunnyside Ave. all times      - -                  - -
                     to block South
                     1/3 block East
                     of Exporting
Third St.     North  St. to block   all times      - -                  - -
                     East of
                     Exporting St.
                     1/3 block East
                     of Main St. to
Third St.     North  1/3 block West school days    - -                  - -
                     of Judiciary
                     St.
                     Mechanic St.   2:00 pm-3:00
Third St.     North  to 1/4 block   pm school days - -                  - -
                     East
Washington           Manchester St.
St.           South  to Harrison    all times      - -                  - -
                     Ave.
                     1/4 block West
West Conwell  South  of 4th St to   all times      - -                  - -
St.                  block West of
                     4th St.
West Conwell  North  Lincoln St. to 7:00 a.m.-5:00 - -                  - -
St.                  block East     p.m.
West Conwell  North  Lincoln St. to all times      - -                  - -
St.                  block West
                     block East of
West Conwell  South  Center St. to  all times      - -                  - -
St.                  1/4 West of
                     Pruyn St.
                     Between Walker
Westside Dr.  North  Ave. and       all times      1989-2               1-23-89
                     Hanover Ave.
 
Penalty, see § 72.99
SCHEDULE II. CUSTOMER AND VISITOR PARKING.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, parking shall be limited to
customers and visitors in designated area during specified times and days, if
any, within the district or upon any of the streets described as follows:
Street Side Location Time Limit When Restricted Ord. No. Date
Street        Side  Location        Time Limit When Restricted Ord. No. Date
Bridgeway           Importing to               9:00 a.m. - 5:
Avenue        Both  3rd             2 hours    00 p.m. Monday  86-4     7-7-86
                                               thru Saturday
Exporting                                      9:00 a.m. - 5:
Street        East  2nd to 3rd      2 hours    00 p.m. Monday  86-4     7-7-86
                                               thru Saturday
Exporting           3rd to1/2 block            9:00 a.m. - 5:
Street        Both  South           2 hours    00 p.m. Monday  86-4     7-7-86
                                               thru Saturday
Judiciary           2nd to 1/                  9:00 a.m. - 5:
Street        West  2 block North   2 hours    00 p.m. Monday  86-4     7-7-86
                                               thru Saturday
Judiciary                                      9:00 a.m. - 5:
Street        Both  2nd to 3rd      2 hours    00 p.m. Monday  86-4     7-7-86
                                               thru Saturday
                    1/2 block North            9:00 a.m. - 5:
Main Street   West  of 2nd to 1/    2 hours    00 p.m. Monday  86-4     7-7-86
                    2 block                    thru Saturday
                    Importing to 1/            9:00 a.m. - 5:
Main Street   East  2 block south   2 hours    00 p.m. Monday  86-4     7-7-86
                    of 3rd                     thru Saturday
Mechanic            Importing to               9:00 a.m. - 5:
Street        East  3rd             2 hours    00 p.m. Monday  86-4     7-7-86
                                               thru Saturday
Mechanic            1/2 block North            9:00 a.m. - 5:
Street        West  of 2nd to 3rd   2 hours    00 p.m. Monday  86-4     7-7-86
                                               thru Saturday
                    Judiciary to               9:00 a.m. - 5:
Second Street Both  Exporting       2 hours    00 p.m. Monday  86-4     7-7-86
                                               thru Saturday
                    Main to                    9:00 a.m. - 5:
Third Street  North Exporting       2 hours    00 p.m. Monday  86-4     7-7-86
                                               thru Saturday
                    Bridgeway to
                    the alley on               9:00 a.m. - 5:
Third Street  South the West side   12 minutes 00 p.m. Monday  86-4     7-7-86
                    of the U.S.                thru Saturday
                    Post Office
                    From alley on
                    west side of               9:00 a.m. - 5:
Third Street  South U.S. Post       2 hours    00 p.m. Monday  86-4     7-7-86
                    Office to                  thru Saturday
                    Exporting
                    Main to                    9:00 a.m. - 5:
Third Street  South Broadway        2 hours    00 p.m. Monday  86-4     7-7-86
                                               thru Saturday
                    Judiciary to 1/            9:00 a.m. - 5:
Third Street  Both  4 block East    2 hours    00 p.m. Monday  86-4     7-7-86
                                               thru Saturday
Third Street  South Post Office     15 minutes all times       - -      - -
 
Penalty, see § 72.99
SCHEDULE III. LOADING ZONES.
   The Common Council is hereby authorized to determine the location of loading
zones and shall place and maintain appropriate signs indicat-ing the same and
stating the hours and days during which the provisions of this section are
applicable. Loading zones shall be established at the following locations:
 
Street         Side  Location                   When Applicable Ord. No. Date
Bridgeway Ave. East  1/4 block North of 3rd St. all times       - -      - -
Second St.     South 1/4 block East of Main St. all times       - -      - -
Third St.      South 1 parking space            all times       - -      - -
 
Penalty, see § 72.99
SCHEDULE IV. ANGLE PARKING PERMITTED.
   The following streets shall be designated to permit angle parking:
Street Side Location Ord. No. Date
Street         Side  Location                      Ord. No. Date
Bridgeway Ave. East  Importing St. to 3rd St.      - -      - -
Broadway St.   Both  George St. to Square St.      - -      - -
Fourth St.     North Judiciary St. to Mechanic St. - -      - -
Judiciary St.  East  3rd St. to 4th St.            - -      - -
Main St.       East  3rd St. to 4th St.            - -      - -
Mechanic St.   West  block North of 2nd to 4th St. - -      - -
Second St.     Both  Main St. to Judiciary St.     84-4     - -84
 
CHAPTER 76: EQUIPMENT VIOLATIONS
Section
   
76.01   Bumpers
   
76.02   Audible horns
   
76.03   Head lamps and tail lamps
   
76.04   Mufflers
   
76.05   Excessive fumes or smoke
   
76.06   Windshield wipers
§ 76.01 BUMPERS.
   When operated upon city roads/streets/alleys/drives, a vehicle that was
originally equipped with bumpers as standard equipment must be so equipped. The
bumper height may not vary more than three inches from the original
manufactured bumper height for the vehicle.
(Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 76.02 AUDIBLE HORNS.
   When operated upon city roads/streets/alleys/drives, a vehicle must be
equipped with a horn in good working order and capable of emitting sound
audible under normal conditions from a distance of not less than 200 feet and
must be used when reasonably necessary to ensure safe operation to give audible
warning. However, a horn or other warning device may not emit an unreasonably
loud or harsh sound or a whistle or be used as a nuisance.
(Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 76.03 HEAD LAMPS AND TAIL LAMPS.
   (A)   A vehicle other than a motorcycle or motor-driven cycle must be
equipped with at least two head lamps and two tail lamps in proper working
order, with at least one of the head lamps on each side of the front of the
vehicle and with at least one of the tail lamps on each side of the rear of the
vehicle.
   (B)   A motorcycle and motor-driven cycle must be equipped with at least one
and not more than two head lamps unless the motorcycle was manufactured before
January 1, 1956, is not required to be equipped with a head lamp and the
motorcycle is not operated at the times when lighted head lamps and other
illuminating devices are needed.
   (C)   Head lamps and tail lamps shall be used from dusk until dawn, when
illumination is needed, and during other times that conditions warrant (such as
during storms).
   (D)   Either a tail lamp or a separate lamp must be placed and constructed
so as to illuminate the rear registration plate with a white light and make the
plate clearly legible from a distance of 50 feet to the rear. A tail lamp or
tail lamps, together with a separate lamp for illuminating the rear
registration plate, must be wired so as to be lighted whenever the head lamps
or auxiliary driving lamps are lighted.
(Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 76.04 MUFFLERS.
   A vehicle must be equipped with a muffler or other noise dissipative device
that is in good working order to prevent excessive noise and is free from
visually discernible exhaust gas leaks and deterioration of muffler elements.
(Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 76.05 EXCESSIVE FUMES OR SMOKE.
   The engine and power mechanism of a vehicle must be equipped and adjusted so
as to prevent the escape of excessive fumes or smoke.
(Ord. 2006-09, passed 4-17-06)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 76.06 WINDSHIELD WIPERS.
   Each vehicle with a windshield must be equipped with a device in good
working order for cleaning rain, snow, or other moisture from the windshield.
The device must be constructed to be controlled or operated by the driver of
the vehicle.
(Ord. 2006-0-9, passed 4-17-06)
Penalty, see § 70.99
CHAPTER 77: MOTORIZED CARTS AND OTHER SIMILAR DEVICES
Section
Motorized Carts and Other Similar Devices
   
77.01   Definitions
   
77.02   Operations and limitations
   
77.03   Registration
   
77.04   Financial responsibility required
   
77.05   Exceptions
   
77.06   Enforcement
 
   
77.99   Penalty
MOTORIZED CARTS AND OTHER SIMILAR DEVICES
§ 77.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTORIZED CARTS.
      (1)   A conveyance that is:
         (a)   Motor driven, either by gas or electricity;
         (b)   Used to carry passengers or equipment; and
         (c)   Smaller than the types of motor vehicles required to be
registered by the Bureau of Motor Vehicles such as a:
            1.   Passenger motor vehicle (as defined in IC 9-13-2-123);
            2.   Recreational vehicle (as defined in IC 9-13-2-150); or
            3.   Truck (as defined in IC 9-13-2-188).
      (2)   A motorized cart may be characterized as a golf cart, utility cart,
or similar form of motor vehicle.
      (3)   The term does not include:
         (a)   An electric personal assistive mobility device (as defined in IC
9-13-2-49.3);
         (b)   A motorcycle (as defined in IC 9-13-2-108);
         (c)   A motor scooter (as defined in IC 9-13-2-104);
         (d)   A motorized bicycle (as defined in IC 9-13-2-109); or
         (e)   An off-road vehicle.
(Ord. 2020-007, passed 10-13-20)
§ 77.02 OPERATIONS AND LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Motorized carts may only be operated within the corporate limits of
Aurora by:
      (1)   An individual that holds a valid driver's license; or
      (2)   An individual that is at least 16 years and 180 days of age and
holds either:
         (a)   An identification card issued under IC 9-24-16; or
         (b)   A photo exempt identification card issued under IC 9-24-16.5.
   (B)   No person shall be permitted to operate a motorized cart on any public
street within the corporate limits of the city unless authorized to do so under
divisions (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section.
   (C)   No person whose driving privileges are suspended shall be permitted to
operate a motorized cart on any public street within the corporate limits of
the city.
   (D)   A person may not register a motorized cart or operate a motorized cart
on a public highway in Aurora if financial responsibility is not in effect with
respect to the motorized cart in accordance with §
77.05.
   (E)   All operators of motorized carts shall abide by all traffic
regulations applicable to vehicular traffic.
   (F)   Motorized carts shall not be operated on sidewalks or in city parks
other than in parking areas or recognized vehicle traffic areas.
   (G)   Motorized carts shall be operated only if such carts are equipped with
functional headlights, taillights, brake lights, and turn signals.
   (H)   Motorized carts may not traverse streets and highways under the
jurisdiction of the Indiana Department of Transportation.
   (I)   These streets include:
      (1)   U.S. 50 / Green Boulevard;
      (2)   S.R. 56 / Decatur Street / Judiciary Street / Water Street;
      (3)   S.R. 148 / Sunnyside Avenue; or
      (4)   S.R. 350.
   (J)   The operation of a motorized cart upon authorized streets in
compliance with this chapter and all other applicable traffic laws and
regulations is permitted between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., local
time.
   (K)   All persons who operate or ride motorized carts on city streets do so
at their own peril. Aurora assumes no liability for the operation of golf carts
within the city based upon this chapter.
(Ord. 2020-007, passed 10-13-20) Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.03 REGISTRATION.
   Before any motorized cart may be operated within the corporate limits of
Aurora, a person shall bring documentation setting forth a description of said
cart, along with said cart, to the Aurora Police Department to complete a
motorized cart checklist and confirm the working order of said cart. Once the
checklist is completed and signed by an officer, the person shall bring the
completed checklist to the Clerk-Treasurer's office, along with proof of
financial responsibility and payment of $25. The Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a
decal to be applied to the rear of such cart so as to be plainly visible. The
decal, when issued, shall be non-transferable from the cart for which it is
issued. The registration shall be effective for the year in which the
registration is completed and for the following year on December 31 thereafter.
Upon expiration of the registration, the owner of the cart shall be required to
follow the procedure outlined in this section in order to re-register their
cart and obtain a new decal.
(Ord. 2020-007, passed 10-13-20) Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.04 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate a motorized cart within the city without financial
responsibility. Financial responsibility is in effect if a motor vehicle
insurance policy is in effect with respect to the vehicle, with minimum amounts
of financial responsibility as follows:
   (A)   Twenty-five thousand dollars for bodily injury to or the death of one
individual;
   (B)   Fifty thousand dollars for bodily injury or the death of two or more
individuals in any one accident; and
   (C)   Ten thousand dollars for damage to or the destruction of property in
one accident.
(Ord. 2020-007, passed 10-13-20) Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.05 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall apply to any self-propelled, two-wheeled
vehicle.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall apply to motorized carts operated by the
city or carts being operated for special events with permission of the Mayor or
Chief of Police.
(Ord. 2020-007, passed 10-13-20)
§ 77.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Aurora Police Department shall be charged with enforcement of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2020-007, passed 10-13-20)
§ 77.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates this chapter shall be subject to a fine of $50
for the first violation in a calendar year and $100 for the second violation in
a calendar year. All fines collected hereunder shall be deposited in the
general fund of the city. If a person is cited for a violation of this chapter
for a third time in any calendar year, he or she shall be subject to a fine of
$200 and the registration for the golf cart the person was operating at the
time of the citation and the registration for any golf cart registered by that
person shall be revoked and the golf cart(s) may not be re-registered for a
period of one year.
   (B)   A further violation of this chapter may be subject to a fine as set
forth under §
10.99 of the Aurora Municipal Code.
(Ord. 2020-007, passed 10-13-20)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   ABANDONED VEHICLES; JUNK YARDS
         
91.   ANIMALS
         
92.   FIRE PREVENTION
         
93.   NUISANCES
         
94.   PARKS AND RECREATION
         
95.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
         
96.   GARAGE SALES; PORCH SALES; YARD SALES
         
97.   FAIR HOUSING
         
98.   RIVERBOATS
         
99.   RENTAL REGISTRATION AND INSPECTION PROGRAM
         
100.   VACANT AND ABANDONED BUILDING REGISTRATION AND MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED VEHICLES; JUNK YARDS
Section
Abandoned Vehicles
   
90.01   State law adopted
   
90.02   Public agency named
   
90.03   Definitions
   
90.04   Exceptions
   
90.05   Responsibility of owner
   
90.06   Vehicles in possession of person other than owner
   
90.07   Removal of abandoned vehicles
   
90.08   Disposal of abandoned vehicles
   
90.09   Maximum towing and storage charges
   
90.10   Towing contracts
   
90.11   Liability for loss or damage
   
90.12   Abandoned vehicle account
Junk Yards
   
90.20   Definitions
   
90.21   Conformance
   
90.22   Physical requirements
   
90.23   Violation shall constitute nuisance
   
90.24   Junk dealers; license required; fee
   
90.25   Register of purchases from minors
ABANDONED VEHICLES
§ 90.01 STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   All terms and provisions of the state abandoned vehicle provisions, IC 9-22-
1-1 through 9-22-1-32, are hereby adopted as applicable to and within the
corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 91-3, passed 5-6-91)
§ 90.02 PUBLIC AGENCY NAMED.
   The Police Department is hereby assigned the responsibility for removal,
storage, disposal of abandoned vehicles as a public agency, as that term is
used and defined in IC 9-22-1-3.
(Ord. 91-3, passed 5-6-91)
§ 90.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.
      (1)   A vehicle located on public property illegally.
      (2)   A vehicle left on public property continuously without being moved
for three days.
      (3)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without the consent
of the owner or person in control of that property for more than 48 hours.
      (4)   A vehicle from which there has been removed the engine,
transmission, or differential or that is otherwise partially dismantled or
inoperable and left on public property.
      (5)   A vehicle that has been removed by an authorized towing service
upon request of an officer enforcing a statute or ordinance other than this
ordinance if the vehicle once impounded is not claimed or redeemed by the owner
or his agent within 15 days of its removal.
      (6)   A vehicle that is six or more model years old and mechanically
inoperable, and is left on private property continuously in a location visible
from public property for more than 30 days.
   AUTHORIZED TOWING SERVICE. A qualified business that engages in moving or
removing disabled vehicles, using a heavy equipment hauler if necessary, and,
once removed, stores or impounds vehicles, and that has been requested by the
Police Department or City Code Enforcement Authority to tow vehicles.
   AUTOMOBILE SCRAP YARD. A business organized for the purpose of scrap metal
processing, automobile wrecking, or operating a junk yard.
   BUREAU. The Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
   OFFICER. A member of the City Police Department.
   OWNER. That last known record title holder of a vehicle according to the
records of the Bureau under IC 9-17-2-1.
   PARTS. All components of a vehicle that as assembled do not constitute a
complete vehicle.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. All property other than public property.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. A public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park, or
other state, county or municipal property.
   VEHICLE. An automobile, motorcycle, truck, trailer, semi- trailer, tractor,
bus, school bus, recreational vehicle, motorized bicycle, boat, watercraft,
boat trailer, watercraft trailer, mobile home, or mobile home trailer.
(Ord. 91-3, passed 5-6-91; Am. Ord. 2015-001, passed 2-2-15)
§ 90.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter does not apply to the following:
   (A)   A vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or constructed
for operation on privately owned raceways.
   (B)   A vehicle stored as the property of a member of the Armed Forces of
the United States who is on active duty assignment.
   (C)   A vehicle located on a vehicle sale lot or at a commercial vehicle
servicing facility.
   (D)   A vehicle located upon property licensed or zoned as an automobile
scrap yard.
   (E)   A vehicle registered and licensed under IC 9-18-12 as an antique
vehicle.
   (F)   A vehicle in operable condition stored seasonally on commercial
property specifically used for seasonal storage of vehicles, such as a boat
marina. However, no such vehicle shall be stored continuously in an inoperable
condition, viewable from public property or a public highway or street, for any
period lasting longer than ten continuous months.
(Ord. 91-3, passed 5-6-91; Am. Ord. 2015-001, passed 2-2-15)
§ 90.05 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER.
   The owner of an abandoned vehicle is responsible for the abandonment and is
liable for all of the costs incidental to the removal, storage, and disposal of
the vehicle or its parts.
(Ord. 91-3, passed 5-6-91)
§ 90.06 VEHICLES IN POSSESSION OF PERSON OTHER THAN OWNER.
   (A)   When an officer discovers a vehicle in the possession of a person
other than the owner and the person cannot establish his right to the
possession of that vehicle, the vehicle shall be taken to and stored in a
suitable place. The Bureau of Motor Vehicles shall be notified within 72 hours
of the location and description of the vehicle. Upon receipt of notification,
the Bureau shall cause a search to be made to determine and notify the owner.
   (B)   If the owner of the vehicle cannot be determined, the Bureau shall
declare the vehicle abandoned and provide for its disposal in accordance with
this subchapter.
   (C)   If the properly identified owner or lien holder appears at the site of
the storage before disposal of the vehicle or parts and pays all proper costs
incurred against it at that time, then the vehicle or parts shall be released.
A copy of the release of all vehicles or parts shall be sent to the Bureau. The
release must contain the owner or lien holder's signature, name, address,
vehicle and parts description, costs and date of release.
   (D)   If a vehicle is not released to the owner or lien holder, the Bureau
shall declare the vehicle abandoned and provide for disposal in accordance with
this subchapter.
(Ord. 91-3, passed 5-6-91)
§ 90.07 REMOVAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   An officer who finds a vehicle or parts believed to be abandoned,
shall attach in a prominent place a notice tag containing the following
information:
      (1)   The date, time, officer's name, City Police Department and address
and telephone number to contact for information.
      (2)   That the vehicle or parts are considered abandoned.
      (3)   That the vehicle or parts will be removed after 72 hours.
      (4)   That the owner will be held responsible for all costs incidental to
the removal, storage and disposal of any such vehicle, and if not paid, the
owner’s registration privileges will be suspended on that vehicle.
      (5)   That the owner may avoid costs by removal of the vehicle or parts
within 72 hours.
   (B)   If the tagged vehicle or parts are not removed within that 72-hour
period, the officer shall prepare a written abandoned vehicle report of the
vehicle or parts including information on the conditions, missing parts, and
other facts that might substantiate that the market value is less than $100.
Photographs shall be taken to describe the condition of the vehicle or parts.
   (C)   If, in the opinion of the officer, the market value of the abandoned
vehicle or parts is less than $100, the officer shall immediately dispose of
the vehicle to an automobile scrap yard. A copy of the abandoned vehicle report
and photographs relating to the abandoned vehicle shall be forwarded to the
Bureau of Motor Vehicles. The Police Department shall retain the original
records and photographs for at least two years.
   (D)   If, in the opinion of the officer, the market value of the abandoned
vehicle or parts is $100 or more, the officer, before placing a notice tag on
the vehicle or parts, shall make a reasonable effort to ascertain the owner or
person who may be in control of the vehicle or parts. After 72 hours, the
officer shall require the vehicle or parts to be towed to the storage area.
(Ord. 91-3, passed 5-6-91; Am. Ord. 2015-001, passed 2-2-15)
§ 90.08 DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Within 72 hours after removal of an abandoned vehicle to a storage
area under this subchapter, the Police Department shall prepare and forward to
the Bureau of Motor Vehicles an abandoned vehicle report containing a
description of the vehicle including the make, model, engine number, if any,
identification number, and the number of the license plate, and request that
the Bureau advise the Police Department of the name and most recent mailing
address of the owner and any lien holder.
   (B)   The Bureau shall dispose of the vehicle in accordance with IC 9-22-1.
(Ord. 91-3, passed 5-6-91)
§ 90.09 MAXIMUM TOWING AND STORAGE CHARGES.
   Pursuant to the provisions of IC 9-22-1-21.5, IC 9-22-1-25 and IC 9-22-1-30,
the costs for removal and storage of an abandoned vehicle or parts not claimed
by the person who owns or holds a lien on a vehicle shall be paid from the
abandoned vehicle account established hereunder. The maximum charge payable to
an individual, a firm, a partnership, a limited liability company, or a
corporation that owns or holds a lien on a vehicle for providing towing,
storing, or removing an abandoned vehicle may not exceed $100 per standard tow,
or $250 per tow if special towing equipment is required, and $5 per day for
storage, not to exceed $500 total for storage.
(Ord. 91-3, passed 5-6-91; Am. Ord. 2014-019, passed 12-15-14)
§ 90.10 TOWING CONTRACTS.
   To facilitate the removal of abandoned vehicles or parts or vehicles
declared public nuisances, the city may enter into towing contracts or
agreements for the removal and storage of abandoned vehicles and parts.
(Ord. 91-3, passed 5-6-91)
§ 90.11 LIABILITY FOR LOSS OR DAMAGE.
   Neither the owner, lessee, or occupant of the property from which an
abandoned vehicle or parts are removed nor the Police Department, authorized
towing service, or automobile scrap yard, is liable for loss or damage to the
vehicle or parts occurring during its removal, storage or disposition.
(Ord. 91-3, passed 5-6-91)
§ 90.12 ABANDONED VEHICLE ACCOUNT.
   There is created a revolving fund which shall be known as the "Abandoned
Vehicle Account of the City of Aurora, Indiana" in accordance with IC 9-22-1-
30, and the Clerk-Treasurer is hereby directed to place all monies paid to the
city by owners for the cost of removal, storage and disposal of abandoned
vehicles in such fund.
(Ord. 91-3, passed 5-6-91)
JUNK YARDS
§ 90.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMOBILE SALVAGE YARD. Any establishment which is maintained, used or
operated for storing, keeping, buying, repairing or selling wrecked, scrapped,
ruined or dismantled vehicles or motor vehicles parts, including filling or
gasoline stations with five or more inoperative automobiles or vehicles upon
the premises of such business.
   JUNK YARD. Any establishment or place of business which is maintained,
operated or used for storing, keeping, buying or selling junk or for the
maintenance or operation of an automobile salvage yard. A junkyard includes,
but is not limited to, an open area where junk, waste, scrap, discarded or
salvaged materials are bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed,
disassembled, or handled, including but not limited to scrap iron and other
metals, papers, rags, rubber tires, bottles, and inoperable equipment or
machines or motor vehicles. A junkyard includes, but is not limited to,
automobile wrecking or salvage yards, house wrecking yards, used lumber yards
and places or yards for storage of salvaged house-wrecking and structural steel
materials and equipment, but does not include uses established entirely within
enclosed buildings or composting operations. The presence of constitute
evidence regarding the establishment of a junkyard. An automobile wrecking yard
is considered as a junkyard.
('74 Code, § 7-18) (Ord. 71-8, passed - -71; Am. Ord. 2016-003, passed 5-2-16)
§ 90.21 CONFORMANCE.
   No person shall locate, establish, conduct, maintain or engage in the
business of carrying on or keeping junk yards or automobile salvage yards,
either at wholesale or retail, unless such business be conducted in conformity
with the provisions of this subchapter, and all other applicable laws of the
city or state.
('74 Code, § 7-19) (Ord. 71-8, passed - -71)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.22 PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No person shall establish, conduct or maintain any junkyard or automobile
salvage yard within the city, unless the property be enclosed by board, brick,
metal or concrete fence not less than eight feet in height and built in such a
manner as to hide such junk and salvage from view. All doors or gates to such
yard shall be the same height as the fence, shall be constructed of either
solid wood or metal and shall swing so as not to project beyond the property
line.
('74 Code, § 7-20) (Ord. 71-8, passed - -71; Ord. 71-26, passed - -71)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.23 VIOLATION SHALL CONSTITUTE NUISANCE.
   A violation of this subchapter shall constitute an actionable nuisance
maintainable by the city or any of its citizens.
('74 Code, § 7-21) (Ord. 71-8, passed - -71)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.24 JUNK DEALERS; LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to buy or sell junk or operate a
junkyard, as defined by §
90.20 within the corporate limits without first obtaining a license from the
city. ('74 Code, § 7-15) (Ord. 200, passed - - )
   (B)   The license fee shall be $25 per year, payable on the day such license
is issued. ('74 Code, § 7-16) (Ord. 200, passed - -)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.25 REGISTER OF PURCHASES FROM MINORS.
   Junk dealers shall keep a record ledger of purchases made from minors
pursuant to state law.
('74 Code, § 7-17) (Ord. 200, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Keeping of livestock
Dogs
   
91.10   Fees for reclaiming captured dogs
   
91.11   Dog waste disposal
   
91.12   Dogs required to be secured
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 KEEPING OF LIVESTOCK.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to have, keep or harbor any hog or
swine, horses, cattle or other livestock of any kind within 300 feet of any
building, house, hotel, boardinghouse. store room, business house or occupied
building within the corporate limits of the city.
('74 Code, § 3-1) (Ord. 57, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
DOGS
§ 91.10 FEES FOR RECLAIMING CAPTURED DOGS.
   (A)   Any person who reclaims any dog captured by the city dog warden shall
pay to the city the sum of $5 upon the first reclamation.
   (B)   Any person who subsequently reclaims any dog again captured by the
city dog warden shall pay to the city the sum of $10 upon each reclamation
subsequent to the first reclamation.
('74 Code, § 3-2) (Ord. 74-3, - - )
§ 91.11 DOG WASTE DISPOSAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, or dog walker to allow their
dogs waste to remain on public property. Each person, owner or dog walker must
promptly remove the dogs waste from public areas, parks, roads, and sidewalks,
and dispose of it properly. Dog waste is not permitted to accumulate in private
yards so that it causes a nuisance or health hazard.
(Ord. 2006-02, passed 3-20-06)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.12 DOGS REQUIRED TO BE SECURED.
   It shall be unlawful for any persons dog to be loose or allowed to run loose
within the corporate limits of the city. All dogs are required to be kept on a
secure leash or kept secured by fencing.
(Ord. 2006-03, passed 3-20-06)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of §
91.11 or §
91.12 shall result in a $50 fine for the first occurrence. Subsequent
occurrences shall be fined in accordance with §
10.99. Each violation will be considered a separate occurrence.
(Ord. 2006-02, passed 3-20-06)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
   
92.01   Designation of chapter
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Open burning is prohibited
   
92.04   Fire pits
   
92.05   Fee for permit
   
92.06   Enforceability
   
92.07   Liability
Editor's Note:
   For further provisions concerning fire prevention and building safety
regulations, see
Chapter 150.
§ 92.01 DESIGNATION OF CHAPTER.
   This chapter shall be known and designated as the “Fire Prevention”
Ordinance.
(Ord. 2000-7, passed 10-11-00; Am. Ord. 2021-004, passed 6-14-21)
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   BARBEQUE PIT, SMOKER, OR GRILL. A stationary or portable device, with either
electric, gas, wood, or charcoal fuel, which is used for the preparation of
food and is allowed by code, but not within or on balconies of any apartment
complex or within the Fire Zone Limit as defined and described in §
150.60 of the city code, without first obtaining a permit as outlined in this
chapter.
   FIRE PIT REGULATIONS. Regulating governing the use of fire pits and outdoor
fireplaces to ensure safety, prevent fires and minimize nuisance to neighbors.
   FIRE PITS. A permanently affixed or portable outdoor fire receptacle, which
is made of metal, wire, or masonry and is designed to impede the spread of
fire.
   OPEN BURNS. Any fire or smoke-producing activity that is conducted for use
of disposing of materials in a place other than an indoor or outdoor fireplace;
fire pit; or barbeque pit, smoker, or grill.
   OUTDOOR FIREPLACE. An enclosed and permanently affixed outdoor fire
receptacle, which incorporates affixed chimney or flue, and is constructed of
brick, rock, or other masonry.
(Ord. 2000-7, passed 10-11-00; Am. Ord. 2021-004, passed 6-14-21)
§ 92.03 OPEN BURNING IS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Open burns are prohibited unless a permit is obtained from the Fire
Chief or, in his or her absence, an appointed representative.
   (B)   Upon obtaining a permit, open burns shall be limited to the following
specifications:
      (1)   Only limbs, natural growth and other vegetative materials are
permitted to be burned, except for treated lumber (pressure treated railroad
ties).
      (2)   Open burns of vegetative matter grown on the premises in the course
of agricultural operations, when it can be shown that such open burning is
necessary and that no fire hazard will occur, provided the person intending to
dispose of vegetative matter by open burning obtains approval from the Fire
Department which has jurisdiction.
      (3)   Open burns are only permitted during favorable weather conditions
at the discretion of the Fire Chief and/or his or her officers.
      (4)   Open burns must be at least 50 feet from any structure or trees.
      (5)   The Fire Chief or his/her officers can terminate any open burn at
any time, if the Fire Chief of an officer determines in his/her sole discretion
that the open burn is a nuisance to other residents or poses a danger.
      (6)   All open burns must be attended to at all times by an adult with a
reliable water source, shovel, fire extinguisher or other approved fire
extinguishing close at hand.
   (C)   Burning of any fuels, plastics, garbage, or other non- vegetative
based material is prohibited.
   (D)   Permits for open burns must be kept at hand with the attendee of the
burn on the premises.
   (E)   The Fire Chief has discretion to issue burn permits for open burns
that violate this section under special circumstances (i.e. ceremonies, school
events, etc.).
   (F)   No person shall start, kindle, cause, allow or maintain any form of
open burning of fuels, materials, rubbish, or trash burning on private or
public property, except if specifically authorized by this code.
   (G)   No person shall burn or cause to be burned any leaves, grass, tree
limbs, branches, paper, rubbish or trash upon any street, alley, or sidewalk
within the city.
(Ord. 2000-7, passed 10-11-00; Am. Ord. 2021-004, passed 6-14-21)
§ 92.04 FIRE PITS.
   (A)   The use of fire pits and outdoor fireplaces (collectively “fire pits”
hereafter) are to conform with the following regulations:
      (1)   Fire pits cannot be used between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and noon.
      (2)   The fire must be contained in a non-combustible receptacle made of
cement, block, rock, brick, clay, or sheet metal with a minimum 18 gauge
thickness.
      (3)   The fire box must be covered with heavy gauge metal screen with
openings not larger than 13 mm (½ inch) to contain spark.
      (4)   The size of the fire box shall not exceed 40 inches in any
dimension.
      (5)   The fire pit must be located a minimum of 50 feet from any
combustible material, such as buildings, porches, and decks.
      (6)   The use of the fire pit shall not cause any building fire alarm
system to activate.
      (7)   Fire pits cannot be placed on combustible decks or apartment
balconies.
      (8)   Fire pits must be situated on a non-combustible surface.
      (9)   Fire pits shall be clear of overhangs, such as tree branches,
utility lines and structures, including tents and canopies.
      (10)   Fire pits must be attended and supervised by a competent adult
property owner/resident/tenant until the fire has been completely extinguished.
A legal resident/tenant of a property may use a fire pit in accordance with
this section as long as the property owner or assigned management company
grants written permission to the legal resident/tenant.
      (11)   Any person who uses a fire pit shall have means of extinguishing
the fire readily accessible at all times.
      (12)   The only permitted fuels are charcoal, seasoned firewood or
manufactured logs.
      (13)   Materials that cannot be burned include, but are not limited to:
waste including rubbish or scrap, slimes, manure, treated or painted lumber,
livestock or animal carcasses, tailings, garbage, garden refuse or scrap, any
hazardous material or dangerous good, or any material that generates black
smoke or an offensive odor, including insulation from electrical wiring, rubber
tires, asphalt shingles, hydrocarbons, plastics, and lumber treated with wood
preservatives.
      (14)   Fire pits shall not be used in windy conditions where wind speed
exceeds 15 miles per hour.
      (15)   In the event the Fire Chief, County Commissioners, or State Fire
Marshal issues a burn ban, the use of the fire pits will be prohibited.
   (B)   Fire pits shall not be permitted within the Fire Zone Limit, as
defined and described in §
150.60 of the city code, without first obtaining a permit as outlined in this
chapter.
(Ord. 2021-004, passed 6-14-21)
§ 92.05 FEE FOR PERMIT.
   Any person applying for and being approved a permit under this chapter shall
pay a fee of $5 prior to the issuance of each and every permit. The fees shall
be deposited into the Fire Department Permit Fund, which is hereby established
for the deposit of such fees.
(Ord. 2000-7, passed 10-11-00; Am. Ord. 2021-004, passed 6-14-21)
§ 92.06 ENFORCEABILITY.
   The Fire Prevention ordinances are enforceable by the Aurora Police
Department and the Aurora Fire Department within the city, acting on their own
initiative or at the request of the Mayor or Common Council.
(Ord. 2021-004, passed 6-14-21)
§ 92.07 LIABILITY.
   (A)   Anyone who recklessly, knowingly, or intentionally kindles, or
maintains any open burning consisting of a trash fire, leaf fire, bonfire,
refuse fire, or other open burning that damages property of another person or
spreads to property of another person may be liable for criminal mischief.
   (B)   Any person who allows the accumulation or existence of combustible
material which constitutes or contributes to open burning may not refute
liability for violation of this chapter on the basis that said fire was set by
vandals, accidental, or act of God.
   (C)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter or fails
to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply with any order made
hereunder shall be fined a sum not less than $25 nor more than $75. Any person
who violates any of the provisions of this chapter or fails to comply
therewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply with any order made
hereunder, and who has a previous violation of this chapter within one year of
the date of the second or subsequent violation, shall be fined a sum of not
less than $100 and not more than $1,000.
(Ord. 2000-7, passed 10-11-00; Am. Ord. 2021-004, passed 6-14-21)
CHAPTER 93: NUISANCES
Section
Removal of Weeds and Rank Vegetation
   
93.01   Definitions; exclusions
   
93.02   Owners responsible for trimming, removal and the like
   
93.03   Filing complaint
   
93.04   Notice of violations
   
93.05   Appeals
   
93.06   Abatement by city
   
93.07   Liability
Junk and Rubbish
   
93.10   Definitions
   
93.11   Depositing, storing prohibited
   
93.12   Enforcement procedure
Noise
   
93.20   Designation of subchapter
   
93.21   Definitions
   
93.22   Unlawful noises prohibited
   
93.23   Exemptions
Motorized Vehicles and Scooters
   
93.30   Prohibited on bike trail and parks
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Removal of weeds and rank vegetation, see IC 36-7-10.1
REMOVAL OF WEEDS AND RANK VEGETATION
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS; EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DESTRUCTION ORDER.  The notice served by the enforcement authority on the
property owner of the ordinance violation.
      ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY. The Code Enforcement Officer, the Dearborn County
Planning Department, the City Manager, or any agent appointed by the Mayor.
      PROPERTY OWNER.  The person occupying the property, the holder of legal
title or a person having control over the property of another, such as a right-
of-way, easement, license or lease.
      RANK VEGETATION. The uncontrolled, uncultivated growth of annuals and
perennial plants.
      WEEDS, GRASSES. Includes Canada thistle, thistles, Johnson grass,
sorghum, alum (i.e., allium), bur cucumber, bluegrasses, rye grasses, fescue
grasses, and shattercane, but shall not include shrubs, trees, cultivated
plants or crops.
   (B)   In no event shall cultivated plants or crops include plants that have
been defined by state statute or administrative rule as being noxious or
detrimental plants.
   (C)   The Indiana Cooperative Extension Service shall be the referenced
technical authority for the enforcement authority with respect to the
definition of exempt matters, shrubs, trees, cultivated plants and crops.
(Ord. 2005-06, passed 6-20-05; Am. Ord. 2013-003, passed 4-1-13; Am. Ord. 2015-
005, passed 6-1-15; Am. Ord. 2021-06, passed 10-12-21)
§ 93.02 OWNERS RESPONSIBLE FOR TRIMMING, REMOVAL AND THE LIKE.
   All property owners within the corporate limits of the city shall be
required and be financially responsible for the removal, cutting, or disposal
and elimination of weeds, grasses and rank vegetation or other uncontrolled
plant growth on their property, which at the time of notice, is in excess of
seven inches in height, on at least 15% of the surface of the property.
(Ord. 2005-06, passed 6-20-05; Am. Ord. 2015-005, passed 6-1-15)
§ 93.03 FILING COMPLAINT.
   Any person, including the City of Aurora officials/employees, who believes
there is property located within the corporate limits of the city that has
growing plant matter in violation of this subchapter, shall make a written
complaint signed, dated and filed with the enforcement authority and City
Clerk-Treasurer. If the city makes the complaint, an employee, officer or
Councilmember of the city shall file the complaint in all respects as set out
above.
(Ord. 2005-06, passed 6-20-05; Am. Ord. 2015-005, passed 6-1-15)
§ 93.04 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upon receiving notice of the probable existence of weeds in violation
of this subchapter, a person designated by the enforcement authority shall make
an inspection and prepare a written report to the enforcement authority
regarding the condition. The enforcement authority, upon concluding that there
is a probable belief that this subchapter has been violated, shall forward
written notification in the form of a “Destruction Order” to the property owner
and/or the person occupying the property as that information is contained
within the records of the city or any other city agency. Such notice shall be
served in writing by hand delivery or by first-class mail to the property owner
and the owner of record of real property with a single owner, or at least one
of the owners of real property with multiple owners, at the last address of the
owner for the property, as indicated in the records of the County Auditor on
the date of the notice. The notice shall provide that, within five calendar
days after the filing of the notice, the designated violation shall be removed
by the property owner and/or person occupying the property.
   (B)   (1)   All notices are to be in writing and all filings are to be with
the enforcement authority and the City Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   First-class mailing or hand delivery to the property owner, along
with filing with the enforcement authority and the City Clerk-Treasurer, is
deemed filed on the date of posting to the United States Postal Service, or
upon hand delivery, and filing with the enforcement authority and City Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (C)   If an initial notice of the violation of this section is provided by
first-class mail, a continuous abatement notice may be posted at the property
at the time of abatement, instead of by future first-class mail. A continuous
abatement notice serves as notice to the real property owner that each
subsequent violation during the same year for which the initial notice of the
violation was provided may be abated by the city or its contractors.
(Ord. 2005-06, passed 6-20-05; Am. Ord. 2012-005, passed 7-16-12; Am. Ord.
2015-005, passed 6-1-15)
§ 93.05 APPEALS.
   (A)   The property owner may appeal the Destruction Order by filing written
notice of objections with the enforcement authority and Clerk-Treasurer within
48 hours of the notice, excluding weekends and holidays, if the property owner
contests the finding of the enforcement authority. It is the property owner’s
responsibility to demonstrate that the matter in question is shrubs, trees,
cultivated plants or crops, or is not otherwise in violation of this
subchapter, and should not be subject to destruction under the subchapter.
   (B)   An appeal by the property owner shall be brought before the Aurora
City Hearing Officer and shall be decided by the Aurora City Hearing Officer.
The Hearing Officer’s decision may be appealed before the Aurora City Council
by giving written notice of appeal to the Aurora City Council within ten days
of the Hearing Officer’s decision.
(Ord. 2005-06, passed 6-20-05; Am. Ord. 2013-003, passed 4-1-13; Am. Ord. 2015-
005, passed 6-1-15)
§ 93.06 ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   In the event that the property owner shall fail to comply with the
“Destruction Order” within five calendar days of the filing of the order, and
has not filed a notice of an intent to appeal to the enforcement authority and
Clerk-Treasurer within 48 hours, the enforcement authority may employ the
services of city employees or outside contractors and remove the weeds to
conform to this subchapter by all lawful means.
(Ord. 2005-06, passed 6-20-05; Am. Ord. 2015-005, passed 6-1-15)
§ 93.07 LIABILITY.
   (A)   The property owner is liable for all costs of removal, cutting or
destruction of weeds as defined by this subchapter.
   (B)   The property owner is responsible for all collection costs associated
with weed destruction, including, but not limited to, court costs, attorney’s
fees and interest on any unpaid amounts incurred by the city. If the
enforcement authority uses municipal employees, the city shall set and assign
an appropriate per hour rate for employees, equipment, supplies and chemicals
that may be used, which for the first hour of cutting/mowing and removing
weeds/rank vegetation shall be at a cost of $150, with a one-hour minimum.
Thereafter, the property owner shall be charged $50 per hour per person for
mowing/removal of weeds/rank vegetation, for each hour, or portion of an hour,
beyond the first hour. If the enforcement authority employs the services of
outside contractors to perform the abatement, any reasonable amount billed by
the outside contractor shall be passed directly to the property owner. The
property owner shall also be responsible for an administrative fee of $250 for
the costs of preparing and mailing enforcement notices. The property owner
shall also be responsible for the costs associated with recording and/or
releasing any liens. The enforcement authority or City Clerk-Treasurer shall
issue a bill for services to the property owner.
   (C)   All sums payable by the property owner are to be paid to the City
Clerk-Treasurer and to be deposited in a general fund, as compensation for
expenses and costs incurred by the city. The sums payable by the property owner
shall be paid within 30 days of receipt of the bill for services. Pre-judgment
interest for unpaid balances shall accrue interest at the rate of 8% per annum.
Post-judgment interest shall be at the rate of 8% per annum.
   (D)   If the property owner fails to pay a bill issued under this subchapter
within the time specified in this subchapter, the enforcement authority or City
Clerk-Treasurer shall certify to the County Auditor the amount specified in the
bill, plus any administrative costs, attorney’s fees and court costs, incurred
in the certification. The Auditor shall place the total amount certified on the
tax duplicate for the property affected, and the total amount, including any
accrued interest, shall be collected as delinquent taxes are collected and
shall be disbursed to the general fund of the city.
(Ord. 2005-06, passed 6-20-05; Am. Ord. 2015-005, passed 6-1-15; Am. Ord. 2017-
006, passed 9-11-17; Am. Ord. 2018-006, passed 6-11-18)
Statutory reference:
   For similar provisions, see IC 36-7-10.1-4
JUNK AND RUBBISH
§ 93.10 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNK. Any worn-out, cast-off or discarded article or material which is ready
for destruction or has been collected or stored for salvage or conversion to
some other use. Any article or material which, unaltered or unchanged and
without further reconditioning, can be used for its original purpose as readily
as when new shall not be considered junk.
   NOTIFICATION. A written statement from the enforcement authority stating the
manner in which this chapter is being violated, the description or location of
the premises, the name of the owner and tenants (if any) of such premises and
the period of time within which such premises shall be cleared from the
violation of this chapter.
   OWNER. The person in whose name such premises are listed in the records of
deeds in the recorder's office of Dearborn County, Indiana.
   RUBBISH. Wire, chips, shavings, paper, bottles, broken glass, crockery, tin,
cast or wooden ware, boxes, old or used tires, rags, dead weeds, stumps, tree
trunks, brush, paper circulars, hand bills, boots, shoes, ashes or any waste
material other than garbage or offal.
('74 Code, § 11-12) (Ord. 75-28, passed - -75; Am. Ord. 2021-06, passed 10-12-
21)
§ 93.11 DEPOSITING, STORING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall deposit, store, maintain, collect or permit the storage,
deposit, maintenance or collection of any junk or rubbish on premises owned,
used by or under the control of such person or in any other place within the
municipality, city street and alley right-of-way or otherwise, except as
expressly provided by law.
('74 Code, § 11-13) (Ord. 75-28, passed - -75; Am. Ord. 2021-06, passed 10-12-
21)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.12 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of this subchapter shall, within
15 days after notification of such violation by the enforcement authority,
remove or cause to be removed any junk or rub bish or have the same placed in
an adequate enclosure or building, and in the event of failure he shall be
deemed guilty of violating the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Such notification as is hereinabove provided shall be served upon the
owner or the tenant if there is such, by the enforcement authority.
   (C)   The fact that such premises are rented or leased by the owner or
another party shall not relieve such owner from the responsibilities herein
created.
('74 Code, § 11-14) (Ord. 75-28, passed - -75; Am. Ord. 2021-06, passed 10-12-
21)
Penalty, see § 93.99
NOISE
§ 93.20 DESIGNATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   This subchapter shall be known and designated as the “Noise Control
Ordinance”.
(Ord. 2000-6, passed 9-13-00)
§ 93.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   EMERGENCY VEHICLE. A motor vehicle used to respond to a public calamity or
to protect persons or property from imminent danger.
   EMERGENCY WORK. Work made necessary to restore property to a safe condition
following a public calamity, work to restore public utilities, or work required
to protect persons or property from an imminent exposure to danger.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle powered by a mechanical engine, and designed to
be driven or used on any public or private property. Such definition shall
include, but not be limited to: automobiles, vans, trucks, motorcycles, motor
scooters, dune buggies, snowmobiles, all-terrain vehicles, go-carts, mini-bikes
and trail bikes.
   MUFFLER. Any apparatus consisting of baffles, chambers or acoustical
absorbing material whose primary purpose is to transmit liquid or gases while
causing a reduction in sound emission at one end. To qualify, the apparatus
must cause a reduction in sound pressure level upon insertion into the system
for which it is intended.
   NOISE. Any sound which is unwanted or which causes or tends to cause an
adverse psychological or physiological effect on human beings.
   NOISE DISTURBANCE. Any sound or vibration which annoys, disturbs, or
perturbs reasonable persons with normal sensitivities, or any sound which
injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, hearing, peace, or safety of
other persons.
   PERSON. Any individual, association, partnership or corporation which
includes any officer, employee, department agency or instrumentality.
   PLAINLY AUDIBLE NOISE. Any noise, for which the information content of that
noise is unambiguously communicated to the listener, such as, but not limited
to, understandable spoken speech, comprehension of whether a voice is raised or
normal, or comprehensive musical rhythms.
   POWERED MODEL VEHICLES. Any powered vehicles, either airborne, waterborne,
or landborne, such as, but not limited to, model airplanes, boats, cars, or
rockets, which can be propelled by mechanical means, and which are not designed
to carry persons or property.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY AND PUBLIC SPACE. Any street, avenue, boulevard,
highway, alley, park, or public space which is owned or controlled by a public
governmental entity.
(Ord. 2000-6, passed 9-13-00)
§ 93.22 UNLAWFUL NOISES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall make or cause to be made any noise that unreasonably
annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace
safety or welfare of any person or precludes their enjoyment of property or
which causes a noise disturbance within the city. Accordingly, the following
acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing and unnecessary noises
and in violation of this subchapter, but such enumeration shall not be
considered exclusive:
      (1)   Horns and signaling devices. The sounding of any horn or signaling
device on any automobile, motorcycle, or other vehicle in any street or public
place of the city, except as a danger warning; the creation by means of any
such signaling device of any unreasonable loud or harsh sound; the sounding of
any such device for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time; the use of
any signaling device except one operated by hand, air or electricity; the use
of any horn, whistle or other device operated by engine exhaust; and the
continued or repeated use of any such signaling device when traffic is for any
reason held up, or in any parade, or in any group of vehicles.
      (2)   Radios and phonographs. Playing, using or operating, or permitting
to be played, used or operated, any radio or television receiving set, musical
instrument, phonograph, calliope or other machine or device for producing or
reproducing sound in such a manner as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort
of the neighboring inhabitants, or at any time with louder volume than is
necessary for convenient hearing for the person or persons who are in the room,
vehicle or chamber in which such machine or device is operated, and who are
voluntary listeners thereto, except when a permit therefor for some special
occasion is granted. The operation of any such set, instrument, phonograph,
machine or device in such a manner as to be plainly audible at a distance of 50
feet from the building, structure or vehicle in which it is located shall be
prima facie evidence of a violation of this subchapter.
      (3)   Loudspeakers, amplifiers for advertising. Playing, using or
operating, or permitting to be played, used or operated, any radio or
television receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, loudspeaker, sound
amplifier or other machine or device for producing or reproducing sound at any
place upon the public streets or in any vehicle used for the transportation of
persons of hire as a common carrier, for the purpose of commercial or other
kind of advertising or attracting the attentions of the public to any activity
or building or structure, which is so used as to disturb and annoy other
persons in their businesses, homes or elsewhere in their right of personal
privacy and quiet.
      (4)   Yelling or shouting. Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling or
singing on the public streets, particularly between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and
7:00 a.m. or at any time or place so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort
and repose of persons in any office, or in any dwelling, hotel or other type of
residence, or of any person in the vicinity.
      (5)   Animals or birds. Owning, keeping, possessing, or harboring any
animal which, by frequent or habitual howling, barking meowing, squawking, or
other noise making, causes a noise disturbance. The provisions of this section
shall also apply to all private or public facilities, including any animal
pounds, which hold or treat animals.
      (6)   Loading, unloading, opening, or otherwise handling boxes, crates,
containers, garbage cans, containers, or other similar objects between the
hours of 7:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. the following day, in a manner such as to
cause noise disturbance.
      (7)   Construction or repairing of buildings. The erection, excavating
for demolition, alteration or repair of any building, other than between the
hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on weekdays and 12:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m. on
Saturdays and Sundays, except in case of urgent necessity in the interest of
public health and safety, and then only with a permit from the Code Enforcement
Officer of the city which permit may be granted for a period not to exceed
three days while the emergency continues. If the Code Enforcement Officer
should determine that the public health and safety will not be impaired by the
erection, demolition, alteration or repair of any building, or the excavation
therefore, or of any streets and highways, between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and
7:00 a.m. and further determines that loss or unusual inconvenience would
result to any party in interest, he may grant permission for such work to be
done between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., upon the application being
made at the time the permit for the work is issued or during the progress of
the work.
      (8)   The squealing of automobile or truck tires in a manner as to create
a noise disturbance. Emergency accelerating, stopping, or swerving shall be
exempt from this provision.
      (9)   Schools, courts, churches and hospitals. The creation of any
excessive noise on any street adjacent to any school, institution of learning,
church or court while it is in use, or adjacent to any hospital which
unreasonably interferes with the operation thereof or which disturbs or unduly
annoys patients in the hospital; provided that conspicuous signs are displayed
in such streets indicating that the same has been declared and is a school,
hospital or other such quiet zone.
      (10)   Operating or permitting the operation of powered model vehicles
between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. the following morning, in a manner
as to cause a noise disturbance.
      (11)   It shall be unlawful to discharge into the open air, the exhaust
of any stationary internal combustion engine, or motor vehicle through a
muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or explosive noises
therefrom. No person shall modify or change the exhaust muffler, intake device
of a motor vehicle in a manner that the noise emitted by the motor vehicle is
increased above that emitted by the vehicle as originally manufactured.
      (12)   All off-road motorized vehicles must have a muffler or other
device to minimize noise that is unreasonable, annoying or disturbing to the
peace and tranquility of others. It shall be unlawful to operate and off-road
vehicle within the limits of the city before 8:00 a.m. or after 8:00 p.m. in a
manner that causes a noise disturbance.
   (B)   Further, it shall be the duty of every owner, occupant, manager, agent
or operator of any property, structure, vehicle, or business in the city, to
prevent persons using property under their control from violating this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2000-6, passed 9-13-00; Am. Ord. 2006-08, passed 3-20-06; Am. Ord. 2017-
019, passed 11-6-17) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.23 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following shall be exempted from the provisions of this subchapter:
   (A)   Sounds produced by, or emitted by, sirens of authorized emergency
vehicles;
   (B)   Sounds produced by lawn mowers, garden tractors and similar home power
tools when properly muffled and produced between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:
00 p.m.;
   (C)   Sounds produced by burglar alarms or other warning devices when
properly installed on publicly or privately owned property, provided that the
cause of such alarm or warning device sound is investigated and turned off
within a reasonable period of time;
   (D)   Sounds produced in connection with celebrations on Halloween and legal
holidays;
   (E)   Sounds produced in connection with permitted parades, festivals or
concerts between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight;
   (F)   Sounds produced in connection with the actual performance of athletic
events and practices related to them;
   (G)   Sounds produced by church bells;
   (H)   Sounds produced in connection with the performance or practice of a
band, orchestra or choir organized and maintained as part of the curriculum of
a publicly or privately operated educational institution;
   (I)   Sounds produced for the purpose of alerting persons to the existence
of an emergency, or for the performance of emergency work;
   (J)   Sounds produced in connection with normal conduction of a legally
established non-transient business when such sounds are customary, incidental
and within the normal range appropriate for such use. This exemption shall also
apply to sounds produced as a result of outdoor musical entertainment conducted
by an established non-transient business, provided that such entertainment is
conducted between the hours of 12:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. Friday and Saturday,
and 12:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m. Sunday through Thursday.
(Ord. 2000-6, passed 9-13-00)
MOTORIZED VEHICLES AND SCOOTERS
§ 93.30 PROHIBITED ON BIKE TRAIL AND PARKS.
    It shall be unlawful to use or operate motorized vehicles and scooters on
the bike trail and/or on park properties, other than use necessary to meet the
needs of the disabled. This section does not apply to city vehicles, Police
Department and emergency vehicles.
(Ord. 2006-06, passed 3-20-06)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates the provisions of §§
93.01 and
93.10 -
93.12 shall be fined not less than $15 nor more than $50 for the first offense
and not more than $500 for each subsequent offense. Any such violation shall
constitute a separate offense on each successive day continued.
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of §§
93.20 -
93.23 shall be fined not less than $50 or more than $500 for each offense. Each
day a violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
('74 Code, § 11-15) (Ord. 75-28, passed - -75; Am. Ord. 2000-6, passed 9-13-00)
CHAPTER 94: PARKS AND RECREATION
   Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Swimming pool
Public and City Parks
   
94.10   Marking or injuring property within public parks
   
94.11   Park closing; curfew
   
94.12   Disorderly conduct; use of intoxicating beverages
Cross reference:
   Department of Parks and Recreation, see
Chapter 32
   Regulation of motorized vehicles in parks, see §
93.30
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 SWIMMING POOL.
   The city shall hereby establish, equip, maintain and complete a swimming
pool to be under the jurisdiction and the administration of the City Board of
Parks and Recreation.
('74 Code, § 2-20) (Ord. 64-10, passed - -64)
PUBLIC AND CITY PARKS
§ 94.10 MARKING OR INJURING PROPERTY WITHIN PUBLIC PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut, carve or injure in any manner
whatever any tree within the city park; to in any manner break, cut, carve,
injure, deface, mark, mutilate, defile or damage any building, seat or bench,
object or thing within the park or connected therewith; to post any bills or to
post or paint any sign or signs within the parks or on the fences thereof.
('74 Code, § 9-6)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 94.11 PARK CLOSING; CURFEW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to be in any public park after the hour
of 11:00 p.m. without a permit from the Common Council, the committee in charge
or the Mayor of the city.
('74 Code, § 9-8) (Am. Ord. 1982-14, passed 5-3-82)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 94.12 DISORDERLY CONDUCT; USE OF INTOXICATING BEVERAGES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to act in a loud, improper, boisterous
or immoral manner while within the city park; to refuse to leave the park on
being ordered to do so by any police officer of the city or at any time to
bring or cause to be brought into the park or any part thereof any beer, wine
or other intoxicating beverage of any kind without a permit so to do.
Possession of intoxicating liquor, beer or wine by any person in the park shall
be prima facie evidence that such person brought such into the park.
('74 Code, § 9-7)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 95: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
95.01   Depositing refuse, garbage and the like on sidewalks, streets and
public ways
   
95.02   Sale of candy or confections from vehicles or carts on streets and
sidewalks prohibited
   
95.03   Removal of snow and ice from sidewalk
   
95.04   Spitting on sidewalks
   
95.05   Use of public squares restricted
   
95.06   Driving on unopened, paved streets
   
95.07   Erection of guard rails for dangerous places abutting streets or alleys
   
95.08   Trimming of trees along streets required
   
95.09   Signs upon sidewalks
   
95.10   Marking of obstructions placed in street
   
95.11   Destruction or removal of barricades and lights on obstructions
   
95.12   Maintenance of improvements in public right-of-way
Excavations
   
95.20   Permit required; bond
   
95.21   Issuance of permit; failure to do work in proper manner
   
95.22   Immediate repairs
   
95.23   Barricades and lighting of excavations
Railroads
   
95.35   Use of whistle
 
   
95.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.01 DEPOSITING REFUSE, GARBAGE AND THE LIKE ON SIDEWALKS, STREETS AND
PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, throw or deposit upon
any of the sidewalks, streets, alleys or public grounds of the city any refuse,
garbage, trash or litter.
   (B)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly deposit litter,
or cause it to be deposited, in a litter receptacle located on any public
property or on any private property not owned by the person unless one of the
following applies:
      (1)   The litter was generated or located on the property on which the
litter receptacle is located;
      (2)   The person is directed to do so by a public official as part of a
litter collection drive;
      (3)   The person is directed to do so by a person whom the person
reasonably believes to have the privilege to use the litter receptacle;
      (4)   The litter consists of any of the following:
         (a)   The contents of a litter bag or container of a size customarily
carried and used in a motor vehicle;
         (b)   The contents of an ashtray of a type customarily installed or
carried and used in a motor vehicle;
         (c)   Beverage containers and food sacks, wrappings, and containers of
a type and in an amount that reasonably may be expected to be generated during
routine commuting or business or recreational travel by a motor vehicle;
         (d)   Beverage containers, food sacks, wrappings, containers, and
other materials of a type and in an amount that reasonably may be expected to
be generated during a routine day by a person and deposited in a litter
receptacle by a casual passerby.
   (C)   (1)   As used in division (B) of this section, PUBLIC PROPERTY
includes any private property open to the public for the conduct of business,
the provision of a service, or upon the payment of a fee, but does not include
any private property to which the public otherwise does not have a right of
access.
      (2)   As used in division (B)(4) of this section, CASUAL PASSERBY means a
person who does not have depositing litter in a litter receptacle as the
person's primary reason for traveling to or by the property on which the litter
receptacle is located.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      AUXILIARY CONTAINER. A bag, can, cup, food or beverage service item,
container, keg, bottle, or other packaging to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   It is designed to be either single use or reusable.
         (b)   It is made of cloth, paper, plastic, foamed or expanded plastic,
cardboard, corrugated material, aluminum, metal, glass, post-consumer recycled
material, or similar materials or substances, including coated, laminated, or
multi-layered substrates.
         (c)   It is designed for consuming, transporting, or protecting
merchandise, food, or beverages from or at a food service operation, retail
food establishment, grocery, or any other type of retail, manufacturing, or
distribution establishment.
      DEPOSIT. To throw, drop, discard, or place.
      LITTER. Garbage, trash, waste, rubbish, ashes, cans, bottles, wire,
paper, cartons, boxes, automobile parts, furniture, glass, auxiliary
containers, or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature.
      LITTER RECEPTACLE. A dumpster, trash can, trash bin, garbage can, or
similar container in which litter is deposited for removal.
   (E)   This section may be enforced by any sheriff, deputy sheriff, police
officer of a municipal corporation, police constable, or enforcement authority
as defined in §
93.01.
('74 Code, § 11-1) (Ord. 57, - - ; Am. Ord. 2021-010, passed 12-13-21)
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.02 SALE OF CANDY OR CONFECTIONS FROM VEHICLES OR CARTS ON STREETS AND
SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale any candy, ice cream,
confection or soft drink beverage for human consumption from any motor vehicle
or any vehicle or cart of any kind, on any public street or sidewalk open to
traffic in the city.
('74 Code, § 13-2) (Ord. 64-7, passed - -64)
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.03 REMOVAL OF SNOW AND ICE FROM SIDEWALK.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any lot, part of lot or
parcel of ground lying within the limits of the city to permit snow or ice to
remain upon the sidewalk in front of such lot, etc.
('74 Code, § 13-3)
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.04 SPITTING ON SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to spit or expectorate on any sidewalk
within the city.
('74 Code, § 13-1)
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.05 USE OF PUBLIC SQUARES RESTRICTED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to deposit any material of any kind upon any
public squares without the express permission of the Common Council. ('74 Code,
§ 9-9) (Ord. 332, passed - - )
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to place, build, construct or maintain any shed,
shack or building of any kind upon any public square without the express
permission of the Common Council. ('74 Code, § 9-10) (Ord. 332, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.06 DRIVING ON UNOPENED, PAVED STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive over or upon any paved street
in the city until such street is opened to the public.
('74 Code, § 13-4) (Ord. 57, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.07 ERECTION OF GUARD RAILS FOR DANGEROUS PLACES ABUTTING STREETS OR
ALLEYS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons owning any lot or part
of a lot in the city which has an abrupt or perpendicular descent thereto from
any street or alley of the depth of 18 inches or more formed by an excavation,
embankment, fill or wall constructed at or upon the line of such lot to refuse,
fail or neglect within 20 days after notice given by any officer of the city,
by order of the Common Council, to erect a good, sufficient and substantial
guard railing or fence at his or their own proper expense so as to prevent
persons traveling or vehicles passing along such street or alley from falling
over and down such descent.
   (B)   The notice required to be given may be either communicated by reading
to and within the hearing of the owner of such property, by leaving a true copy
of such notice at the last and usual place of residence of such owner or agent
or by posting a copy of such notice on the premises.
('74 Code, § 13-5)
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.08 TRIMMING OF TREES ALONG STREETS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Each and every tree standing within the corporate limits of the city
shall be carefully trimmed so that no branch or limb thereof shall be lower
than ten feet from any part of any street under such. Each tree in the city
shall be trimmed so that no branch or limb shall extend toward the center of
any street from the curb line more than ten feet.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant or agent of any real
estate within the corporate limits of the city to permit any tree standing upon
such real estate to remain untrimmed.
('74 Code, § 13-6)
   (C)   All trimming as set forth in divisions (A) and (B) shall be done to
the satisfaction of the street commissioner who shall in all cases where the
property owners neglect or refuse to trim such trees cause such to be done
after five days notice to such owner, occupant or agent. The expenses therefor
shall be charged to such property owner and collected the same according to
law. ('74 Code, § 13-7)
   (D)   Electric linemen shall have the right and privilege of cutting off and
removing any other limbs or branches than those mentioned in divisions (A) and
(B) when actually necessary for the proper lighting of the city. The question
of such necessity shall be determined by the Street Commissioner of the city
and such cutting and removal shall be only as he may direct.
('74 Code, § 13-8)
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.09 SIGNS UPON SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to build, erect or maintain or cause to
be built, erected or maintained any sign post upon any part of any sidewalk,
gutter or street in the city, and no sign in the city shall be less than seven
and one-half feet above the sidewalk at its lowest part.
('74 Code, § 13-9)
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.10 MARKING OF OBSTRUCTIONS PLACED IN STREET.
   Any obstruction placed in any street or alley or upon any sidewalks within
the limits of the city shall be marked during the entire night from dark until
daylight with lights sufficiently bright to indicate the obstruction or danger
to all persons using such street or alley.
('74 Code, § 13-10)
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.11 DESTRUCTION OR REMOVAL OF BARRICADES AND LIGHTS ON OBSTRUCTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who has not the legal authority and
right so to do, to remove, or in any way interfere with or to mischievously or
wantonly break or displace any danger light or barricade placed as a warning at
or near any excavation or obstruction in any street or alley in the city.
('74 Code, § 13-11)
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.12 MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS IN PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Definitions. For purposes of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      IMPROVEMENTS. Buildings, structures, balconies, sidewalks, alleys, curbs,
culverts, gutters, retaining walls and/or driveway approaches.
      MAINTENANCE AND ROUTINE REPAIR. Includes but is not limited to repair of
cracks, holes, high joints, weathered, chipped and/or scaled surfaces, poor
alignment, poor grade, snow and/or ice removal and/or other conditions which
would constitute a safety hazard to pedestrian and/or vehicular traffic.
      PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY. Any public street, way, place, alley, sidewalk,
easement, park, square, median, parkway, boulevard or plaza that is dedicated
to public use, or owned or maintained by the city, except for those rights-of-
way owned by the Indiana Department of Transportation located within the city
municipal limits.
   (B)   The responsibility for maintenance and routine repair of improvements
within the rights-of-way of the city shall be that of the adjacent property
owner(s).
   (C)   Any property owner(s) who wishes to construct an improvement within
the public right-of-way or otherwise repair or replace any improvement so as to
restore them to a safe condition shall first apply for and receive an
encroachment permit. A successful applicant shall comply with the terms and
conditions set forth by the permit, the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA),
Indiana Department of Transportation (INDOT) specifications (for sidewalk, curb
or driveway approaches only), this Code and pursuant to a notice according to
the provisions of this section. The property owner(s) shall make the necessary
repairs and replacements at his or her cost alone and in accordance with and
subject to any and all permit requirements required under city ordinances.
   (D)   (1)   Any property owner who violates any section of this chapter may
be notified of the violation by the City Manager. The notice shall contain the
name of the person(s) to whom the notice is issued, the legal description or
address of the improvements that are the subject of the notice, the action the
notice requires, the period of time in which the action is required to be
accomplished, measured from the time when the notice is given, a statement
briefly indicating what action can be taken if the notice is not complied with,
a statement briefly describing the property owner(s) right to request a formal
heaing on the violation and the contact information of the City Manager.
      (2)   Any property owner alleged to have committed a violation under this
chapter may request a hearing before the city's designated hearing officer for
code violations. Such a request must be made in writing within ten days from
when the notice described in division (D)(1) above is given. Said request must
be hand-delivered or mailed, certified mail with return receipt and directed to
the City Manager at the following address: Aurora City Hall, P.O. Box 158, 235
Main Street, Aurora, Indiana 47001. Said hearing must be held within 30 days of
the request.
      (3)   At the conclusion of the requested hearing, the hearing officer may
make findings and take action to affirm the notice, rescind the notice or
modify the notice.
      (4)   If no hearing is requested, after 30 days from posting by United
States mail with proper postage affixed to a notice to the owner as determined
by the tax duplicates in the office of the Auditor of Dearborn County, the
property owner fails to make the necessary repairs, the city may do so and
charge the property owner.
      (5)   Upon failure of the owner to pay the charge for repair or
replacement of an improvement levied by the city within 30 days after
completion of the work, the Clerk-Treasurer shall file in the office of the
Recorder of Dearborn County for recordation in the miscellaneous records a
notice that the city claims a lien upon the real estate upon which the work was
done. From and after the filing of the notice, the charge shall be a lien upon
the real estate and shall be placed on the tax duplicate by the Auditor of
Dearborn County. Said lien may be enforced by foreclosure in the same manner in
which tax and other improvement liens are enforced under the laws of the State
of Indiana. Foreclosure proceedings shall be at the cost of the defendant owner
or owners and with attorney fees.
(Ord. 2017-004, passed 9-11-17)
EXCAVATIONS
§ 95.20 PERMIT REQUIRED; BOND.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut or dig into any street, alley or
public ground of the city for any purpose, without first filing an application
for a permit with the city Clerk-Treasurer, describing the location of the
proposed excavation, its kind and dimensions and for what purpose and filing
with the Clerk-Treasurer a bond in the sum of not less than $1,000 payable to
the city, which bond shall be approved by the Mayor. Such bond shall be
conditioned that the person bound thereby shall do the work in a workmanlike
manner, shall properly fill in and tamp the excavation or opening made and
properly relay any pavement, gutter or sidewalks displaced, and in all respects
save the city harmless from any loss, cost or damage, by reason of such work or
excavation and to keep such street, alley or public place in which the
excavation has been made in repair and in as good a condition as it was before
the excavation was made for the period of one year; provided, that a single or
continuing bond may be given to embrace any or all work in this section
mentioned which the petitioner may desire to do, in a period of one year from
the filing of his bond. Such continuing bond shall be in the sum of not less
than $5,000 and may be renewed at the end of each year upon application and the
approval of such renewal by the Mayor.
('74 Code, § 13-12)
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.21 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; FAILURE TO DO WORK IN PROPER MANNER.
   lt shall be the duty of the Clerk-Treasurer, upon the filing of the
application and bond required by §
95.20 to issue to such person a permit to do such work and in such permit he
shall describe the kind, purpose and location of such work. Every person
receiving such permit, shall before entering upon the work, notify the city of
his intention to do such work. In case of the failure of any person, to whom a
permit has been issued to do the work in the proper manner, the city shall
immediately remedy such defects and the cost thereof shall be recovered by an
action on the bond before any court of competent jurisdiction together with a
reasonable attorney fee for bringing and prosecuting such actions; provided,
that no person shall for any purpose whatever open any street or alley in the
city and no permit so to do shall be issued by the Clerk-Treasurer between the
first day of December and the first day of the succeeding April except by
special permission by resolution of the Common Council.
('74 Code, § 13-13)
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.22 IMMEDIATE REPAIRS.
   In case any under ground pipe or main shall suddenly break and immediate
repairs are therefore necessary, either the Mayor or Clerk-Treasurer may issue
the permit at any time on the application and bond as in the first section
provided being filed with either.
('74 Code, § 13-14)
§ 95.23 BARRICADES AND LIGHTING OF EXCAVATIONS.
   All persons making any excavation or opening in any of the streets or alleys
of the city shall sufficiently and properly barricade and protect such opening
and place danger lights at such openings before dark each evening such opening
continues, which lights shall be kept burning until daylight.
('74 Code, § 13-15)
Penalty, see § 95.99
RAILROADS
§ 95.35 USE OF WHISTLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any engineer, fireman or other persons in charge or
operating a locomotive engine upon any railroad tracks within the corporate
limits of the city to blow, sound or use the whistle of such locomotive engine
in the nighttime between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. However, trains
are required to give an audible signal within approximately 1500 feet of a
train crossing if there is no signal device, crossing gate or flagman and/or
when a vehicle is in hazardous proximity to such crossing.
(IC 8-6-4-1) ('74 Code, § 10-2) (Ord. 130, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another penalty is
not otherwise provided shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000 or by
imprisonment not exceeding six months or both. Every day any violation of this
chapter continues shall constitute a separate offense.
('74 Code, § 1-6)
CHAPTER 96: GARAGE SALES; PORCH SALES; YARD SALES
Section
   
96.01   Regulations concerning sales
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 REGULATIONS CONCERNING SALES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct a yard/garage sales as
defined in this section within the city limits without first obtaining a yard/
garage sale license from the city under the following terms and conditions.
      PRIVATE YARD AND GARAGE SALES.  Outdoor sales or sales in a garage held
on residential premises that includes sale of used personal or household items.
   (B)   Such activities may be permitted based on the following conditions:
      (1)   All activities are limited to four per year per dwelling unit.
      (2)   All activities are conducted in such a manner that no hazards,
nuisances, or traffic safety problems are created.
      (3)   The duration of such a sale shall not exceed three consecutive
days, and shall not commence prior to 8:00 a.m. nor continue after sunset.
      (4)   Set up shall be permitted the day before the sale and clean up or
tear down shall be completed on the last day of the sale.
      (5)   Authorization to conduct such activities is issued in writing by
the city Clerk-Treasurers office or designated Code Enforcement Officer and the
signed authorization is posted at the sale site.
   (C)   Signs for the yard/garage sale shall be in accordance with the
following provisions: Temporary signs advertising home garage sales, yard sales
and the like as differentiated from signs advertising established commercial
enterprises, may be erected in any zoning district subject to the following
provisions:
      (1)   The sign may be erected only on the property on which the sale is
going to be held - not on telephone poles or trees.
      (2)   The area of one side of any such sign shall not exceed four square
feet.
      (3)   Only one such sign may be erected on any one piece of property,
unless such property fronts on two streets, in which case one sign is
authorized on each street frontage.
      (4)   No off-premises signs to be displayed.
      (5)   The sign shall be installed no earlier than one week prior to the
sale and shall be removed within one day after the activity.
(Ord. 92-12, passed 8-3-92; Am. Ord. 2005-19, passed 12-19-05)
Penalty, see § 96.99
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of this chapter shall result in a $50 fine for each occurrence.
Each day of violation will be considered a separate occurrence. In addition ,
the city may request a court injunction to stop violations of this chapter.
(Ord. 92-12, passed 8-3-92; Am. Ord. 2005-19, passed 12-19-05)
CHAPTER 97: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
97.01   Policy statement
   
97.02   Definitions
   
97.03   Unlawful practice
   
97.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
97.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
97.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
97.07   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
97.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
97.09   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
97.10   Exemptions
   
97.11   Administrative enforcement
§ 97.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the city to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, the federal Housing and
Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, and IC 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 1995-5, passed 5-23-95; Am. Ord. 2014-006, passed 5-5-14)
§ 97.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions as set forth in this section shall apply throughout this
chapter.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who (IC 22-9.5-2-2):
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
   COMMISSION. (IC 22-9.5-2-3) The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created
pursuant to IC 22-9-1-4 et seq.
   COMPLAINANT. (IC 22-9.5-2-4) A person, including the Commission, who files a
complaint under IC 22-9.5-6.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
97.04 through
97.08 of this chapter or IC 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or part of a building or structure that is
occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by
one or more families (IC 22-9.5-2-8).
   FAMILIAL STATUS. One or more individuals (who have not attained the age of
18 years) being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody
of that individual, or the written permission of the parent or other person.
The protections afforded against discrimination on this basis of familial
status shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process of
securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. A single individual (IC 22-9.5-2-9), with the status of such family
being further defined above in the definition of FAMILIAL STATUS. See also the
revised definition of FAMILY provided in § 97.09.
   HANDICAP. With respect to a person:
      (1)   A physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or
more of that person’s major life activities;
      (2)   A record of having such an impairment;
      (3)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
      (4)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990; or
      (5)   Any other impairment defined under IC 22-9.5-2-10.
   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or addiction to a
controlled substance as defined in Section 802 of Title 21 of the United States
Code (IC 22-9.5-2-10(b)); nor does the term HANDICAP include an individual
solely because that individual is a transvestite (IC 22-9.5-2-10(c)).
   PERSON. (IC 22-9.5-2-11) Includes one or more individuals, corporations,
partnerships, associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual
companies, joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations,
trustees, trustees in cases under Title 11 of the United States Code, receivers
and fiduciaries.
   TO RENT. (IC 22-9.5-2-13) To lease, to sublease, to let or to otherwise to
grant for a consideration the right to occupy premises not owned by the
occupant.
(Ord. 1995-5, passed 5-23-95; Am. Ord. 2014-006, passed 5-5-14)
§ 97.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) of this section, §
97.10 of this chapter and IC 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination
in the sale or rental of housing set forth in IC 22-9.5-5-1 and in § 97.04 of
this chapter shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings, except as exempted by division (B) of this section and
IC 22-9.5-3.
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) of this section, nothing in
§ 97.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner, where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale, or who
was not the most recent resident of that house prior to the sale, the exemption
shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The private
individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or reserved on his
behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds from the sale
or rental of more than three such single-family houses at any one time. The
sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be excepted from
application of this section only if it is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sale or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesman, or any person in the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any
such broker, agent or salesman, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of § 97.04(C) of this chapter, but
nothing in this proviso shall prohibit the use of attorneys, escrow agents,
abstractors, title companies and other such professional assistance as
necessary to perfect or transfer this title; or
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his residence.
   (C)   For the purpose of division (B), a person shall be deemed to be in the
business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as principal
in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or
any interest therein; or
      (2)   He has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as agent,
other than in the sale of his own personal residence, in providing sales or
rental facilities or services in two or more transactions involving the sale or
rental of any dwelling or any interest thereon; or
      (3)   He is the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 1995-5, passed 5-23-95; Am. Ord. 2014-006, passed 5-5-14)
§ 97.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
97.03, and except as exempted by §
97.03(B) and §
97.10, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin.
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (C)   To make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or published,
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, or an
intention to make any such preference, limitation or discrimination.
   (D)   To represent to any person, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin, that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale or rental, when it is in fact so available.
   (E)   For profit, to induce, or attempt to induce, any person to sell or
rent any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry
into the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (F)   (1)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
         (a)   That buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
         (a)   That person; or
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (3)   For purposes of this division, DISCRIMINATION includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
that person, if such modifications may be necessary to afford that person full
enjoyment of the premises, except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may, where it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification
on the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modification, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services, when such accommodations may be necessary to afford
that person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
            1.   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
            2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
            3.   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               a.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               b.   Light switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
               c.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
      (4)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the Americans With
Disabilities Act of 1990, and of the American National Standard for Buildings
and Facilities, providing accessibility and usability for physically
handicapped people (commonly cited as “ANSI A117.1"), suffices to satisfy the
requirements of division (F)(3)(c)3.c. of this section.
      (5)   Nothing in this division (F) requires that a dwelling be made
available to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to
the health or safety of other individuals, or whose tenancy would result in
substantial physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 1995-5, passed 5-23-95; Am. Ord. 2014-006, passed 5-5-14)
§ 97.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE- RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance;
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial status.
(Ord. 1995-5, passed 5-23-95; Am. Ord. 2014-006, passed 5-5-14)
§ 97.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’
organization, or other service, organization or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings; or to discriminate against him in the
terms or conditions of such access, membership or participation, on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
(Ord. 1995-5, passed 5-23-95; Am. Ord. 2014-006, passed 5-5-14)
§ 97.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his having exercised
or enjoyed; or on account of his having aided or encouraged any other person in
the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or protected by §§
97.03 through
97.06 of this chapter.
(Ord. 1995-5, passed 5-23-95; Am. Ord. 2014-006, passed 5-5-14)
§ 97.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin; and because he is or has been selling,
purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or negotiating for
the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any dwelling; or
applying for or participating in any service, organization or facility relating
to the business of selling or renting dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he is or has been, or in order to intimidate such
person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A); or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate; or
   (C)   Any citizen because he is or has been participating, or in order to
discourage that or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other
persons to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A); or
participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of
the opportunity to participate;
shall be fined according to local, state and federal law; and if bodily injury
results, shall be fined not more than $10,000, or imprisoned for not more than
ten years, or both; and if death results, shall be subject to imprisonment for
any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 1995-5, passed 5-23-95; Am. Ord. 2014-006, passed 5-5-14)
§ 97.09 EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to 24 CFR Part 5.403 and 24 CFR Part 574.3, the definition of
FAMILY is revised to include families, regardless of the actual or perceived
sexual orientation, gender identity, or marital status of their members.
(Ord. 2014-006, passed 5-5-14)
§ 97.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under IC 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter, including those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) of this section.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose, to persons
of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose, from
limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to its members or from giving
preference to its members.
   (C)   (1)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply
with respect to housing for older persons.
      (2)   As used in this section, HOUSING FOR OLDER PERSONS means housing:
         (a)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary
of the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the Indiana Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly persons (as defined in the state or federal program); or
         (b)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age or
older; or
         (c)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55
years of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 1995-5, passed 5-23-95; Am. Ord. 2014-006, passed 5-5-14)
§ 97.11 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter, and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commission as set forth in
division (B) hereof, shall be vested in the Chief Executive Officer of the
city.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of IC 22-9.5-4-8, the city, because of
a lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the sections of this
chapter by complainants to theIndiana Civil Rights Commission (“Commission”)
for administrative enforcement actions pursuant to IC 22-9.5-6. The Chief
Elected Officer of the city shall refer all such complaints to the Commission,
as provided for under division (A) of this section, for purposes of
investigation, resolution and appropriate relief as provided for under IC 22-
9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the city shall administer
their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter,
and shall cooperate with the Chief Executive Officer and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The Chief Executive Officer of the city, or the Chief Executive
Officer’s designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any
aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 1995-5, passed 5-23-95; Am. Ord. 2014-006, passed 5-5-14)
CHAPTER 98: RIVERBOATS
Section
   
98.01   Docking of riverboats permitted
§ 98.01 DOCKING OF RIVERBOATS PERMITTED.
   It is hereby ordained by the Common Council that riverboats be and the same
are hereby permitted to dock within the city for the purpose of conducting
gambling games as permitted by, and subject to such restrictions as set forth
in IC 4-33-1 et seq., and as may be amended.
(Ord. 1993-16, passed 12-6-93)
CHAPTER 99: RENTAL REGISTRATION AND INSPECTION PROGRAM
Section
   
99.01   Title
   
99.02   Definitions
   
99.03   Safe and habitable premises
   
99.04   Annual registration
   
99.05   Inspection
 
   
99.99   Penalty
§ 99.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Rental Registration and Inspection
Program of the City of Aurora, Indiana.
(Ord. 2017-001, passed 5-1-17)
§ 99.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular.
   INSPECTION CERTIFICATE. A certificate issued by the Code Enforcement
Official or his/her designee which documents that a rental unit has passed
inspection and the owner is permitted to rent or lease the unit.
   INSPECTION OFFICERS. The following persons, working separately or together,
who shall enforce the provisions of this chapter:
      (1)   The City Code Enforcement Official or his/her designee;
      (2)   The Fire inspector, Fire Chief or other designated officer;
      (3)   The County Health Officer, or his/her designee.
   OCCUPANT. Any person, living, sleeping, cooking, or having physical or
actual possession of a rental unit.
   OWNER. One or more persons in whom is vested all or part of the legal title
to property. The term includes a mortgagee or contract purchaser in possession.
   PERSON. An individual, a corporation, an association, a partnership, a
governmental entity, a trust, an estate, or any other legal or commercial
entity.
   REGISTRATION FEE. The amount paid to the Code Enforcement Official or his/
her designee when registering a rental unit with the city.
   RENTAL UNIT. Any grounds, facilities, or area promised for the intended use
of multi-family and/or multi-unit residential occupancy, within the city,
including the following:
      (1)   A boarding house, with two dwelling units or more;
      (2)   A rooming house, with two dwelling units or more;
      (3)   A mobile home space, with two dwelling units or more;
      (4)   A single- or two- or more family dwelling, with two dwelling units
or more.
   RENTAL UNIT COMMUNITY. One or more parcels of contiguous real property upon
which are located one or more structures containing rental units if:
      (1)   The combined total of all rental units in all of the structures is
five or more rental units; and
      (2)   The rental units are not occupied solely by the owner or the
owner's family.
   UNSAFE BUILDING. A building or structure, or any part of a building or
structure, that is:
      (1)   In an impaired structural condition that makes it unsafe to a
person or property;
      (2)   A fire hazard;
      (3)   A hazard to the public health, which may involve any condition that
impedes or affects others, including the welfare of a minor/child;
      (4)   A public nuisance;
      (5)   Dangerous to a person or property because of a violation of a
statute or ordinance concerning building condition or maintenance;
      (6)   Vacant and not maintained in a manner that would allow human
habitation, occupancy, or use under the requirements of a statute or an
ordinance; or
      (7)   Otherwise in violation of state or city unsafe building laws.
   Unsafe premises. The tract of real estate on which an unsafe building is
located.
(Ord. 2017-001, passed 5-1-17)
§ 99.03 SAFE AND HABITABLE PREMISES.
   An owner must maintain the rental unit in a safe and habitable manner.
Accordingly, the owner must ensure that a rental unit:
   (A)   Is not in an unsafe building.
   (B)   Is in compliance with all rules, regulations, ordinances, statutes, or
other laws including, but not limited to:
      (1)   The city unsafe building ordinance;
      (2)   The State of Indiana Unsafe Building Law;
      (3)   State and city fire codes;
      (4)   State and city building codes;
      (5)   National, state, and local electric codes;
      (6)   Any other rule, regulation, statute, or other law relating or
pertaining to the safety or habitability of a residential or rental property.
   (C)   Is safe and habitable with respect to:
      (1)   Electrical supply and electrical systems;
      (2)   Plumbing and plumbing systems;
      (3)   Water supply, including hot water;
      (4)   Heating, ventilation, and air conditioning equipment and systems;
      (5)   Bathroom and toilet facilities;
      (6)   Doors, windows, stairways, and hallways;
      (7)   Functioning smoke detectors; and
      (8)   The structure in which a rental unit is located.
(Ord. 2017-001, passed 5-1-17)
§ 99.04 ANNUAL REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Registration form. The Code Enforcement Official or his/her designee
shall prepare a form for an owner of a rental unit to complete. The
registration form shall require information including, but not be limited to:
name of owner, address of rental unit, mailing address for owner or owner's
representative, e-mail address (if applicable), phone number, number of units
that owner rents, and verification that the landlord will update any and all
information within 30 days of any change, including those involving changes to
the occupancy and / or number of rental units. The Code Enforcement Official or
his/her designee may amend the registration form from time to time as
appropriate and/or necessary.
   (B)   Annual registration and fee. An owner of rental unit in the city shall
complete a registration form and pay an annual $5 registration fee for each
parcel of real property on which a rental unit is located. The registration
form and the registration fee shall be submitted to the City Code Enforcement
Official or his/her designee. The registration forms for all existing rental
properties in place at the time of adoption of this chapter shall be submitted
on or before July 1, 2017. In all other cases, registration forms shall be
submitted within 30 days of the establishment of the new rental property. The
annual registration fee for all existing rental properties in place at the time
of adoption of this chapter shall be due on or before July 1, 2017. In all
other cases, the annual registration fee shall be due by June 1 of each year.
   (C)   Rental unit community exception. Notwithstanding the provisions of
division (B) above, an owner of a rental unit community will only be obligated
to complete one registration form and to submit a single registration fee per
each rental unit community.
   (D)   Obligation to update information. The owner of a rental unit will be
required to update its registration form within 30 days of any change in
address, change in ownership, change in occupant, or any other material changes
thereto. Failure to do so will result in a violation of this chapter.
   (E)   Initial registration. All current owners shall submit an initial
registration form and a registration fee for any and all existing rental units
by June 1. Thereafter, any owner shall have 30 days from obtaining ownership in
a rental unit and/or leasing a rental unit to register that rental unit with
the city and to submit the registration fee.
   (F)   Rental Registration and Inspection Fund. The City Council hereby
establishes a special fund which shall be known as the Rental Registration and
Inspection Fund dedicated solely to reimbursing the costs actually incurred by
the city relating to the registration and inspection of rental units as
provided in this chapter. All registration fees required hereunder shall be
deposited in that special fund.
(Ord. 2017-001, passed 5-1-17)
§ 99.05 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Inspections authorized. The inspection officers are authorized and
directed to make inspections to determine the condition of rental units located
within the city.
      (1)   The inspection officers are authorized to enter, examine and
survey, at all reasonable times, any and all rental units. The owner or the
owner's representative, and/or occupant of every rental unit, shall give the
inspection officer free access to such rental unit and its premises at all
reasonable times for the purpose of such inspection, examination and survey,
provided, however, that such inspection officer has, prior to entry thereof,
positively identified himself or herself as a person authorized pursuant to
this chapter to enter upon said premises. At the time of each inspection, all
pets must be controlled so that the inspection officer can move about the
dwelling and surrounding property.
      (2)   The owner or the owner's representative and the occupant shall be
entitled to 72 hours written notice from the inspection officer prior to
conducting the inspection, examination or survey. In the event that the owner,
or the tenant if occupied, refuses to allow the inspection officer to conduct
the inspection, the inspection officer shall apply for a warrant to make the
inspection in accordance with IC 36-7-9-16.
      (3)   This provision shall not be construed to limit or restrain the
right of the inspection officer to make an inspection of any other building or
premises pursuant to any of the provisions of IC 36-7-9-1 et seq. or the city's
ordinances concerning unsafe buildings or unsightly premises.
   (B)   Inspection at least once every five years. Every rental unit operated
and maintained in the city shall be inspected by the Code Enforcement Official
or his/her designee at least one time every five years ("routine inspection").
The routine inspection shall be made to ascertain that the facility conforms to
all requirements of this chapter, any other ordinance of the city, and all
statutes of the State of Indiana regarding such facilities.
   (C)   Exemption to routine inspection. Pursuant to IC 36-1-20-4.1(c), except
as provided in division (D) below, the city may not conduct a routine
inspection of a rental unit or impose a fee pertaining to the inspection of a
rental unit, if the rental unit satisfies all of the following:
      (1)   The rental unit is:
         (a)   Managed by a professional real estate manager; or
         (b)   Part of a rental unit community that is managed by a
professional real estate manager.
      (2)   During the previous 12 months, the rental unit has been inspected
or is part of a rental unit community that has been inspected by either of the
following:
         (a)   By or for:
            1.   The United States Department of Housing and Urban Development,
the Indiana Housing and Community Development Authority, or another federal or
state agency; or
            2.   A financial institution or insurance company authorized to do
business in Indiana.
         (b)   By an inspector who:
            1.   Is a registered architect;
            2.   Is a professional engineer; or
            3.   Satisfies the qualifications of the city's Code Enforcement
Official or his/her designee such that the inspector would qualify as an
inspection officer.
         (c)   However, the inspector may not be the owner of the property, a
relative of the property owner, or an employee of the owner.
         (d)   The city shall be informed of any and all inspections described
in divisions (C)(2)(a) and (b) above and shall be provided the opportunity to
attend and observe said inspections. Inspection reports associated with
inspections described in divisions (C)(2)(a) and (b) above shall be provided to
the city within 30 days of inspection by the third party.
      (3)   A written inspection report of the inspection under division (C)(2)
above has been issued to the owner of the rental unit or rental unit community
(as applicable) that verifies that the rental unit or rental unit community is
safe and habitable with respect to:
         (a)   Electrical supply and electrical systems;
         (b)   Plumbing and plumbing systems;
         (c)   Water supply, including hot water;
         (d)   Heating, ventilation, and air conditioning equipment and
systems;
         (e)   Bathroom and toilet facilities;
         (f)   Doors, windows, stairways, and hallways;
         (g)   Functioning smoke detectors; and
         (h)   The structure in which a rental unit is located.
      (4)   The inspection report issued under division (C)(3) above is
delivered to the City Code Enforcement Official or his/her designee on or
before the date of the scheduled inspection.
   (D)   Additional inspections. In addition to the routine inspection that
will occur once every five years, the city may inspect any rental unit, if:
      (1)   The city receives a formal written complaint; or
      (2)   The city has reason to believe, as a result of an emergency,
police, or fire response and/or a complaint received by another agency related
to the general health, safety, and welfare associated with the unit, that the
rental unit does not comply with applicable code requirements, so long as the
city provides 72 hours written notice as provided in division (A)(2) above.
(Fees are set forth in division (F) below.)
   (E)   Access. Every occupant of a rental unit shall give the owner thereof
or the owner's representative access to any part of such dwelling or rental
unit or its premises at all reasonable times for the purpose of making such
repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   Inspection fees. For any routine, single inspection that occurs during
the five-year term set forth in division (B) above, the city shall charge the
owner of the rental unit a base fee of $125 ("inspection fee") for each
building, along with an additional $25 fee for each unit. Failure to pay the
inspection fee within 30 days of receiving notice of a required inspection
shall result in a violation of this chapter. However, in the case of a rental
unit that meets the requirements for an exemption under division (C) below, the
city may not impose any inspection fee pertaining to the inspection of that
rental unit. If a complaint is received and verified for a rental unit after
the city's routine, single inspection has occurred, the city shall charge the
owner of the rental unit a prorated portion of the base $125 fee, as noted
herein:
      (1)   Within first 12 months of routine, single inspection: $25
inspection fee for initial inspection and one follow-up to verify compliance;
$125 inspection fee for additional inspections;
      (2)   Within 12 - 24 months of routine, single inspection: $50 inspection
fee for initial inspection and one follow-up to verify compliance; $125
inspection fee for additional inspections;
      (3)   Within 24 - 36 months of routine, single inspection: $75 inspection
fee for initial inspection and one follow-up to verify compliance; $125
inspection fee for additional inspections;
      (4)   Within 36 - 48 months of routine, single inspection: $100
inspection fee for initial inspection and one follow-up to verify compliance;
$125 inspection fee for additional inspections;
      (5)   After 48 months of routine, single inspection: $125 inspection fee.
   (G)   Inspection certificate. The Code Enforcement Official or his/ her
designee shall issue to the owner of every registered and inspected rental unit
an inspection certificate as proof that the unit passed inspection. The
inspection certificate shall be valid until the next inspection.
   (H)   Violation notice. If an inspection officer finds that a rental unit or
any part thereof fails to comply with any standard set forth in this chapter,
any other ordinance of the city, or any statute of the State of Indiana, he or
she shall give notice of the alleged violation to the owner of the rental unit
("violation notice"). The violation notice shall be in writing and shall
reasonably describe the violation found. The violation notice shall further
specify the date by which the violation must be corrected.
   (I)   Service of violation notice. The violation notice shall be served upon
the owner or the owner's representative, and the occupant of the rental unit.
The violation notice may be served by any of the following methods:
      (1)   Sending a copy of the violation notice by registered or certified
mail to the address of the owner and/or occupant as reflected on the
registration form;
      (2)   Delivering a copy of the violation notice personally to the person
to be notified; or
      (3)   Leaving a copy of the violation notice at the address of the owner
and/or occupant as reflected on the registration form;
      (4)   In the event that service cannot be obtained by foregoing methods,
the alternate means of service described in IC 36-7-9-25 may be used.
   (J)   Curing violations. A rental unit that the inspection officer finds to
be unsafe or uninhabitable shall be repaired so that it meets acceptable
standards within 15 days of the violation notice. Any other violations shall be
repaired within 30 days of the violation notice. Failure to cure a violation
shall result in a violation of this chapter. The City Code Enforcement Official
or his/her designee may extend the period for cure for good cause.
   (K)   Re-inspection. Upon termination of the applicable notice period as
provided in division (J) above, the city may re-inspect the property and charge
an inspection fee for any and all such re-inspections, after the first, initial
re-inspection, which may be pro-rated (as set forth in division (F) above)
based on the level of the necessary inspection involved. For inspections
requiring significant time and/or staff resources, a full $125 inspection fee
will be assessed.
   (L)   Complaints. It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully file a
complaint alleging a violation of this chapter with knowledge that the
complaint is false in any material respect. A violation of this division
constitutes the false reporting of a crime in violation of this chapter, as
well as other applicable city and state statutes or codes, and is subject to
litigation measures, including prosecution. In addition to the criminal
remedies provided herein, the city is hereby authorized to pursue legal actions
against any person who knowingly makes a false complaint, who upon conviction
shall be liable for the city's actual costs of inspection resulting from such
complaint.
(Ord. 2017-001, passed 5-1-17)
§ 99.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to register a rental unit shall subject the violating party to
a fine not to exceed $100. Each day that a violation continues shall constitute
a separate offense.
   (B)   Any and all other violations of any provision of this chapter shall
subject the violating party to a fine not to exceed $500, in consideration of,
and coordination with IC 36-1-20-6. Each day that a violation continues or
remains uncured shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2017-001, passed 5-1-17)
CHAPTER 100: VACANT AND ABANDONED BUILDING REGISTRATION AND MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
Section
   
100.01   Purpose
   
100.02   Definitions
   
100.03   Continuing maintenance; mandatory and involuntary registration
   
100.04   Property manager
   
100.05   Information required with registration
   
100.06   Standards of maintenance
   
100.07   Registration fee
   
100.08   Liability insurance
 
   
100.99   Penalty
§ 100.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is as follows:
   (A)   To establish an ongoing program for identification and registration of
buildings and structures which have been vacant for a certain length of time;
   (B)   To establish the responsibilities of owners of these vacant buildings;
and
   (C)   To provide for administration and enforcement of standards related to
vacant buildings.
(Ord. 2019-002, passed 3-11-19)
§ 100.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED BUILDING. A structure on a parcel of real property in Aurora which
is:
      (1)   Vacant for more than 90 days;
      (2)   Also subject to an order issued pursuant to the Unsafe Building
Law; and
      (3)   Upon which the condition which generated the order has existed for
at least 30 days and has not been remedied.
   CITY OF AURORA. Any location within the municipal boundaries of the City of
Aurora.
   OWNER. A person or entity with a fee interest in a parcel of real property
on which a vacant and abandoned building is located, and whose identity and
address can be determined from an instrument recorded in the County Recorder's
office and/or from city records.
   VACANT BUILDING. A structure or parcel of real property which lacks the
habitual presence of a human being or beings who have a legal right to be on
the premises, or at which substantially all lawful business operations or
residential occupancy has ceased.
(Ord. 2019-002, passed 3-11-19)
§ 100.03 CONTINUING MAINTENANCE; MANDATORY AND INVOLUNTARY REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Upon finding a building vacant and abandoned, the Aurora Code
Enforcement Officer may issue to the building owner an order for continuing
maintenance pursuant to the Unsafe Building Act, IC 36-7-9, as it may be
amended from time to time, or pursuant to similar authority granted by state
statute, this code or other statutes, ordinances and regulations.
   (B)   The owner of a building that is abandoned, as defined in §
100.02, shall register with the Aurora Code Enforcement Officer.
   (C)   The owner of a building that is vacant but not abandoned, within the
meaning of this chapter, may opt to register the building with the Aurora Code
Enforcement, so as to notify city officials of the property manager and
exchange other information pertinent to the condition of the building.
(Ord. 2019-002, passed 3-11-19) Penalty, see §
100.99
§ 100.04 PROPERTY MANAGER.
   (A)   The owner of a building required to be registered pursuant to this
chapter must appoint a property manager residing within 50 miles of the
property. The failure to appoint a property manager is a separate violation of
this section. The property manager may be the owner or an agent of the owner.
   (B)   An agent acting as the property manager must be at least 18 years of
age.
   (C)   The property manager must be available to city officials by telephone
24 hours a day. The owner's failure to make certain that such a property
manager is available and maintains the property is a separate violation of this
section.
(Ord. 2019-002, passed 3-11-19) Penalty, see §
100.99
§ 100.05 INFORMATION REQUIRED WITH REGISTRATION.
   (A)   The owner of a building that is vacant and abandoned shall register
the property with the city's Code Enforcement Officer upon receipt of an order
for registration. Registration shall be on a form provided by the Code
Enforcement Officer, shall be verified under the penalties of perjury, and
shall include the following information:
      (1)   The street address of the property;
      (2)   The names, addresses, and telephone numbers of all persons or
entities which hold an ownership, land contract, mortgage, or other lien
interesting the property, and all beneficiaries of any land trust which owns
the property;
      (3)   A copy of the most recently executed deed used to transfer title to
the property and the most recently prepared sales disclosure form, if the
disclosure form is reasonably available from the owner;
      (4)   The names, residential and business addresses, and telephone
numbers of the property manager;
      (5)   The names and addresses of all persons or entities which hold a
lien interest or a substantial property interest in the property;
      (6)   The names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the insurance agent
and the carrier providing insurance coverage for the property as required by
this chapter; and
      (7)   The owner's plan for maintenance and repair of the property,
including the time within which the owner anticipates completion of all repairs
necessary to bring the property into compliance with all property maintenance
codes.
         (a)   However, the owner's statement of plan does not relieve the
owner of any orders issued pursuant to the Unsafe Building Law or of any
obligations imposed by statute, ordinance or regulation governing the
maintenance of property.
         (b)   The city's receipt of a plan does not constitute approval of the
owner's plan or of any violation of property maintenance standards.
   (B)   The owner is responsible for providing an updated registration form to
the Code Enforcement Officer within five business days of any change of
ownership or any information provided by the registration. The failure of the
owner to provide such updated information within five business days of any
change is a violation of this section.
(Ord. 2019-002, passed 3-11-19) Penalty, see §
100.99
§ 100.06 STANDARDS OF MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   At least once each week, the owner of a property required to be
registered under this chapter must ensure that the property is inspected and
secured against unlawful entry, that the property is cleaned, vegetation is
mowed, and that the property walkways and driveways have been adequately
cleared of snow and ice. Records of such inspections shall be provided to the
Department of Code Enforcement upon request.
   (B)   The window and door opening of all buildings on the property shall be
secured against unlawful entry by the use of locks designed for such use.
   (C)   In order to protect a building against unlawful entry or vandalism
while it is vacant, an owner may secure the windows and doors of the building
by the use of boarding. If boarding is used to secure the building, the
following standards must be met:
      (1)   Windows shall be framed by two-inch by four-inch boards secured
with plywood to the same by using six 7-inch lag bolts into King studs in all
corners and in the center of the vertical boards.
      (2)   The plywood must be four-ply CDX sheeting or approved equivalent
material, no less than one-half inch in thickness and attached by tamper proof
screws no less than three inches in length.
      (3)   The screws must be type W for wood and type S for steel, and must
be applied to a maximum of eight inches on center.
   (D)   Boarding of a vacant structure is to be considered a temporary and not
a long-term method of securing the building. Any boards applied to secure doors
and windows for more than 30 days must be surface coated with exterior grade
paint so as to reduce the blighting effect on the immediate neighborhood.
   (E)   After six months, all plywood must be removed and replaced with secure
doors or glazed windows.
(Ord. 2019-002, passed 3-11-19) Penalty, see §
100.99
§ 100.07 REGISTRATION FEE.
   (A)   The owner of any building required to be registered under this chapter
shall pay an annual registration fee to the City of Aurora upon registration.
      (1)   If the building is used or zoned for residential purposes and
contains not more than three residential units, the registration fee shall be
$250 per year.
      (2)   If the building is used or zoned for residential purposes and
contains more than three residential units, or if it is used or zoned for any
non-residential purposes, the fee shall be $500 for the first year or any part
thereof, $1,000 for the second year or any part thereof, and $1,500 for the
third and each subsequent year or any part thereof that the property is
required to be registered pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   The purpose of the registration fee is to reimburse the Aurora Code
Enforcement Officer for the costs of monitoring the property and the additional
costs of responding to emergencies and property maintenance requirements for a
vacant and abandoned building. All fees collected shall be deposited into the
Aurora Unsafe Building Fund. Said fees shall be divided between the city and
the office of the Aurora Code Enforcement Officer in a manner that is mutually
agreeable to those parties.
(Ord. 2019-002, passed 3-11-19) Penalty, see §
100.99
§ 100.08 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   (A)   The owner of any property required to be registered by this chapter
must maintain a policy of liability insurance for the building, and must
provide to the Code Enforcement Officer the name, address, and telephone number
of the insurance agent and carrier, along with a copy of the certificate or
other proof of insurance coverage.
      (1)   $250,000 minimum liability policy for residential structures;
      (2)   $500,000 minimum liability policy for commercial structures.
   (B)   The policy of insurance must require the agent or carrier to provide
15 days' advance notice of cancellation to the Code Enforcement Officer.
   (C)   These registration fees shall not commence until at least 30 days
after the initial notification is mailed by the city. In the event that real
estate taxes are current on the property, the city, by its designated Code
Enforcement Officer, shall have the authority to determine that the building is
listed for sale and being actively and reasonably marketed, and to waive the
registration fee for six months, then may waive the registration fee for an
additional six months. The determination for waiver may be based upon a
determination by the Committee as to whether the listing price for the property
is reasonably related to the assessed value of the property.
(Ord. 2019-002, passed 3-11-19) Penalty, see §
100.99
§ 100.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   An owner of a property that remains a vacant structure or an abandoned
structure for at least 90 consecutive calendar days may be liable for a civil
penalty in the amount of $500 per vacant structure or abandoned structure, not
to exceed $5,000 per structure per year, unless:
      (1)   Documentation has been filed and approved by the City of Aurora
that indicates the owner's intent to eliminate the vacant structure or
abandoned structure status of the property;
      (2)   The owner is current on all property taxes and special assessments;
and
      (3)   At least one of the following applies:
         (a)   The structure is the subject of a valid building permit for
repair or rehabilitation and the owner is proceeding diligently and in good
faith to complete the repair or rehabilitation of the structure as defined in
the enforcement order;
         (b)   The structure is:
            1.   Maintained in compliance with this chapter; and
            2.   Actively being offered for sale, lease, or rent.
         (c)   The owner can demonstrate that the owner made a diligent and
good faith effort to implement actions approved by the enforcement authority.
   (B)   If the structure continues to remain a vacant structure beyond the
initial 90 days described in division (A) above and the owner does not meet any
of the exceptions set forth in this section, the enforcement authority may
continue to assess penalties each year on each structure in the following
amounts:
      (1)   $1,000 for the second 90 calendar day period each structure remains
a vacant structure or an abandoned structure;
      (2)   $1,500 for the third 90 calendar day period each structure remains
a vacant structure or an abandoned structure;
      (3)   $2,000 for the fourth and each subsequent 90 calendar day period
thereafter each structure remains a vacant structure or an abandoned structure.
(Ord. 2019-002, passed 3-11-19)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   RESERVED
         
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
         
112.   SOLICITORS, PEDDLERS, AND TRANSIENT VENDORS
         
113.   TAXICABS
         
114.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
         
115.   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES
CHAPTER 110: RESERVED
 
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
111.01   Authority to sell alcoholic beverages in city
Cross reference:
   Disorderly conduct; use of intoxicating beverages, see §
94.12
§ 111.01 AUTHORITY TO SELL ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN CITY.
   Anyone who is authorized by the Alcoholic Beverage Commission of the state
to sell alcoholic beverages in the state shall be authorized to sell alcoholic
beverages in the city.
('74 Code, §7-5) (Ord. 177, passed - - )
CHAPTER 112: SOLICITORS, PEDDLERS AND TRANSIENT VENDORS
Section
   
112.01   Definition
   
112.02   License required
   
112.03   Obtaining license; where to apply
   
112.04   Application
   
112.05   Photograph and fingerprinting
   
112.06   Surety bond
   
112.07   License fee
   
112.08   Term of license
   
112.09   Issuance; possession; surrender
   
112.10   Exemptions
   
112.11   Time of operation
   
112.12   Incorporation of certain terms of
Chapter 110
§ 112.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. Includes all persons, firms, limited liability
companies, and corporations, or both as principals and agents, who engage in,
do, or transact any temporary or transient business in this city, either in one
locality or in traveling from place to place in this city, offering for sale or
selling goods, wares, or merchandise, and those who, for the purpose of
carrying on such business, hire, lease, or occupy any permanent or mobile
building, structure, or real estate for the exhibition by means of samples,
catalogues, photographs, and price lists or sale of such goods, wares, or
merchandise, and also includes those giving or sponsoring an exhibition, slide
slow, moving picture show, floating theatre, museum show, circus or menagerie,
exhibition or operation of any striking machines or other devices, or games for
hire or gain, but does not include:
   (A)   Any person, individual, copartner, limited liability company or
corporation which grows the goods, wares, or merchandise that is sold or
offered for sale and has applied for and been granted a license to sell said
goods, wares or merchandise under the "Farmers Market" code provisions;
   (B)   A person who makes crafts or items by hand and sells them or offers
them for sale;
   (C)   An auctioneer who is licensed under IC 25-6.1;
   (D)   A resident of the city in which the sale takes place who conducts a
sale of tangible personal property for no more than four days per calendar year
and has applied for and been granted a license for yard sale/garage sales under
Chapter 96;
   (E)   An organization that is exempt from the Indiana gross retail tax under
IC 6-2.5-5-26 and/or is tax exempt under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal
Revenue Code;
   (F)   A person who:
      (1)   Sells merchandise;
      (2)   Offers to sell merchandise; and
      (3)   Provides proof that the sale is being conducted as part of an
activity sponsored by an organization described in division (E) above;
   (G)   A person who holds a registered retail merchants certificate under IC
6-2.5-8-1.
(Am. Ord. 2005-18, passed 12-19-05)
§ 112.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any transient merchant to solicit, sell or offer to
sell in the city any goods, wares, merchandise, services, exhibits, magazines,
papers, books, pamphlets or subscriptions thereto or to conduct any business in
the city, without first having obtained a license, as provided by this chapter
from the city, and having complied with the other requirements of this chapter.
('74 Code, § 7-7) (Ord. 175, passed - - ; Ord. 63-12, passed - -63; Am. Ord.
2005-18, passed 12-19-05)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 112.03 OBTAINING LICENSE; WHERE TO APPLY.
   Each transient merchant upon his or her arrival in the city, shall apply at
the office of the Clerk-Treasurer for a license.
('74 Code, § 7-8) (Ord. 63-12, passed - -63; Am. Ord. 2005-18, passed 12-19-05)
§ 112.04 APPLICATION.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall require each applicant to fill out a verified
application blank which shall contain:
   (A)   Name of applicant (individual, firm, limited liability company or
corporation); officers of the corporation or limited liability company; state
of incorporation of organization.
   (B)   Permanent address.
   (C)   Local address, if any.
   (D)   Date and place of birth (if a limited liability company or corporation
- the date authorized and qualified to conduct business in the State of
Indiana).
   (E)   Merchandise or product to be sold and a detailed inventory and
description of such goods, wares and merchandise to be sold and representations
to be made in connection therewith.
   (F)   Employer and address of employer.
   (G)   Immediate supervisor and his or her permanent address.
   (H)   Length of time and location of proposed place of business.
   (I)   Attached to the application shall be a receipt showing that personal
property taxes on the goods, wares and merchandise have been paid.
('74 Code, § 7-9) (Ord. 63-12, passed - -63; Am. Ord. 2005-18, passed 12-19-05)
§ 112.05 PHOTOGRAPH AND FINGERPRINTING.
   The applicant shall be required to report to the Police Department with his
or her duly executed application where the applicant shall be required to
present picture identification and/or be photographed and finger-printed.
('74 Code, § 7-10) (Ord. 63-12, passed - -63; Am. Ord. 2005-18, passed 12-19-
05)
§ 112.06 SURETY BOND.
   The applicant shall be required to furnish a surety bond, acceptable to
Clerk-Treasurer, in the penal sum of the lesser of three times the value of the
goods, wares and merchandise to be offered for sale or sold as shown by the
inventory filed with the city or the sum of $2,000 payable to the city for the
protection of the public and conditioned upon the faithful performance of his
or her obligations as a transient vendor.
('74 Code, § 7-11) (Ord. 63-12, passed - -63; Am. Ord. 2005-18, passed 12-19-
05)
§ 112.07 LICENSE FEE.
   The applicant shall be required to pay the following license fee:
   (A)   One month, $50
   (B)   Each additional month, $10
('74 Code, § 7-12) (Ord. 175, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2005-18, passed 12-19-05)
§ 112.08 TERM OF LICENSE.
   No license shall be issued for less than one month.
('74 Code, § 7-12) (Ord. 175, passed - - ; Ord. 63-12, passed - -63; Am. Ord.
2005-18, passed 12-19-05)
§ 112.09 ISSUANCE; POSSESSION; SURRENDER.
   Upon the fulfillment of the requirements of §§
112.03 through
112.08 and the payment of the required fee, the Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a
license which the licensee shall be required to carry such license on his or
her person and shall be required to surrender same on leaving the city.
('74 Code, § 7-13) (Ord. 63-12, passed - -63; Am. Ord. 2005-18, passed 12-19-
05)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 112.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Any person who shall pursue the business of transient merchant in the
city without first obtaining a license to do so, any and all persons violating
any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined as provided by §
10.99.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter as to payment of fees for a transient
merchant shall not apply to individuals holding ve-terans' permits.
('74 Code, § 7-14) (Ord. 63-12, passed - -63; Am. Ord. 2005-18, passed 12-19-
05)
§ 112.11 TIME OF OPERATION.
   Unless otherwise listed on the license, the hours of operation for the
transient merchant shall be from dawn to dusk.
(Ord. 2005-18, passed 12-19-05)
§ 112.12 INCORPORATION OF CERTAIN TERMS OF CHAPTER 110.
   This chapter incorporates certain terms previously contained in
Chapter 110 entitled General Licensing Provisions and therefore
Chapter 110 is hereafter no longer necessary or in effect.
(Ord. 2005-18, passed 12-19-05)
CHAPTER 113: TAXICABS
Section
Licensing Provisions
   
113.01   License required; exceptions
   
113.02   Applications
   
113.03   Fees
   
113.04   Term of license
   
113.05   Revocation
   
113.06   Drivers to be licensed by state
   
113.07   Separate permits for taxicab
Standards of Operation
   
113.20   Compliance with state and city regulations
   
113.21   Number of companies allowed
   
113.22   Regulation by state law; insurance certificate to be filed
   
113.23   Rate schedules
   
113.24   Taxi stands
LICENSING PROVISIONS
§ 113.01 LICENSE REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive, operate or cause to be driven
or operated any automobile or motor vehicle for the solicitation of passengers,
or to engage in the taxicab business unless such person operating such taxicab
business shall first have been duly licensed by the city. Automobiles used
exclusively as hearses and ambulances shall not be construed to be included
within the purpose of this chapter.
('74 Code, §15-1) (Ord. 72-24, passed - -72)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 113.02 APPLICATIONS.
   Any person who desires to obtain a license to engage in the operation of a
taxicab business within the city shall make application to the Clerk-Treasurer
upon forms to be supplied by him for such purpose. The application form shall
require such information as the Common Council shall, from time to time,
direct, and shall be verified by the applicant.
('74 Code, § 15-2) (Ord. 72-24, passed - -72)
§ 113.03 FEES.
   Each application for a permit to operate a taxicab business within the city
shall be accompanied with a fee of $40 per cab to cover the fee for a period of
one year for the first year and a fee of $20 per cab for each year thereafter.
('74 Code, § 15-3) (Ord. 72-24, passed - -72)
§ 113.04 TERM OF LICENSE.
   Permits shall be valid for a period of one year from date of issuance and
shall be renewed from year to year upon payment of the permit fee without a
formal application being made.
('74 Code, § 15-3) (Ord. 72-24, passed - -72)
§ 113.05 REVOCATION.
   Such permits may be revoked by the Common Council upon giving the owner of
such taxicab business three days written notice of such intention, whereupon a
public hearing may be demanded by such owner or operator.
('74 Code, § 15-3) (Ord. 72-24, passed - -72)
§ 113.06 DRIVERS TO BE LICENSED BY STATE.
   No person shall be competent to operate a taxicab who shall not have first
obtained a valid "Public Passenger Chauffeur License" from the state. The
employment of an incompetent cab driver shall constitute a ground for revoking
any permit.
('74 Code, § 15-9) (Ord. 74-38, passed - -74)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 113.07 SEPARATE PERMITS FOR TAXICAB.
   Upon payment of the fees set forth in §
113.03 of this chapter, the Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a separate permit for
each cab. This permit shall bear the manufacturer's identification number of
the particular licensed cab. This cab permit shall be openly affixed to and
displayed in this respective cab at all times, and shall not be transferred to
any other vehicle. Violation of this section shall be punishable according to §
10.99 of the City Code as heretofore enacted.
('74 Code, § 15-10) (Ord. 74-38, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
STANDARDS OF OPERATION
§ 113.20 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE AND CITY REGULATIONS.
   No license shall be revoked so long as such taxicab business is operated in
compliance with the laws of the city and state and to the safety of the
community. All taxicab businesses shall operate cabs which conform to the
standards of the state motor vehicle inspection laws and such cabs must be kept
in good mechanical condition at all time. Such cabs may be inspected for
mechanical condition from time to time by the Police Department.
('74 Code, § 15-6) (Ord. 72-24, passed - -72)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 113.21 NUMBER OF COMPANIES ALLOWED.
   There shall be no more than three taxicab businesses operating in the city
at any one time unless it is shown to the Common Council that the services of
such taxicab businesses are inadequate for the community or that public con-
venience and necessity demands such additional service.
('74 Code, § 15-4) (Ord. 72-24, passed - -72; Am. Ord. 2005-09, passed 7-18-05)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 113.22 REGULATION BY STATE LAW; INSURANCE CERTIFICATE TO BE FILED.
   All state laws in force now or in the future relating to the operation of
motor vehicles for hire shall be followed in the operation of such taxicab
business, and a certificate of insurance showing statutory coverage of property
damage liability and bodily injury liability shall be filed with the Clerk-
Treasurer.
('74 Code, § 15-5) (Ord. 72-24, passed - -72)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 113.23 RATE SCHEDULES.
   Such taxicab business shall submit to the Common Council its schedule of
rates which upon approval by the council shall be filed with the Clerk-
Treasurer. Such rate schedule shall be in force until superseded by revised
schedule and likewise approved by the Council. A copy of the schedule of rates
shall be displayed in each cab at all times.
('74 Code, § 15-8) (Ord. 72-24, passed - -72)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 113.24 TAXI STANDS.
   The Common Council shall have full control of the parking space of taxi
stands and no taxi business shall use the city streets for a taxi stand unless
permit is first obtained from the Common Council upon payment of a fee to be
determined by Council, which space shall be so marked upon the city street as
taxi stand.
('74 Code, § 15-7) (Ord. 72-24, passed - -72) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 114: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
114.01   Sexually oriented business permit; purpose and findings
   
114.02   Definitions
   
114.03   Classification of sexually oriented businesses
   
114.04   License required
   
114.05   Issuance of license
   
114.06   Fees
   
114.07   Inspection
   
114.08   Expiration of license
   
114.09   Suspension
   
114.10   Revocation
   
114.11   Hearing; denial, revocation, and suspension; appeal
   
114.12   Transfer of license
   
114.13   Hours of operation.
   
114.14   Regulations pertaining to exhibition of sexually explicit films or
videos
   
114.15   Loitering and exterior lighting and monitoring requirements.
   
114.16   Additional regulations concerning live nudity
   
114.17   Underage patrons
   
114.18   Sexual encounter establishments prohibited
   
114.19   Applicability
   
114.99   Penalties and enforcement
§ 114.01 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS PERMIT; PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually
oriented businesses in order to promote the health, safety, morals, and general
welfare of the citizens of the city, and to establish reasonable and uniform
regulations to prevent the deleterious secondary effects of sexually oriented
businesses within the city. The provisions of this chapter have neither the
purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the content or
reasonable access to any communicative materials, including sexually oriented
materials. Similarly, it is not the intent nor effect of this chapter to
restrict or deny access by adults to sexually oriented materials protected by
the First Amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of
sexually oriented entertainment to their intended market. Neither is it the
intent nor effect of this chapter to condone or legitimize the distribution of
obscene material.
   (B)   Findings. Based on evidence of the adverse secondary effects of adult
uses in other communities, presented in hearings and in reports made available
to the Council, and on findings incorporated in the cases of Pap's AM v. City
of Erie, 529 U.S. 277 (2000); City of Renton v. Playtime Theatres, Inc., 475
U.S. 41 (1986), Young v. American Mini Theatres, 426 U.S. 50 (1976), and Barnes
v. Glen Theatre, Inc., 501 U.S. 560 (1991), Pleasureland Museum, Inc. v. City
of Mishawaka, 288 F.3d 988 (7th Cir. 2002); Schultz v. City of Cumberland, 26
F.Supp.2d 1128 (W.D. Wisc. 1998), aff'd in part, rev'd in part, 228 F.3d 831
(7th Cir. 2000); Berg v. Health & Hospital Corp., 865 F.2d 797 (1989); DiMa
Corp. v. Town of Hallie, 185 F.3d 823 (1999); Entertainment Concepts v.
Maciejewski, 631 F.2d 497 (1980); Genusa v. City of Peoria, 619 F.2d 1203
(1980); Graff v. City of Chicago, 9 F.3d 1309 (1993); North Avenue Novelties,
Inc. v. City of Chicago, 88 F.3d 441 (1996); and other cases; and on reports of
secondary effects occurring in and around sexually oriented businesses in other
communities including, but not limited to, Phoenix, Arizona (1984);
Minneapolis, Minnesota (1980); Houston, Texas (1983); Indianapolis, Indiana
(1984) ; Amarillo, Texas (1977); Garden Grove, California (1991); Los Angeles,
California (1977); Whittier, California (1978); Austin, Texas (1986); Seattle,
Washington (1989); Oklahoma City, Oklahoma (1986); Cleveland, Ohio (1977);
Dallas, Texas (1997); St. Croix County, Wisconsin (1993); Bellevue, Washington
(1998); Newport News, Virginia (1996); Tucson, Arizona (1990); St. Paul,
Minnesota (1988); Oklahoma City, Oklahoma (1986 and 1992); Beaumont, Texas
(1982); New York, New York (1994); Ellicottville, New York (1998); Des Moines,
Iowa (1984); Islip, New York (1980); Adams County, Colorado (1987); Manatee
County, Florida. (1987); New Hanover County, North Carolina (1989); Las Vegas,
Nevada (1978); Cattaraugas County, New York (1998); Cleburne, Texas (1997);
Dallas, Texas (1997); El Paso, Texas (1986); New York Times Square study
(1994); and also on findings from the paper entitled "Stripclubs According to
Strippers: Exposing Workplace Sexual Violence," by Kelly Holsopple, Program
Director, Freedom and Justice Center for Prostitution Resources, Minneapolis,
Minnesota, and the Report of the Attorney General's Working Group On The
Regulation Of Sexually Oriented Businesses, (June 6, 1989, State of Minnesota),
the Council finds:
      (1)   Sexually oriented businesses lend themselves to ancillary unlawful
and unhealthy activities that are presently uncontrolled by the unlicenced
operators of the establishments.
      (2)   Certain employees of unregulated sexually oriented businesses
defined in this chapter as adult theatres and cabarets engage in higher
incidence of certain types of illicit sexual behavior than employees of other
establishments.
      (3)   Sexual acts, including masturbation, and oral and anal sex, occur
at unregulated sexually oriented businesses, especially those which provide
private or semi-private booths or cubicles for viewing films, videos, or live
sex shows.
      (4)   Offering and providing such unregulated space encourages such
activities, which creates unhealthy conditions.
      (5)   Persons frequent certain adult theatres, adult arcades, and other
sexually oriented businesses for the purpose of engaging in sex within the
premises of such sexually oriented businesses, or for the purpose of purchasing
or selling illicit drugs.
      (6)   Numerous communicable diseases may be spread by activities
occurring in sexually oriented businesses, including, but not limited to,
syphilis, gonorrhea, human immunodeficiency virus infection (HIV-AIDS), genital
herpes, hepatitis salmonella, campylobacter and shigella infections,
chlamydial, myoplasmal and ureoplasmal infections, trichomoniasis and
chancroid.
      (7)   According to research from the Kaiser Family Foundation, an
estimated 650,000 to 900,000 Americans are infected with HIV. The number of new
HIV infections occurring each year is now about 41,000. Men and women of all
races are most likely to be infected by sexual contact.
      (8)   Relevant statistics revealed that a total of 5,419 AIDS cases had
been reported in Indiana as of January 1, 1999. Indiana has required HIV case
reporting since July of 1988 and shows 5,561 people currently living with HIV
(3,109) or AIDS (2,452) in the state.
      (9)   The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimates that as
many as 1 in 3 people with HIV do not know they are infected.
      (10)   The number of cases of early (less than one year) syphilis in the
United States reported annually has risen, with 33,613 cases reported in 1982
and 45,200 through November of 1990.
      (11)   The number of cases of gonorrhea in the United States reported
annually remains at a high level, with over one-half million cases being
reported in 1990.
      (12)   The surgeon general of the United States in his report of October
22, 1986, has advised the American public that AIDS and HIV infection may be
transmitted through sexual contact, intravenous drug abuse, exposure to
infected blood and blood components, and from an infected mother to her
newborn.
      (13)   According to the best scientific evidence, AIDS and HIV infection,
as well as syphilis and gonorrhea, are principally transmitted by sexual acts.
See, e.g. Findings of U.S. Dept. of Health & Human Services.
      (14)   Sanitary conditions in some sexually oriented businesses are
unhealthy, in part, because the activities conducted there are unhealthy, and,
in part, because of the unregulated nature of the activities and the failure of
the owners and the operators of the facilities to self-regulate those
activities and maintain those facilities.
      (15)   Numerous studies and reports have determined that semen is found
in the areas of sexually oriented businesses where persons view "adult"
oriented films.
      (16)   The findings noted in divisions (1) through (15) above raise
substantial governmental concerns.
      (17)   Sexually oriented businesses have operational characteristics that
should be reasonably regulated in order to protect those substantial
governmental concerns.
      (18)   A reasonable licensing procedure is an appropriate mechanism to
place the burden of that reasonable regulation on the owners and the operators
of the sexually oriented businesses. Further, such a licensing procedure will
place a heretofore nonexistent incentive on the operators to see that the
sexually oriented business is run in a manner consistent with the health,
safety and welfare of its patrons and employees, as well as the citizens of the
city. It is appropriate to require reasonable assurances that the licensee is
the actual operator of the sexually oriented business, fully in possession and
control of the premises and activities occurring therein.
      (19)   Removal of doors on adult booths and requiring sufficient lighting
on premises with adult booths advances a substantial governmental interest in
curbing the illegal and unsanitary sexual activity occurring in adult theatres.
      (20)   Requiring licensees of sexually oriented businesses to keep
information regarding current employees and certain past employees will help
reduce the incidence of certain types of criminal behavior by facilitating the
identification of potential witnesses or suspects and by preventing minors from
working in such establishments.
      (21)   The disclosure of certain information by those persons ultimately
responsible for the day-to-day operation and maintenance of the sexually
oriented business, where such information is substantially related to the
significant governmental interest in the operation of such uses, will aid in
preventing the spread of sexually transmitted diseases.
      (22)   It is desirable in the prevention of the spread of communicable
diseases to obtain a limited amount of information regarding certain employees
who may engage in the conduct which this chapter is designed to prevent or who
are likely to be witnesses to such activity.
      (23)   The general welfare, health, morals and safety of the citizens of
the city will be promoted by the enactment of this chapter.
(Ord. 2002-10, passed 8-17-02)
§ 114.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the words and phrases defined in the sections
hereunder shall have the meanings therein respectively ascribed to them unless
a different meaning is clearly indicated by the context.
   ADULT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin-operated or slug-operated or electronically, electrically, or mechanically
controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other image-
producing devices are regularly maintained to show images to five or fewer
persons per machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are
distinguished or characterized by their emphasis upon matter exhibiting or
describing "specified sexual activities" or specified "anatomical areas."
   ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, ADULT VIDEO STORE. A commercial
establishment which has significant or substantial portion of its stock-in
trade or derives a significant or substantial portion of its revenues or
devotes a significant or substantial portion of its interior business or
advertising, or maintains a substantial section of its sales or display space
to the sale or rental, for any form of consideration, of any one or more of the
following:
      (1)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, compact discs, slides, or
other visual representations which are characterized by their emphasis upon the
exhibition or description of "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas;"
      (2)   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed for use
or marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of themselves or others.
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, juice bar, restaurant bottle club, or
similar commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages are
served, which regularly features:
      (1)   Persons who appear semi-nude,
      (2)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
"specified anatomical areas" or "specified sexual activities," or
      (3)   Films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or other
photographic reproductions which are characterized by their emphasis upon the
exhibition or description of "specified sexual activities" or " specified
anatomical areas."
   ADULT MOTEL. A motel, hotel, or similar commercial establishment which:
      (1)   Offers public accommodations, for any form of consideration, and
which regularly provides patrons with closedcircuit television transmissions,
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic
reproductions which are characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition or
description of "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas"
and which regularly advertises the availability of such material by means of a
sign visible from the public right-of-way, or by means of any off premises
advertising, including but not limited to, newspapers, magazines, pamphlets or
leaflets, radio or television, and
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time less than ten
hours.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where films, motion
pictures, videocassettes, slides, or similar photographic reproductions which
are characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition or description of
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas" are regularly
shown for any form of consideration.
   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar commercial
establishment which, for any form of consideration, regularly features persons
who appear in state of semi-nudity or live performances which are characterized
by their emphasis upon the exposure of "specified anatomical areas" or
"specified sexual activities."
   CONTROLLING INTEREST. The power, directly or indirectly, to direct the
operation, management or policies of a business or entity, or to vote 20% or
more of any class of voting securities of a business. The ownership, control,
or power to vote 20% or more of any class of voting securities of a business
shall be presumed, subject to rebuttal, to be the power to direct the
management, operation or policies of the business.
   DISTINGUISHED OR CHARACTERIZED BY AN EMPHASIS UPON. The dominant or
principal theme of the object described by such phrase. For instance, when the
phase refers to films "which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis
upon the exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas," the films so described are those whose dominant or principal
character and theme are the exhibition or description "specified anatomical
areas" or "specified sexual activities."
   EMPLOY, EMPLOYEE, AND EMPLOYMENT. These terms describe and pertain to any
person who performs any service on the premises of a sexually oriented
business, on a full time, part time, or contract basis, whether or not the
person is denominated an employee, independent contractor, agent, or otherwise.
Employee does not include a person exclusively on the premises for repair or
maintenance of the premises or for the delivery of goods to the premises.
   ESTABLISH OR ESTABLISHMENT. Includes any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a
new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business;
      (3)   The addition of any sexually oriented business to any other
existing sexually oriented business; or
      (4)   The relocation of any sexually oriented business.
   HEARING OFFICER. The Mayor of the city or a designee of the Mayor.
   LICENSEE. A person in whose name a license to operate a sexually oriented
business has been issued, as well as the individual or individuals listed as an
applicant on the application for a sexually oriented business license. In case
of an "employee," it shall mean the person in whose name the sexually oriented
business employee license has been issued.
   NUDITY or A STATE OF NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female
genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft or cleavage with less than a
fully opaque covering, or the showing of the female breast with less than a
fully opaque covering of any part of the nipple.
   OPERATE or CAUSE TO BE OPERATED or OPERATOR.    OPERATE or CAUSE TO OPERATE
shall mean to cause to function or to put or keep in a state of doing business.
OPERATOR means any persons on the premises of a sexually oriented business who
is authorized to exercise overall operational control of the business or who
causes to function or who puts or keeps in operation the business. A person may
be found to be operating or causing to be operated a sexually oriented business
whether or not that person is an owner, part owner, or licensee of the
business.
   PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal entity.
   REGULARLY FEATURES or REGULARLY SHOWN. A consistent or substantial course of
conduct, such that the films or performances exhibited constitute a substantial
portion of the films or performances offered as a part of the ongoing business
of the sexually oriented business.
   SEMI-NUDE or STATE OF SEMI-NUDITY. A state of dress in which opaque clothing
covers no more than the genitals, anus, anal cleft or cleavage, pubic area,
vulva, and nipple of the female breast, as well as portions of the body covered
by supporting straps or devices.
   SEMI-NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person, who regularly appears in a
state of semi-nudity is provided for money or any form of consideration to be
observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or similarly
depicted by other persons. It is a defense to prosecution for any violation of
this chapter that a person appearing in a state of nudity or semi-nudity did so
in a modeling class operated:
      (1)   By a college, junior college, or university supported entirely or
partly by taxation;
      (2)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credited are transferable to college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
      (3)   In a structure:
         (a)   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and
no other advertising that indicates a semi-nude person is available for
viewing; and
         (b)   Where, in order to participate in a class a student must enroll
at least three days in advance of the class.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER ESTABLISHMENT. A business or commercial establishment, that
as one of its principle business purposes, offers for any form of
consideration, a place where two or more persons may congregate, associate, or
consort for the purpose of "specified sexual activities" or when one or more of
the persons is semi-nude. A sexual encounter establishment shall not include an
establishment where a medical practitioner, psychologist, psychiatrist, or
similar professional person licensed by the state engages in medically approved
and recognized sexual therapy.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult novelty
store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, or adult entertainment
out-call service in the form of semi-nude dancing or exhibition, adult motion
picture theater, adult theater, semi-nude model studio, or sexual encounter
establishment.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED ENTERTAINMENT ACTIVITY. The sale, rental, or exhibition
for any form of consideration, of books, films, video cassettes, magazines,
periodicals, or live performances which are characterized by an emphasis on the
exposure or display of "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical
areas."
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Human genitals, anus, cleft of the buttocks, or
the female breast.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Means any of the following:
      (1)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, including intercourse, oral
copulation, masturbation or sodomy; or
      (2)   Excretory functions as a part of or in connection with any of the
activities described in (1) above.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL.    TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL of a
sexually oriented business shall mean any of the following:
      (1)   The sale, lease, or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal device
which transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer
by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing
the ownership or control.
   VIEWING ROOM. The room, booth, or area where a patron of sexually oriented
business would ordinarily be positioned while watching a film, videocassette,
or other video reproduction.
(Ord. 2002-10, passed 8-17-02)
§ 114.03 CLASSIFICATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   Sexually oriented businesses shall be classified as follows:
   (A)   Adult arcades;
   (B)   Adult bookstores, adult novelty stores, adult video stores;
   (C)   Adult cabarets;
   (D)   Adult motels;
   (E)   Adult motion picture theaters;
   (F)   Adult theaters;
   (G)   Semi-nude model studios; and
   (H)   Sexual encounter establishments.
(Ord. 2002-10, passed 8-17-02)
§ 114.04 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a sexually oriented
business in the city without a valid sexually oriented business license or to
employ an employee as defined in §
114.02 who does not have a sexually oriented business employee license.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to be an "employee," as defined in
§
114.02, of a sexually oriented business in the city without a valid sexually
oriented business employee license.
   (C)   (1)   An applicant for a sexually oriented business license or a
sexually oriented business employee license shall file the application at the
office of the City Clerk-Treasurer or his or her designee a completed
application made on a form provided by the Clerk-Treasurer. The application
shall be signed by the applicant and notarized. The applicant shall submit one
original and three copies of the application in an envelope provided by the
Clerk-Treasurer. An application shall be considered complete when it complies
with and contains the information required in this section, including the
following:
         (a)   The applicant's full true name and any other names used in the
preceding five years;
         (b)   Current business address or another mailing address of the
applicant;
         (c)   Written proof of age, in the form of a copy of a birth
certificate or a picture identification document issued by a governmental
agency;
         (d)   If the application is for a sexually oriented business license,
the business name, the classification of sexually oriented business (as set
forth in §
114.03), location, legal description, mailing address, and phone number (if one
currently exists) of the proposed sexually oriented business;
         (e)   If the application is for a sexually oriented business license,
the name and address of the statutory agent or other agent authorized to
receive service of process;
         (f)   The applicant's address for purposes of receiving certified mail
or other notices from the city as provided herein; and
         (g)   The names of all employees of the sexually oriented business who
are required to be licensed pursuant to this chapter.
      (2)   The information provided pursuant to divisions (1) through (7) of
this subsection shall be supplemented in writing by certified mail, to the
Clerk-Treasurer, within ten business days of a change of circumstances which
would render the information originally submitted false or incomplete. This
requirement includes a continuing requirement on the part of the applicant and/
or licensee to supplement the names of employees of the sexually oriented
business who are required to be licensed pursuant to this chapter and the names
of licensed employees who no longer are employed by the sexually oriented
business.
   (D)   An application for a sexually oriented business license shall be
accompanied by a sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared but shall be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches. Applicants who are
required to comply with §§
114.14 and
114.16 of this chapter shall submit a diagram meeting the requirements of those
sections.
   (E)   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is an
individual, he shall sign the application for a license as applicant. If a
person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is other than an
individual, each officer, director, general partner or other person who will
participate directly in decisions relating to management and control of the
business shall sign the application for a license as applicant. Each applicant
must be qualified under §
114.05 and each applicant shall be considered a licensee if a license is
granted.
   (F)   A person who possesses a regular business license is not exempt from
the requirement, if applicable, of obtaining a sexually oriented business
license and complying with the regulations in this chapter. A person who
operates a sexually oriented business and possesses a video center license or
theater license shall comply with the requirements and provisions of this
chapter, when applicable.
   (G)   The information provided by an applicant in connection with an
application for a license under this chapter shall be maintained by the Clerk-
Treasurer on a confidential basis, except that such information may be
disclosed only to law enforcement agencies in connection with a law enforcement
or public safety function, or as may be required by governing law or court
order. The information provided by an applicant in connection with the
application for a license under this chapter shall be maintained by the Clerk-
Treasurer.
(Ord. 2002-10, passed 8-17-02)
§ 114.05 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon the filing of a completed application under §
114.04 for a sexually oriented business license, the Clerk-Treasurer shall
within one business day issue a temporary license to the applicant, which
temporary license shall expire upon the final decision of the city to deny or
grant the license. Within 40 days of the initial filing date of the completed
application, the Clerk-Treasurer shall either issue a license to the applicant
or issue a letter of intent to deny the application. The Clerk-Treasurer shall
issue the license to the applicant unless one or more of the following is found
to be true:
      (1)   An applicant is less than 18 years of age;
      (2)   An applicant has failed to provide information as required by §
114.04 for issuance of a license or has falsely answered a question or request
for information on the application form;
      (3)   The license application fee required by this chapter has not been
paid;
      (4)   An applicant has been shown to have committed a violation of §§
114.07(A),
114.10(B),
114.16(A),(B), or (C) of this chapter within the previous year;
      (5)   The proposed sexually oriented business is located in a zoning
district other than an A (Agricultural) District or B-3 (Community Business and
Retail Shopping) District pursuant to the Zoning Code or is not in compliance
with the provisions of §§
152.170, et seq. of the Zoning Code; or
      (6)   The premises is not in compliance with the interior configuration
requirements of this chapter, as applicable.
   (B)   Upon the filing of a completed application for a sexually oriented
business employee license, the Clerk-Treasurer shall within one business day
issue a temporary employee license to the applicant, which temporary license
shall expire upon the final decision of the city to deny or grant the license.
Within 40 days of the initial filing date of the receipt of a completed
application, the Clerk-Treasurer shall either issue a license to the applicant
or issue a letter of intent to deny a license to the applicant. The Clerk-
Treasurer shall issue a license to the applicant unless one or more of the
following is found to be true:
      (1)   The applicant is less than 18 years of age;
      (2)   The applicant has failed to provide information as required by §
114.04 for issuance of a license or has falsely answered a question or request
for information on the application form;
      (3)    The license application fee required by this section has not been
paid; or
      (4)   The applicant has been shown to have committed a violation of §§
114.07(A),
114.16(A), (B), or (C) of this chapter within the previous year.
   (C)   The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the
person or persons to whom it is granted, the number of the license issued to
the licensee(s), the expiration date, and, if the license is for a sexually
oriented business, the address of the sexually oriented business. The sexually
oriented business license shall be signed by the Clerk-Treasurer. The sexually
oriented business license shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the
entrance to the sexually oriented business so that it may be easily read at any
time. A sexually oriented business employee shall keep the employee's license
on his or her person or on the premises where the licensee is then working or
performing at all times and shall produce such license for inspection upon
request by a law enforcement officer or other city official performing
functions connected with the enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2002-10, passed 8-17-02)
§ 114.06 FEES.
   (A)   The initial license and annual renewal fees for a sexually oriented
business license or a sexually oriented business employee license shall be set
by the Common Council at an amount determined by the Council as sufficient to
pay the cost of administering this chapter. In no event shall the fees
exceed$500 for the initial fee of a business and $250 for annual renewal; and
$200 for the initial employee license and $100 for annual renewal.
   (B)   Fee schedule for sexually oriented business licenses.
      Type of Application            Amount
      Original application for license      $300
      Renewal application for license      $150
      Original application for employee license   $100
      Renewal application for employee license   $50
(Ord. 2002-10, passed 8-17-02)
§ 114.07 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Sexually oriented business operators and sexually oriented business
employees shall permit officers or agents of the city who are performing
functions connected with the enforcement of this chapter to inspect from time
to time, on an occasional basis, the portions of the sexually oriented business
premises where patrons are permitted, for the purpose of ensuring compliance
with this chapter, at any time the sexually oriented business is occupied by
patrons or open for business. A sexually oriented business licensee's knowing
or intentional refusal to permit such an inspection shall constitute a
violation of this section for purposes of license denial, suspension and/or
revocation. This section shall be narrowly construed by the city to authorize
reasonable inspections of the licensed premises for purposes of determining
compliance with this chapter, but not to authorize a harassing or excessive
pattern of inspections.
   (B)   The provisions of this section do not apply to areas of an adult motel
which are currently being rented by a customer for use as a permanent or
temporary habitation.
(Ord. 2002-10, passed 8-17-02)
§ 114.08 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   Each license shall remain valid for a period of one calendar year from the
date of issuance unless otherwise suspended or revoked. Such license may be
renewed only by making application and payment of a fee as provided in §§
114.04 and
114.06. Application for renewal should be made on the same form as the original
application, and should be made at least 90 days before the expiration date,
and when made less than 90 days before the expiration date, the expiration of
the license will not be affected.
(Ord. 2002-10, passed 8-17-02)
§ 114.09 SUSPENSION.
   The city shall issue by certified mail a letter of intent to suspend a
sexually oriented business license for a period not to exceed 30 days if it is
determined that the sexually oriented business licensee has knowingly violated
this chapter or has knowingly allowed an employee to violate this chapter. The
city shall issue, by certified mail, a letter of intent to suspend a sexually
oriented employee license if it is determined that the employee has knowingly
violated this chapter.
(Ord. 2002-10, passed 8-17-02)
§ 114.10 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The city shall issue by certified mail a letter of intent to revoke a
sexually oriented business license or a sexually oriented business employee
license if a cause of suspension in §
114.09 occurs and the license has been suspended within the preceding 12
months.
   (B)   The city shall issue by certified mail a letter of intent to revoke a
sexually oriented business license if the City Clerk-Treasurer determines that:
      (1)   The sexually oriented business licensee knowingly gave false or
misleading information in the application for the sexually oriented business
license;
      (2)   The sexually oriented business licensee knowingly allowed
possession, use, or sale of controlled substances on the premises;
      (3)   The sexually oriented business licensee knowingly allowed
prostitution on the premises;
      (4)   The sexually oriented business licensee knowingly operated the
sexually oriented business during a period of time when the license was
suspended; or
      (5)   The sexually oriented business licensee knowingly allowed any
specified sexual activity to occur in or on the licensed premises.
   (C)   The city shall issue by certified mail a letter of intent to revoke a
sexually oriented business employee license if the City Clerk-Treasurer
determines that:
      (1)   The licensee has knowingly given false or misleading information in
the application for the sexually oriented business employee license;
      (2)   The licensee knowingly possessed, consumed or sold controlled
substances on the premises;
      (3)   The licensee knowingly engaged in prostitution on the premises;
      (4)   The licensee acted as an employee in a sexually oriented business
during a period of time when his or her sexually oriented business employee
license was suspended; or
      (5)   The licensee knowingly engaged in any specified sexual activity in
or on the licensed premises.
   (D)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on
the revocation of the license.
   (E)   Nature of revocation. When, after the notice and hearing procedure
described in §
114.11, the Hearing Officer revokes a license, the revocation shall continue
for one year and the licensee shall not be issued a sexually oriented business
license or sexually oriented business employee license for one year from the
date revocation becomes effective, provided that, if the conditions of §
114.11(B) are met, a provisional license will be granted pursuant to that
section. If, subsequent to revocation, the Clerk-Treasurer finds that the basis
for the revocation based on division (B)(1) of this section has been corrected
or abated, the applicant shall be granted a license if at least 90 days have
elapsed since the date the revocation became effective. If the license was
revoked under division (B)(2) through (5) of this section, an applicant may not
be granted another license until at least one year has elapsed.
(Ord. 2002-10, passed 8-17-02)
§ 114.11 HEARING; DENIAL, REVOCATION, AND SUSPENSION; APPEAL.
   (A)   (1)   If the Clerk-Treasurer determines that facts exist for denial,
suspension, or revocation of a license under this chapter, the Clerk-Treasurer
shall notify the applicant or licensee ("respondent") in writing of the intent
to deny, suspend or revoke the license, including the grounds thereof, by
certified mail. Within ten business days of receipt of such notice, the
respondent may provide to the Clerk-Treasurer a written response that shall
include a statement of reasons why the respondent believes the license should
not be denied, suspended, or revoked.
      (2)   Within five business days of the receipt of respondent's written
response, the Clerk-Treasurer shall notify respondent in writing, by certified
mail, of the hearing date on respondent's denial, suspension, or revocation
proceeding. Within ten business days of the receipt of respondent's written
response, the Hearing Officer shall conduct a hearing at which respondent shall
have the opportunity to be represented by counsel and present evidence and
witnesses on his or her behalf. If a response is not received by the Clerk-
Treasurer in the time stated or, if after the hearing the Hearing Officer finds
that grounds as specified in this chapter exist for denial, suspension, or
revocation, then such denial, suspension, or revocation shall become final five
days after the Hearing Officer sends, by certified mail, written notice to the
respondent that the license has been denied, suspended, or revoked. Such notice
shall include a statement advising the respondent of the right to appeal such
decision to a court of competent jurisdiction. If the Hearing Officer finds
that no grounds exist for denial, suspension, or revocation of a license, then
within five days after the hearing, the Hearing Officer shall order the Clerk-
Treasurer to immediately withdraw the intent to deny, suspend, or revoke the
license and to notify the respondent in writing by certified mail of such
action. The Clerk-Treasurer shall contemporaneously therewith issue the license
to the respondent.
   (B)   When a decision to deny, suspend or revoke a license becomes final,
the applicant or licensee ("aggrieved party") whose application for a license
has been denied or whose license has been suspended or revoked shall have the
right to appeal such action to a court of competent jurisdiction. Upon the
filing of any court action to appeal, challenge, restrain, or otherwise enjoin
the city's enforcement of the denial, suspension, or revocation, the city shall
immediately issue the aggrieved party a provisional license. The provisional
license shall allow the aggrieved party to continue operation of the sexually
oriented business or to continue employment as a sexually oriented business
employee and will expire upon the court's entry of a judgment on the aggrieved
party's appeal or other action to restrain or otherwise enjoin the city's
enforcement.
   (C)   Application of chapter during temporary license or provisional license
periods. Sexually oriented businesses or sexually oriented business employees
operating or working under temporary licenses [as provided for in §
114.05(A)] and/or provisional licenses [as provided for in §
114.11(B)] shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2002-10, passed 8-17-02)
§ 114.12 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another person, nor
shall a licensee operate a sexually oriented business under the authority of a
license at any place other than the address designated in the sexually oriented
business license application pursuant to §
114.04(C)(4).
(Ord. 2002-10, passed 8-17-02)
§ 114.13 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No sexually oriented business shall open to do business before 10:00 a.m. or
remain open after 11:00 p.m., provided that, a sexually oriented business which
has obtained a license or permit to sell alcoholic beverages from the state may
remain open to sell alcoholic beverages under the terms of that license or
permit, but may not conduct sexually oriented entertainment activity after 11:
00 p.m.
(Ord. 2002-10, passed 8-17-02)
§ 114.14 REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS OR
VIDEOS.
   (A)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business, other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in a
viewing room of less than 150 square feet of floor space, a film, video
cassette, or other video reproduction characterized by an emphasis on the
display of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas shall
comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   Each application for a sexually oriented business license shall
contain a diagram of the premises showing the location of all manager's
stations, viewing rooms, overhead lighting fixtures, video cameras and monitors
installed for monitoring purposes and restrooms, and shall designate all
portions of the premises in which patrons will not be permitted. Restrooms
shall not contain video reproduction equipment. The diagram shall also
designate the place at which the permit will be conspicuously posted, if
granted. A professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer's or
architect's blueprint shall not be required; however, each diagram shall be
oriented to the north or to some designated street or object and shall be drawn
to a designated scale or with marked dimensions sufficient to show the various
internal dimensions of all areas of the interior of the premises to an accuracy
of plus or minus six inches. The Clerk-Treasurer may waive the foregoing
diagram for renewal applications if the applicant adopts a diagram that was
previously submitted and certifies that the configuration of the premises has
not been altered since it was prepared.
      (2)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
      (3)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager's
station or viewing room may be made without the prior approval of the Clerk-
Treasurer.
      (4)   It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any employees present
on the premises, to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of
the premises which has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be
permitted in the application filed pursuant to subsection (1) of this division.
      (5)   The interior premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting
fixtures of sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are
permitted access at an illumination of not less than one foot candle as
measured at the floor level. It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any
employees present on the premises, to ensure that the illumination described
above is maintained at all times that the premises is occupied by patrons or
open for business.
      (6)   It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any employees present
on the premises, to ensure that no sexual activity occurs in or on the licensed
premises.
      (7)   It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any employees present
on the premises, to ensure that not more than one person is present in a
viewing room at any time. No person shall enter a viewing room that is occupied
by another person.
      (8)   It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any employees present
on the premises, to ensure that no openings of any kind exist between viewing
rooms. No person shall make an attempt to make an opening of any kind between
viewing rooms.
      (9)   It shall be the duty of the operator, or of any employee who
discovers two or more patrons in a viewing room or discovers any person making
or attempting to make an opening of any kind between viewing rooms, to
immediately escort such persons from the premises.
      (10)   It shall be the duty of the operator, or of any employee, who
discovers an opening of any kind between viewing rooms to immediately secure
such rooms, and prevent entry into them by any patron until such time as the
wall between the rooms has been repaired to remove the opening. Removal and
repairing openings between viewing rooms shall be in a manner that is as
structurally substantial as the original wall construction.
      (11)   It shall be the duty of the operator, at least once each business
day, to inspect the walls between viewing rooms for openings of any kind.
      (12)   It shall be the duty of the operator to post conspicuous signs in
well-lighted entry areas of the business stating all of the following:
         (a)   That no loitering is permitted in viewing rooms.
         (b)   That the occupancy of viewing rooms is limited to one person.
         (c)   That sexual activity on the premises is prohibited.
         (d)   That the making of openings between viewing rooms is prohibited.
         (e)   That violators will be required to leave the premises.
         (f)   That violations of subsections (b), (c) and (d) of this
paragraph are unlawful and subject to the penalties set forth in §
114.99.
      (13)   It shall be the duty of the operator to ensure that floor
coverings in viewing rooms are nonporous, easily cleanable surfaces, with no
rugs or carpeting.
      (14)   It shall be the duty of the operator to ensure that all wall
surfaces and seating surfaces in viewing rooms are constructed of or
permanently covered by nonporous easily cleanable material.
      (15)   It shall be the duty of the operator to ensure that premises are
clean and sanitary. Such duty shall be fulfilled if the operator complies with
the following cleaning procedures:
         (a)   The operator shall maintain a regular cleaning schedule of at
least two cleanings per day, documented by appropriate logs.
         (b)   The operator shall provide an employee to check all areas for
garbage, trash, body fluids and excrement and to remove and clean all areas
with a disinfectant. All solid waste generated by the business shall be
collected from the premises for disposal at a lawful solid waste disposal
facility at least twice each week. Prior to collection solid waste shall be
stored in a manner that prevents access by animals or members of the public and
which will not facilitate the creation of a health nuisance.
         (c)   Thorough cleaning of the entire interior of any room providing
patron privacy shall be done using a disinfectant. Cleaning shall include
floors, walls, doors, seating, monitors, video cameras, and windows and other
surfaces.
      (16)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of every area of
the premises, including the interior of each viewing room but excluding
restrooms, to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose. A manager's
station shall not exceed 32 square feet of floor area. If the premises has two
or more manager's stations designated, then the interior of the premises shall
be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed view of each area
of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose from at
least one of the manager's stations. The view required in this paragraph must
be by direct line of sight from the manager's station. It is the duty of the
operator to ensure that at least one employee is on duty and situated in each
manager's station at all times that any patron is on the premises. It shall be
the duty of the operator, and it shall also be the duty of any employees
present on the premises, to ensure that the view area specified in this
paragraph remains unobstructed by any doors, curtains, walls, merchandise,
display racks or other materials or enclosures at all times that any patron is
present on the premises.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a person having a duty under this section to
knowingly fail to fulfill that duty.
(Ord. 2002-10, passed 8-17-02) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.15 LOITERING AND EXTERIOR LIGHTING AND MONITORING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the operator of a sexually oriented business
to:
      (1)   Initiate and enforce a no loitering policy within the external
boundaries of the real property upon which the sexually oriented businesses are
located;
      (2)   Post conspicuous signs stating that no loitering is permitted on
such property;
      (3)   Designate one or more employees to monitor the activities of
persons on such property by visually inspecting such property at least once
every 90 minutes or inspecting such property by use of video cameras and
monitors; and
      (4)   Provide lighting of the exterior premises to provide for visual
inspection or video monitoring to prohibit loitering.
      (5)   If used, video cameras and monitors shall operate continuously at
all times that the premises is open for business. The monitors shall be
installed within a manager's station.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a person having a duty under this section to
knowingly fail to fulfill that duty.
(Ord. 2002-10, passed 8-17-02)
§ 114.16 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS CONCERNING LIVE NUDITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in a sexually oriented business
knowingly to violate the following regulations or knowingly to allow an
employee or any other person to violate the following regulations:
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for a patron, employee, or any
other person who knowingly or intentionally, in a sexually oriented business,
appears in a state of nudity, regardless of whether such public nudity is
expressive in nature.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for a person who knowingly or
intentionally in a sexually oriented business appears in a semi-nude condition
unless the person is a licensed employee who, while semi-nude, shall be at
least six feet from any patron or customer and on a stage at least two feet
from the floor.
   (C)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any employee, while semi-
nude in a sexually oriented business, knowingly or intentionally to receive any
pay or gratuity directly from any patron or customer or for any patron or
customer knowingly or intentionally to pay or give any gratuity directly to any
employee, while said employee is semi-nude in a sexually oriented business.
   (D)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any employee, while semi-
nude, knowingly or intentionally to touch a customer or the clothing of a
customer.
   (E)   A sign, in a form to be prescribed by the Clerk-Treasurer, summarizing
the provisions of this section shall be posted near the entrance of the
sexually oriented business in such a manner as to be clearly visible to patrons
upon entry.
(Ord. 2002-10, passed 8-17-02)
§ 114.17 UNDERAGED PATRONS.
   No person knowingly shall allow admittance of a person under 18 years of age
to the business premises unless accompanied by a parent or guardian.
(Ord. 2002-10, passed 8-17-02)
§ 114.18 SEXUAL ENCOUNTER ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall operate a sexual encounter establishment as defined in this
chapter. Operation of such an establishment shall constitute a nuisance per se
and will additionally result in imposition of penalties for violation of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2002-10, passed 8-17-02) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.19 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to the activities of all sexually oriented
businesses and sexually oriented business employees described herein, whether
such businesses or activities were established or commenced before, on, or
after the effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. 2002-10, passed 8-17-02)
§ 114.99 PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   A person who knowingly violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, or refuses
to comply with or resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be fined in an amount not to exceed $2,500. Each violation shall
be considered a separate and distinct offense, and each day the violation is
committed, or permitted to continue, shall constitute a separate and distinct
offense.
   (B)   The City Attorney is hereby authorized to institute civil proceedings
necessary for the enforcement of this chapter seeking to enjoin, restrain or
correct violations hereof. Such proceedings, including injunction, shall be
brought in the name of the city, provided, however, that nothing in this
section and no action taken thereunder, shall be held to exclude such criminal
or other proceedings as may be authorized by other provisions of this code, or
any of the laws in force in the county or the state, or to exempt anyone
violating this chapter or any part of said laws from any penalty which may be
incurred.
   (C)   All remedies and penalties provided for in this section shall be
cumulative and independently available to the city, and the city shall be
authorized to pursue any and all remedies set forth in this chapter to the full
extent allowed by law.
(Ord. 2002-10, passed 8-17-02)
CHAPTER 115: WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES
Section
   
115.01   Title
   
115.02   Purpose and legislative intent
   
115.03   Definitions
   
115.04   Overall policy and desired goals for special use permits for wireless
telecommunications facilities
   
115.05   Special use permit application and other requirements
   
115.06   Location of wireless telecommunications facilities
   
115.07   Shared use of wireless telecommunications facilities and other
structures
   
115.08   Height of telecommunications tower(s)
   
115.09   Visibility of wireless telecommunications facilities
   
115.10   Security of wireless telecommunications facilities
   
115.11   Signage
   
115.12   Lot size and setbacks
   
115.13   Retention of expert assistance and reimbursement by applicant
   
115.14   Exceptions from a special use permit for wireless telecommunications
facilities
   
115.15   Public hearing required
   
115.16   Action on an application for a special use permit for wireless
telecommunications facilities
   
115.17   Recertification of a special use permit for wireless
telecommunications facilities
   
115.18   Extent and parameters of special use permit for wireless
telecommunications facilities
   
115.19   Application fee
   
115.20   Performance security
   
115.21   Reservation of authority to inspect wireless telecommunications
facilities
   
115.22   Annual NIER certification
   
115.23   Liability insurance
   
115.24   Indemnification
   
115.25   Fines
   
115.26   Default and/or revocation.
   
115.27   Removal of wireless telecommunications facilities
   
115.28   Relief
   
115.29   Periodic regulatory review by the council
   
115.30   Adherence to state and/or federal rules and regulations
§ 115.01 TITLE.
   This chapter may be known and cited as the "Wireless Telecommunications
Facilities Siting Chapter" for the city.
(Ord. 2002-01, passed 2-13-02)
§ 115.02 PURPOSE AND LEGISLATIVE INTENT.
   The Telecommunications Act of 1996 affirmed the city authority concerning
the placement, construction and modification of wireless telecommunications
facilities. The Common Council of the city finds that wireless
telecommunications facilities may pose a hazard to the health, safety, public
welfare and environment of the city and its inhabitants. The city also
recognizes that facilitating the development of wireless service technology can
be an economic development asset to the city and of significant benefit to the
city and its residents. In order to insure that the placement, construction or
modification of wireless telecommunications facilities is consistent with the
city's land use policies, the city is adopting a single, comprehensive,
wireless telecommunications facilities application and permit process. The
intent of this chapter is to minimize the negative impact of wireless
telecommunications facilities, establish a fair and efficient process for
review and approval of applications, assure an integrated, comprehensive review
of environmental impacts of such facilities, and protect the health, safety and
welfare of the city.
(Ord. 2002-01, passed 2-13-02)
§ 115.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, and where not inconsistent with the context of
particular section, the defined terms, phrases, words, abbreviations, and their
derivations shall have the meaning given in this section. When not inconsistent
with the context, words in the present tense include the future tense, words
used in the plural number include words in the singular number and words in the
singular number include the plural number. The word "shall" is always
mandatory, and not merely directory.
   ACCESSORY FACILITY or STRUCTURE. Serving or being used in conjunction with
wireless telecommunications facilities, and located on the same property or lot
as the wireless telecommunications facilities, including but not limited to
utility or transmission equipment storage sheds or cabinets.
   ANTENNA. A system of electrical conductors that transmit or receive
electromagnetic waves or radio frequency signals. Such waves shall include, but
not be limited to radio, television, cellular, paging, personal
telecommunications services (PCS), and microwave telecommunications.
   APPLICANT. Any person submitting an application to the city for a special
use permit for wireless telecommunications facilities.
   APPLICATION. The form approved by the Council, together with all necessary
and appropriate documentation that an applicant submits in order to receive a
special use permit for wireless telecommunications facilities.
   CITY. The city of Aurora, Indiana.
   CO-LOCATION. The use of the same telecommunications tower or structure to
carry two or more antennae for the provision of wireless services by two or
more persons or entities.
   COMMERCIAL IMPRACTICABILITY or COMMERCIALLY IMPRACTICABLE. Shall have the
meaning in this chapter and any special use permit granted hereunder as is
defined and applied under the United States Uniform Commercial Code (UCC).
   COMPLETED APPLICATION. An application that contains all information and/or
data necessary to enable the Council to evaluate the merits of the application,
and to make an informed decision with respect to the effect and impact of
wireless telecommunications facilities on the city is the context of the
permitted land use for the particular location requested.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of the city.
   DIRECT-TO-HOME SATELLITE SERVICES or DIRECT BROADCAST SERVICE (DBS). Only
programming transmitted or broadcast by satellite directly to subscribers'
premises without the use of ground receiving equipment except at the
subscribers' premises or in the uplink process to the satellite.
   EPA. State and/or Federal Environmental Protection Agency or its duly
assigned successor agency.
   FAA. The Federal Aviation Administration, or its duly designated and
authorized successor agency.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission, or its duly designated and
authorized successor agency.
   FREE STANDING TOWER. A tower that is not supported by guy wires and has no
other means of support other than as own foundation.
   HEIGHT. When referring to a tower or structure, the distance measured from
the pre-existing grade level to the highest point on the tower or structure,
even if said highest point is an antenna.
   NIER. Non-Ionizing Electromagnetic Radiation.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, estate, trust, partnership, joint stock
company, association of two or more persons having a joint common interest, or
any other entity.
   PERSONAL WIRELESS FACILITY. See definition for WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS
FACILITIES .
   PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICES (PWS) or PERSONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE
(FCS). Shall have the same meaning as defined and used in the 1996
Telecommunications Act.
   SPECIAL USE PERMIT. The official document or permit by which an applicant is
allowed to construct and use wireless telecommunications facilities as granted
or issued by the city.
   STATE. The State of Indiana.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS. The transmission and reception of audio, video, data,
and other information by wire, radio frequency, light, and other electronic or
electromagnetic systems.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SITE. See definition for WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS
FACILITIES .
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS STRUCTURE. A structure used in the provision of services
described in the definition of WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES .
   TEMPORARY. In relation to all aspects and components of this chapter,
something intended to, or that does exist for fewer than 90 days.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES or TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWER or
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SITE or PERSONAL WIRELESS FACILITY. A structure, facility or
location designed, or intended to be used as, or used to support, antennas, as
well as antennas or any functional equivalent equipment used to transmit or
receive signals. It includes without limit, free standing towers, guyed towers,
monopoles, and similar structures that employ camouflage technology, including,
but not limited to structures such as a multi-story building, church steeple,
silo, water tower, sign or other similar structures intended to mitigate the
visual impact of an antenna or the functional equivalent of such. It is a
structure intended for transmitting and/or receiving radio, television,
cellular, paging, personal telecommunications services, or microwave
telecommunications, but excluding those used exclusively for fire, police and
other dispatch telecommunications, or exclusively for private radio and
television reception and private citizen's bands, amateur radio and other
similar telecommunications.
(Ord. 2002-01, passed 2-13-02)
§ 115.04 OVERALL POLICY AND DESIRED GOALS FOR SPECIAL USE PERMITS FOR WIRELESS
TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES.
   In order to ensure that the placement, construction, and modification of
wireless telecommunications facilities protects the city's health, safety,
public welfare, environmental features and other aspects of the quality of life
specifically listed elsewhere in this chapter, the Council hereby adopts an
overall policy with respect to a special use permit for wireless
telecommunications facilities for the express purpose of achieving the
following goals:
   (A)   Implementing an application process for person(s) seeking a special
use permit for wireless telecommunications facilities;
   (B)   Establishing a policy for examining an application for and issuing a
special use permit for wireless telecommunications facilities that is both fair
and consistent.
   (C)   Establishing reasonable time frames for granting or not granting a
special use permit for wireless telecommunications facilities, or recertifying
or not recertifying, or revoking the special use permit granted under this
chapter.
   (D)   Promoting and encouraging, wherever possible, the abasing and/or co-
location of wireless telecommunications facilities among service providers;
   (E)   Promoting and encouraging, wherever possible, the placement, height
and quantity of wireless telecommunications facilities in such a manner as to
minimize adverse aesthetic impacts to the land, property, buildings, and other
facilities adjacent to, surrounding, and in generally the same area as the
requested location of such wireless telecommunications facilities.
(Ord. 2002-01, passed 2-13-02)
§ 115.05 SPECIAL USE PERMIT APPLICATION AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All applicants for a special use permit for wireless
telecommunications facilities or any modification of such facility shall comply
with the requirements set forth in this section. The Council is the officially
designated agency or body of the community to whom applications for a special
use permit for wireless telecommunications facilities must be made, and that is
authorized to review, analyze, evaluate and make decisions with respect to
granting or not granting, recertifying or not recertifying, or revoking special
use permits for wireless telecommunications facilities. The Council may at its
discretion delegate or designate other official agencies of the city to accept,
review, analyze, evaluate and make recommendations to the Council with respect
to the granting or not granting, recertifying or not recertifying or revoking
special use permits for wireless telecommunications facilities.
   (B)   An application for a special use permit for wireless
telecommunications facilities shall be signed on behalf of the applicant by the
person preparing the same and with knowledge of the contents and
representations made therein and attesting to the truth and completeness of the
information. The landowner, if different than the applicant, shall also sign
the application. At the discretion of the Council, any false or misleading
statement in the application may subject the applicant to denial of the
application without further consideration or opportunity for correction.
   (C)   Applications not meeting the requirements stated herein or which are
otherwise incomplete may be rejected by the Council.
   (D)   The applicant shall include a statement in writing:
      (1)   That the applicant's proposed wireless telecommunications
facilities shall be maintained in a safe manner, and in compliance with all
conditions of the special use permit, without exception, unless specifically
granted relief by the Council in writing, as well as all applicable and
permissible local codes, ordinances, and regulations, including any and all
applicable county, state and federal ordinances, rules, and regulations;
      (2)   That the construction of the wireless telecommunications facilities
is legally permissible, including, but not limited to the fact that the
applicant is authorized to do business in the state.
   (E)   No wireless telecommunications facilities shall be installed or
constructed until the site plan is reviewed and approved by the Council, and
the special use permit has been issued.
   (F)   All applications for the construction or installation of new wireless
telecommunications facilities shall be accompanied by a report containing the
information hereinafter set forth. The report shall be signed by a licensed
professional engineer registered in the state. Where this section calls for
certification, such certification shall be by a qualified state licensed
professional engineer acceptable to the city, unless otherwise noted. The
application shall include, in addition to the other requirements for the
special use permit, the following information:
      (1)   Documentation that demonstrates the need for the wireless
telecommunications facilities to provide service primarily within the city;
      (2)   Name, address and phone number of the person preparing the report;
      (3)   Name, address, and phone number of the property owner, operator,
and applicant, to include the legal form of the applicant;
      (4)   Postal address and tax map parcel number of the property;
      (5)   Zoning District or designation in which the property is situated;
      (6)   Size of the property stated both in square feet and lot line
dimensions, and a diagram showing the location of all lot lines;
      (7)   Location of nearest residential structure;
      (8)   Location of nearest habitable structure;
      (9)   Location, size and height of all structures on the property which
is the subject of the application;
      (10)   Location, size and height of all proposed and existing antennae
and all appurtenant structures;
      (11)   Type, locations and dimensions of all proposed and existing
landscaping, and fencing;
      (12)   The number, type and design of the telecommunications tower(s)
antenna(s) proposed and the basis for the calculations of the telecommunication
tower's capacity to accommodate multiple users;
      (13)   The make, model and manufacturer of the tower and antenna(s);
      (14)   A description of the proposed tower antenna(s) and all related
fixtures, structures, appurtenances and apparatus, including height above pre-
existing grade, materials, color and lighting;
      (15)   The frequency, modulation and class of service of radio or other
transmitting equipment;
      (16)   Transmission and maximum effective radiated power of the antenna
(s);
      (17)   Direction of maximum lobes and associated radiation of the antenna
(s);
      (18)   Certification that NIER levels at the proposed site are within the
threshold levels adopted by the FCC;
      (19)   Certification that the proposed antenna(s) will not cause
interference with existing telecommunications devices, which certfication shall
be reviewed by a licensed engineer designated by city;
      (20)   A copy of the FCC license applicable for the use of wireless
telecommunications facilities;
      (21) Certification that a topographic and geomorphologic study and
analysis has been conducted, and that taking into account the subsurface and
substrata, and the proposed drainage plan, that the site is adequate to assure
the stability of the proposed wireless telecommunications facilities on the
proposed site, which certification shall be reviewed by a licensed engineer
designated by the city;
      (22)   Propagation studies of the proposed site and all adjoining
proposed, in-service or existing sites;
      (23)   Applicant shall disclose in writing any in existence prior to
submission of the application that would limit or preclude the ability of the
applicant to share any new telecommunication tower that it constructs.
   (G)   In the case of a new telecommunication tower, the applicant shall be
required to submit a written report demonstrating its efforts to secure shared
use of existing telecommunications tower(s) or use of existing buildings or
other structures within the city. Copies of written requests and responses for
shared use shall be provided to the Council.
   (H)   The applicant shall furnish written certification that the
telecommunication facility, foundation and attachments are designed and will be
constructed to meet all local, county, state and federal structural
requirements for loads, including wind and ice loads.
   (I)   After construction and prior to receiving a Certificate of Compliance,
the applicant shall furnish written certification that the wireless
telecommunications facilities are grounded and bonded so as to protect persons
and property and installed with appropriate surge protectors.
   (J)   If requested by the Council, the applicant shall furnish a visual
impact assessment which shall include:
      (1)   A " Zone of Visibility Map" which shall be provided in order to
determine locations where the tower may be seen.
      (2)   Pictorial representations of "before and after" views from key
viewpoints both inside and outside of the city, including but not limited to
state highways and other major roads; state and local pants, other public
lands, historic districts, preserves and historic sites normally open to the
public; and from any other location where the site is visible to a large number
of visitors, travelers or residents. The Council, acting in consultation with
its consultants or experts, will provide guidance concerning the appropriate
key sites at a pre-application meeting.
      (3)   An assessment of the visual impact of the tower base, guy wires and
accessory buildings from abutting and adjacent properties and streets.
   (K)   Any and all representations made by the applicant to the Council, on
the record, during the application process, whether written or verbal, shall be
deemed a part of the application and may be relied upon in good faith by the
Council.
   (L)   The applicant shall, in a manner approved by the Council, demonstrate
and provide in writing and/or by drawing how it shall effectively screen from
view its proposed wireless telecommunications facilities base and all related
facilities and structures.
   (M)   All utilities from wireless telecommunications facilities sites shall
be installed underground and in compliance with all ordinances, rules and
regulations of the city, including specifically, but not limited to the
National Electrical Safety Code and the National Electrical Code where
appropriate. The Council may waive or vary the requirements of undergrounding
installation of utilities whenever, in the opinion of the Council, such
variance or waiver shall not be detrimental to the health, safety, general
welfare and environment, including the visual and scenic characteristics of the
area.
   (N)   All wireless telecommunications facilities shall contain a
demonstration that the facility is sited so as to have the least adverse visual
effect on the environment and its character, and the residences in the area of
the wireless telecommunications facilities sites.
   (O)   Both the wireless telecommunications facility and any and all
accessory or associated facilities shall maximize use of building materials,
colors ,and textures designed to blend with the structure to which it may be
affixed and/or to harmonize with the natural surroundings, this shall include
the utilization of stealth or concealment technology as required by the city.
   (P)   At a telecommunications site, an access road and parking shall be
provided to assure adequate emergency and service access. Maximum use of
existing roads, whether public or private, shall be made to the extent
practicable. Road construction shall at all times minimize ground disturbance
and vegetation cutting. Road grades shall closely follow natural contours to
assure minimal visual disturbance and reduce soil erosion.
   (Q)   A person who holds a special use permit for wireless
telecommunications facilities shall construct, operate, maintain, repair,
provide for removal of, modify or restore the permitted wireless
telecommunications facilities in strict compliance with all current technical,
safety and safety-related codes adopted by the city, county, state, or United
States, including but not limited to the most recent editions of the National
Electrical Safety Code and the National Electrical Code, as well as accepted
and responsibly workmanlike industry practices and recommended practices of the
National Association of Tower Erectors. The codes referred to are codes that
include, but are not limited to, construction, building, electrical, fire,
safety, health, and land use codes. In the event of a conflict between or among
any of the preceding the more stringent shall apply.
   (R)   A holder of a special use permit granted under this chapter shall
obtain, at its own expense, all permits and licenses required by applicable
rule, regulation or chapter, and must maintain the same, in full force and
effect, for as long as required by the city or other governmental entity or
agency having jurisdiction over the applicant.
   (S)   The Council may conduct an environmental review of the proposed
project in combination with its review of the application under this chapter.
Applicant shall provide written documentation that it is in compliance with all
federal, state and local environmental regulations, such as NHPA and NEPA.
   (T)   An applicant shall submit to the City Council the number of completed
applications determined to be needed at the pre-application meeting. A copy of
the application shall be provided to the legislative body of all adjacent
municipalities.
   (U)   The applicant shall examine the feasibility of designing a proposed
telecommunications tower to accommodate future demand for at least two
additional commercial applications, for example, future collocations. The scope
of this examination shall be determined by the Council. The telecommunications
tower shall be structurally designed to accommodate at least two additional
antenna arrays equal to those of the applicant, and located as close to the
applicant's antenna as possible without causing interference. This requirement
may be waived, provided that the applicant, in writing, demonstrates that the
provisions of future shared usage of the telecommunications tower is not
technologically feasible, or is commercially impracticable and creates an
unnecessary and unreasonable burden, based upon:
      (1)   The foreseeable number of FCC licenses available for the area;
      (2)   The kind of wireless telecommunications facilities site and
structure proposed;
      (3)   The number of existing and potential licenses without wireless
telecommunications facilities spaces/sites;
      (4)   Available space on existing and approved telecommunications towers.
   (V)   The applicant shall submit to the Council a letter of intent
committing the owner of the proposed new tower, and his/her successors in
interest, to negotiate in good faith for shared use of the proposed tower by
other telecommunications providers in the future. This letter shall be filed
with the Council. Failure to abide by the conditions outlined in the letter may
be grounds for revocation of the special use permit. The letter shall commit
the new tower owner and their successors in interest to:
      (l)   Respond within 60 days to a request for information from a
potential shared-use applicant;
      (2)   Negotiate in good faith concerning future requests for shared use
of the new tower by other telecommunications providers;
      (3)   Allow shared use of the new tower if another telecommunications
provider agrees in writing to pay reasonably. The charges may include, but are
not limited to, a pro rata share of the cost of site selection, planning,
project administration, land costs, site design, construction and maintenance
financing, return on equity, less depreciation, and all of the costs of
adapting the tower or equipment to accommodate a shared user without causing
electromagnetic interference.
   (W)   Unless waived by the Council, there shall be a pre-application
meeting. The purpose of the pre-application meeting will be to address issues
which will help to expedite the review and permitting process. A pre-
application meeting may also include a site visit. Costs of the city's
consultants to prepare for and attend the pre-application meeting will be borne
by the applicant.
   (X)   The holder of a special use permit shall notify the city any intended
modification of a wireless telecommunication facility and shall apply to the
city to modify, relocate or rebuild a wireless telecommunication facility.
   (Y)   In order to better inform the public, in the case of a new
telecommunication tower, the applicant shall prior to the public hearing on the
application, hold a "balloon test" as follows: applicant shall arrange to fly,
or raise upon a temporary mast, a minimum of a three foot of diameter brightly
colored balloon at the maximum height of the proposed new tower. The dates,
(including a second date, in case of poor visibility on the initial date) times
and location of this balloon test shall be advertised, by the applicant, at 7
and 14 days in advance of the first test date in a newspaper with a general
circulation in city and agreed to by the Council. The applicant shall inform
the council in writing, of the dates and times of the test, at least 14 days in
advance. The balloon shall be flown for at east eight consecutive hours
sometime between 7:40 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. of the dates chosen. The primary date
shall be on a weekend, but the second date, in case of poor visibility on the
initial date, may be on a weekday.
   (Z)   The applicant shall provide a written copy of an analysis, completed
by a qualified individual or organization, to determine if the
telecommunications tower or existing structure intended to support wireless
facilities requires lighting under Federal Aviation Regulation Part 77. This
requirement shall be for any new tower, or for an existing structure or
building where the application increases the height of the structure or
building. If this analysis determines, that the FAA must be contacted, then all
filings with the FAA, all responses from the FAA and any related correspondance
shall be provided in a timely manner.
(Ord. 2002-01, passed 2-13-02)
§ 115.06 LOCATION OF WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES.
   (A)   Applicants for wireless telecommunications facilities shall locate,
site and erect said wireless telecommunications facilities in accordance with
the following priorities, (1) being the highest priority and (4) being the
lowest priority.
      (1)   On existing telecommunications towers or other tall structures;
      (2)   Co-location on a site with existing wireless telecommunications
facilities or structures;
      (3)   On properties that are political subdivisions of the city;
      (4)   On other property in the city in the following order of Zoning
District.
         (a)   Manufacturing;
         (b)   Agricultural;
         (c)   B-2 Community Business District;
         (d)   B-1 Neighborhood Business District;
         (e)   R-3 Multi-Family Residence District;
         (f)   R-2 One- and Two-Family Residence District; or
         (g)   R-1 One Family Residence District.
   (B)   If the proposed property site is not the highest priority listed
above, then a detailed explanation must be provided as to why a site of a
higher priority was not selected. The person seeking such an exception must
satisfactorily demonstrate the reason or reasons why such a permit should be
granted for the proposed site, and the hardship that would be incurred by the
applicant if the permit were not granted for the proposed site.
   (C)   An applicant may not by-pass sites of higher priority by stating the
site presented is the only site leased or selected. An application shall
address co-location as an option and if such option is not proposed, the
applicant must explain why co-location is commercially or otherwise
impracticable. Agreements between providers limiting or prohibiting co-
location, shall not be a valid basis for any claim of commercial
impracticability or hardship.
   (D)   Notwithstanding the above, the Council may approve any site located
within an area in the above list of priorities, provided that the Council finds
that the proposed site is in the best interest of the health, safety and
welfare of the city and its inhabitants.
   (E)   The applicant shall submit a written report demonstrating the
applicant's review of the above locations in order of priority, demonstrating
the technological reason for the site selection. If the site selected is not
the highest priority, then a detailed written explanation as to why sites of a
higher priority were not selected shall be included with the application.
   (F)   The applicant shall, in writing, identify and disclose the number and
locations of any additional sites that the applicant has been, is, or will be
considering, reviewing or planning for wireless telecommunications facilities
in the city, and all municipalities adjoining the city, for a two-year period
following the date of the application.
(Ord. 2002-01, passed 2-13-02)
§ 115.07 SHARED USE OF WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES AND OTHER
STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Shared use of existing wireless telecommunications facilities shall be
preferred by the city, as opposed to the proposed construction of a new
telecommunications tower. Where such shared use is unavailable, location of
antennas on other pre-existing structures shall be considered and preferred.
The applicant shall submit a comprehensive report inventorying existing towers
and other appropriate structures within four miles of any proposed new tower
site, unless the applicant can show that some other distance is more
reasonable, and outlining opportunities for shared use of existing facilities
and the use of other pre-existing structures as a preferred alternative to new
construction.
   (B)   An applicant intending to share use of an existing telecommunication
tower or other structure shall be required to document the intent of the
existing owner to share use. In the event of an application to share the use of
an existing telecommunications tower does not increase the height of the
telecommunications tower, the Council shall waive such requirements of the
application required by this chapter as may be for good cause shown.
   (C)   Such shared use shall consist only of the minimum antenna array
technologically required to provide service within the city, to the extent
practicable, unless good cause is shown.
(Ord. 2002-01, passed 2-13-02)
§ 115.08 HEIGHT OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWER(S).
   (A)   The applicant must submit documentation justifying to the Council the
total height of any telecommunications tower, facility and/or antenna and the
basis therefor. Such justification shall be to provide service within the city,
to the extent practicable, unless good cause is shown.
   (B)   Telecommunications towers shall be no higher than the minimum height
necessary. Unless waived by the Council upon good cause shown, the maximum
height shall be 140 feet, based on five co-located antenna arrays and ambient
tree height of 80 feet.
   (C)   The maximum height of any telecommunications tower and attached
antennas constructed after the effective date of this chapter shall not exceed
that which shall permit operation without artificial lighting of any kind, in
accordance with municipal, county, state, and/or any federal statute, code,
rule or regulation.
(Ord. 2002-01, passed 2-13-02)
§ 115.09 VISIBILITY OF WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES.
   (A)   Wireless telecommunications facilities shall not be artificially
lighted or marked, except as required by this chapter or other regulatory
authority.
   (B)   Telecommunications towers shall be of a galvanized finish, or painted
with a rust-preventive paint of an appropriate color to harmonize with the
surroundings as approved by the Council, and shall be maintained in accordance
with the requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   If lighting is required, applicant shall provide a detailed plan for
sufficient lighting of as unobtrusive and inoffensive an effect as is
permissible under state and federal regulations, and an artist's rendering or
other visual representation showing the effect of light emanating from the site
on neighboring habitable structures within 1,500 feet of all property lines of
the parcel on which the wireless telecommunications facilities are located.
(Ord. 2002-01, passed 2-13-02)
§ 115.10 SECURITY OF WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES.
   All wireless telecommunications facilities and antennas shall be located,
fenced or otherwise secured in a manner which prevents unauthorized access.
Specifically as follows:
   (A)   All antennas, towers and other supporting structures, including guy
wires, shall be made inaccessible to individuals and constructed or shielded in
such a manner that they cannot be climbed or run into; and
   (B)   Transmitters and telecommunications control points must be installed
such that they are readily accessible only to persons authorized to operate or
service them.
(Ord. 2002-01, passed 2-13-02)
§ 115.11 SIGNAGE.
   Wireless telecommunications facilities shall contain a sign no larger than
four square feet to provide adequate notification to persons in the immediate
area of the presence of an antenna that has transmission capabilities. The sign
shall contain the name(s) of the owner(s) and operator(s) of the antenna(s) as
well as emergency phone number(s). The sign shall be located so as to be
visible from the access point of the site and must identify the equipment
shelter of the applicant. The sign shall not be lighted unless the Council
shall have allowed such lighting or unless such lighting is required by
applicable provisions of chapter. The sign shall be approved by the Council
before installation. No other signage, including advertising, shall be
permitted on any facilities, antenna supporting structures or antenna towers,
unless otherwise required by law.
(Ord. 2002-01, passed 2-13-02)
§ 115.12 LOT SIZE AND SETBACKS.
   (A)   All proposed wireless telecommunications facilities shall be set back
from abutting parcels, recorded rights-of-way and road and street lines a
distance sufficient to substantially contain on-site ice-fall or debris from a
tower or tower failure, and to preserve the privacy and sanctity of any
adjoining properties.
   (B)   Wireless telecommunications facilities shall be located with a minimum
setback from any property line a distance equal to the height of the wireless
telecommunications facility or the existing setback requirement of the
underlying district, whichever is greater. Further, any accessory structure
shall be located so as to comply with the applicable minimum setback
requirements for the property on which it is situated.
(Ord. 2002-01, passed 2-13-02)
§ 115.13 RETENTION OF EXPERT ASSISTANCE AND REIMBURSEMENT BY APPLICANT.
   (A)   The Council may hire any consultant and/or expert necessary to assist
the Council in reviewing and evaluating the application, including the
construction and modification of the site, once permitted, and any requests for
rectification.
   (B)   An applicant shall deposit with the city funds sufficient to reimburse
the city for all reasonable costs of consultant and expert evaluation and
consultation to the Council in connection with the review of any application.
The initial deposit shall be $8,500. These funds shall accompany the filing of
an application and the city will maintain a separate escrow account for all
such funds. The city's consultants/experts shall bill or invoice the city no
less frequently than monthly for its services in reviewing the application and
performing its duties. If at any time during the review process this escrow
account has a balance less than $2,500, applicant shall immediately, upon
notification by the city, replenish said escrow account so that it has a
balance of at least $2,500. Such additional escrow funds must be deposited with
the city before any further action or consideration is taken on the
application. In the event that the amount held in escrow by the city is more
than the amount of the actual billing or invoicing at the conclusion of the
review process, the difference shall be promptly refunded to the applicant.
   (C)   The total amount of the funds set forth in division (B) of this
section may vary with the scope and complexity of the project, the completeness
of the application and other information as may be needed by the Council or its
consultant/expert to complete the necessary review and analysis. Additional
escrow funds, as required and requested by the city, shall be paid by the
applicant.
(Ord. 2002-01, passed 2-13-02)
§ 115.14 EXCEPTIONS FROM A SPECIAL USE PERMIT FOR WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS
FACILITIES.
   (A)   No person shall be permitted to site, place, build, construct or
modify, or prepare any site for the placement or use of wireless
telecommunications facilities as of the effective date of this chapter without
having first obtained a special use permit for wireless telecommunications
facilities. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this section, no
special use permit shall be required for those exceptions noted in the
definition of wireless telecommunications facilities, such as those used
exclusively for fire, police and other dispatch telecommunications, or
exclusively for private radio and television reception and private citizen's
bands, amateur radio and other similar telecommunications.
   (B)   New construction, including routine maintenance on existing wireless
telecommunications facilities, shall comply with the requirements of this
chapter.
   (C)   All wireless telecommunications facilities existing on or before the
effective date of this chapter shall be allowed to continue as they presently
exist, provided however, that any modification to existing wireless
telecommunications facilities must comply with this chapter.
(Ord. 2002-01, passed 2-13-02)
§ 115.15 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   (A)   Prior to the approval of any application for a special use permit for
wireless telecommunications facilities, a public hearing shall be held by the
Council, native of which shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the city no less than ten calendar days prior to the
scheduled date of the public hearing. In order to insure that nearby landowners
are informed, the applicant, at least three weeks prior to the date of said
public hearing, shall be required to provide names and address of all
landowners whose property is located within 1,500 feet of any property line of
the lot on which the new wireless telecommunications facilities are proposed to
be located and certify that the applicant has provided notice to said
landowners of the public hearing.
   (B)   The Council shall schedule the public hearing referred to in division
(A) of this section once it finds the application is complete. The Council, at
any stage prior to issuing a special use permit, may require such additional
information as it deems necessary.
   (C)   The above provisions notwithstanding, if the application is for a
special use permit for collocating on an existing telecommunications tower or
high structure, where no increase in height of the tower or structure is
required, no public hearing will be required prior to the approval of the
application.
(Ord. 2002-01, passed 2-13-02)
§ 115.16 ACTION ON AN APPLICATION FOR A SPECIAL USE PERMIT FOR WIRELESS
TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES.
   (A)   The Council will undertake a review of an application pursuant to this
chapter in a timely fashion, and shall act within a reasonable period of time
given the relative complexity of the application arid the circumstances, with
due regard for the public's interest and need to be involved, and the
applicant's desire for a timely resolution.
   (B)   The Council may refer any application or part thereof to any advisory
or other committee for a non-binding recommendation.
   (C)   After the public hearing and after formally considering the
application, the Council may approve, approve with conditions, or deny a
special use permit. Its decision shall be in writing and shall be supported by
substantial evidence contained in a written record. The burden of proof for the
grant of the permit shall always be upon the applicant.
   (D)   If the Council approves the special use permit for wireless
telecommunications facilities except, then the applicant shall be notified of
such approval is writing within 10 calendar days of the Council's action, and
the special use permit shall be issued within 30 days after such approval.
Except for necessary building permits, and subsequent certificates of
compliance, once a special use permit has been granted hereunder, no additional
permits or approvals from the Council, such as site plan or zoning approvals,
shall be required for the wireless telecommunications facilities covered by the
special use permit.
   (E)   If the Council denies the special use permit for wireless
telecommunications facilities, then the applicant shall be notified of such
denial in writing within ten calendar days of the Council's action.
(Ord. 2002-01, passed 2-13-02)
§ 115.17 RECERTIFICATION OF A SPECIAL USE PERMIT FOR WIRELESS
TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES.
   (A)   At any time between 12 months and 6 months prior to the five-year
anniversary date after the effect date of the special use permit and all
subsequent fifth anniversaries of the effective date of the original special
use permit for wireless telecommunications facilities, the holder of a special
use permit for such wireless telecommunications facilities shall submit a
signed written request to the Council for recertifcation. In the written
request for recertification, the holder of such special use permit shall note
the following:
      (1)   The name of the holder of the special use permit for the wireless
telecommunications facilities;
      (2)   If applicable, the number or title of the special use permit;
      (3)   The date of the original granting of the special use permit;
      (4)   Whether the wireless telecommunications facilities have been moved,
re-located, rebuilt, or otherwise modified since the issuance of the special
use permit and if so, in what manner;
      (5)   If the wireless telecommunications facilities have been moved, re-
located, rebuilt or otherwise modified, then whether the Council approved such
action, and under what terms and conditions, and whether those terms and
conditions were complied with;
      (6)   Any requests for waivers or relief of any kind whatsoever from the
requirements of this chapter and any requirements for a special use permit;
      (7)   That the wireless telecommunications facilities are in compliance
with the special use permit and compliance with all applicable codes,
ordinances, rules and regulations;
      (8)   Recertification that the telecommunications tower and attachments
both are designed and constructed ("as built") and continue to meet all local,
county, state and federal structural requirements for loads, including wind and
ice loads. Such recertification shall be by a qualified state licensed
professional engineer acceptable to the city, the cost of which shall be borne
by the applicant.
   (B)   If, after such review, the Council determines that the permitted
wireless telecommunications facilities are in compliance with the special use
permit and all applicable statutes, local laws, codes, aides and regulations,
then the Council shall issue a recertification special use permit for the
wireless telecommunications facilities, which may include any new provisions or
conditions that are mutually agreed upon, of required by applicable statutes,
ordinances, local ordinances, codes, rules and regulations. If, after such
review, the Council determines that the permitted wireless telecommunications
facilities are not in compliance with the special use permit and all applicable
statutes, local laws, codes, roles and regulations, then the Council may refuse
to issue a recertification special use permit for the wireless
telecommunications facilities, and in such event, such wireless
telecommunications facilities shall not be used after the date that the
applicant receives written notice of such decision by the Council. Any sure
decision shall be in writing and supported by substantial evidence contained in
a written record.
   (C)   If the applicant has submitted all of the information requested by the
Council and required by this chapter, and if the Council does not complete its
review, as noted in division (B) of this section, prior to the five-year
anniversary date of the special use permit, or subsequent fifth anniversaries,
then the applicant for the permitted wireless telecommunications facilities
shall receive an extension of the special use permit for up to six months, in
order for the Council to complete its review.
   (D)   If the holder of a special use permit for wireless telecommunications
facilities does not submit a request for recertification of such special use
permit within the timeframe noted in division (A) of this section, then such
special use permit and any authorizations granted thereunder shall cease to
exist on the date of the fifth anniversary of the original granting of the
special use permit, or subsequent fifth anniversaries, unless the holder of the
special use permit adequately demonstrates to the Council that extenuating
circumstances prevented a timely recertification request. If the Council agrees
that there were legitimately extenuating circumstances, then the holder of the
special use permit may submit a late recertification request or application for
a new special use permit.
(Ord. 2002-01, passed 2-13-02)
§ 115.18 EXTENT AND PARAMETERS OF SPECIAL USE PERMIT FOR WIRELESS
TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES.
   The extent and parameters of a special use permit for wireless
telecommunications facilities shall be as follows:
   (A)   Such special use permit shall be non-exclusive;
   (B)   Such special use permit shall not be assigned, transferred or conveyed
without the express prior written notification of the Council.
   (C)   Such special use permit may, following a hearing upon due prior notice
to the applicant, be revoked, canceled, or terminated for a violation of the
conditions and provisions of the special use permit for wireless
telecommunications facilities, or for a material violation of this chapter
after prior written notice to the applicant and the holder of the special use
permit.
(Ord. 2002-01, passed 2-13-02)
§ 115.19 APPLICATION FEE.
   (A)   At the time that a person submits an application for a special use
permit for a new telecommunications tower. such person shall pay a non-
refundable application fee of $1,000 to the city. If the application is for a
special use permit for collocating on an existing telecommunications tower or
high structure, where no increase in height of the tower or structure is
required, the non-refundable fee shall be $500.
   (B)   No application fee is required in order to recertify a special use
permit for wireless telecommunications facilities, unless there has been a
modification of the wireless telecommunications facilities since the date of
the issuance of the existing special use permit for which the conditions of the
special use permit have not previously been modified. In the case of any
modification, the fees provided in division (A) shall apply.
(Ord. 2002-01, passed 2-13-02)
§ 115.20 PERFORMANCE SECURITY.
   The applicant and the owner of record of any proposed wireless
telecommunications facilities property site shall at its cost and expense, be
jointly required to execute and file with the city a bond, or other form of
security acceptable to the city as to type of security and the form and manner
of execution, in an amount of at least $75,000 and with such sureties as are
deemed sufficient by the Council to assure the faithful performance of the term
and conditions of this chapter and conditions of any special use permit issued
pursuant to this chapter. The full amount of the bond or security shall remain
in full force and effect throughout the term of the special use permit and/or
until the removal of the wireless telecommunications facilities, and any
necessary site restoration is completed. The failure to pay any annual premium
for the renewal of any such security shall be a violation of the provisions of
the special use permit and shall entitle the council to revoke the special use
permit after prior written notice to the applicant and holder of the permit and
after a hearing upon due prior notice to the applicant and holder of the
special use permit.
(Ord. 2002-01, passed 2-13-02)
§ 115.21 RESERVATION OF AUTHORITY TO INSPECT WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS
FACILITIES.
   In order to verify that the holder of the special use permit for wireless
telecommunications facilities and any and all lessees, renters, and/or licenses
of wireless telecommunications facilities, place and construct such facilities,
including towers and antennas, in accordance with all applicable technical,
safety, fire, building, and zoning codes, ordinances and regulations and other
applicable requirements, the city may inspect all facets of said permit
holder's, renter's lessee's or licensee's placement, construction, modification
and maintenance of such facilities, including, but not limited to, towers,
antennas and buildings or other structures constructed located on the permitted
site.
(Ord. 2002-01, passed 2-13-02)
§ 115.22 ANNUAL NIER CERTIFCATION.
   The holder of the special use permit shall, annually, certify in writing to
the city that NIER levels at the site are within the threshold levels adopted
by the FCC. The certifying engineer need not be approved by the city.
(Ord. 2002-01, passed 2-13-02)
§ 115.23 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   (A)   A holder of a special use permit for wireless telecommunications
facilities shall secure and at all times maintain public liability insurance
for personal injuries, death and property damage and umbrella insurance
coverage, for the duration of the special use permit in amounts as set forth
below:
      (1)   Commercial General Liability covering personal injuries, death and
property damage: $1,000,000 per occurrence/$2,000,000 aggregate;
      (2)   Automobile coverage: $1,000,000 per occurrance/$2,000,000
aggregate;
      (3)   Workers' compensation and disability: statutory amounts.
   (B)   The commercial general liability insurance policy shall specifically
include the city and its officers, employees, committee members, attorneys,
agents and consultants as additional named insureds.
   (C)   The insurance polices shall be issued by an agent or representative of
an insurance company licensed to do business in the state and with a Best's
rating of at least A.
   (D)   The insurance policies shall contain an endorsement obligating the
insurance company to furnish the city with at least 30 days' prior written
notice in advance of the cancellation of the insurance.
   (E)   Renewal or replacement policies or certificates shall be delivered to
the city at least 15 days before the expiration of the insurance which such
policies are to renew or replace.
   (F)   Before construction of a permitted wireless telecommunications
facilities is initiated, but in no case later than 15 days after the grant of
the special use permit, the holder of the special use permit shall deliver to
the city a copy of each of the policies or certificates representing the
insurance in the required amounts.
(Ord. 2002-01, passed 2-13-02)
§ 115.24 INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   Any application for wireless telecommunications facilities that is
proposed on city property, pursuant to this chapter, shall contain a provision
with respect to indemnification. Such provision shall require the applicant, to
the extent permitted by the chapter, to at all times defend, indemnify,
protect, save, hold harmless, and exempt the city, and its officers, employees,
committee, members attorneys, agents and consultants from any and all
penalties, damages, costs, or charges arising out of any and all claims, suits,
demands, causes of action, or award of damages whether compensatory or
punitive, or expenses therefrom, either at chapter or in equity, which might
arise out of, or are caused by the placement, construction, erection,
modification, location, products performance, use, operation, maintenance,
repair, installation, replacement, removal or restoration of said facility,
excepting however, any portion of such claims, suits, demands, causes of action
or award of damages as be attributable to the negligent or intentional acts or
omissions of the city, or its servants or agents. With respect to the
penalties, damages or charges referenced herein, reasonable attorneys' fees,
consultants' fees, and expert witness fees are included in those costs that are
recoverable by the city.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the requirements noted in division (A) of this
section, an indemnification provision will not be required in those instances
where the city itself applies for and secures a special use permit for wireless
telecommunications facilities.
(Ord. 2002-01, passed 2-13-02)
§ 115.25 FINES.
   (A)   In the event of a violation of this chapter or any special use permit
issued pursuant to this chapter, the Council may impose and collect, and the
holder of the special use permit for wireless telecommunications facilities
shall pay to the city, fines or penalties as set forth below.
   (B)   A violation of this chapter is hereby punishable by a fine not
exceeding $350 for a first offense; a second violation of this chapter
committed within a period of five years is punishable by a fine of not less
than $350 nor more than $700; upon the holder of a special use permit violating
this chapter a third or subsequent violation, all of which is are committed
within a period of five years, such third or subsequent violation shall be
punishable by a fine of not less than $700 nor more than $1,000. Each week's
continued violation of this chapter shall constitute a separate additional
violation.
   (C)   Notwithstanding anything in this chapter, the holder of a special use
permit for wireless telecommunications facilities may not use the payment of
fines, liquidated damages or other penalties, to evade or avoid compliance with
this chapter or any section of this chapter. An attempt to do so shall subject
the holder of this special use permit to termination and revocation of the
special use permit. The city may also seek injunctive relief to prevent the
continued violation of this section, without limiting other remedies available
to the city.
(Ord. 2002-01, passed 2-13-02)
§ 115.26 DEFAULT AND OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   If wireless telecommunications facilities are repaired, rebuilt,
placed, moved, re-located, modified or maintained in a way that is inconsistent
or not to compliance with the provisions of this chapter or of the special use
permit, then the Council shall notify the holder of the special use permit in
writing of such violation. Such notice shall specify the nature of the
violation or non-compliance and that the violations must be corrected within
seven days of the date of the postmark of the notice, or of the date of
personal service of the notice, whichever is earlier. Notwithstanding anything
to the contrary in this subsection or any other section of this chapter, if the
violation causes, creates or presents an imminent danger or threat to the
health or safety of lives or property, the Council may, at its sole discretion,
order the violation remedied within 24 hours.
   (B)   If within the period set forth in division (A) above the wireless
telecommunications facilities are not brought into compliance with the
provisions of this chapter, or of the special use permit, or substantial steps
are not taken in order to bring the affected wireless telecommunications
facilities into compliance, then the Council may revoke such special use permit
for wireless telecommunications facilities, and shall notify the holder of the
special use permit within 48 hours of such action.
(Ord. 2002-01, passed 2-13-02)
§ 115.27 REMOVAL OF WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES.
   (A)   Under the following circumstances, the Council may determine that the
health, safety, and welfare interests of the city warrant and require the
removal of wireless telecommunications facilities.
      (1)   Wireless telecommunications facilities with a permit that have been
abandoned (i.e. not used as wireless telecommunications facilities) for a
period exceeding 90 days or a total of 180 days in any 365 day period, except
for periods caused by force majeure or Acts of God, in which case, repair or
removal shall commence within 90 days;
      (2)   Permitted wireless telecommunications facilities fall into such a
state of disrepair that it creates a health or safety hazard;
      (3)   Wireless telecommunications facilities have been located,
constructed, or modified without first obtaining, or in a manner not authorized
by, the required special use permit, or say other necessary authorization.
   (B)   If the Council makes such a determination as noted in division (A) of
this section, then the Council shall ratify the holder of the special use
permit for the wireless telecommunications facilities within 48 hours that said
wireless telecommunications facilities are to be removed, the Council may
approve an interim temporary use agreement/permit, such as to enable the sale
of the wireless telecommunications facilities.
   (C)   The holder of the special use permit, or its successors or assigns,
shall dismantle and remove such wireless telecommunications facilities, and all
associated structures and facilities, from the site and restore the site to as
close to its original condition as is possible, such restoration being limited
only by physical or commercial impracticability, within 90 days of receipt of
written notice from the Council. However, if the owner of the property upon
which the wireless telecommunications facilities are located wishes to retain
any access roadway to the wireless telecommunications facilities, the owner may
do so with the approval of the Council.
   (D)   If wireless telecommunications facilities are not removed or
substantial progress has not been made to remove the wireless
telecommunications facilities within 90 days after the permit holder has
received notice, then the Council may order officials or representatives of the
city to remove the wireless telecommunications facilities at the sole expense
of the owner or special use permit holder.
   (E)   If the city removes or causes to be removed, wireless
telecommunications facilities, and the owner of the wireless telecommunications
facilities does not claim and remove it from the site to a lawful location
within ten days, then the city may take steps to declare the wireless
telecommunications facilities abandoned, and sell them and their components.
   (F)   Notwithstanding anything in this section to the contrary, the Council
may approve a temporary use permit/agreement for the wireless
telecommunications facilities, for no more than 90 days, during which time a
suitable plan for removal, conversion, or re-location of the affected wireless
telecommunications facilities shall be developed by the holder of the special
use permit, subject to the approval of the Council, and an agreement to such
plan shall be executed by the holder of the special use permit and the city. If
such a plan is not developed, approved and executed within the 90-day time
period, then the city may take possession of and dispose of the affected
wireless telecommunications facilities in the manner provided in this section.
(Ord. 2002-01, passed 2-13-02)
§ 115.28 RELIEF.
   Any applicant desiring relief or exemption from any aspect or requirement of
this chapter may request such from the Council at a pre-application meeting
provided that the relief or exemption is contained in the original application
for either a special use permit, or in the case of an existing or previously
granted special use permit a request for modification of its tower and/or
facilities. Such relief may be temporary or permanent, partial or complete, at
the sole discretion of the Council. However, the burden of proving the need for
the requested relief or exemption, is solely on the applicant to prove to the
satisfaction of the Council. The applicant shall bear all costs of the Council
or the city in considering the request and the relief shall not be transferable
to a new or different holder of the permit or owner of the tower or facilities
without the specific written permission of the Council. Such permission shall
not be unreasonably withheld or delayed. No such relief or exemption shall be
approved unless the applicant demonstrates by clear and convincing evidence
that, if granted the relief or exemption will have no significant affect on the
health, safety and welfare of the city, its residents and other service
providers.
(Ord. 2002-01, passed 2-13-02)
§ 115.29 PERIODIC REGULATORY REVIEW BY THE COUNCIL.
   (A)   The Council may at any time conduct a review and examination of this
entire chapter.
   (B)   If after such a periodic review and examination of this chapter, the
Council determines that one or more provisions of this chapter should be
repealed, revised, clarified, or deleted, then the Council may take whatever
measures are necessary in accordance with applicable law in order to accomplish
the same. It is noted that where warranted, and in the best interests of the
city, the Council may repeal this entire chapter at any time.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the provisions of divisions (A) and (B) of this
section, the Council may at any time, and in any manner (to the extent
permitted by federal, state, or local ordinance), amend, add, repeal, and/or
delete one or more provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2002-01, passed 2-13-02)
§ 115.30 ADHERENCE TO STATE AND/OR FEDERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   To the extent that the holder of a special use permit for wireless
telecommunications facilities has not received relief, or is otherwise exempt,
from appropriate state and/or federal agency rules or regulations, then the
holder of such a special use permit shall adhere to and comply with, all
applicable rules, regulations, standards, and provisions of any state or
federal agency, including but not limited to, the FAA and the FCC.
Specifically, included in this requirement are any rules and regulations
regarding height, lighting, security, electrical and RF emission standards.
   (B)   To the extent that applicable rules, regulations, standards, and
provisions of any state or federal agency, including but not limited to, the
FAA and the FCC, and specifically including any rules and regulations regarding
height, lighting, and security are changed and/or are modified during the
duration of a special use permit for wireless telecommunications facilities,
then the holder of such a special use permit shall conform the permitted
wireless telecommunications facilities to the applicable changed and.or
modified rule, regulation, standard, or provision within a maximum of 24 months
of the effective date of the applicable changed and/or modified rule,
regulation, standard, or provision, or sooner as may be required by the issuing
entity.
(Ord. 2002-01, passed 2-13-02)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST CITY REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST CITY REGULATIONS
Section
   
130.01   Curfew for minors
   
130.02   Marking public property
   
130.03   Hunting and/or discharge of weapons prohibited
   
130.04   Use of slingshots or other projectile devices prohibited
   
130.05   Fortune telling
   
130.06   Loitering in a public place prohibited
§ 130.01 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any child 15, 16, or 17 years of age to be in
a public place within the corporate limits of the city, including any city
park:
      (1)   Between 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. on Sunday;
      (2)   After 11:00 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday;
or
      (3)   Before 5:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday.
   (B)   It shall be a curfew violation for a child under 15 years of age to be
in a public place after 11:00 p.m. or before 5:00 a.m. on any day.
   (C)   The above restrictions shall not apply to a child who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by his parent, guardian or custodian;
      (2)   Accompanied by an adult specified by his parent, guardian or
custodian; or
      (3)   Participating in, going to or returning from:
         (a)   Lawful employment;
         (b)   A school sanctioned activity; or
         (c)   A religious event.
   (D)   The penalty provisions set forth in §
10.99 shall apply to violations of this section.
(Ord. 91-4, passed 5-6-91)
§ 130.02 MARKING PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful to paint, print, paste, stencil or otherwise mark upon
or in any manner place upon or affix to any telephone, electric or other
utility pole, or upon any city-owned building or any tree, post or other
structure on city-owned property, without the consent of the owner thereof, any
word, letter, character, figure, sentence, device, handbill or notice,
political poster or announcement of a public event. This section shall not
apply to the posting of any handbill or notice of any public sale of property
by the mayor or other city official, sheriff, administrator, executor or
guardian when such posting is required by law.
('74 Code, § 9-5) (Ord. 596, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 130.03 HUNTING AND/OR DISCHARGE OF WEAPONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or use any
cannon, gun, pistol, firearm, paintball gun, pellet gun, cross-bow, trap, bow
and arrow, or other device or weapon, including those used for hunting, within
the limits of the city, unless otherwise provided in this section.
      (2)   Hunting is not permitted on any city-owned property. Hunting, or
the safe discharge of any weapon of a design legal for hunting wild game in
Indiana, shall be allowed within the city limits on privately owned land, the
size of which must be no less than 20 acres per parcel, or contiguous and
adjacent parcels owned by the same person that total 20 or more acres. Any such
person shall have written permission from the private landowner of the 20 or
more acres, and shall be legally licensed to hunt in Indiana if hunting. It
shall be unlawful for a person to discharge any weapon within 750 feet of any
building, structure, public roadway, or adjacent property owner’s property
line.
      (3)   This section shall not apply to police officers discharging weapons
in the course of their official duties.
   (B)   Violation of this section shall result in a $200 fine for each
occurrence. Each violation shall constitute a separate occurrence.
('74 Code, § 9-4) (Am. Ord. 2006-04, passed 3-20-06; Am. Ord. 2014-012, passed
8-18-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.04 USE OF SLINGSHOTS OR OTHER PROJECTILE DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use, carry or discharge a
slingshot or other device used to project projectiles such as stones, bullets,
pellets, paint balls or other projectiles within the corporate limits of the
city.
   (B)   Violation of this section shall result in a $50 fine for the first
occurrence. Subsequent occurrences shall be fined in accordance with §
10.99. Each violation will be considered a separate occurrences.
('74 Code, § 9-11) (Am. Ord. 2006-05, passed 3-20-06)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 130.05 FORTUNE TELLING.
   (A)   No person or persons, firm or corporation shall, for money or gain,
predict or pretend to predict future events by cards, tokens, trances,
inspection of hands of any person, mind reading, star gazing, consultation of
movements of the celestial bodies, or thereby to enable any one to get or
recover lost or stolen property, or thereby to give services in business,
enterprise, speculation, games of chance, or thereby to make one person dispose
of property, business or valuable thing in favor of another.
   (B)   If any person or persons, firm or corporation shall publish, by card,
circular, sign, newspaper, or any other means whatever, that said person or
persons, firm or corporation shall or will predict future events, the said item
or means or publication may be given in evidence to sustain a charge of
violation of this chapter. Any person whose fortune may have been told as
aforesaid shall be a competent witness against any person charged with any
violation of this chapter.
   (C)   Any establishment, store, parlor, station, or place where the
aforesaid activity takes place, constitutes and is hereby declared to be a
nuisance, and is subject to injunction and abatement as a nuisance in any court
having jurisdiction.
   (D)   No person or persons, firm or corporation shall establish, maintain,
own, lease, control, or operate a place, store, establishment, building, house,
or other structure for any of the aforesaid purposes. Each day of such
operation, ownership, maintenance, control, lease, or establishment shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 1981-7, passed 4-20-81)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 130.06 LOITERING IN A PUBLIC PLACE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter, loaf, wander, stand or
remain idle, either alone or in concert with others, in a public place in such
a manner so as to:
      (1)   Obstruct any public street, highway, sidewalk or any other public
place or building by hindering or impeding, or tending to hinder or impede, the
free and uninterrupted passage of vehicles, traffic or pedestrians.
      (2)   Commit, in or upon any public street, highway, sidewalk or any
other public place or building, any act, or cause any condition that obstructs
or interferes with the free and uninterrupted use of property, or with any
business lawfully conducted by anyone in, upon, facing or fronting thereon, or
that prevents the free and uninterrupted ingress or egress thereto.
      (3)   To place any furniture, personal property, or other obstruction
upon any public street, highway, sidewalk, or any other public place or right-
of-way. However, it shall not be unlawful to place temporary lawn furniture
upon a public sidewalk so long as the temporary lawn furniture is not left
overnight, and so long as there is a minimum three feet-wide ingress and egress
for passing pedestrian traffic along the public sidewalk.
      (4)   It shall not be unlawful for a business owner in the B-2 Business
District to place seasonal items, such as small cafe tables and chairs or
sidewalk sale items, in the public sidewalk area directly in front of the
owner's business location, so long as there is a minimum three feet-wide
ingress and egress for passing pedestrian traffic along the public sidewalk.
   (B)   When any person commits any of the acts or causes any of the
conditions enumerated in division (A) above, a police officer or any law
enforcement officer shall order such person to refrain therefrom and to move on
or disperse, and any person who fails or refuses to obey such order shall be
considered to have committed a violation of this section.
   (C)   Any person who shall violate any provision of this section shall be
subject to the following penalty provisions:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided by state law, rule or regulation, any
violation of this section shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $50 for the
first offense.
      (2)   A person found to have committed a second violation of this section
within 12 months after having first committed a violation of this section,
shall be subject to a fine of not more than $1,000.
      (3)   Any person found to have committed a third violation of this
section within 18 months after having first committed a violation of this
section shall be subject to a fine of not more than $2,500.
(Ord. 1995-10, passed 7-10-95; Am. Ord. 2014-017, passed 6-16-14)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
         
151.   SUBDIVISION CONTROL
         
152.   ZONING CODE
         
153.   HILLSIDE EROSION CONTROL
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Code
   
150.01   Title
   
150.02   Purpose
   
150.03   Scope
   
150.04   Authority
   
150.05   Entry
   
150.06   Adoption of regulations by reference
   
150.07   Permit required
   
150.08   Application for permits
   
150.09   Review of application
   
150.10   Other provisions
   
150.11   Inspections
   
150.12   Stop order
   
150.13   Certificate of occupancy
   
150.14   Standards
   
150.15   Violations
   
150.16   Right of appeal
   
150.17   Remedies
   
150.18   Penalties
   
150.19   Permit fees
   
150.20   Conflicts of interest
Permit Requirements
   
150.35   Reserved
   
150.36   Construction of provisions
   
150.37   Building permit required
   
150.38   When construction must start
   
150.39   Building permit and inspection fee schedule
   
150.40   Permit required to move building
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.50   Adoption of statutory regulations
   
150.51   Responsibility for administration
   
150.52   Code Enforcement Officer
   
150.53   Hearing Officer
Other Provisions
   
150.60   Fire zone limits
   
150.61   Parking of trailers for construction office or storage
   
150.62   Flood control; specific standards
   
150.99   Penalty
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter, and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto, shall
be known as the building code of the city and may be cited as such, and may be
referred to herein as "this subchapter".
(Ord. 1999-6, passed 6-7-99; Am. Ord. 1999-8, passed 7-12-99)
§ 150.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for the safety, health and
public welfare through structural strength and stability, means of egress,
adequate sanitation, plumbing, light and ventilation; protection of life and
property from fire and hazard incident to design, construction, alteration; and
for the removal or demolition of buildings and structures in the city.
(Ord. 1999-6, passed 6-7-99; Am. Ord. 1999-8, passed 7-12-99)
§ 150.03 SCOPE.
   All buildings and construction work exclusive of one-family dwellings,
duplex houses, private garages, sheds, farm accessory buildings, barns,
industrialized buildings systems and mobile structures certified under IC 22-
15-4, shall conform to the rules and regulations of the Indiana Department of
Fire and Building Service (formerly known as the Administrative Building
Council of the State of Indiana). Construction and structural remodeling or
repair of one-family dwellings, duplexes and accessory buildings or structures
for the same, shall conform to this subchapter, which standard shall not be
less than the rules and regulations of the Indiana Department of Fire and
Building Services. The provisions apply to the construction, repair, use,
occupancy and maintenance and additions to all buildings and structures other
than fences in the city.
(Ord. 1999-6, passed 6-7-99; Am. Ord. 1999-8, passed 7-12-99)
§ 150.04 AUTHORITY.
   The Building Commissioner of Dearborn County, hereinafter referred to as
Building Commissioner, and his or her inspectors, agents or deputies, if any,
are hereby authorized and directed to administer and enforce all of the
provisions of this Code and the Dearborn County Building Ordinance numbered
Ordinance 1-1984 and such amendments thereto which are incorporated herein by
reference. Whenever in the building regulations, it is provided that anything
must be done to the approval of or subject to the inspection of the Building
Commissioner, this shall be construed to give such officer only the discretion
of determining whether the rules and standards established by this subchapter
have been complied with; and no such provision shall be construed as giving any
officer discretionary powers as to what such regulations, code or standards
shall be, or power to require conditions not prescribed by ordinances or to
enforce ordinance provisions in an arbitrary or discriminatory manner.
(Ord. 1999-6, passed 6-7-99; Am. Ord. 1999-8, passed 7-12-99)
§ 150.05 ENTRY.
   Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Building Commissioner or his
duly authorized representatives may enter at reasonable times any building,
structure or premises in the city to perform any duty imposed by this code.
(Ord. 1999-6, passed 6-7-99; Am. Ord. 1999-8, passed 7-12-99)
§ 150.06 ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The following rules, regulations and codes of the Indiana Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission are hereby adopted by reference as
the rules and regulations covering the construction and alteration of the
buildings and structures in the city as set out in the following articles of
IAC 675, including any amendments thereto as published in the Indiana Register
or the IAC with the effective dates as fixed therein, which rules are hereby
incorporated:
      (1)   Article 13 - Building Codes:
         (a)   Fire and Building Safety Standards.
         (b)   Indiana Building Code.
         (c)   Indiana Building Code Standards.
      (2)   Article 14 - One and Two Family Dwelling Code: Indiana One and Two
Family Dwelling Code.
      (3)   Article 16 - Plumbing Code: Indiana Plumbing Codes.
      (4)   Article 17 - Electrical Codes:
         (a)   Indiana Electrical Code.
         (b)   Safety Code for Health Care Facilities.
      (5)   Article 18 - Mechanical Code: Indiana Mechanical Code.
      (6)   Article 19 - Energy Conservation Codes:
         (a)   Indiana Energy Conservation Code.
         (b)   Modifications to the Model Energy Code.
      (7)   Article 20 - Swimming Pool Code: Indiana Swimming Pool Code.
      (8)   Article 21 - Safety Code for Elevators, Escalators, Manlifts and
Hoists.
      (9)   Article 22 - Fire Preventions Codes.
    (10) Article 24 - Supplementary Fire Safety Rules.
   (B)   Copies of this Code and rules, regulations, and codes adopted herein
by reference are on file as required by law in the Office of the Building
Commissioner, who shall administer this subchapter.
(Ord. 1999-6, passed 6-7-99; Am. Ord. 1999-8, passed 7-12-99)
§ 150.07 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   A permit shall be obtained before beginning construction, alteration
or repair of any building or structure. The permit shall be obtained by using
forms furnished by the Dearborn County Building Commissioner. All permits shall
be issued by the Building Commissioner, or his designee, and all fees provided
for herein shall be paid to the Treasurer of Dearborn County.
   (B)   Incidental uses outside the Historic District. The following are
considered incidental accessory uses that do not require a permit hereunder and
can be located within all yards. They include walks, driveways, curbs,
retaining walls, lattice-work screens, trees, shrubs, flowers, plants,
mailboxes, nameplates, lampposts, basketball poles, birdbaths, benches, direct
television satellite dishes, and structures of a like nature. Only direct
television satellite dishes that are less than 26 inches in diameter and
ground-mounted may be located in a front yard. Playground equipment and similar
uses do not require a permit hereunder, but are required to be located in the
side or rear yards. Any such incidental uses may still require a building
permit, or other permit under federal, state or local law, code or regulation.
This exception for incidental uses shall not apply within any designated
historic district, and any and all construction, alteration or repair of any
building or structure within an historic district shall require a permit
hereunder. This exception for incidental uses also shall not apply to
incidental uses located within, or connecting directly to, any public or
utility right-of-way or easement, which shall require a permit hereunder.
(Ord. 1999-6, passed 6-7-99; Am. Ord. 1999-8, passed 7-12-99; Am. Ord. 2015-
008, passed 9-3-15)
§ 150.08 APPLICATION FOR PERMITS.
   No permits shall be issued for the foregoing purposes, unless the
application for such permit is accompanied by a plat or sketch of the proposed
location showing boundaries, and by plans and specifications showing the work
to be done. Plans may be prepared and filed by persons other than registered
architects or engineers for the construction of buildings or alterations having
less than 30,000 cubic feet. All plans for building construction under the
authority of the Indiana Department of Fire and Building Services must also be
filed with the Council. No local permits shall be issued thereunder until a
copy of a release for construction from the State Building Commissioner is
received by the Building Commissioner.
(Ord. 1999-6, passed 6-7-99; Am. Ord. 1999-8, passed 7-12-99)
§ 150.09 REVIEW OF APPLICATION.
   Prior to the issuance of any building permit hereunder, the Building
Commissioner shall review all building permit applications to determine full
compliance with the provisions of this and other applicable ordinances.
(Ord. 1999-6, passed 6-7-99; Am. Ord. 1999-8, passed 7-12-99)
§ 150.10 OTHER PROVISIONS.
   All work done under any permit issued hereunder shall be in full compliance
with all other provisions pertaining thereto, and in addition to the fees for
permits hereinafter provided for, there shall be paid the fees prescribed in
such provisions.
(Ord. 1999-6, passed 6-7-99; Am. Ord. 1999-8, passed 7-12-99)
§ 150.11 INSPECTIONS.
   After the issuance of any building permit hereunder, the Building
Commissioner shall make, or shall cause to be made, such inspections of the
work being done under such permit as are necessary to insure full compliance
with the provisions of this subchapter, the provisions of Dearborn County
Ordinance No. 1-1984 and such amendments thereto passed and adopted by the
Dearborn County Board of Commissioners, and the terms of the permit.
Reinspections of work found to be incomplete or not ready for inspection are
subject to assessment of re-inspection fees as authorized in §§
150.10 and
150.20.
(Ord. 1999-6, passed 6-7-99; Am. Ord. 1999-8, passed 7-12-99)
§ 150.12 STOP ORDER.
   Whenever any work is being done contrary to the provisions of this Code, the
Building Commissioner may order the work stopped by notice in writing served on
any persons engaged in the doing or causing of such work to be done, or if
unable to obtain such personal notice, by affixing such notice to the premises.
Any such persons shall forthwith stop such work until authorized by the
Building Commissioner to proceed with the work.
(Ord. 1999-6, passed 6-7-99; Am. Ord. 1999-8, passed 7-12-99)
§ 150.13 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No certificate of occupancy for any building or structure erected, altered
or repaired after the adoption of this subchapter shall be issued unless such
building or structure was erected, altered or repaired in compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1999-6, passed 6-7-99; Am. Ord. 1999-8, passed 7-12-99)
§ 150.14 STANDARDS.
   All work on the construction, alteration and repair of buildings and other
structures shall be performed in a good and workmanlike manner according to
accepted standards and practices in the trade.
(Ord. 1999-6, passed 6-7-99; Am. Ord. 1999-8, passed 7-12-99)
§ 150.15 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, whether as owner,
lessee, sub-lessee, or occupant to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair,
improve, remove, convert, demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building
or structure, other than fences, in the city, or cause or permit the same to be
done, contrary to or in violation of the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1999-6, passed 6-7-99; Am. Ord. 1999-8, passed 7-12-99)
Penalty, see § 150.18
§ 150.16 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   All persons shall have the right to appeal the Building Commissioner's
decision first through the county executive and then to the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission of Indiana, in accordance with the provisions of IC
22-13-2-7 or IC 4-21.5-3-7 as applicable. The initial appeal from the Building
Commissioner shall require a written 15 day notice be given. The notice shall
concisely state the grievance.
(Ord. 1999-6, passed 6-7-99; Am. Ord. 1999-8, passed 7-12-99)
§ 150.17 REMEDIES.
   The Building Commissioner shall in the name of the city bring actions in the
Circuit Court of Dearborn County for mandatory and injunctive relief in the
enforcement of and to secure compliance with any order or orders made by the
Building Commissioner, and any such action for mandatory or injunctive relief
may be joined with an action to recover the penalties provided for in §
150.18.
(Ord. 1999-6, passed 6-7-99; Am. Ord. 1999-8, passed 7-12-99)
§ 150.18 PENALTIES.
   If any person, firm or corporation shall violate any of the provisions of
this subchapter, or shall do any act prohibited herein, or shall fail to
perform any duty lawfully enjoined, within the time prescribed by the Building
Commissioner in connection with the provisions of this subchapter, for each
such violation, failure or refusal, such person, firm or corporation shall be
fined in a sum not less than $100. Each day of such unlawful activity as is
prohibited by this section shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 1999-6, passed 6-7-99; Am. Ord. 1999-8, passed 7-12-99)
§ 150.19 PERMIT FEES.
   The Building Inspector shall collect fees as authorized and prescribed in
the schedule of fees currently approved by the Board of Commissioners to be
collected by the Dearborn County Building Inspector pursuant to the applicable
county ordinances passed by the Board of Commissioners for issuance of permits,
inspection and re-inspection fees as set forth in the ordinance which fees are
hereby incorporated herein by reference. The Building Commissioner is hereby
authorized to assess and collect such fees for building permits issued and
inspections performed in the administration of building regulations and
inspections within the boundaries of the city.
(Ord. 1999-6, passed 6-7-99; Am. Ord. 1999-8, passed 7-12-99; Am. Ord. 2006-10,
passed 4-17-06)
§ 150.20 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to satisfy the requirements of IC 36-1-
27-4.
   (B)   As used in this section, CONFLICT OF INTEREST means a direct or
indirect financial interest in the issuance of a permit, pursuant to IC 36-1-
27-1.
   (C)   As used in this section, PERMIT has the meaning set forth in IC 36-7-
4-1109(b).
   (D)   A building commissioner, building code official, or inspector of the
City of Aurora, Indiana may not issue a permit or oversee the issuance of a
permit through a subordinate if the Building Commissioner, Building Code
Official, or Inspector has a conflict of interest.
   (E)   A building commissioner, building code official, or inspector of the
City of Aurora, Indiana shall report a conflict of interest to the Aurora City
Attorney.
   (F)   Promptly upon notification of the conflict of interest, the Aurora
City Attorney shall notify the Building Commissioner for the City of
Lawrenceburg, Indiana of the conflict of interest and the need for the Building
Commissioner for the City of Lawrenceburg, Indiana to review and approve or
deny the permit application.
   (G)   The Building Commissioner of City of Lawrenceburg, Indiana is hereby
granted the authority to review City of Aurora, Indiana permit applications
that are subject to this section in situations where a building commissioner,
building code official, or inspector of the City of Aurora, Indiana has a
conflict of interest.
(Ord. 2019-014, passed 10-15-19)
PERMIT REQUIREMENTS
§ 150.35 RESERVED.
§ 150.36 CONSTRUCTION OF PROVISIONS.
   Sections
150.37 and
150.38 shall be construed in connection with other existing ordinances and
especially §
152.297.
('74 Code, § 4-12) (Ord. 73-1, passed - -73; Am. Ord. 2015-008, passed 9-3-15)
§ 150.37 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to construct and build any structure in the city,
without the prior procurement of a building permit by the owner of the real
estate upon which the structure is to be constructed, from the Dearborn County
Building Inspector or Commissioner, or the City Zoning Enforcement Official.
('74 Code, § 4-9) (Ord. 73-1, passed - -73; Am. Ord. 2015-008, passed 9-3-15)
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.38 WHEN CONSTRUCTION MUST START.
   All building permits shall be void 180 days after the date of issuance
unless construction shall have been undertaken within such 180-day period.
('74 Code, § 4-10) (Ord. 73-1, passed - -73)
§ 150.39 BUILDING PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEE SCHEDULE.
   For provisions concerning fees, see §
150.09.
§ 150.40 PERMIT REQUIRED TO MOVE BUILDING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without first obtaining a written
permit to so do, issued by the Building Inspector to move any building or
structure.
('74 Code, § 4-16)
Penalty, see § 150.99
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.50 ADOPTION OF STATUTORY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9, there is hereby established
the Aurora Unsafe Building Law.
   (B)   The provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28 are hereby
incorporated by reference in the Aurora Unsafe Building Law. All proceedings
within the city for the inspection, repair and removal of unsafe buildings
shall be governed by said law and the provisions of this section. In the event
the provisions of this section conflict with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-
2 through 36-7-9-28, then the provisions of the state statute shall control.
   (C)   All buildings or portions thereof within the city which are determined
after inspection by the Building Commissioner to be unsafe as defined in this
section are hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be abated by
repair, rehabilitation, demolition or removal.
   (D)   The Aurora Building Commissioner, Dearborn County Building
Commissioner, or Dearborn County Department of Planning and Zoning
(collectively referred to as “Building Inspector”), shall be authorized to
administer and to proceed under the provisions of said law in ordering the
repair or removal of any building found to be unsafe as specified therein or as
specified hereafter.
   (E)   Wherever in the building regulations of the city or the Aurora Unsafe
Building Law, it is provided that anything must be done to the approval of or
subject to the direction of the Building Inspector, or any other officer of the
city, this shall be construed to give such officer only the discretion of
determining whether the rules and standards established by ordinance have been
complied with; and no such provision shall be construed as giving any officer
discretionary powers as to what such regulations or standard shall be, power to
require conditions not described by ordinance, or to enforce ordinance
provisions in an arbitrary or discretionary manner.
   (F)   The description of an unsafe building contained in I.C. 36-7-9-4 is
hereby supplemented to provide minimum standards for building condition or
maintenance in the city by adding the following definitions:
      (1)   UNSAFE BUILDING means any building or structure which has any or
all of the conditions or defects hereinafter described, provided that such
conditions or defects exist to the extent that life, health, property or safety
of the public or its occupants are endangered:
         (a)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway or other means of exit is
not of sufficient width or size or is not so arranged as to provide a safe and
adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic.
         (b)   Whenever the walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway
or other means of exit is so warped, worn, loose, torn or otherwise unsafe as
to not provide safe and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic.
         (c)   Whenever the stress in any materials, member or portion thereof,
due to all dead and live loads, is more than one and one-half times the working
stress or stresses allowed for new buildings of similar structure, purpose or
location.
         (d)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire,
earthquake, wind, flood or by any other cause, to such an extent that the
structural strength or stability thereof is materially less than it was before
such catastrophe and is less than the minimum requirements for new buildings of
similar structure, purpose or location.
         (e)   Whenever any portion, member or appurtenance thereof is likely
to fail, to become detached or dislodged or to collapse and thereby injure
persons or damage property.
         (f)   Whenever any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance
or ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or
stability or is not so anchored, attached or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting a wind pressure of one-half of that specified for new
buildings of similar structure, purpose or location without exceeding the
working stresses permitted for such buildings.
         (g)   Whenever any portion thereof has wracked, warped, buckled or
settled to such an extent that walls or other structural portions have
materially less resistance to wind or earthquake than is required in the case
of similar new construction.
         (h)   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion thereof,
because of dilapidation, deterioration or decay; faulty construction; the
removal, movement or instability of any portion of the ground necessary for the
purpose of supporting such building; the deterioration, decay or inadequacy of
its foundation; or any other cause, is likely to partially or completely
collapse.
         (i)   Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure, or any
portion thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being
used.
         (j)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members
lift, lean or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the
center of gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third of the base.
         (k)   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundation,
shows 33% or more damage or deterioration of its supporting member or members,
or 50% damage or deterioration of its non-supporting members, enclosing or
outside walls or coverings.
         (l)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire,
wind, earthquake or flood or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated so as to
become an attractive nuisance to children, or freely accessible to persons for
the purpose of committing unlawful acts.
         (m)   Whenever any building or structure has been constructed, exists
or is maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition
applicable to such building or structure provided by the building regulations
of this city, or of any law or ordinance of this state or city relating to the
condition, location or structure of buildings.
         (n)   Whenever any building or structure which, whether or not erected
in accordance with all applicable laws or ordinances, has any non-supporting
part, member or portion less than 50%, or in any supporting part, member or
portion less than 66% of the strength, fire resisting qualities or
characteristics, or weather-resisting qualities or characteristics required by
law in the case of a newly constructed building of like area, height and
occupancy in the same location.
         (o)   Whenever a building or structure used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangement, inadequate light, air or sanitation
facilities, or otherwise as determined by the Dearborn County Board of Health
to be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation or in such a condition that is
likely to cause sickness or disease.
         (p)   Whenever any building or structure, because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits or lack of
sufficient fire-resistive construction as determined by the Fire Chief of the
Aurora Volunteer Fire Department is determined to be a fire hazard.
         (q)   When any portion of a building or structure remains on a site
after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or whenever
any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six months so
as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive nuisance or
hazard to the public.
      (2)   UNSAFE BUILDING  also means, for the purposes of the Unsafe
Building Law, a tract of real property that does not contain a building or
structure, not including land used for production agriculture, is an unsafe
premises if the tract is a fire hazard, a hazard to public health, a public
nuisance, or dangerous to a person or property.
   (G)   A definition of SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST set forth in IC 36-7-9-
2 is hereby incorporated by reference herein as if copied in full.
   (H)   All work for the reconstruction, repair or demolition of buildings and
other structures shall be performed in a good workmanlike manner according to
the accepted standards and practices in the trade. The provisions of the
building laws, as defined in IC 22-12-1-3, adopted as rules of the Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission (675 IAC), including 675 IAC 12-4-
9 and 675 IAC 12-4-11(a), shall be considered standard and acceptable practice
for all matters covered by this section or orders issued pursuant to this
section by the Building Commissioner of the city.
   (I)   (1)   An Unsafe Building Fund is hereby established in the operating
budget of the city and in accordance with the provisions of IC 36-7-9-14. Any
balance remaining in the Fund at the end of a fiscal year shall be carried over
in the Fund for the following year and shall not revert to the General Fund.
Money for the Unsafe Building Fund may be received from any sources including
appropriations by local, state or federal governments, and donations. The
following monies shall be deposited in the Unsafe Building Fund:
         (a)   Monies received as payment for or settlement of obligations or
judgments established under IC 36-7-9-9 through 36-7-9-13 and IC 36-7-9-17
through 36-7-9-22.
         (b)   Monies received from bonds posted under IC 36-7-9-7.
         (c)   Money received in satisfaction of receiver's notes or
certificates that were issued under IC 36-7-9-20 and were purchased with money
from the Unsafe Building Fund.
         (d)   Money received for payment or settlement of civil penalties
imposed under IC 36-7-9-7.
         (e)   Fees collected by the Building Inspector for issuance of
building permits.
      (2)   Money in the Unsafe Building Fund may be used for the expenses
incurred in carrying out the purposes of this section, including:
         (a)   The cost of obtaining reliable information about the identity
and location of each person who owns a substantial property interest in unsafe
premises;
         (b)   The cost of an examination of an unsafe building by a registered
architect or registered engineer not employed by the department;
         (c)   The cost of surveys necessary to determine the location and
dimensions of real property on which an unsafe building is located;
         (d)   The cost of giving notice of orders, notice of statements of
rescission, notice of continued hearing, and notice of statements that public
bids are to be let in the manner prescribed by IC 36-7-9-25;
         (e)   The bid price of work by a contractor under IC 36-7-9-10 or
pursuant to IC 36-7-9-17 through 36-7-9-22;
         (f)   The cost of emergency action under IC 36-7-9-9; and
         (g)   The cost of notes or receivers' certificates issued under IC 36-
7-9-20.
      (3)   All payments of monies from the Unsafe Building Fund must be made
in accordance with applicable law.
   (J)   No person, firm or corporation, whether an owner, lessee, sub-lessee
or occupant, shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve,
remove, demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or premises, or
cause or permit the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of any of the
provisions of this section or any order issued by the Building Commissioner.
Any person violating the provisions of this section or IC 36-7-9-2 shall commit
a Class C infraction for each day such violation continues.
(Ord. 1980-3, passed 4-7-80; Am. Ord. 1982-7, passed 2-1-82; Am. Ord. 1994-10,
passed 11-7-94; Am. Ord. 1995-2, passed 4-3-95; Am. Ord. 1997-11, passed 9-8-
97; Am. Ord. 2005-08, passed 7-18-05; Am. Ord. 2021-005, passed 6-28-21)
§ 150.51 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   Building Inspector, heretofore appointed to administer IC 18-5-5 (now
repealed), shall be responsible for the administration of this chapter in the
city.
(Ord 1980-3, passed 4-7-80; Am. Ord. 1982-7, passed 2-1-82; Am. Ord. 2021-005,
passed 6-28-21)
§ 150.52 CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The Code Enforcement Officer as appointed by the city or contracted with
through an interlocal agreement is authorized to issue citations for violations
under this chapter and is also empowered to act as the Building Inspector.
(Ord. 2005-05, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2021-005, passed 6-28-21)
§ 150.53 HEARING OFFICER.
   The designated Hearing Officer for violations issued under this section is
the City of Lawrenceburg City Court. Any decision made by the Hearing Officer
is subject to appeal to the Common Council of the city upon written request by
either party to the action, made within ten days of the Hearing Officer’s
decision. Appeals of the decisions of the Common Council are made to the
Dearborn Circuit Court, made within ten days of the Common Council’s decision.
(Ord. 2005-05, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2013-003, passed 4-1-13; Am. Ord. 2021-
005, passed 6-28-21)
OTHER PROVISIONS
§ 150.60 FIRE ZONE LIMITS.
   The fire zone limits of the city shall be all that portion of the city which
lies below 487 feet, mean sea level, and that portion of the city bounded on
the east by the Ohio River, on the north by Hogan Creek, on the west by U.S.
Highway 50 and Exporting Street and on the south by Third Street.
('74 Code, § 4-18)
§ 150.61 PARKING OF TRAILERS FOR CONSTRUCTION OFFICE OR STORAGE.
   Any person desiring to park a trailer for office or storage use in
conjunction with a construction project in the city shall procure a written
permit from the city before parking such a trailer in the city. This permit may
be extended or renewed for like periods only at the option of the city.
('74 Code, § 4-17) (Ord. 73-31, passed - -73)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.62 FLOOD CONTROL; SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard as defined in
Chapter 152 pertaining to flood control, where base flood elevation data has
been provided, the following standards are required:
   (A)   Residential Construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor, included the
basement, elevated to at least two feet above the base flood elevation.
   (B)   Nonresidential Construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor, including the basement, elevated at least
two feet above the base flood elevation; or, together with attended utility and
sanitary facilities, shall:
      (1)   Be flood proofed in order to exclude flood waters from the interior
or the building up to an elevation at least two feet above the base flood
elevation.
      (2)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
      (3)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
licensed to practice in Indiana; and that the standards of this subsection are
satisfied. Such certification shall be provided to the officials as set forth
in this section and in §§
152.265 et seq.
(Ord. 1979-1, passed 1-22-79)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   If any person, firm or corporation shall violate any of the provisions of
this chapter, or shall do any act prohibited herein, or shall fail to perform
any duty lawfully enjoined, within the time prescribed by the Building
Inspector, or shall fail, neglect or refuse to obey any lawful order given by
the Building Inspector in connection with the provisions of this chapter for
each such violation, failure or refusal, such person, firm or corporation shall
be fined in any sum not less than $10 nor more than $100. Each day of such
unlawful activity as is prohibited by the first sentence of this section shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 91-6, passed 5-28-91)
CHAPTER 151: SUBDIVISION CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   Approval of plats or replats prerequisite to recordation
   
151.03   Certificates used on surveys
Approval Procedures
   
151.15   Preliminary considerations
   
151.16   Subdivision review procedure
   
151.17   Administrative division of land requirements
   
151.18   Primary plat procedure and requirements
   
151.19   Sectionalizing (phasing) major subdivisions
   
151.20   Improvement plan requirements
   
151.21   Secondary plat requirements
   
151.22   Grading plan
   
151.23   Retracement survey requirements
   
151.24   Vacation of plats
   
151.25   Vacation of public ways or places
   
151.26   Resubdivision of plats
   
151.27   Disposal of excavated material
   
151.28   Borrow or disposal
Design Principals and Minimum Layout Requirements
   
151.30   Compliance
   
151.31   Conformity with master plan
   
151.32   Park, playground and like areas
   
151.33   Regard for natural features
   
151.34   Street and block layout
   
151.35   Street or road classification and standards
   
151.36   Pavement widths
   
151.37   Grades and curves
   
151.38   Intersections
   
151.39   Lots
   
151.40   Easement
   
151.41   Building setback lines
   
151.42   Public open spaces
   
151.43   Modifications and exceptions
Improvements
   
151.55   Conformance of final plat
   
151.56   Monuments and markers
   
151.57   Streets
   
151.58   Sewers
   
151.59   Water
   
151.60   Storm drainage
   
151.61   Curbs and gutters
   
151.62   Sidewalks
   
151.63   Street signs
   
151.64   Street trees
   
151.65   Unpaved areas within dedicated street right-of-way
   
151.66   Construction plans
   
151.67   Inspection
   
151.68   Variances
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESS EASEMENT. A private way which provides access to lots, tracts or
parcels of land and which meets the minimum standards set forth in these
regulations.
   ADT. Average Daily Traffic.
   ALLEY. A minor public way, primarily for secondary vehicular access to the
rear or side of properties otherwise abutting on a street, and not over 20 feet
in width.
   BLOCK. Property abutting on one side of a street and lying between the two
nearest intersecting or intercepting streets or between the nearest
intersecting or intercepting street and a railroad right-of-way, waterway or
other definite area.
   BORROW. Borrow shall consist of approved material required for the
construction of embankments or for other portions of the work and shall be
obtained from approved locations and sources outside the right-of-way.
   BUILDING. A structure built for the support, enclosure, shelter, or
protection of persons, animals, chattels or movable property of any kind, and
which is permanently affixed to the land.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line on a plat between which line and the street
line of a lot or block buildings may not be erected.
   CITY. City of Aurora, Dearborn County, Indiana.
   COMMISSION. The Aurora City Plan Commission.
   COMMON COUNCIL. The Common Council of the City of Aurora, Dearborn County,
Indiana.
   CONSTRUCTION BOND. A financial guarantee from an institution licensed by the
Secretary of State as a financial guarantor provided to cover the construction
cost of public improvements in the case of default by the subdivider. Sometimes
referred to as a PERFORMANCE BOND or INSURANCE BOND.
   COUNTY. Dearborn County, Indiana.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner of the use of a strip of land by the
public, a corporation or persons for specified uses.
   ENGINEER. The City Engineer or County Engineer, whichever applies. The City
Engineer is that engineer so designated by the Common Council for the purpose
of this chapter.
   FEASIBILITY REPORT. A written report prepared by a registered professional
engineer or a registered land surveyor pertaining to the suitability of the
site for various types of water and sewage disposal systems, for drainage
retention or detention; and the subsoil conditions for various methods of
street construction.
   FLOOD-CREST ELEVATION. An elevation of 486 feet above mean sea level.
   FLOOD PLAIN AREA. That continuous area adjacent to a stream, stream bed or
other natural drainage channel or basin whose elevation is equal to or lower
than the flood-crest elevation, including also any land of higher elevation
having an area of less than ten acres which is completely surrounded by land
having an elevation equal to or lower than the flood-crest elevation, but not
including any lands of over ten acres completely protected against flooding by
a levee whose top shall be at least three feet above the designated flood-crest
elevation and which shall be assessed as satisfactory for the purpose it was
intended by the United States Army Corps of Engineers.
   FRONTAGE. That side of a lot abutting on a street watercourse or lake and
ordinarily regarded as the front of the lot. Lots shall not be considered to
front on stub ends of streets and in the case of corner and through lots will
be considered to front on both intersecting streets. Multiple frontage lots
will be considered to front on each street, watercourse or lake.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The County Health Officer or County Sanitarian.
   HEIGHT, BUILDING. The vertical distance from the average grade level
adjoining the building to the highest point of the roof for flat roofs; to the
deck line of mansard roofs; and to the average height between the eaves and the
ridge for gable, hip and gambrel roofs.
   IMPROVEMENT PLAN. The engineering plans showing grading, types of materials
and construction details for the physical structures and facilities to be
installed in, or in conjunction with, the proposed subdivision.
   INTERESTED PARTIES. Those persons who are to be notified by mail of a public
hearing, or other action, on a proposed subdivision of land. Namely, the
applicant or developer of the property to be subdivided and the fee simple
owners of those properties that share a common boundary line or point with the
property to be subdivided or that would share a common boundary line or point
with the property to be subdivided but for the existence of a public or private
street. If an abutting property consists of common areas that are owned and/or
maintained by a subdivision/condominium property owners' association, the
association, rather than the individual subdivision lot/condominium owner(s)
shall be deemed the interested party for purposes of notice.
   IRREVOCABLE LETTER OF CREDIT. A financial commitment provided by a lending
institution, on behalf of a subdivider, which cannot be revoked except as
expressly stated in the terms of the agreement within the letter of credit.
   LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any man-made change of the land surface including
the removal of vegetative cover, the removal of trees and filling or grading,
but not including agricultural land uses such as planting, growing, cultivating
and harvesting crops, growing and tending gardens and minor landscaping
modifications.
   LEGAL DESCRIPTION. A description recognized by law, which definitely
describes real property by reference to government surveys, coordinate systems
or recorded maps; a description, which is sufficient to locate property without
oral testimony.
   LOT. A portion of a subdivision or other parcel or land intended as a unit
for transfer of ownership or for development.
   LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front lot line along the
street right-of-way and the rear lot line measured within the lot boundaries.
   MAINTENANCE BOND. A financial guarantee from an institution licensed by the
Secretary of State as a financial guarantor provided to insure the performance
of a public improvement for a specified period of time and to cover the cost of
any unfinished improvements in the case of default by the subdivider. Sometimes
referred to as a PERFORMANCE BOND or INSURANCE BOND.
   MASTER PLAN or COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The complete plan, or any of its parts,
for the development of the city prepared by the Plan Commission, and adopted in
accordance with IC 36-7-4-500 et seq., and all acts amendatory thereto, as is
now or may hereafter be in effect.
   NON-BUILDABLE PARCEL. A parcel of land that is created on which a
principally permitted use, as defined and permitted by the City of Aurora
Zoning Ordinance, is not permitted to be constructed. This parcel will be
labeled on the plat and within the deed as non-buildable.
   PARENT TRACT. An existing lot, parcel, or tract of land as established and
referenced by deed and plat in the Dearborn County Recorder's Office.
   PERFORMANCE BOND. A financial guarantee from an institution licensed by the
Secretary of State as a financial guarantor provided to insure the performance
of a public improvement for a specified period of time and to cover the cost of
any unfinished improvements in the case of default by the subdivider. Sometimes
referred to as a MAINTENANCE BOND or INSURANCE BOND.
   PLAT. A map or drawing on which the subdivider's plan of a subdivision is
presented and which is presented for approval. The final plat is the map or
drawing which is intended for recordation and which meets the requirements of §
151.17.
   PLAT COMMITTEE. A Plan Commission-appointed committee consisting of three
persons, with at least one of the members being a member of the Commission,
established to hold hearings on and to provide primary plat approval for
subdivisions of land that do not involve the opening of new public ways and
complies with all other respects with this chapter and the zoning ordinance.
Each appointment of a member of the Plat Committee is for a term of one year,
but the Commission may remove a member from the Committee in accordance with IC
36-7-4-701.
   PRIMARY APPROVAL. An approval (or approval with conditions imposed) granted
to a subdivision by the Commission after having determined in a public hearing
that the primary plat of the subdivision complies with the standards prescribed
in this chapter.
   PRIMARY PLAT. The preliminary drawing or drawings described in these
regulations, indicating the proposed manner or layout of the subdivision to be
submitted to the Commission for approval.
   PUBLIC HEARING. A hearing after proper publication of notice as required
herein at which the public can comment upon the matter at issue and which
complies with Indiana law.
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Any drainage facility, street, thoroughfare, highway,
parkway, sidewalk, pedestrian or bike-way, tree, lawn, off-street parking area,
lot improvement, or other facility for which the local government may
ultimately assume the responsibility for maintenance and operation, or which
may affect an improvement for which local government responsibility is
established.
   RE-PLAT. A change in a map of an approved or recorded subdivision plat which
affects any street layout on such map or area reserved thereon for public use,
or any lot line, or setback; or if it affects any map or plan legally recorded
prior to the adoption of any regulations controlling subdivisions.
   REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS. The public improvements, lot improvements and/or
landscaping features required by these regulations, by primary approval and by
the subdivision improvement agreement.
   RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS. Private limitations of various kinds on the usage of
lots or parcels of land within a subdivision which are proposed by the
subdivider that are recorded with the plat and run with the land. These
covenants are not enforceable by the Plan Commission and have no bearing upon
decisions made by the Plan Commission.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land (other than an easement) occupied or intended
to be occupied by a street, pedestrian-way, crosswalk, railroad, electric
transmission line, oil or gas pipeline, water main, sanitary or storm sewer
main, special landscaping, drainage swale or for another special use. The usage
of the term RIGHT-OF-WAY for land platting and zoning purposes shall mean that
every right-of-way hereafter established and shown on a secondary plat is to be
separate and distinct from the lots or parcels adjoining such right-of-way and
not included within the dimensions or areas of such lots or parcels. Rights-of-
way intended for streets, crosswalks, water mains, sanitary sewers, storm
drains, screening or special landscaping, or any other use involving
maintenance by a public agency shall be dedicated to public use by the
subdivider on whose plat such right-of-way is established.
   SECONDARY PLAT. The map, drawing, or plan, described in this chapter, of a
subdivision (including any accompanying material) submitted to the Commission
for final approval which, if approved and signed by the designated officials,
may be submitted to the County Recorder for recording.
   SECONDARY PLAT APPROVAL or SECONDARY APPROVAL. Commission approval of a
secondary plat of a subdivision the construction of which has been completed or
secured by a performance bond and financial guaranty.
   SECRETARY. The Secretary of the Plan Commission or any person designated by
the Plan Commission as its Assistant Secretary and authorized to act in the
place and instead of the Secretary.
   SECTIONALIZING or PHASING. A process whereby an applicant seeks secondary
plat approval on only a portion of a plat which has been granted primary
approval.
   SECTION CORNER. A corner established as part of the United States Public
Land Survey System used for horizontal control in describing land.
   SOIL SURVEY. The National Cooperative Soil Survey Project by the United
States Department of Agriculture, Soil Conservation Service (now Natural
Resources Conservation Service) in cooperation with Purdue University.
   STREET. A right-of-way dedicated to the public use which forms the principal
means of access to abutting property. A street may be designated as a highway,
thoroughfare, parkway, boulevard, road, avenue, lane, drive, place, cul-de-sac
or other appropriate name. A street may also be identified according to type of
use, as follows:
      (1)   MINOR STREETS are streets not designated as primary or secondary
arterial streets on the thoroughfare plan and whose main purpose is to serve as
access to abutting property.
      (2)   PRIMARY ARTERIAL STREETS are those designated in the thoroughfare
plan for large volumes of traffic movement. They may be limited access in which
case entrance and exit is provided only at certain designated, controlled
points.
      (3)   SECONDARY ARTERIAL STREETS are designated in the thoroughfare plan
as important streets to facilitate the collection of traffic from minor
residential streets, to permit circulation within neighborhood areas and to
provide convenient ways for traffic to reach arterial streets.
   STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY WIDTH. The width of the street right-of-way measured at
right angles to the centerline of the street.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of any parcel(s) of land shown as a unit, part of
a unit or as contiguous units on the last preceding transfer of property into a
net increase of three or more parcels, sites or lots in any one year period of
time for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer of ownership.
The following shall be used to classify all land divisions:
      (1)   ADMINISTRATIVE DIVISION OF LAND. Also known as certified survey
review, the division by conveyance of a single lot or lots, tract or tracts, or
parcel of land or a part thereof, shown as a unit on the last preceding
transfer of ownership record, into a net of three or less independent building
lots, tracts, or parcels of land in any one year period of time. Administrative
divisions may not result in or require the creation of a public easement or the
installation of public improvements.
      (2)   MINOR DIVISION OF LAND. A division of land not meeting the
definition of an administrative division of land nor resulting in a net
increase of eight independent building lots, nor requiring the creation of a
public easement or the installation of a public improvement.
      (3)   MAJOR DIVISION OF LAND. A division of land not meeting the
definition of an administrative division of land or a minor division of land
including divisions which result in a net of nine or more independent building
lots and/or require the creation of a public easement or installation of a
public improvement.
      (4)   EXEMPT DIVISION OF LAND. A division of land, of a tract, or tracts,
to correct errors in an existing legal description, provided that no additional
building sites other than for accessory buildings are created by the division;
a division of land for federal, state or local government to acquire street
right-of-way; a division of land for the direct use of utilities to meet the
public's needs for sewer, water, gas, or electrical service; or a combination
or retracement of an existing parcel(s) of record in which either a survey plat
does not exist, a survey error is being corrected, or an error associated with
an existing legal description is being resolved.
   SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENT AGREEMENT. A document which establishes the
contractual relationship between the developer of a subdivision and the city
for the completion and maintenance of the required improvements in accordance
with these regulations.
   SURVEYOR. The City or the County Surveyor, whichever applies. If there is no
Engineer, the Surveyor shall fulfill all functions of the Engineer as
designated in this chapter.
   TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTEE. A committee created by this chapter to review
plans submitted for action by the Plan Commission for a technical evaluation of
the plan's compliance with the regulations governing its approval. This
Committee will provide a report to the Plan Commission indicating its
compliance with the regulations. The members of the Committee will include the
Dearborn County Technical Review Committee and other members as needed for the
given request or as determined by the Planning Commission.
   TEMPORARY IMPROVEMENT. Improvements built and maintained by a subdivider
during construction of the subdivision and intended to be replaced by a
permanent improvement prior to release of the performance bond, or turnaround
improvements at the ends of stub streets intended to be replaced when the
adjoining area is developed and the through street connection made.
   THOROUGHFARE PLAN. The part of the master plan, now or hereafter adopted,
which sets forth the location, alignment, dimensions, identification and
classification of existing and proposed public streets, highways or other
thoroughfares.
   TOPOGRAPHIC PLAT. A plat drawing with contour lines (delineating elevation)
superimposed over the subdivision lot and street layout that indicates existing
and proposed contours and other site features, such as structures, drainage
ways, proposed changes in drainage features, etc.
   VARIANCE. A variance is an exception granted from the literal enforcement of
this chapter where, by reason of exceptional topographic conditions, or some
other extraordinary situation or condition of that site that would deprive the
applicant of reasonable capacity to make use of the land in a manner equivalent
to those permitted to other landowners in the same zone district. It is a
departure from dimensional terms of this chapter.
('74 Code, § 14-1) (Ord. passed 11-25-67; Am. Ord. 2019-008, passed 5-13-19)
§ 151.02 APPROVAL OF PLATS OR REPLATS PREREQUISITE TO RECORDATION.
   No plat or replat of a subdivision of land located within the jurisdiction
of the Plan Commission shall be filed with the County Auditor, and the County
Recorder shall not record such unless it has first been approved by the Plan
Commission and such approval shall have been entered in writing on such plat by
the designee of such Commission.
('74 Code, § 14-2) (Ord. passed 11-25-67; Am. Ord. 2019-008, passed 5-13-19)
§ 151.03 CERTIFICATES USED ON SURVEYS.
   (A)   When specifically noted in this chapter, the following certificates
shall appear on all secondary plats and certified surveys or final plats
presented to the Commission for approval pursuant to this chapter.
      (1)   Land surveyor's certificate shall appear on all secondary plats and
certified surveys presented to the City of Aurora Plan Commission for approval
pursuant to this chapter and read as follows:
         LAND SURVEYOR'S CERTIFICATE
         I hereby certify that I am a Land Surveyor registered in compliance
with the laws of the State of Indiana; and I do hereby further certify that
this plat depicts a survey made by me or under my supervision, and to the best
of my knowledge and belief, conforms with the requirements as set forth in
Indiana Surveying Law and complies with all requirements of the City of Aurora
Zoning and Subdivision Regulations. Signed this ______ day of ______________,
(year).
         (Land Surveyors Signature)
         (Typed or Printed Name) (SEAL)
      (2)   Owners certificate, with roadway dedication, shall appear on all
secondary plats and certified surveys presented to the City of Aurora Plan
Commission for approval that contain a dedication of property for roadway
purposes when there is a new or existing roadway and read as follows:
         OWNER'S CERTIFICATE - WITH ROADWAY DEDICATION
         This is to certify that the undersigned are the owners of the land
shown and described on this plat and as said owners we have caused the said
above described property to be surveyed and subdivided as shown on the herein
drawn plat, as our own free and voluntary act and deed. We attest that to our
knowledge, the proposed land division does not interfere with the performance
of an existing individual sewage disposal system. We hereby grant to the City
of Aurora a ____ foot right-of-way for constructing and/or maintaining a road.
Signed this ____ day of __________, (year).
         ________________
         Owner's Signature
         ___________________________
         Owner's Typed or Printed name
         NOTARY CERTIFICATE
         STATE OF INDIANA, COUNTY OF DEARBORN, ss:
         Before me the undersigned, a Notary Public, for said County and State,
personally appeared (name of person), and acknowledged the execution of the
foregoing certificate as his/her voluntary act the ____ day of __________,
(year).
         ______________________
         Notary Public (signature)
         (Name Typed or Printed)
         My Commission Expires: ___________
         Resident of __________ County, __________
      (3)   Owner's certificate, with other public dedication, shall appear on
all secondary plats and certified surveys presented to the City of Aurora Plan
Commission for approval that contain a dedication of property for public uses
other than roadways.
         OWNER'S CERTIFICATE - OTHER PUBLIC DEDICATION
         We the undersigned, being all the owners of the lands herein platted,
do hereby voluntarily consent to the execution of the said Plat and do dedicate
the parks or public grounds as shown here on to the City of Aurora to the
public use for so long as they shall be used for the public purposes as shown
or other purposes reasonably incident thereto. Signed this ____ day of
____________, _____.
         ____________________
         Signature
         ____________________
         Typed or Printed name
         NOTARY CERTIFICATE STATE OF INDIANA, COUNTY OF DEARBORN, ss:
         Before me the undersigned, a Notary Public, for said County and State,
personally appeared (name of person), and acknowledged the execution of the
foregoing certificate as his/her voluntary act the ____ day of __________,
(year).
         _____________________
         Notary Public (signature)
         (Name Typed or Printed)
         My Commission Expires: __________   
         Resident of _________ County, __________
      (4)   Owner's certificate, with no dedication, shall appear on all
secondary plats and certified surveys that do not involve a public dedication.
         OWNER'S CERTIFICATE - NO DEDICATION
         This is to certify that the undersigned are the owners of the land
shown and described on this plat and as said owners we have caused the said
above described property to be surveyed and subdivided as shown on the herein
drawn plat, as our own free and voluntary act and deed. We attest that to our
knowledge; the proposed land division does not interfere with the performance
of an existing individual sewage disposal system. Signed this ____ day of
__________, (year).
         (Owner's Signature)   
         (Type or Printed Name)
         NOTARY CERTIFICATE STATE OF INDIANA, COUNTY OF DEARBORN, ss:
         Before me the undersigned, a Notary Public, for said County and State,
personally appeared (Name of person), and acknowledged the execution of the
foregoing certificate as his/her voluntary act this ____ day of __________,
(year).
         _______________________
         Notary Public (Signature)
         (Name Typed or Printed)
         My Commission Expires: ___________
         Resident of __________ County, __________
      (5)   City of Aurora Plan Commission certificate shall appear on all
secondary plats and certified surveys presented to the City of Aurora Plan
Commission for approval.
         CITY OF AURORA PLAN COMMISSION APPROVAL CERTIFICATE
         This plat was approved by the City of Aurora Plan Commission on this
____ day of __________, (year).
         (Planning Commission Designee Official Signature)
         (Typed or Printed Name)
      (6)   County Recorder's certificate shall appear on all secondary plats
and certified surveys presented to the City of Aurora Plan Commission for
approval.
         COUNTY RECORDER'S CERTIFICATE
         Received for recording this ____ day of _________, (year) and recorded
in the Office of the Recorder of Dearborn County, Indiana.
         (Recorder of Dearborn County Signature)
         (Typed or Printed Name)
      (7)   Acceptance of dedications certificate shall appear on all secondary
plats and certified survey including an acceptance of dedication.
         ACCEPTANCE OF DEDICATIONS
         Be it resolved by the Common Council, Aurora, Indiana, that the
dedications shown on this plat are hereby approved and accepted this ____ day
of __________, (year).
         (Council Official Signature)
         (Type or Printed Name)
      (8)   Sight distance certificate shall appear on all secondary plats and
certified surveys with proposed building lots.
         SIGHT DISTANCE CERTIFICATE
         I hereby certify that this plat meets the minimum sight distance
requirements of the Aurora Zoning Ordinance. Signed this ____ day of
__________, (year).
         (Land Surveyors Signature)
         (Type or Printed Name)
      (9)   County Auditor's certificate shall appear on all secondary plats
and certified surveys presented to the City of Aurora Plan Commission for
approval.
         COUNTY AUDITOR'S CERTIFICATE
         Presented to the Auditor this ____ day of __________, (year).
         (Auditor of Dearborn County Signature)
         (Type or Printed Name)
      (10)   Subdivider's contract shall be as follows, when required.
         SUBDIVIDER'S CONTRACT
         This contract is executed this ____ day of __________, 20__ by
_____________ Subdivider(s), and between the City of Aurora Government, as
evidenced by a plat of a Subdivision which is on file in the Aurora Plan
Commission Office, referred to as ____________ Subdivision, in Aurora, Indiana.
         WITNESSETH:
         1.   The Subdivider(s) herein above set forth is/are the owner(s) in
fee simple of the real estate known as ____________ Subdivision, located in
Section(s) ________ Township ________ Range ____, of the First Principle
Meridian, Aurora, Indiana;
         2.   It is the purpose and intention of this agreement to have the
Subdivider(s) agree in writing to the performance and completion of certain
work in connection with improvements necessitated by the division of land in
the Subdivision as identified within the approved Improvement Plan and the
regulations within the City of Aurora Subdivision Control and Zoning
Ordinances. It is further the purpose of this agreement to enter into a
contract obligating the Subdivider(s) to perform as hereinafter set forth, and
secure this construction and performance by an approved form of guarantee.
         NOW, THEREFORE IT IS AGREED:
         A.   The Subdivider(s), as herein before described, does/do herewith
agree to construct, install, and provide without variation all required
improvements—including, but not necessarily limited to streets, curbs and
gutters, sidewalks, stormwater drain and sewer systems, sanitary sewer systems,
water supply systems, street signs, monuments and the various appurtenances
related thereto—as established on the approved Subdivision Improvement Plans
approved by the Plan Commission on file with the City of Aurora;
         B.   The Subdivider(s) agree(s) that said work shall be performed,
completed and installed pursuant to inspection and approval by the Street
Commissioner or designee and in accordance with the City of Aurora Subdivision
Control and Zoning Ordinances;
         C.   The Subdivider(s) further agree to do all that is necessary to
accomplish the acceptance of the road(s) as public road(s) within ____ years
from the date of this contract. The ____ year period (the "Contract Period") is
hereby fixed as a reasonable length of time for completion of all work. The
Subdivider(s) may request a contract extension by formally petitioning the Plan
Commission designee, who may grant an extension in accordance with Performance
Guarantee Alternative to Completion Requirement section of the Aurora
Subdivision Code. After completion of the public improvements the Subdivider(s)
shall provide a maintenance bond as required by the Subdivision Control
Ordinance to guarantee the performance of the public improvements;
         D.   The Subdivider(s) shall be responsible for all maintenance work
necessary during the Contract Period including ditch and/or storm sewers, snow
removal and ice removal;
         E.   The Subdivider shall hold City of Aurora, Indiana and all its
Departments, Agencies and Employees harmless for any and all liability claims,
liens and encumbrances from all contractors, subcontractors and other party
arising out of or as a result of the construction and maintenance or lack
thereof while this contract is in effect;
         F.   The Subdivider(s) agree to provide an acceptable financial
guarantee in the amount of __________________ to insure the performance of this
contract and the required improvements. Said guarantee shall be held by the
City of Aurora Plan Commission until satisfactory completion of the
improvements, and maintenance period and all fees outstanding to City of Aurora
have been paid. Any interest accrued on said guarantee during the contract
period shall accrue to the City of Aurora as a service charge.
         G.   The Subdivider(s) agree(s) to apply to both the Common Council
and Planning Commission, in writing, for the release of a financial guarantee
once all required improvements have been installed and completed. The
Subdivider(s) acknowledge(s) that any written request must be accompanied by a
certification from their engineer or surveyor which states that, based on the
information provided and to the best of his knowledge, all required
improvements have been completed in the manner prescribed by the Aurora
Subdivision Control Ordinance, this Contract, and the approved Primary Plat and
Improvement Plan(s). The certification of the Subdivider's engineer or surveyor
shall also be accompanied by "record drawings." All record drawings shall be
submitted as an up-to-date Improvement Plan, and shall contain all of the
information set forth in the Improvement Plan Requirements of the Aurora
Subdivision Control Ordinance. Such record drawings must be prepared, signed,
and stamped by the Subdivider's engineer or surveyor and must be submitted in
both electronic (preferably CAD-based, where applicable)* and hard copy
formats.
         H.   The Subdivider(s) agree(s) to construct, install, or repair any
required improvement that does not meet the approved standards set forth in
Aurora Subdivision Control Ordinance, this Contract, and the approved Primary
Plat and Improvement Plan(s). All final determinations regarding the adequacy
and completeness of required improvements will be made by the County Engineer
or his designee, following the review of the Subdivider's "record drawings" and
inspections performed by the Commissions' designee. *Any proposed change(s) to
the approved Primary Plat and Improvement Plan(s) must be approved by the City
of Aurora Plat Committee prior to the Subdivider's subsequent application to
the City of Aurora Common Council to accept any public improvements.
         (Property Owner's Signature)   
         (Typed or Printed Name)
                        Date
         (Subdivider's Signature)   
         (Typed or Printed Name)
                        Date
         STATE OF INDIANA, COUNTY OF DEARBORN, ss:
         Before me the undersigned, a Notary Public, for said County and State,
personally appeared (Name of person), and acknowledged the execution of the
foregoing certificate as his/her voluntary act this ___ day of _________,
(year).
         _______________________
         Notary Public (Signature)
         Name Typed or Printed
         My Commission Expires: __________
         Resident of _________ County, __________
         (Aurora Plan Commission Official Signature)
         _______________________
         (Typed or Printed Name)
         Date
      (11)   Performance guarantee form, to be issued with bonding company
stationery, seal, and logo as follows and when required.
         Date of Issue:
         Financial Institution Performance Guarantee Identification # (if
applicable):
         Amount:
         Expiration Date:_____________
         Financial Institution Address:
         __________________________
         Contact and Telephone #
         Beneficiary:   City of Aurora
                  P.O. Box 158
                  Aurora, Indiana 47001
                  Attn: City Manager
         We (Financial Institution), hereby establish in your favor this
Performance Guarantee for the account of ______________, (hereinafter
"Subdivider"), and ______________, (hereinafter "Owner"), up to an aggregate
amount of ____________________(US dollars) which equals One Hundred Twenty
percent (120%) of the cost of the Land Improvements described herein. We
understand that this Performance Guarantee is to be used to construct all
required improvements within the City of Aurora as shown on the approved
Improvement Plan on file within the City and the submitted Secondary Plat as
listed. (List Subdivision Name __________________ and Section or Phase
_________________)
         Withdrawals on this Performance Guarantee must be accompanied by
written notice to the Financial Institution from the Planning Commission
designee certifying either: (1) that said Performance Guarantee is about to
expire and has not been renewed; and/or 2) that work has not been completed in
accordance with the approved Improvement Plan listed above and any amendments
thereof. It shall be the option of the Planning Commission designee acting as
the agent for the City, to draw in full on this Performance Guarantee or make
partial withdrawals as needed. Partial withdrawals shall not affect the full
force of the remainder of this Performance Guarantee. Upon the completion of
the agreed upon improvements by the City or its agent any unused funds shall be
forwarded to the Financial Institution.
         This irrevocable Performance Guarantee shall expire on (Date/Year);
provided, however, the undersigned shall notify the City, by certified mail,
return receipt requested, at least 30 days prior to said expiration date, that
said Performance Guarantee is about to expire. In no event shall this
Performance Guarantee or the obligations contained herein expire except upon
said prior written notice and renewal, it being expressly agreed by the
undersigned that the above expiration date shall be extended as shall be
required to comply with this notice provision. Notice shall be made to the
Beneficiary listed above. This Performance Guarantee can only be released prior
to the expiration date upon written consent of the Beneficiary.
         The undersigned further agrees that this Performance Guarantee shall
remain in full force and effect and pertain to any and all amendments or
modifications which may be made from time to time to the plans, specifications
and agreements for the project, with or without notice from the City of such
amendments or modifications.
         The Financial Institution hereby undertakes and engages that all
demands made in conformity with this Performance Guarantee will be duly honored
and payment shall be made in immediately available funds upon presentation.
         The Financial Institution hereby represents and warrants to the
Beneficiary that it has the full power, right and authority to deliver this
Performance Guarantee, and that it is within all limits of such institution,
and in accordance with terms on the undersigned institution.
         NAME OF THE FINANCIAL INSTITUTION
         ATTEST: ______________________________
         By: ___________________________________
            (Principal's Signature)
         _____________________________
         (Principal's Typed Name & Title)
         By: ___________________________________
            (Surety Representative's Signature)
         _______________________________________
         (Surety Representative's Typed Name & Title)
         STATE OF INDIANA, COUNTY OF DEARBORN, ss:
         Before me the undersigned, a Notary Public, for said County and State,
personally appeared ___________________________ (Name of persons above), and
acknowledged the execution of the foregoing Performance Guarantee as his or her
voluntary act this ____ day of _________, (year).
         ______________________
         Notary Public (Signature)
         Name Typed or Printed
         My Commission Expires: ___________
         Resident of __________ County, __________
         (City Plan Commission Official Signature)
         (Typed or Printed Name)
         Date
      (12)   Maintenance guarantee form, to be issued with bonding company
stationery, seal, and logo.
         Date of Issue:
         Financial Institution Maintenance Guarantee Identification # (if
applicable):
         Amount:
         Expiration Date: ________________________
         Financial Institution Address:
         Contact and Telephone #
         Beneficiary:   City of Aurora
                  P.O. Box 158
                  Aurora, Indiana 47001
                  Attn: City Manager
         We (Financial Institution), hereby establish in your favor this
financial guarantee for the account of _________________, (hereinafter
"Subdivider"), and _______________, (hereinafter "Owner"), up to an aggregate
amount of __________________ (US dollars) which equals One Hundred Twenty
percent (120%) of the cost of the Land Improvements described herein. We
understand that this financial guarantee is to be used to finish all required
improvements not completed or installed by the Owner/Subdivider and to secure
the performance of all required maintenance improvements as shown on the
approved Improvement Plan on file within the City offices and the submitted
Secondary Plat as listed. (List Subdivision Name ________________ and Section/
Phase __________________)
         Withdrawals on this financial guarantee must be accompanied by written
notice to the Financial Institution from the Planning Commission or their
designee certifying either: (1) that said financial guarantee is about to
expire and has not been renewed; (2) that work has not been completed in
accordance with the approved Improvement Plan listed above and any amendments
thereof; and/or (3) the required improvements have failed to perform as
required. It shall be the option of the Planning Commission designee acting as
the agent for the City, to draw in full on this financial guarantee or make
partial withdrawals as needed. Partial withdrawals shall not affect the full
force of the remainder of this financial guarantee. Upon the completion of the
agreed upon improvements by the City or its agent any unused funds shall be
forwarded to the Financial Institution.
         This irrevocable financial guarantee shall expire on (Date/Year);
provided, however, the undersigned shall notify the City, by certified mail,
return receipt requested, at least 30 days prior to said expiration date, that
said financial guarantee is about to expire. In no event shall this financial
guarantee or the obligations contained herein expire except upon said prior
written notice and renewal, it being expressly agreed by the undersigned that
the above expiration date shall be extended as shall be required to comply with
this notice provision. Notice shall be made to the Beneficiary listed above.
This financial guarantee can only be released prior to the expiration date upon
written consent of the Beneficiary.
         The undersigned further agrees that this financial guarantee shall
remain in full force and effect and pertain to any and all amendments or
modifications which may be made from time to time to the plans, specifications
and agreements for the project, with or without notice from the City of such
amendments or modifications.
         The Financial Institution hereby undertakes and engages that all
demands made in conformity with this irrevocable Letter of Credit will be duly
honored and payment shall be made in immediately available funds upon
presentation.
         Each of the undersigned institutions hereby represents and warrants to
the Beneficiary that it has the full power, right and authority to deliver this
Irrevocable Letter of Credit, that the same is within all lending limits of
such institution, is in accordance with terms on the undersigned institution.
         The Financial Institution hereby undertakes and engages that all
demands made in conformity with this financial guarantee will be duly honored
and payment shall be made in immediately available funds upon presentation.
         The Financial Institution hereby represents and warrants to the
Beneficiary that it has the full power, right and authority to deliver this
financial guarantee, and that it is within all limits of such institution, and
in accordance with terms on the undersigned institution.
         NAME OF THE FINANCIAL INSTITUTION
         ATTEST: ______________________________
         By: ___________________________________
         (Principal's Signature)
         (Principal's Typed Name & Title)
         By: ___________________________________
         (Surety Representative's Signature)
         (Surety Representative's Typed Name & Title)
         STATE OF INDIANA, COUNTY OF DEARBORN, ss:
         Before me the undersigned, a Notary Public, for said County and State,
personally appeared ____________________ (Name of persons above), and
acknowledged the execution of the foregoing Maintenance Guarantee as his or her
voluntary act this ____ day of ___________, (year).
         Notary Public (Signature)
         Name Typed or Printed
         My Commission Expires: _______________
         Resident of ___________ County, _______________
         (Aurora Plan Commission Official Signature)
         (Typed or Printed Name)   Date
(Ord. 2019-008, passed 5-13-19)
APPROVAL PROCEDURES
§ 151.15 PRELIMINARY CONSIDERATIONS.
   (A)   Generally. In order to make the most of the opportunities related to
the subdivision and to conserve time, effort and expense, the owner or
subdivider should consult with the Commission, the Engineer and other public
officials prior to the preparation of the tentative plan of the subdivision.
The master plan should be reviewed to determine how the proposed plan will be
coordinated with the master plan with particular attention given to matters
enumerated in IC 36-7-4-700 et seq.
   (B)   Basic standards. The owner or developer shall determine that their
subdivision provides for the following:
      (1)   Coordination of subdivision streets with existing and planned
streets or highways;
      (2)   Coordination with and extension of facilities included in the
master plan;
      (3)   Establishment of minimum width, depth and area of lots within the
projected subdivision as set forth in zoning regulations;
      (4)   Distribution of population and traffic in a manner tending to
create conditions favorable to health, safety, convenience and the harmonious
development of the city and county;
      (5)   Appropriate alterations of areas for streets, parks, schools,
public and semi-public buildings, homes, utilities, business and industry as
outlined by the master plan;
      (6)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage; all subdivision proposals shall have public utilities
and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and
constructed so as to minimize flood damage; all subdivision proposals shall
have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood damage.
   (C)   Compliance with design criteria. The developer shall also determine
that their subdivision meets the design criteria required by the commission,
including the manner in which streets shall be laid out, graded and improved,
and that they have made the required or adequate provisions for water, sewage,
other utility service, schools, essential municipal services and recreation
facilities.
   (D)   Access; flooding; drainage. No land shall be approved for a
subdivision unless adequate access to the land over improved streets or
thoroughfares exists or will be provided by the subdivider. No such approach
will be given for land which is subject to periodic flooding, lies below the
designated flood-crest elevation level or is otherwise considered by the
Commission to be unsuitable for urban development by reason of improper
drainage, objectionable earth and rock formation, steep slopes or any other
feature harmful to the health and safety of residents or the community as a
whole.
   (E)   Encroachments. In all areas of special flood hazard in which base
flood elevation data has been provided, the cumulative effect of any proposed
development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated development,
shall not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood more than one
tenth of a foot at any point.
   (F)   All applicable provisions of §§ 152.265 et seq. of the Zoning Code for
the city, pertaining to flood control, shall be complied with by the owner or
developer.
('74 Code, § 14-3) (Ord. passed 11-25-67; Am. Ord. 1979-2, passed 1- 22-79; Am.
Ord. 2019-008, passed 5-13-19) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.16 SUBDIVISION REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Property can be divided through one of the following procedures
determined by the subdivision division type as defined within §
151.01 . Each lot intended for building or development purposes must meet the
minimum standards in each zoning district as stated on the Aurora Zoning Map
and in the Aurora Zoning Ordinance. Surveys, in addition to payment of
applicable fees, accompanied by a completed application, may be submitted at
any time to the Commission designee to initiate review procedures.
      (1)   Administrative division of land. For divisions that meet the
definition of an administrative division of land, the following shall govern:
         (a)   Within ten days of receipt of a completed application in
accordance with §
151.17 , the Planning Commission designee shall review and approve, approve
with conditions or modifications, or disapprove the proposal.
         (b)   Approval. Once reviewed and approved, the plat will be signed
and stamped "Approved" by the Commission designee. Approval of the
administrative division of land or certified survey does not record the parcel
of land.
      (2)   Minor division of land review procedure. For divisions that meet
the definition of a minor division of land, the following shall govern:
         (a)   Within 30 days of receipt of a completed application in
accordance with primary plat review as described in §
151.18 (D), the Commission designee shall perform the following:
            1.   Schedule a Plat Committee or Commission review of the
application;
            2.   Prior to the Plat Committee or Commission review, the division
will be reviewed by Commission staff and the Technical Review Committee for
technical conformity with these regulations and provide a written report that
indicates compliance with the requirements of this chapter or a list of any
deficiencies. The applicant shall then be given the opportunity to correct
these deficiencies prior to the public hearing.
         (b)   The Plat Committee or Commission shall review the applicant's
application for compliance with these regulations. Within ten working days from
the date of the plat review the division may be approved, approved with
conditions or deny the division. However, if the application and plat comply
with these regulations, it shall grant approval.
         (c)   Approval. Once reviewed and approved and the appeal period has
expired, the plat will be signed and stamped "Approved" by the Committee or
Commission designee. Approval of the administrative division of land or
certified survey by the Committee designee does not record the parcel of land.
         (d)   Appeals. Within ten days after the Committee's approval of an
application, the interested parties shall be notified in the manner set forth
in sections 706(2) and 706(3) of IC 36-7-4, of their right to appeal the
Committee's decision. In order to appeal a decision of the Committee, the
applicant or appellant must file a notice of appeal with the Planning
Department within ten days of receipt of the notice. The appeal of a decision
of the Committee may be taken only to the Commission. Upon the filing of a
notice of appeal, the applicant's application for approval shall be subject to
the procedures of primary plat approval, described below in division (A)(3)(a)
of this section.
         (e)   Primary plat approval for minor divisions of land do not require
a public hearing process unless an appeal is filed in accordance with division
(A)(2)(d) above. A secondary plat may be submitted to the Commission designee
to sign and stamp for approval and recordation following an approved primary
plat.
      (3)   Major division of land review procedure. For divisions that meet
the definition of a major division of land, the division shall obtain approval
for the following three review steps prior to being recorded and developed. The
following shall govern:
         (a)   Primary plat.
            1.   All major subdivisions shall obtain primary plat approval as
described in §
151.18  from the Commission at a public hearing as required in this chapter.
            2.   Any proposed changes to an approved primary plat shall be
submitted to and reviewed by the Plat Committee designee to determine if these
changes are major or minor in scope. Major changes will require a new public
hearing as identified in this chapter.
         (b)   Improvement plan. For divisions requiring public improvements,
an improvement plan must be submitted to the Committee designee for review
prior to any construction on the site.
            1.   The improvement plan must conform to the approved primary
plat. Any changes to the approved primary plat shall be reviewed by the
Committee designee to determine if the changes are major or minor in scope.
Minor changes shall include slight movement of streets, reconfiguration of
lots, renumbering of lots, increasing or reducing lot sizes or similar changes.
Major changes can include increases in the number of lots or removal of street
connections. Any changes considered to be major in scope shall require a new
public hearing by the applicant as described in this chapter.
            2.   The applicant may submit an improvement plan application to
the Commission designee after primary plat approval has been received. Upon
receipt of a complete application, the Commission designee shall distribute the
required copies of the improvement plan to the members of the Plat Committee
for review. The Technical Review Committee and Commission designee shall have
30 days from date of receipt of the completed application to review the plan
and act unless the applicant waives the time limitation, in writing.
            3.   If the improvement plan complies with requirements within this
chapter and the Zoning Ordinance, then the plan shall be approved by the
Commission designee. If the plan is not in compliance with the requirements of
this order and the Zoning Ordinance, the plan cannot be approved until it is
made to be compliant.
            4.   If the plat is approved with or without conditions, then the
applicant may proceed with construction. If the submitted improvement plan is
not approved, then the property owner, developer, or applicant may resubmit a
new application or may appeal the decision before the full Plan Commission at
its next available meeting.
            5.   Any changes made to the improvement plan shall be submitted to
and reviewed by the Plat Committee designee to determine if the changes are
major or minor. Major changes will require the developer to reapply under the
improvement plan procedure identified in this section. Minor changes shall be
submitted as an as-built plan.
         (c)   Secondary plat. The secondary plat shall conform to the approved
improvement plan, and if desired by the applicant, it may constitute only that
portion of the approved improvement plan which the applicant proposes to record
and develop at the time. However, any section, phase or part shall conform to
all requirements of these regulations.
            1.   Before any property can be recorded through the secondary plat
procedure, all required public improvements must be completed and inspected and
approved or a surety must be in place to guarantee the completion and approval
of the improvements.
            2.   Secondary plat involves the recording of the subdivision.
            3.   Approval, approval with conditions or modifications, or
disapproval shall occur within ten working days from the date of submittal of
the application by the Committee designee.
            4.   Any public improvements as required by this chapter shall be
addressed according to this chapter before the secondary plat can be approved.
If the plat complies with requirements within this chapter and the Zoning
Ordinance, then the plat shall be approved.
            5.   Upon approval by the Commission designee, the secondary plat
will be filed with the Commission and an additional copy shall be forwarded to
the Dearborn County Assessor and the original mylar will be hand carried to the
Dearborn County Auditor's Office. The Auditor's Office will duly enter each
parcel for taxation.
            6.   Approval of the secondary plat by the Plan Commission shall
not constitute the acceptance by the appropriate legislative body of the public
dedication or maintenance of any street or other facility.
            7.   Following installation of improvements and a request for their
acceptance to the legislative unit, a maintenance bond is required to cover any
final improvements still to be completed, as well as to cover the performance
of the improvements for a minimum of two years.
      (4)   Exempt division of land review procedure. For divisions that meet
the definition of an exempt division of land, the following shall govern:
         (a)   All exempt plats shall be entitled as such and shall be recorded
with the Dearborn County Recorder's Office.
         (b)   No exempt subdivision may result in the creation of an
additional, principal use building site.
   (B)   Grading plan. Due to site conditions, the Plan Commission or designee
may find it necessary to submit a grading plan after approval of a primary plat
and before a submittal of an improvement plan.
      (1)   Approval, approval with conditions, or disapproval shall occur
within ten business days from the date of submittal of the completed
application. Once reviewed by the Commission Staff, the Commission designee
shall sign and stamp the approved copies.
      (2)   Following an approved grading plan, submitted in accordance with
this chapter, the subdivider or applicant has one year from the date of the
approved grading plan to begin and to complete the work as stated in the
grading plan or the plan shall become null and void.
   (C)   Condominium property regime plats. Condominiums are regulated by IC
32-25 et seq. This law describes the procedures and process for creating and
recording a condominium.
   (D)   (1)   Approval of any plat by the Plan Commission or designee shall
not constitute the acceptance by the appropriate legislative body of the public
dedication or maintenance of any street or other facility nor shall it be
acceptable by the Dearborn County Recorder for recording purposes.
      (2)   Acceptance of public dedication or maintenance of any street or
other facility. The City Engineer or County Engineer, as the case may be,
shall, upon written request by the owner of the land upon which the street has
been constructed, check the construction, and if the Engineer finds that such
street is in good repair and is constructed according to standards in this
chapter then such finding, endorsed on the approved plat, shall constitute an
acceptance of the street for public use; provided, that such street has been
previously dedicated to the public.
(Ord. 2019-008, passed 5-13-19)
§ 151.17 ADMINISTRATIVE DIVISION OF LAND REQUIREMENTS.
   Administrative divisions of land, or certified surveys, are intended to
graphically represent the information of a boundary survey of property that is
to be subdivided. The plat shall conform to the following requirements, as well
as those set forth in 865 IAC 1-12, commonly known as “Indiana Rule 12":
   (A)   Date, north arrow, and standard engineering scale not less than one
inch equals 200 feet, unless approved by the Commission designee. Plats shall
be at a minimum size of 18" x 24" on mylar drawn in ink. The font size shall be
no less than .08 of an inch, for any text on the survey. The title of each
survey must also be conspicuous on either the top of the page or in the title
block and must contain a clear reference to acknowledge the type of survey that
has been created (e.g., original survey, retracement survey—including whether
the retracement is a combination survey, or consolidation survey);
   (B)   Name, address, telephone number and seal of the Indiana Registered
Land Surveyor responsible for the survey plat and the land surveyor's
certificate (see §
151.03 (A)(1));
   (C)   Boundary of the parcel and subdivision of that parcel, including
bearings and distances of each tangent course, and all necessary data for curve
courses. The traverse that the boundary is depended on shall meet the minimum
standards for Indiana, and if requested by the Commission designee, closure
documentation shall be submitted in addition to the plat;
   (D)   Area in acres of the parent parcel and each subdivision of the parcel.
If a parcel falls in two different townships, sections, or quarter sections,
separate acreages shall be listed;
   (E)   Location, width, and names of public or private road rights-of-way
that adjoin the boundary, and whether the road is maintained or abandoned. For
situations where the rights-of-way are unknown or cannot be readily sourced
through a prior survey or deed, the approximate width of pavement must be
provided along the frontage(s) of the affected property;
   (F)   Encroachments discovered in the course of the survey;
   (G)   Names of adjacent property owners, deed record and page number, and
recorded subdivisions with section or phase number;
      (1)   Instrument numbers may be supplied for any parcels established
after 2000.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, ADJACENT PROPERTY OWNERS shall
include anyone who owns land that is contiguous to a subject property as well
as anyone who owns land that is directly across the road right(s)-of-way—if
property lines are/were projected to the center of the adjacent road right-of-
way.
   (H)   Vicinity map with an accurate scale, at a township level;
   (I)   Statement by the applicant as to whether the transfer will be used, or
is being used, for building or non-building purposes, and label this with bold
letters on the parcel;
   (J)   A description of the size, character, and location—including the
location relative to the surface of the ground—of all monuments, with notations
indicating which were found and which were set;
   (K)   Current zoning of the subject property;
   (L)   The property parcel map number that the new lot is being divided from;
   (M)   Existing structures and distances to the newly established property
lines;
   (N)   (1)   Label and show the boundaries of any cemetery if it exists on
the site—or is situated within 100 feet of the affected property.
      (2)   The following statement shall also be added where cemeteries are
noted: "Cemeteries subject to the requirements set forth in IC 14-21-1 et seq."
   (O)   Label and show the boundaries of any flood zones on the subject
property which have been identified as being within a floodway, 100-year or
500-year floodplain(s), if any exist on the site. The current, applicable flood
panel must also be referenced;
   (P)   Show utility, drainage, and any other known easements (where
applicable) and road frontage;
   (Q)   Variances and/or covenants if applicable;
   (R)   Reference to source of title;
   (S)   Reference to Section, Township, Range and Political Township;
   (T)   Owner's certificate (see §
151.03 (A)(2), (3), or (4)) and certificate for plan commission approval (see §
151.03 (A)(5)), and certificate of the Dearborn County Recorder (see §
151.03 (A)(6)) and auditor (see §
151.03 (A)(9));
   (U)   For subdivisions that involve a connection to public sewer, the
following statement shall appear on the plat: "This land division will be
served with public sewer by the (insert sewer provider name here).”
   (V)   Sight distance statement.
      (1)   For subdivisions that are intended to be developed immediately, a
sight distance study shall be performed. Existing access points should also
have the following notes but may not be required to meet the sight distance
requirements. A waiver can be granted if a documented sight distance study has
been previously performed by the Commission Designee. The location of the
future access point shall be indicated on the plat with the following
statements:
         (a)   "The recording of this plat provides no guarantee that the
designated location for the access point will receive sight distance approval
from the City of Aurora Plan Commission."
         (b)   On ____ Day of __________, 200_ there are _______ feet of sight
distance in the (easterly, westerly, northerly, southerly) direction and
_______ feet of sight distance in the opposite (easterly, westerly, northerly,
southerly) direction measured to meet the minimum sight distance requirements
of the City of Aurora Zoning Ordinance.
      (2)   If the subdivision is not intended to be developed immediately, or
a sight distance study has not been performed, the following statements shall
appear on the plat:
         (a)   1.   “Upon visual inspection, there are approximately ______
feet of sight distance in the (easterly, westerly, northerly, southerly)
direction and approximately _______ feet of sight distance in the opposite
(easterly, westerly, northerly, southerly) direction.”
            2.   If multiple sections of sight distance exist, each section
must be denoted on the plat.
         (b)   “At the time of this plat, a sight distance study has not been
performed. A sight distance study will have to be performed by an Indiana
registered Professional Engineer or Land Surveyor in accordance with the Major
Plot Plan Review process prior to construction of new access points. The
approval of this plat provides no guarantee that this parcel will meet the
minimum sight distance requirements established by the City of Aurora Plan
Commission.”
   (W)   A surveyor's report and legal description of the property;
   (X)   When a parcel adjoins an existing public street, a minimum width of
one half the right-of-way shall be required in the form of an easement and
shown on the plat along the entire lot frontage(s) as detailed in §
151.35 .
   (Y)   The following statement shall also appear on the plat: "This plat
shall be void if not recorded within three months of the survey certification
date, as stipulated in Indiana Rule 12."
(Ord. 2019-008, passed 5-13-19)
§ 151.18 PRIMARY PLAT PROCEDURE AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Intent. The Primary Plat is intended to be a conceptual layout of the
proposed subdivision and not a construction level detail review.
   (B)   Procedure. The following procedure shall be required and govern
primary plat approval.
      (1)   An informal pre-application meeting with the Committee Designee to
review the proposed subdivision development prior to submittal of an
application. The purpose is to allow for an explanation of the subdivision
process and to review the proposed development with the applicant;
      (2)   File a completed application with the Commission which application
will be prescribed by its designee;
      (3)   Within 30 days after receiving a complete application, the
Committee designee shall schedule a public hearing as described in this
section;
      (4)   Prior to the Commission's public hearing on the application, the
Committee designee and the Committee shall review the submitted primary plat
for compliance with these regulations and provide a written report that
indicates compliance with the requirements of this chapter or a list of any
deficiencies. The applicant shall then be given the opportunity to correct
these deficiencies prior to the public hearing.
   (C)   Public hearing process. After scheduling a public hearing as specified
in the previous division (B), the Commission shall provide notification of the
public hearing as follows:
      (1)   (a)   Notice of the hearing shall be given by the Commission or
their designee (postmarked and mailed) at least ten days in advance of the
public hearing to the applicant and the owners of all property adjoining the
property of the proposed subdivision. The applicant proposing the subdivision
shall furnish to the staff the names and addresses of the owners of all
adjoining property. The Dearborn County Assessor's Office may be relied upon to
determine the identity for all adjoining property owners. In the cases where
the subdivision abuts or includes a county line, notice shall be given to
properties at least 660 feet from the county line or property line into the
neighboring county. The notice shall state, at a minimum, the time, place and
purpose of the hearing.
         (b)   Notice of the public hearing shall be published in a newspaper
of general circulation at least ten days prior to the hearing. Said published
notice shall state, at a minimum, the time, place and purpose of the hearing.
      (2)   The Commission shall take the following action on the applicant's
request after the public hearing:
         (a)   If, after the public hearing, the Commission determines that the
application and primary plat comply with the standards in this chapter, the
Commission shall make written findings and a decision granting primary approval
to the primary plat. Reasonable conditions may be imposed to the approval of
the plat that are supported by the requirements of this chapter.
         (b)   If, after the public hearing, the Commission denies the primary
plat, it shall make written findings that set forth its reasons and a decision
denying primary approval and shall provide the applicant with a copy of such
findings.
         (c)   The Commission meeting minutes shall serve as the written
findings of fact in support of its decision on the primary plat. After the
minutes are approved by the Commission, the minutes shall serve as his or her
confirmation of the Commission's official action on the applicant's request. If
the applicant requests written notification of the decision prior to the
adoption of the official minutes of their application, the Planning Commission
or their designee shall upon request by the applicant provide this written
notification.
         (d)   If approved by the Commission, their designee shall stamp and
sign the primary plat according to the final action taken by the Commission and
provide a copy to the applicant.
      (3)   The Plan Commission's approval of a primary plat shall not
constitute approval of improvement plan or secondary plat unless otherwise
stated within this chapter.
   (D)   The primary plat shall meet the minimum acceptable design standards
and the general applicable regulations for the construction of public
improvements as set forth in this chapter and the City of Aurora Zoning
Ordinance. In addition to the requirements of the preceding sentence, the
primary plat shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The proposed subdivision plat shall be drawn to a scale of not less
than one inch equals 100 feet unless the Commission designee approves another
scale. The submitted drawing shall be on a 24" x 36" paper size. A graphic or
written scale shall be noted on the plat along with the date of the plat and
north arrow. All multiple sheet plans shall be stapled together to form plan
sets.
      (2)   The proposed subdivision name, the names and addresses of the owner
and developer, and the name, address, and seal of an Indiana Professional
Engineer, or Registered Land Surveyor responsible for designing the plat. In no
case shall the name of a proposed subdivision duplicate or be similar to an
existing subdivision in the City of Aurora unless it is an extension or
expansion of an existing subdivision unless approved by the Commission
designee;
      (3)   A vicinity map showing the proposed location of the subdivision by
township and section and in relation to major or minor roads in the area. The
vicinity map shall have an approximate scale;
      (4)   All proposed uses including the type of housing (e.g. single-family
attached or detached, townhouses, duplexes, etc.) or other uses in the
subdivision and any public dedication or reservation of land;
      (5)   Label all open space and common areas;
      (6)   Acreage of land to be subdivided, the total number of lots, and if
applicable, the approximate number of acres of open space or other public uses;
      (7)   Existing contours with intervals of not more than ten feet to
reflect the current topography of the proposed subdivision with elevations
based on mean sea level (U.S.G.S. Datum). Also, the current elevations on
adjoining streets or roads shall be required to determine proper access
management;
      (8)   If any type of fence, brick wall, or earthen berm is being proposed
to screen the proposed subdivision from a street or adjoining land use, it
shall be noted on the primary plat. Details such as height and type of screen
shall be indicated on the primary plat. Identify all landscaped areas within a
public street right-of-way along with maintenance of such features. If
landscaped islands are proposed, drainage facilities are required;
      (9)   Boundary lines of the land to be subdivided shall be shown in heavy
solid lines, including lengths and bearings. The following existing features
within 100 feet of the proposed subdivision boundary shall be indicated, as
referenced either from scaled aerial photography or orthophotography, or as
referenced from field observations: all existing buildings, cemeteries,
historical landmarks or features, water courses, railroads, bridges, all
private/public utility facilities and easements. In addition, the present
zoning classification, both on the land to be subdivided and on the adjoining
land, and the names of adjoining property owners and adjacent subdivisions
within 100 feet of the subdivision boundary. If the proposed subdivision is an
additional section of an existing subdivision, the plat shall show the
numbering of all adjoining sections and lots;
      (10)   Information pertaining to proposed and existing public/private
utility layouts (e.g., storm and sanitary sewer, water, gas, telephone,
electric, cable, etc.) based upon existing service lines. If applicable, the
location of all detention/retention structures. The primary utility layout for
the subdivision shall define the location and direction of flow of each
stormwater and sanitary sewer, and the location of each water line. Telephone,
electrical, and cable service should be noted as being installed underground or
overhead;
      (11)   A letter from all utility providers indicating the availability of
service for the proposed subdivision;
      (12)   Names, locations, widths, lengths, grades and curves of proposed
streets pursuant to street design herein. The applicant shall state whether the
proposed streets will be public or private. Also, any existing easements shall
be shown along with other open spaces or reservation of land. Lots shall be
numbered and the lot sizes (in acres) shall be noted on the plat. The minimum
building lines shall be denoted on the plat. In no case shall the name of a
proposed street duplicate or be similar to an existing street in the city
unless it is an extension or expansion of existing street;
      (13)   Approximate boundaries of 100-year flood plain using the flood
insurance rate maps and floodway maps for Dearborn County. Properties located
within the floodplain shall provide written documentation from the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources regarding the Flood Protection Grade and the
location of the floodway (see Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances). The plat
shall show all flood-prone areas and a sketch map using the current U.S.
Geological Survey data to demonstrate the drainage basins upstream and
downstream from the development;
      (14)   Reference to the existing soil types of the site or proposed
subdivision. The location and identification of soil types can be found in the
Soil Survey of Dearborn and Ohio Counties, Indiana produced by the USDA. If
other data is used it shall be certified by a professional engineer licensed in
Indiana. The soil types shall be listed on the primary plat in order to
determine any potential environmental impact as a result of building or public
improvement construction on each soil type;
      (15)   The phasing proposed and estimated time needed to reach build-out
of the subdivision.
   (E)   Expiration of Primary Plat. The approval of the primary plat shall be
in effect for two years from the date of the Commission's approval unless an
improvement plan for at least one section of the subdivision is submitted for
review and approval. As each section of a subdivision is approved and
developed, the approval of the primary plat will be extended for a two-year
period beyond each approved section. A one year extension of the approval of a
primary plat is possible through an application to the Planning Commission or
its designee.
(Ord. 2019-008, passed 5-13-19)
§ 151.19 SECTIONALIZING (PHASING) MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   During the primary plat review of a major subdivision, a subdivider
may present a phasing or sectionalizing plan. If a phasing plan is submitted,
the build-out of the subdivision must be identified on the primary plat drawing
and accompanying materials. As a part of this process, the Plan Commission can
require that certain improvements be completed within or by a certain phase of
the subdivision's development. For example, road termini, utility improvements,
or neighborhood or community amenities may be required within the early phases
of the subdivision.
   (B)   Additional financial guarantee may be required for subdivisions
developed in phases to ensure that public improvements are connected as shown
in the approved primary plat or financial guarantee may be required to remain
in place until all sections of the subdivision are completed. For example,
prior to the development of a new phase or section, a maintenance guarantee may
be required to ensure the satisfactory condition of the required improvements
from earlier sections of the affected subdivision—or adjacent development.
Financial guarantees must also be consolidated if different phases or sections
are owned or controlled by the same subdivider.
(Ord. 2019-008, passed 5-13-19)
§ 151.20 IMPROVEMENT PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The improvement plan shall provide the minimum acceptable design and
improvement standards which will be required by the Commission as a
precondition to development or in conjunction with development for lots,
streets, utilities, and other physical elements in the subdivision. Based upon
the information and design plans of the subdivision, the Commission designee
may request additional information on any of the following requirements in
order to clarify design issues. The improvement plan shall be designed by an
Indiana Registered Professional Engineer or Surveyor and installed in accord
with these and other applicable regulations, and shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The proposed name of the subdivision or development as approved in
the primary plat. In no case shall the name of a proposed subdivision duplicate
or be similar to an existing subdivision in Dearborn County unless it is an
extension or expansion of an existing subdivision;
      (2)   Names and addresses of owner or developer of the subdivision and
the Indiana Registered Professional Engineer or Surveyor responsible for the
design of all improvements. The improvement plan shall be certified with the
seal of the engineer or surveyor;
      (3)   The plan shall be to a scale of one inch equals 50 feet unless the
Commission designee approves another scale and the submitted drawing shall be
on a 24" x 36" paper size. On large lots, this scale may be used to show just
the graded portion of the lots, and improvements. A graphic or a written scale
shall be on each sheet of the plan. All multiple sheet plans shall be stapled
together and numbered to form plan sets;
      (4)   A vicinity map showing the proposed location of the subdivision by
township and section and in relation to major or minor roads in the area. The
vicinity map shall have an approximate scale. In addition, if the subdivision
is done in sections, a reduction of the overall subdivision plan shall be
provided on the cover sheet that graphically indicates the area under review;
      (5)   The date shall be on the cover or first sheet of the improvement
plan, and a north arrow shall be on all sheets of the improvement plan;
      (6)   The boundary of the subdivision or section of subdivision under
review shall be indicated by a heavy, solid line on one sheet of the
improvement plan at a standard scale to show the location of the section under
review with other sections of the subdivision. All subdivision boundary lines
shall be labeled with the bearing and distance;
      (7)   The location and name of all existing and recorded streets, right-
of-way and roadway widths, railroads, public and private utility rights-of-way
or easements (including drainage easements); public parks and open spaces;
buildings (labeled as "to remain" or "to be removed"); township, city, town,
county and state boundary lines; cemeteries and other historical landmarks or
features. Drainage easements not planned to be piped shall be labeled "surface
drainage easement";
      (8)   Sight distances in both directions for any proposed road that
intersects with an existing street shall meet the minimum sight distance
requirements found in the City of Aurora Zoning Ordinance. The sight distances
shall also be denoted on the plat along with the speed limits of the roads to
be intersected.
      (9)   Location and sizes of all existing utility facilities (public and
private) within or adjacent to the subdivision or development area. Location
and width of all public or private sidewalks, including ownership and
maintenance of private sidewalks and pathway systems;
      (10)   Location and identification of all existing zoning districts
within, or adjoining, the subdivision or project area. If used for residential
purposes, the type of housing shall be stated on the improvement plan;
      (11)   Existing contours with intervals of not more than ten feet shall
be clearly marked with elevations based on mean sea level (U.S.G.S. Datum) and
the location and description of the benchmark used. All subdivisions larger
than 50 total lots will be required to tie into the State Plane Coordinate
System;
      (12)   Proposed finished contours with intervals of not more than five
feet, shall be clearly labeled and be related to the existing contours. Maximum
grade for any excavated (cut or fill) slopes shall be 2.5:1 (2.5 feet
horizontal for each one foot vertical), and the design slope shall be labeled
on the plan. Excavated slopes may be steeper upon report by a geotechnical
engineer approved by the Planning Department. Disturbed limits shall be clearly
identified on the submitted plan and in the field;
      (13)   Location, right-of-way and pavement width, name of all proposed
streets and other public utility rights-of-way or easements. Show striping of
street lanes on roads with more than two lanes. Also, show location of
streetlights and submit detail of a typical light fixture. A typical detail
drawing that depicts the classification of the proposed street shall be shown
on the improvement plan. Where divided entrances are proposed, detail plans may
be required when appropriate. Proposed street names shall not duplicate or too
closely approximate phonetically, the name of any other street in the city.
Street stations and PVIs shall be labeled on the centerline of proposed streets
and correspond to profiles of said street;
      (14)   The location and lot number of all lots with the distances shown
on each lot line. Arrows showing the water flow off the lot will indicate the
proposed drainage of individual lots;
      (15)   Profile of each proposed street with finish grades (including
adequate extensions, where necessary, beyond the proposed subdivision,
development or section) including all existing and proposed underground public
utility crossings with catch basins, junction boxes, manholes and existing
private utility crossings including gas, electricity, and telephone. Horizontal
scale shall be the same as the plan scale and vertical scale not less than one
inch equals ten feet unless approved by the staff. Stationing shall be labeled
and correspond to the plan view;
      (16)   Location of proposed sanitary, storm water, and water resource
systems, including all facilities relating thereto such as manholes, pump
stations, sewerage plants, catch basins, junction boxes, headwalls, water
valves and fire hydrants. Detention/retention areas or ponds shall be clearly
identified with the maximum volume capacities labeled. Detailed drawings of all
overflow facilities shall be shown. All stormwater and sanitary sewer
facilities (catch basins, junction boxes, headwalls and manholes) shall be
numbered and correspond to those facilities on profiles as described in
division (18) below. Connection to existing facilities shall be shown and
labeled. Responsibility of maintenance of any detention/retention areas shall
be noted on the improvement plan;
      (17)   Location and identification of any drainage facility (i.e., man-
made dams) or natural feature (i.e., lake or pond) on the site or within 100
feet of the subdivision or development boundary which has, or could have, a
significant impact on drainage or siltation control;
      (18)   Profiles of all proposed stormwater and sanitary sewer pipelines
and facilities including percent grade, pipe diameters, pipe lengths, and
invert elevations. Profiles shall also show all existing and proposed public
utility (water, storm and sanitary sewer) crossings, and all existing private
utility (gas, electric, and telephone) crossings. The facilities (catch basins,
junction boxes, headwalls and manholes) shall be numbered and correspond to
those facilities as described in division (16) above. The design velocity of
stormwater flow shall be shown at the headwall and the re-entrance into the
natural stream. Detail drawings of all detention/retention overflow and
controlling facilities including valves shall be shown. Connections to existing
pipelines or facilities shall be shown and labeled;
      (19)   Design calculations for all drainage facilities including
detention/retention basins, sediment basins, stormwater pipelines and drainage
channels. All calculations must be approved by an Indiana Register Professional
Engineer or Surveyor;
      (20)   If a grading plan of the proposed subdivision or section thereof
was approved under this chapter, then a copy of that approved plan shall be
submitted with the proposed improvement plan;
      (21)   Names of adjacent property owners and recorded subdivisions with
section or phase number within 100 feet of the site under review;
      (22)   Reference to the type of street and a typical cross-section detail
as noted in the current city street specifications;
      (23)   The minimum building setback lines as stated in the current Zoning
Ordinance shall be noted either graphically and in written form;
      (24)   Indicate lots in the proposed subdivision or development that are
intended to be dedicated or temporarily reserved for public use, or to be
reserved by deed covenant for use of all property owners in the subdivision,
and the conditions, if any, of such dedication or reservation. The applicant
shall provide information regarding any dedication of public lands, restrictive
covenants on non-development areas, or conservation easements;
      (25)   The location of all erosion and sediment control facilities shall
be shown on the plan, with detail drawings of each type of facility being used.
The detailed soil erosion techniques or features may be referenced on the plan
in accordance with the Indiana Department of Natural Resources Rule 5 Permit
for Erosion Control. All excavated slopes (4:1 or steeper) shall be seeded and
mulched immediately upon completion of grading of that particular slope, and
rights-of-way shall be seeded and mulched within 120 days of the Planning
Department's secondary plat approval of that section;
      (26)   A draft copy of any homeowners association agreement document
which deals with the future maintenance of sidewalks, streets, open areas,
recreational lands, street lighting, private utilities, and other items. At a
minimum, the homeowners agreement document should include membership names, fee
or dues structure, estimated cost for future maintenance items, a detailed list
of maintenance items, a budget description and a description of ownership
boundaries;
      (27)   Additional documentation or information such as geotechnical
studies may be required by the Planning Department if an applicant is proposing
to make improvements on property located on steep slopes of 25% or greater or
that have types of soils and geologic formations, which severely limit
development;
      (28)   A copy of written approval shall be provided for all public
utility improvements to be provided. The letter should not only indicate that
the service is available but that the applicant has permission to extend or tap
into the service. A copy of any required IDEM approval for any sanitary sewer
service shall also be provided. Developments requiring access onto a state
highway shall be required to provide a copy of any required INDOT permit; and
      (29)   Any applicable floodway or flood plain information as determined
in Section 216, Item 13; 31. A Phase I Environmental Site Assessment prepared
by a certified environmental consultant licensed in the State of Indiana, in
accordance with ASTME 1527-00 for any subdivision proposed for a commercial
use. Any subdivision may be subject to this requirement, at the request of the
Plat Committee, if the site contains a potential environmental risk.
   (B)   Expiration. The improvement plan shall become null and void after two
years from the date of approval, unless a substantial amount of construction of
significant improvements in the subdivision are made (as determined by the
Planning Commission or their designee) and include the following: utility
installation, road construction, or extensive excavation. In addition,
acceptance of a financial guaranty will extend the approval period for the
length of the guaranty. A one year extension of approval for an improvement
plan can be issued by the Planning Commission or their designee. Any deviation
from or changes made to the approved improvement plan shall be submitted to the
Commission designee for review and approval by the Plat Committee of the Plan
Commission. In the event that any person holding an approved improvement plan
permit pursuant to this chapter violates the terms of the permit or implements
site development in such a manner as to materially adversely affect the health,
welfare, or safety of persons residing or working in the neighborhood or
development site so as to be materially detrimental to the public welfare or
injurious to property or improvements in the neighborhood, the Building
Commissioner or Planning Commission, or their respective designees, may suspend
or revoke a site development permit. The Commission designee shall stamp and
distribute the approved copies of the improvement plan to the appropriate
organizations.
(Ord. 2019-008, passed 5-13-19)
§ 151.21 SECONDARY PLAT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The secondary plat shall conform to the requirements listed below, as
well as those set forth in 865 IAC 1-12, commonly known as “Indiana Rule 12":
      (1)   The proposed name of the subdivision or development, as established
by the improvement plan. Also, names of adjacent property owners and recorded
subdivisions with section or phase number. All secondary plats shall be drawn
on a 24" x 36" inch fixed line mylar. The font size shall be no less than .08
of an inch, for any text on the survey;
      (2)   A vicinity map showing the proposed location of the subdivision by
township and section and in relation to major or minor roads in the area. The
vicinity map shall have an approximate scale. In addition, if the subdivision
is done in sections a reduction of the overall subdivision plan shall be
provided on the cover sheet that graphically indicates the area of the
subdivision to be recorded;
      (3)   Any information required by the Dearborn County Recorder's Office;
      (4)   Name(s) and address(es) of the owner or developer of the
subdivision and the Indiana Registered Land Surveyor or surveying firm
responsible for survey and lot design of the subdivision;
      (5)   Date, north arrow, and graphic or written scale. The scale shall
not be less than one inch equals 50 feet except subdivision or developments
with lots having a minimum area of two acres which shall not be less than one
inch equals 100 feet;
      (6)   Names of adjacent property owners, deed record and page number, and
recorded subdivisions with section or phase number;
         (a)   Instrument numbers may be supplied for any parcels established
after 2000.
         (b)   For the purposes of this section, ADJACENT PROPERTY OWNERS shall
include anyone who owns land that is contiguous to a subject property as well
as anyone who owns land that is directly across the road rights-of-way—if
property lines are/were projected to the center of the adjacent road rights-of-
way.
      (7)   Boundary of the subdivision or section thereof, with bearings and
distances based on the field traverse that has an accuracy of not less than one
part in 5,000 (1:5,000);
      (8)   The property parcel map numbers that the new lots are being divided
from;
      (9)   Area of the subdivision or section of the subdivision and area of
each lot in acres;
      (10)   Location and right-of-way width and length of all streets and
easements which are to be dedicated or reserved for public or private use;
      (11)   Location, width, and names of public or private road rights-of-way
that adjoin the boundary, and whether the road is maintained or abandoned. For
situations where the rights-of-way are unknown or cannot be readily sourced
through a prior survey or deed, the approximate width of pavement must be
provided along the frontage(s) of the affected property;
      (12)   Centerline curve data for the right-of-way of the streets and
easements with the data to include: central angle and radius, arc length, long
chord and tangent distances;
      (13)   Numbered, lots whose boundaries are described by bearing and
distance for each tangent course, and proper curve data (as given above) for
curve courses. Side lot lines that are not radial with curved street
centerlines shall have a reference tie to the tangent line of that centerline
curve. Also, if any lots were subject to a certified survey, those lots shall
be noted with dashed lines and referenced;
      (14)   Description of all monumentation, including notation as whether
were found or set, and the type of monument used;
      (15)   Location of areas to be dedicated for public use and with the
planned use clearly indicated. Areas intended to be reserved for common use but
not dedicated to public use shall be identified by a lot number and treated as
a private lot. A statement shall appear on the secondary plat that clearly
describes the ownership and maintenance responsibilities for any public or non-
public common areas;
      (16)   The following statement shall appear on the secondary plat unless
noted in the form of a deed restriction by the developer of a subdivision:
"Current applicable zoning regulations or districts will determine building
setbacks."
      (17)   Certificate and seal of the Indiana Registered Land Surveyor, who
is responsible for the survey that the plat represents;
      (18)   A signed and notarized certificate of the owner(s) indicating
adoption of the plat and dedication of the streets, easements, and any other
public areas. This certificate shall be signed prior to the plat being signed
by the Commission designee;
      (19)   Reference to the current deed book(s) and page number(s) as to the
transfer to the current owner(s) of all property that is a part of the
subdivision or section thereof. If the reference is of more than one tract, the
tract lines shall be shown on the plat;
      (20)   Certificate of approval of the Planning Commission (see §
151.03 (A)(5));
      (21)   Certificate of approval of the property owner (see § 151.039(A)
(4)), for subdivisions that do not involve public dedications;
      (22)   Certificate of the Dearborn County Recorder (see §
151.03 (A)(6)) and Auditor (see §
151.03 (A)(9));
      (23)   Certificate of dedication for public streets and storm sewer line
(s) (see §
151.03 (A)(2) and (3)), if applicable;
      (24)   A final copy of any homeowners agreement document which deals with
the future maintenance of sidewalks, streets, open areas, recreational lands,
street lighting, private utilities, and other items. At a minimum, the
homeowners agreement document should include membership names fee or dues
structure, estimated cost for future maintenance items, a detailed list of
maintenance items, a budget description and a description of ownership
boundaries;
      (25)   For subdivisions which involve private on-site sanitary sewage
treatment plants, the following statement shall be placed on the secondary
plat:
The sanitary sewer lines and the sewage treated at the _____________ plant will
be owned and operated by _______________. The sanitary sewer lines will be
maintained by ________________ and the sewage treatment plant will be
maintained by _________________. If at any time in the future, a public sewer
district is created or extended that can take over ownership and maintenance of
the treatment plant, ____________________ owners of said plant, will relinquish
control at the public sewer utility's discretion.
      (26)   Label and show the boundaries of any cemetery if it exists on the
site or is situated within 100 feet of the affected property. The following
statement shall also be added where cemeteries are noted: "Cemeteries subject
to the requirements set forth in IC 14-21-1 et seq."
      (27)   Label and show the boundaries of any flood zones on the subject
property which have been identified as being within a floodway, 100-year or
500-year floodplain(s), if any exist on the site. The current, applicable flood
panel must also be referenced;
      (28)   The following statement shall also appear on the plat: "This plat
shall be void if not recorded within three months of the survey certification
date, as stipulated in Indiana Rule 12."
(Ord. 2019-008, passed 5-13-19)
§ 151.22 GRADING PLAN.
   (A)   Procedure. Following an approved primary plat, and when necessary
because of time limitations, unique soil conditions or weather conditions, an
approved grading plan may permit the subdivider or applicant to begin and
complete grading work. The grading plan will not include final engineered
drawings for streets, water lines, and sanitary sewer lines.
   (B)   Approval. Within ten business days from the date of submittal of the
completed application, a decision shall be made in the form of an approval,
approval with conditions, or disapproval. The Planning Commission designee
shall sign and stamp the approved copies.
   (C)   Requirements. Upon the approval of the primary plat the developer of a
proposed subdivision or property owner may submit a grading plan of the
proposed subdivision or section thereof for review by the staff. The grading
plan shall be designed by an Indiana Registered Professional Engineer or
Surveyor and installed in accordance with these and other applicable
regulations, and shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name of the proposed subdivision or development;
      (2)   Name(s) and address(es) of owner or developer of the subdivision
and the Indiana Registered Professional Engineer or Surveyor, responsible for
all of the improvements. The plan shall be certified with the seal of the
Engineer or Surveyor;
      (3)   The plan shall be to a scale of not less than one inch equals 50
feet. On large lots, this scale may be used to show just the graded portion of
the lots and improvements. A graphic or written scale shall be placed on each
sheet of the plan;
      (4)   The date shall be on the cover or first sheet of the plan, and a
north arrow shall be on all sheets of the plan;
      (5)   The boundary of the subdivision or section of subdivision under
review shall be indicated by a heavy, solid line on one sheet of the plan at a
standard scale to show the location of section under review with other sections
of the subdivision. All subdivision boundary lines shall be labeled with the
bearing and distance;
      (6)   Location, right-of-way width, and name of all existing or recorded
streets, railroads, and public and private utility easements (including
drainage easements), public parks and open spaces; buildings (labeled "to
remain" or "to be removed"); incorporation, county and state lines; cemeteries
and other historical landmarks or natural features;
      (7)   Location of all existing utilities (public and private) within or
adjacent to the subdivision or project area;
      (8)   Existing contours with intervals of not more than ten feet shall be
clearly marked with elevations based on mean sea level (U.S.G.S. Datum) and
location and description of benchmark used;
      (9)   Proposed finished contours with intervals of not more than five
feet shall be clearly labeled, and related to existing contours. Maximum grade
for any excavated (cut or fill) slopes shall be 2.5:1 (2.5 feet horizontal for
each one foot vertical), and the design slope shall be labeled on the plan.
Excavated slopes may be steeper upon report by a geotechnical engineer approved
by the Commission. Disturbed limits shall be clearly identified on the
submitted plan and in the field;
      (10)   Provide a copy of Rule 5 Permit from the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources if applicable and show on the plan the location of erosion
and sediment control facilities with detail drawings of each type of facility
being used. The detailed soil erosion techniques or features may be referenced
on the plan in accordance with the Indiana Handbook for Erosion Control in
Developed Areas. All excavated areas and slopes (4:1 or steeper) shall be
seeded and mulched immediately upon completion of grading of that particular
slope, and rights-of-way shall be seeded and mulched immediately after the
grading has been completed if road construction will not start within two weeks
of grading. All seeding and mulching will be as detailed by the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources, Soil Conservation techniques;
      (11)   Additional documentation or information, such as geotechnical
studies, may be required by the Commission if an applicant is proposing to make
improvements on property located near or in areas with slopes, of 20% or
greater, and types of soils and geologic formations, which severely limit
development.
(Ord. 2019-008, passed 5-13-19)
§ 151.23 RETRACEMENT SURVEY REQUIREMENTS.
   Retracement Surveys shall be submitted to the Commission staff for review of
this order (although no fees are associated with the Plan Commission's review
for this type of plat as it is considered exempt) and must conform to the
following requirements, as well as those set forth in 865 IAC 1-12, commonly
known as “Indiana Rule 12":
   (A)   Date, north arrow, and standard engineering scale not less than one
inch equals 200 feet unless approved by the Commission staff. Plats shall be at
a minimum size of 18" x 24" on mylar drawn in ink. The font size shall be no
less than .08 of an inch, for any text on the survey. The title of each survey
must also be conspicuous on either the top of the page or in the title block
and must contain a clear reference to acknowledge the type of survey that has
been created (e.g., original survey, retracement survey—including whether the
retracement is a combination survey, or consolidation survey);
   (B)   Name, address, telephone number and seal of the Indiana Registered
Land Surveyor responsible for the survey plat;
   (C)   Boundary of the parcel, including bearings and distances of each
tangent course, and all necessary data for curve courses. The traverse that the
boundary is depended on shall meet the Indiana minimum standards, and if
requested by the Commission or their designee, closure documentation shall be
submitted in addition to the plat;
   (D)   Area in acres of the parent parcel. If a parcel falls in different
townships, sections, or quarter sections, separate acreages shall be listed;
   (E)   Location, width, and names of public or private road rights-of-way
that adjoin the boundary, and whether the road is maintained or abandoned. For
situations where the rights-of-way are unknown or cannot be readily sourced
through a prior survey or deed, the approximate width of pavement must be
provided along the frontage(s) of the affected property;
   (F)   Encroachments discovered in the course of the survey;
   (G)   Names of adjacent property owners, deed record and page number, and
recorded subdivisions with section or phase number.
      (1)   Instrument numbers may be supplied for any parcels established
after 2000.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, ADJACENT PROPERTY OWNERS shall
include anyone who owns land that is contiguous to a subject property as well
as anyone who owns land that is directly across the road right-of-way(s)—if
property lines are/were projected to the center of the adjacent road right-of-
way;
   (H)   Vicinity map with an accurate scale, at a township level;
   (I)   A description of the size, character, and location-including the
location relative to the surface of the ground-of all monuments, with notations
indicating which were found and which were set;
   (J)   The property parcel map number of the affected property;
   (K)   Existing structures and distances to the property lines;
   (L)   Label and show the boundaries of any flood zones on the subject
property which have been identified as being within a floodway, 100-year or
500-year floodplain(s), if any exist on the site. The current, applicable flood
panel must also be referenced;
   (M)   Label and show the boundaries of any cemetery if it exists on the
site-or is situated within 100 feet of the affected property. The following
statement shall also be added where cemeteries are noted: "Cemeteries subject
to the requirements set forth in IC 14-21-1 et seq."
   (N)   Show utility, drainage, and any other known easements (where
applicable) and road frontage;
   (O)   Variances and/or covenants if applicable;
   (P)   Reference to source of title;
   (Q)   Reference to section, township, range and political township;
   (R)   Certificate for Plan Commission approval, certificate of the Dearborn
County Recorder and Auditor;
   (S)   Owner's certificate (see §
151.03 (A)(2), (3), or (4));
   (T)   A surveyor's report and legal description of the property;
   (U)   The following statement shall also appear on the plat: "This plat
shall be void if not recorded within three months of the survey certification
date, as stipulated in Indiana Rule 12."
(Ord. 2019-008, passed 5-13-19)
§ 151.24 VACATION OF PLATS.
   (A)   In a case in which all of the owners in a plat agree regarding a
proposed vacation, the owners may file a written instrument to vacate all or
part of that plat as prescribed in IC 36-7-3-10.
   (B)   In a case in which all of the owners in a plat are not necessarily in
agreement regarding a proposed vacation:
      (1)   One or more owners of land in a plat may file a petition with the
Plan Commission to vacate all or part of the plat pertaining to the land owned
by the petitioner. The petitioner's application must:
         (a)   State the reasons for and the circumstances prompting the
request;
         (b)   Include a survey that meets all of the requirements for a
certified survey, as set forth in this chapter and as prepared by a registered
Indiana Land Surveyor; and
         (c)   Give the names and addresses of every other owner of land in the
plat;
      (2)   Within 30 days after receipt of a petition for a vacation of a
plat, the plan commission staff shall schedule the petition to be heard by the
Plan Commission at a public hearing. The Plan Commission shall follow the same
public hearing procedure(s) to review proposed plat vacations as those
requirements outlined in the review of primary plats. After hearing the
petition, the Plan Commission shall approve or deny the plat vacation request.
      (3)   The Commission may approve the vacation of all or part of a plat
only upon a determination that:
         (a)   Conditions of the platted area have changed so as to defeat the
original purpose of the plat;
         (b)   It is in the public interest to vacate all or part of the plat;
and
         (c)   The value of that part of land in the plat not owned by the
petitioner will not be diminished by the vacation.
      (4)   The Plan Commission may impose reasonable conditions as part of any
approval.
      (5)   The Commission shall furnish a copy of its decision to the County
Recorder for recording.
      (6)   A petitioner or other interested party may appeal the Plan
Commission's approval or disapproval of a plat vacation in the manner
prescribed by IC 36-7-4-1016.
(Ord. 2019-008, passed 5-13-19)
§ 151.25 VACATION OF PUBLIC WAYS OR PLACES.
   (A)   As identified in IC 36-7-3-12, persons who own or are interested in
any lots or parts of lots, and want to vacate all or part of a public way or
public place in or contiguous to those lots or parts of lots, may file a
petition for vacation with the City of Aurora Common Council.
      (1)   The petitioner's application must:
         (a)   State the circumstances of the case;
         (b)   Include a survey that meets all of the requirements for a
certified survey, as set forth in this chapter and as prepared by a registered
Indiana Land Surveyor; and
         (c)   Give the names and addresses of all owners of land that abuts
the property proposed to be vacated.
      (2)   The City of Aurora Common Council shall hold a hearing on a
vacation petition within 30 days after it is received. The Clerk of the city
shall give notice of the petition and of the time and place of the hearing in
the manner prescribed in IC 5-3-1, and by certified mail to each owner of land
that abuts the property proposed to be vacated.
         (a)   The petitioner shall pay the expense of providing the required
notice.
         (b)   The hearing on the petition is subject to IC 5-14-1.5.
         (c)   Any person(s) aggrieved by the proposed vacation may object but
only on the following grounds:
            1.   The vacation would hinder the growth or orderly development of
the unit or neighborhood in which it is located or to which it is contiguous;
            2.   The vacation would make access to the lands of the aggrieved
person by means of public way difficult or inconvenient;
            3.   The vacation would hinder the public's access to a church,
school, or other public building or place;
            4.   The vacation would hinder the use of a public way by the
neighborhood in which it is located or to which it is contiguous.
      (3)   After the hearing on the petition, the Common Council may, by
ordinance, vacate the public way or public place.
      (4)   The clerk of the Council shall furnish a copy of each vacation
ordinance to the County Recorder for recording and to the County Auditor.
   (B)   Within 30 days after the adoption of a vacation ordinance, any
aggrieved person may appeal the ordinance to the circuit court of the county.
The court shall try the matter de novo and may award damages.
(Ord. 2019-008, passed 5-13-19)
§ 151.26 RESUBDIVISION OF PLATS.
   The Planning Commission designee shall determine the appropriate subdivision
procedure for modifying an existing, recorded subdivision plat based on the
following criteria:
   (A)   Any replat of a subdivision that creates the same or less of an impact
to any platted public rights-of-way or that does not increase the density of
buildable lots, shall be permitted through the secondary plat or certified
survey procedure.
   (B)   Any replat that significantly alters the public right-of-way or
increases the number of buildable lots shall be required to follow the minor or
major division review procedure. An improvement plan will be required if the
replat results in construction changes to the subdivision and/or the public
right-of-way.
(Ord. 2019-008, passed 5-13-19)
§ 151.27 DISPOSAL OF EXCAVATED MATERIAL.
   (A)   All surplus or unsuitable excavated material in the subdivision,
including rock or large boulders, shall be disposed of by one of the following
methods as determined by the Commission or its designee.
      (1)   Wasted adjacent to or incorporated in the regular construction
where and as ordered.
      (2)   Disposed of by the subdivider at his or her own responsibility and
expense outside the limits of the right-of-way.
   (B)   Prior to the disposal of the waste materials, the subdivider shall
submit an executed copy of his or her contract or permission statement from the
property owner to the Plat Committee. The contract or permission statement must
recite that waste materials are not the property of the city. Further, it must
expressly state that the city is not a party to that contract or permission
statement and that the subdivider and property owner will hold the city
harmless from any claim that may arise from their contract or permission
statement.
(Ord. 2019-008, passed 5-13-19)
§ 151.28 BORROW OR DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Borrow material shall be free of substance that will form deleterious
deposits, or produce toxic concentrations or combinations that may be harmful
to human, animal, plant or aquatic life, or otherwise impair the designated
uses of the stream or area.
   (B)   The proposed disposal site(s) for excavated material shall be
identified before such material is disposed of within or outside the right-of-
way.
      (1)   (a)   An inspection shall be in accordance with the Federal Manual
for Identifying and Delineating Jurisdictional Wetland.
         (b)   If the subdivider elects to use the site, all required permits
shall be obtained.
      (2)   The subdivider shall develop and construct all mitigation measures
and fulfill all requirements detailed by such permits. Before borrow or
disposal operations are begun, the subdivider shall submit operation plans for
approval by the Plat Committee. Such plans shall include the following:
         (a)   A detailed sketch showing the limits relative to property and
right-of-way lines;
         (b)   The grade of all slopes;
         (c)   An erosion control plan in accordance with the requirements of
237 IAC 15-5;
         (d)   The encasement, finished grading, and seeding procedures; and
         (e)   Archaeological clearance.
      (3)   Notice shall be given in advance of opening borrow areas so that
cross-section elevations and measurements of the ground surface after stripping
may be taken and the borrow material may be tested before being used.
      (4)   Except when a commercial source is utilized, a qualified
archaeologist shall perform a record check and field survey of borrow or
disposal limits to determine if any significant archaeological sites are within
the limits. Results of the record check and survey shall be furnished in
writing prior to the excavation of any material.
         (a)   If any archaeological sites are identified, the archaeologist
shall establish the limits of the site along with a reasonable border. The site
shall not be disturbed unless the archaeological site is cleared by established
procedures and written authorization to enter the site has been issued.
         (b)   Under no circumstances shall an employee of the contractor or
the State of Indiana share in the ownership or profit from the sale of any
archaeological artifacts that may be salvaged.
         (c)   No extension of completion time will be granted due to any
delays in securing approval of a borrow or disposal area.
      (5)   Unless written permission is granted, there shall be no excavation
in a borrow area below the elevation of the adjacent properties within 150 feet
of the nearest right-of-way line of an existing highway, county road, or city
street; the nearest right-of-way line of a proposed highway, county road, or
city street; or adjacent property lines.
         (a)   If the properties adjacent to the borrow area are privately
owned, the setback limit of 150 feet may be lessened if written approval or
permission is granted by the owner of the adjacent property, the excavation is
in accordance with local zoning laws and requirements, and if lessening the
limit is in the best interest of the state. Such minimum distance shall not be
closer than 50 feet to an adjacent property line.
         (b)   All excavated slopes of a borrow area shall not be steeper than
3:1 down to two feet below the ground water elevation. All excavated slopes two
feet below the ground water elevation shall not be steeper than 2:1.
      (6)   Top soil from the borrow or disposal area shall be stockpiled for
use in restoring the disturbed area.
         (a)   A minimum encasement of six inches shall be placed on the 3:1 or
flatter slopes.
         (b)   Final restoration of borrow or waste disposal areas shall
include grading, seeding, or other necessary treatments that will blend the
area into the surrounding landscape.
         (c)   Restored areas within 150 feet of the nearest right-of-way line
shall be well drained.
         (d)   Areas beyond 150 feet shall be drained unless the landowner
desires other treatment of the borrow area.
         (e)   Construction of borrow or disposal areas shall be in accordance
with existing laws, regulations, and ordinances.
         (f)   Under no conditions shall borrow sites detract from the
appearance of the natural topographical features nor increase the potential
hazard to a vehicle that has inadvertently left the highway.
      (7)   If granulated slag, dune sand, or other granular material which is
not suitable for the growth of vegetation is used, such material shall not be
placed within one foot of the required finished surfaces of shoulders and fill
slopes.
         (a)   Additional material required to complete the embankment, such as
sandy loam, sandy clay loam, clay loam, clay, or other materials suitable for
the growth of vegetation and free from clods, debris, and stones, shall be
furnished at the contract price for borrow.
         (b)   Additional fill material may be secured from within the
permanent or temporary right-of-way in lieu of borrow, or borrow either from
vertical or horizontal extensions, or both, beyond the lines and elevations of
roadway and drainage excavation as shown on the contract plans when authorized
in writing. If additional material has been obtained without written approval,
the material will be classified, either as to source or use.
(Ord. 2019-008, passed 5-13-19)
DESIGN PRINCIPALS AND MINIMUM LAYOUT REQUIREMENTS
§ 151.30 COMPLIANCE.
   In laying out a subdivision, the subdivider shall comply with the principles
and requirements set forth in this subchapter.
('74 Code, § 14-9) (Ord. passed 11-25-67) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.31 CONFORMITY WITH MASTER PLAN.
   The subdivision shall conform to the principles, standards and proposals of
the master plan:
   (A)   Whenever a tract to be subdivided embraces any part of an arterial
street, so designed on such plan, such part of such public way shall be platted
by the subdivider in the location and at the width indicated by the plan;
   (B)   Where a proposed park or other recreational area, school or other
public ground shown in such plan is located in whole or in part within the
proposed subdivision, such proposed public ground or park, if not dedicated to
the city, county, board of education or other appropriate agency shall be
reserved for acquisition by the appropriate jurisdiction within a period of two
years by purchase or other means.
('74 Code, § 14-10) (Ord. passed 11-25-67) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.32 PARK, PLAYGROUND AND LIKE AREAS.
   Where held appropriate by the Commission, open spaces, constituting a
reasonable proportion of the gross acreage of the subdivision, suitably located
and of adequate size for parks, playgrounds or other recreational purposes for
local or neighborhood use shall be provided for in the proposed subdivision. If
such spaces are not dedicated to the city or county, as the case may be, they
shall be reserved for the common use of all property owners in the proposed
subdivision by covenant in the deeds.
('74 Code, § 14-11) (Ord. passed 11-25-67) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.33 REGARD FOR NATURAL FEATURES.
   Due regard shall be shown for all natural features, such as tree growth,
watercourses, historic spots or similar conditions.
('74 Code, § 14-12) (Ord. passed 11-25-67) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.34 STREET AND BLOCK LAYOUT.
   (A)   Streets. The street layout of the subdivision shall be in general
conformity with a plan for the most advantageous development of adjoining areas
and the entire neighborhood.
      (1)   Where appropriate to the design, proposed streets shall be
continuous and in alignment with existing, planned or platted streets with
which they are to connect.
      (2)   Proposed streets shall be extended to the boundary lines of the
tract to be subdivided, unless, in the opinion of the Commission, such
extension is not necessary or desirable for the coordination of the layout of
the subdivision with the existing layout or the most advantageous future
development of adjacent tracts. Dead-end streets of reasonable length, not to
exceed 500 feet unless there are not more than 15 lots abutting such street,
will be approved where necessitated by topography or where they are appropriate
for the type or development contemplated.
      (3)   Minor streets shall be so designed that their use by through
traffic shall be discouraged.
      (4)   Proposed streets shall intersect one another as nearly at right
angles as topography and other limiting factors of good design permit, but at
not less than 60° in any case.
      (5)   Wherever there exists adjacent to the tract to be subdivided a
dedicated or platted and recorded half-width street or alley, the other half-
width of such street or alley shall be platted.
      (6)   Alleys shall be platted in all business districts. Alleys will not
be approved in other locations including residence districts, unless required
by unusual topography or other exceptional conditions.
      (7)   Lands abutting primary arterial streets should be platted with the
view of making the lots, if for residential use, desirable for such use by
cushioning the impact of heavy traffic on such trafficways, and with the view,
also, of minimizing interference with traffic on such trafficways as well as
the accident hazard. This may be accomplished in several ways, the choice
depending on the topography and other physical conditions, the character of
existing and contemplated developments and other pertinent factors as in
dicated below and on the "Development Standards".
         (a)   By platting the lots abutting such trafficways at very generous
depth and by providing vehicular access to them by means of either alleys or
service drives in the rear or frontage access roads next to the highway
connected therewith at infrequent intervals.
         (b)   By not fronting the lots on the primary arterial but on a
paralleling minor street at a distance of a generous lot depth not to be less
than 150 feet. Private driveways in this case would, of course, connect with
such minor street.
         (c)   By means of a minor street platted more or less parallel with
the highway, 600 to 1,000 feet distant therefrom, from which loop streets or
dead end streets would extend toward the highway and provide access to the lots
backing upon the highway.
         (d)   Any of the means just described shall be required on all federal
numbered highways and any marginal access streets shall be incorporated as part
of the right-of-way of such highway.
   (B)   Blocks. Blocks shall have sufficient width to provide for two tiers of
lots of appropriate depth, except in the case of an interior street paralleling
an expressway or primary street.
      (1)   The lengths of blocks shall be such as are appropriate for the
locality and the type of development contemplated, but normally shall not
exceed 15,000 feet where the average size of lots does not exceed one acre in
area.
      (2)   In any block over 900 feet in length the Commission may require
that a crosswalk or pedestrian way, not less than 12 feet wide, be provided
near the center and entirely across such block.
      (3)   The number of intersecting streets along arterial streets shall be
held to a minimum. Wherever practicable blocks along such trafficways shall be
not less than 1,000 feet in length.
('74 Code, § 14-13) (Ord. passed 11-25-67) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.35 STREET OR ROAD CLASSIFICATION AND STANDARDS.
   (A)   Road classification. The developer or subdivider shall use the table
below to determine the design requirements and road classification type for
existing or proposed streets. The Planning Director or designee shall determine
the classification of streets where there is a discrepancy or the
classification cannot be determined from the table. In addition, the standards
established by this table may be amended by the Commission if it determines
that it is necessary for reasons of safety, efficiency, maintenance,
anticipated problems or future growth.
      (1)   Arterial system. Arterials are categorized by their linkages to
cities or larger towns and they generally provide interstate or intercounty
service. They are capable of attracting travel over long distances.
      (2)   Collector system. The collector system generally serves intracity
travel as opposed to state and county wide movements. The trips associated with
a collector are predominantly shorter than those associated with arterial
routes. Consequently, lesser design speeds are used and the design standards
are generally less than that of arterial routes. Collector routes provide
service and connections to the arterial system. They are categorized as serving
the more important intracity routes.
      (3)   Local roadways. The local roadway system primarily provides access
to adjacent land and to the wider network. It serves principally shorter trips
and constitutes all roadways not classified as arterials or collector roads. To
further designate this category and the design parameters required a set of
subcategories are defined based on the roadway traffic volumes. In some cases,
as that of a subdivision for example, right-of-way is limited and numerous
driveway cuts are needed. In these instances, a curb and gutter section may be
required.
Street Classification and Requirements
Type of  Average  Min.
Street - Daily    Pavement Min. Shoulder Rights- of- Max. Street Design Speed
Category Traffic  Width    Width*        Way Width** Grade       (mph)
         (ADT)
Type of      Average     Min.     Min.
Street -     Daily       Pavement Shoulder Rights- of- Max. Street Design Speed
Category     Traffic     Width    Width*   Way Width** Grade       (mph)
             (ADT)
Local - I    ADT < 400   20 feet  4 feet   50-60 feet  12%         30
Local - II   400 < ADT   22 feet  4 feet   50-60 feet  11%         40
             <3,000
Local - III  ADT > 3,000 24 feet  4 feet   50-60 feet  10%         45
Collecto r - ADT < 1,000 24 feet  4 feet   60-70 feet  10%         40
I
Collecto r - 1,000 < ADT 24 feet  8 feet   60-70 feet  9%          45
II           < 3,000
Collecto r - ADT > 3,000 24 feet  10 feet  60-70 feet  8%          45
III
Arterial - I ADT < 5,000 24 feet  10 feet  80 feet     6%          45
Arterial -   ADT > 5,000 24 feet  12 feet  80 feet     5.5%        45
II
Notes:
* Minimum shoulder widths will vary depending on the need and size of pavement
section(s).
** Right-of-way widths will vary depending on the need and size of sidewalks,
on-street parking areas, turning lanes, and the presence of utility lines.
The standards established by this table can be amended by the Plan Commission
if determined necessary for safety, efficiency, maintenance, anticipated
problems or future growth as advised by the Planning Department and County
Engineer.
 
   (B)   Public right-of-way width. The minimum width of right-of-way for a
public street shall be as listed in the table above. Additional right-of-way
width shall be required whenever, due to topography or turn lanes, additional
width is necessary to provide adequate earth slopes, accommodate additional
pavement width and afford maintenance. Easements may be provided in lieu of
additional right-of-way dedication for maintenance or construction in locations
where additional right-of-way dedication would be problematic to lot
development.
   (C)   Additional right-of-way. Subdivisions that adjoin existing public
street rights-of-way shall dedicate additional right-of-way according to the
table above if the minimum right-of-way does not exist along the property road
frontage. The entire right-of-way shall be provided where any part of the
subdivision is on both sides of the existing street; and one half of the right-
of-way shall be provided, as measured from the centerline, for subdivisions
that are located only on one side of the existing street.
   (D)   Pavement width. No public street shall be constructed except in
conformance with the minimum pavement widths as listed above in the table
above. (See §
151.01 for Type of Street.)
   (E)   Street grades. Grades of both public and private streets in proposed
subdivisions or developments shall not be greater than as listed in the table
above. The maximum grade may be waived however, upon request of the applicant
to the County Engineer, if, due to topographic conditions, access is prohibited
or requires excessive grading. The County Engineer shall determine whether a
waiver will be granted. To determine the waiver the County Engineer shall
review the slope percent proposed, length of slope, lot access, vertical curve
at landing and drainage to determine if the waiver request can be permitted
safely. The County Engineer shall forward a letter indicating whether to
approve the waiver and any conditions that are necessary for safety to the
Planning Commission.
   (F)   Horizontal curves. Central angles of horizontal curves shall be kept
to a minimum unless there is sufficient radius length to minimize the severity
of the curve. At no time shall the radius of the centerline of a proposed
street be less than 300 feet for collector streets, and 150 feet for local
streets, except at intersections or divided roadways. The tangent distance
between horizontal curves of proposed street centerlines shall not be less than
100 feet for all streets.
   (G)   Vertical curves. Any change in grade of proposed streets shall be
transitioned by a vertical curve. The minimum length for a vertical curve shall
be 15 times the absolute value of the algebraic difference of the grades (in
percent) of the two tangents for collector streets. The minimum length for a
vertical curve shall be ten times the absolute value of the algebraic
difference of the grades (in percent) of the two tangents for sub-collector,
local, cul-de-sac, and court streets.
   (H)   Intersections. The two centerlines of proposed streets at their
intersection shall be as nearly to a right angle as possible and that angle at
no time shall be less than 75 degrees. For residential subdivisions, the radius
of the curve at the intersection of the two right-of-way lines shall not be
less than 25 feet, and for the intersection of the two pavement edges, the
radius curve shall not be less than 25 feet.
      (1)   For industrial and commercial subdivisions, the radius of the curve
at the intersection of the two right-of-way lines shall not be less than 40
feet, and for the intersection of two pavement edges, the radius curve shall
not be less than 45 feet. The Commission may, in certain situations, increase
the minimum radii based upon existing road conditions and traffic patterns.
      (2)   There shall be no greater than four basic street legs at any
proposed intersection unless the intersection is divided. Merging lanes,
deceleration lanes, Y intersections, etc., are considered as being parts of one
street leg or approach.
      (3)   Proposed new intersections along one side of an existing street
shall, wherever practicable, coincide with any existing intersection on the
opposite side of such street. Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than
150 feet shall not be permitted. Where a local street is proposed to intersect
with an arterial street, the alignment of the streets shall be mandatory.
Proposed street intersections with arterials shall be at least 800 feet apart
and at least 800 feet from any existing street intersection(s) along the
arterial. Proposed intersections with existing streets shall not be closer than
175 feet to an intersection of two existing streets as measured from edge of
pavement.
      (4)   Intersections shall be designed with a flat grade wherever
practical. In hilly or rolling areas, at the approach to an intersection a
leveling area shall be provided having not greater than a 2% grade at a
distance of 60 feet for collector or arterial streets and 3% for local streets
as measured from the nearest right-of-way line of the intersecting street.
      (5)   Where any street intersection will involve earth banks or existing
vegetation inside any lot corner that would create a traffic hazard by limiting
visibility, the developer shall cut such ground and/or vegetation (including
trimming trees) in connection with the grading of the public right-of-way to
the extent deemed necessary by the County Engineer to provide an adequate sight
distance.
   (I)   Dead-end streets. A DEAD-END STREET is a street, or a portion of a
street, or a system of streets that is connected to other public streets from
only one point of access. The regulations set forth in this division shall
apply to dead-end streets, portions of streets, or street systems.
      (1)   Dead-end streets or street systems shall not serve more than 30
dwelling units for residential subdivisions unless an acceptable alternative
access is approved by the Plan Commission. An acceptable access alternative may
include, but is not necessarily limited to: connectivity to an existing or
planned open street or street system, wider streets, navigable sidewalks or
medians, stub streets or an emergency access, as set forth later in this
section.
      (2)   A dead-end street or street system shall not be more than 1,200
feet in length. The length of a dead-end street or street system shall be the
cumulative distance measured from the intersection of the centerlines of the
dead-end street and the intersecting public street to the center of the radial
turnaround(s) provided at the terminus of the street or street system. This
1,200-foot length requirement may be waived by the Plan Commission.
      (3)   All turnarounds for dead-end streets must be approved through the
Technical Review Committee and shall generally conform to the standards set
forth in Appendix C. The radius of all turnarounds shall consist of 50 feet of
right-of-way and 40 feet of pavement for residential uses and 60 feet of right-
of-way and 50 feet of pavement for commercial and industrial uses.
('74 Code, § 14-14) (Ord. passed 11-25-67; Am. Ord. 2019-009, passed 5-13-19)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.36 PAVEMENT WIDTHS.
   (A)   The minimum pavement widths, face to face of curb, required to be
installed at the subdivider's expense, shall be as follows:
      (1)   Primary and secondary streets. Primary and secondary arterial
streets shall be as shown by the thoroughfare plan.
      (2)   Minor streets. Minor streets shall be 28 feet, except 24 feet where
all lots are greater than 23,000 square feet in area and curbs and gutters are
not required nor provided.
      (3)   Turning circles; "T" or "Y". The pavement of a turning circle at
the end of a cul-de-sac street shall have a minimum outside diameter of 60
feet. A "T" or "Y" shaped paved space, when approved by the Commission, in
place of a turning circle, shall extend entirely across the width of the street
right-of-way and shall be at least ten feet wide with the flared portion
rounded by minimum radii of 20 feet.
      (4)   Alleys. Alleys shall be the full width of the right-of-way.
   (B)   In the case of a primary or secondary arterial, and in the case of a
minor street requiring pavements wider than 28 feet, the matter of financial
and other arrangements for installing such wider pavements at the time the
subdivider will make the improvement shall be taken up by the subdivider with
the officials having jurisdiction, and an agreement shall be reached before the
final plat is approved.
('74 Code, § 14-15) (Ord. passed 11-25-67)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 151.37 GRADES AND CURVES.
   (A)   Grades. The grades of streets shall be not less than ½ of 1% and shall
not exceed the following:
      (1)   Primary arterial streets designated on the thoroughfare plan, 4%.
      (2)   Secondary arterial streets, 6%.
      (3)   Minor streets and alleys, 12%.
      (4)   Pedestrian ways or crosswalks, 15%, unless steps of an acceptable
design are to be constructed.
   (B)   Curvature - Changes in grade. All changes in street grades above 1%
shall be connected by vertical curves of a minimum length equal to 25 times the
algebraic difference in the rate of grade for arterial streets, and one-half of
this minimum for all other streets.
   (C)   Curvature - Radii. The radii of curvature on the center line shall not
be less than the following:
      (1)   Arterial streets, 500 feet.
      (2)   Minor streets, 100 feet.
('74 Code, § 14-16) (Ord. passed 11-25-67)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 151.38 INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Property line corners. At street and alley intersections property line
corners shall be rounded by an arc, the minimum radius of which shall be 20 and
ten feet respectively. In business districts a chord may be substituted for
such arc.
   (B)   Rounding of street curbs. Street curb intersection shall be rounded by
radii of at least 20 feet.
   (C)   Angles less than 90°. The above minimum radii shall be increased when
the smallest angle of intersection is less than 90°.
   (D)   More than two streets. Intersections of more than two streets at one
point shall be avoided.
('74 Code, § 14-7) (Ord. passed 11-25-67)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 151.39 LOTS.
   (A)   Size, shape and orientation generally. The size, shape and orientation
of lots shall be appropriate for the location of the proposed subdivision and
for the type of development contemplated, and shall conform with the provisions
of the Zoning Code, unless stipulated otherwise, in this chapter.
   (B)   Depth generally. Excessive depth in relation to width shall be
avoided. A proportion of two to one normally shall be considered a maximum.
   (C)   Access. Every lot shall abut on a street.
   (D)   Width generally. Lots for residence purposes shall be at least 50 feet
wide at the building line in order to permit compliance with the side yard
requirements of the Zoning Code.
   (E)   Double frontage. Double frontage lots shall not be platted, except as
provided in §
151.15.
   (F)   Side lot lines. Side lot lines shall be approximately at right angles
to the right-of-way line of the street on which the lot abuts.
   (G)   Width of corner lots. Corner lots for residential use shall be platted
wider than interior lots in order to permit conformance with the setback on the
side street required by the Zoning Code.
   (H)   Minimum size. The minimum lot size shall be as provided in the Zoning
Code.
   (I)   Depth of lots on arterial streets. Residential lots fronting or
abutting on arterial streets should have a minimum depth of 150 feet to permit
buildings to be set back greater than minimum distance from such trafficways.
   (J)   Width or depth of lots on watercourses, etc. Lots abutting upon a
watercourse, drainage way, channel or stream shall be of such additional depth
or width as required to provide an acceptable building site, whose edge shall
be the same as the easement dedicated for such watercourse.
('74 Code, § 14-18) (Ord. passed 11-25-67)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 151.40 EASEMENT.
   (A)   Where alleys are not provided. Where alleys are not provided,
easements for utilities shall be provided. Such easements shall have minimum
widths of 12 feet, and where located along lot lines, one-half the width shall
be taken from each lot. Before determining the location of easements the plan
shall be discussed with utility officials to assure their proper placing for
the installation of such services. At deflection points in these easements, if
overhead utility lines are contemplated, additional easements shall be
established for poleline anchors.
   (B)   Where area is traversed by watercourse, etc. Where a subdivision is
traversed by a watercourse, drainage way, channel or stream there shall be
provided a drainage easement conforming substantially with the line of such
watercourse. It shall include an additional area outside the watercourse,
drainage way, channel or stream of at least 15 feet and shall include both
edges of the flood plain areas as designated by the engineer or as certified by
the subdivider or his engineer. The subdivider shall have the responsibility of
making satisfactory arrangements for the upkeep of such easement.
('74 Code, § 14-19) (Ord. passed 11-25-67)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 151.41 BUILDING SETBACK LINES.
   Building setback lines shall be shown as established by the Zoning Code and
as follows:
   (A)   Along state or federal numbered highways, a minimum distance of 60
feet.
   (B)   In all other cases, the minimum distance required by the Zoning Code,
but in no case less than 25 feet in residential or manufacturing developments.
('74 Code, § 14-20) (Ord. passed 11-25-67)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 151.42 PUBLIC OPEN SPACES.
   (A)   Where sites or locations for parks, schools, playgrounds or other
public uses are located within the subdivision area as shown on the master plan
or deemed to be desirable, the Commission may request their dedication for such
purposes or their reservations for a period of three years following the date
of approval of the final plat. In the event the governmental agency concerned
passes a resolution expressing its intent to acquire the land so reserved, the
reservation period may be extended for an additional one year.
   (B)   Failure to acquire such area by voluntary means within the designated
time, shall waive the requirements of the above paragraph and such area shall
thereafter be free of such reservation for public acquisition.
('74 Code, § 14-21) (Ord. passed 11-25-67)
§ 151.43 MODIFICATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The general principles of design and the minimum requirements for the
laying out of subdivisions may be varied by the Commission in the case of a
subdivision large enough to constitute a more or less self-contained
neighborhood to be developed in accordance with a comprehensive plan
safeguarded by appropriate restrictions, which in the judgement of the
Commission make adequate provision for all essential community requirements;
provided, however, that no modification shall be granted by the Commission
which would conflict with the proposals of the thoroughfare plan, with other
features of the master plan or with the intent and purpose of such general
principles of design and minimum requirements.
   (B)   In the case of a small subdivision of minor importance situated in a
locality where conditions are well defined, the Planning Commission may exempt
the subdivider from complying with some or all of the requirements pertaining
to the preparation of the preliminary plat.
   (C)   A proposed division of a parcel of land along an existing public
street, not involving the opening, widening or extension of any street or road,
and involving no more than four lots after the original tract has been
completely subdivided, may be submitted to the Plan Commission for approval
without plat. If the Commission is satisfied that such proposed division is not
contrary to applicable platting, subdividing or zoning regulations or to the
master plan, it shall, within 30 days after submission, approve such proposed
division and, on presentation of a conveyance of such parcel, shall stamp the
"approved by City Plan Commission, Aurora, Indiana; no plat required" and have
it signed by an official as may be designated by it. In so doing, the
Commission may require the submission of a sketch and such other information as
is pertinent to its determination hereunder.
   (D)   In any particular case where the subdivider can show that, by reason
of exceptional topographic or other physical conditions, strict compliance with
any requirement of this chapter would cause practical difficulty or exceptional
or undue hardship, the Commission may relax such requirement to the extend
deemed just and proper, so as to relieve such difficulty or hardship; provided,
that such relief may be granted without detriment to the public good and
without impairing the intent and purpose of this chapter or the desirable
general development of the neighborhood and the community in accordance with
the master plan and the zoning code. Any modification thus granted shall be
entered in the minutes of the Commission setting forth the reasons which, in
the opinion of the Commission, justified the modification.
('74 Code, § 14-22) (Ord. passed 11-25-67)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 151.55 CONFORMANCE OF FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   The final plat of the subdivision shall conform to the following:
      (1)   All of the improvements required under this chapter shall be
constructed prior to filing with the commission of the final plat for final
approval, in accordance with the specifications and under the supervision of
the officials having jurisdiction; or
      (2)   In lieu of constructing such improvements as referred to in the
above paragraph, the subdivider shall furnish a bond which shall run to the
city or county, as the case shall be, shall be in an amount determined by the
Commission to be sufficient to complete the improvements and installations in
compliance with this chapter and be with surety satisfactory to the Commission.
The Commission shall specify the time for the completion of the improvements
and installations. Any funds received from these bonds shall be used by the
city or county for completion of the improvements and installations for which
they were provided and without prior appropriation.
   (B)   The final plat shall also conform to the standards and requirements as
are set forth in this subchapter.
('74 Code, § 14-23) (Ord. passed 11-25-67)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 151.56 MONUMENTS AND MARKERS.
   (A)   Placement generally. Monuments and markers shall be placed so that the
marked point shall coincide exactly with the intersection of lines to be
marked.
   (B)   Setting of monuments. Monuments shall be set with the top not less
than one inch above nor more than three inches below the finished grade and
shall be placed at all corners and angle points in the boundary of the
subdivision.
   (C)   Setting of markers. Markers shall be set with the top level with the
finished grade and shall be placed:
      (1)   At the beginning and ending of all curves along street property
lines.
      (2)   At all points where lot lines intersect curves, either front or
rear;
      (3)   At all angles in property lines of lots; and
      (4)   At all other lot corners not established by a monument.
(D)   Construction. Monuments shall be of concrete with a minimum diameter of
six inches and a minimum length of three feet and shall be marked on top with a
capper or brass dowel set flush with the top of the monument. Markers shall
consist of iron pipe or iron or steel bars at least three feet long and not
less than 5/8-inch in diameter.
('74 Code, § 14-24) (Ord. passed 11-25-67)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 151.57 STREETS.
   (A)   Grades. Streets and alleys shall be completed to grades shown on
plans, profiles and cross-sections prepared by the subdivider and approved by
the Commission.
   (B)   Dimensions; Materials: The streets and alleys shall be graded,
surfaced and improved to the dimensions required by the cross-sections and the
work shall be performed in the manner prescribed in "Standard Specifications
for Road and Bridge Construction and Maintenance" of the State Highway
Commission. References in the following paragraphs in this section refer to
such standard specifications.
      (1)   In a subdivision proposed to contain lots of 23,000 square feet or
less, the streets shall be surfaced to a minimum width of 35 feet between the
backs of the opposite curbs unless indicated differently in another part of
this chapter and alleys shall be surfaced to their full right-of-way width.
Such street and alley surfaces are to be constructed with plain cement
concrete, eight inches thick, in the case of Class (A) concrete reinforced with
mesh or six inches thick in the case of Class (A) concrete reinforced with mesh
laid on an aggregate base four inches thick; in either case, the sub-base shall
be compacted to 95% to 100% of density; in the case of the use of aggregate
shall be used with either ten inches of No. 53 aggregate of a combination of
six inches of No. 2 aggregate on the bottom layer and four inches of No. 53
aggregate on the top layer, prime of 0.40 gallon MC-70 asphalt per square yard,
two inches bituminous binder, and one inch of bituminous surface; or in the
case of deep strength bituminous concrete, the sub-base shall be compacted to
95% to 100% of density; plus five inches of bituminous stabilized sub-base laid
in multiple layers; two inches of bituminous binder and one inch of bituminous
surface.
      (2)   In a subdivision proposed to contain lots of more than 23,000
square feet, the streets shall be surfaced to a minimum width of 35 feet
between the backs of the opposite curbs unless indicated differently in another
part of this chapter and alleys shall be surfaced to their full right-of-way
width. Such street and alley surfaces are to be constructed with plain cement
concrete, eight inches thick, in the case of Class (A) concrete reinforced with
mesh or six inches thick in the case of Class (A) concrete reinforced with mesh
laid on an aggregate base four inches thick; in either case, the sub-base shall
be compacted to 95% to 100% of density. Ten inches of aggregate shall be used
with either ten inches of No. 53 aggregate or a combination of six inches of
No. 2 aggregate on the bottom layer and four inches of No. 53 aggregate on the
top layer, prime of 0.40 gallon MC-70 asphalt per square yard, two inches
bituminous binder, and one inch of bituminous surface; or in the case of deep
strength bituminous concrete, the sub-base shall be compacted to 95% to 100% of
density; plus five inches of bituminous stabilized sub-base laid in multiple
layers; two inches of bituminous binder and one inch of bituminous surface.
      (3)   Prior to placing street and alley surfaces, adequate subsurface
drainage for the street shall be provided by the subdivider. Subsurface
drainage pipe, when required, shall be coated corrugated pipe or a similar type
approved by the Commission. Upon the completion of the street and alley
improvements, plans and profiles as built shall be filed with the Commission.
      (4)   All specifications for subdivision street materials and
construction shall meet current Indiana State Highway Commission
specifications.
('74 Code, § 14-25) (Ord. passed 11-25-67; Am. Ord. 1979-2, passed 1-22-79)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 151.58 SEWERS.
   (A)   The subdivider shall provide a complete sanitary sewer system, which
shall connect with a sanitary sewer outlet approved by the City Health
Department or City Engineer; except, that when such approved outlet is not
available because the subdivision does not lie within the urban service area,
as designated by the master plan, one of the following methods of sewage
disposal shall be used:
      (1)   A complete sanitary sewer system to convey the sewage to a
treatment plant to be provided by the subdivider in accordance with minimum
requirements of the City and State Health Departments. When a sanitary sewer
system is installed it shall include all laterals and service sewers to the
property line of lots to be served.
      (2)   Private sewage disposal system on individual lots consisting of a
septic tank and tile absorption field or other approved sewage disposal system,
when laid out in accordance with minimum standards of the city and on lots of
at least 23,000 square feet in area, or such greater amount as required by the
Health Department when water is supplied by a central system and at least one
acre in size when water is not so supplied.
   (B)   The plans for the installation of a sanitary sewer system shall be
prepared by the subdivider and approved by the City Engineer and the Council,
and the plans for such system as built shall be filed with the Commission. If
percolation tests are required by the Engineer or Health Officer, they shall be
conducted according to his instructions and at the subdivider's expense.
   (C)   In this and the following section, the phrase "the subdivider shall
provide" shall be interpreted to mean that the subdivider shall install the
facility referred to, or in the case of a private sewage disposal system or an
individual water supply, that the subdivider shall require, as a condition of
the sale of each lot or parcel in the subdivision, that the facilities referred
to in these paragraphs shall be installed by the owner of the lots in
accordance with these regulations.
('74 Code, § 14-26) (Ord. passed 11-25-67)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 151.59 WATER.
   (A)   The subdivider shall provide a complete water main supply system which
shall be connected to a municipal or community water supply approved by the
city; except, that when such municipal or community water supply is not
available because the subdivision is not located within the urban service area
the subdivider shall provide an individual water supply on each lot in the
subdivision in accordance with minimum requirements of the city.
   (B)   The plans for the installation of a water main supply system shall be
prepared by the subdivider and approved by the City Engineer. Upon the
completion of the water supply installation, the plans for such system as built
shall be filed with the Commission.
('74 Code, § 14-27) (Ord. passed 11-25-67)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 151.60 STORM DRAINAGE.
   The subdivider shall provide an adequate storm water sewer system whenever
curbs and gutters are installed and when the evidence available to the
Commission indicates that the natural surface drainage is inadequate. When the
natural surface drainage is deemed adequate, curb and gutter is not installed
and the subdivision lies outside the urban service area, easements shall be
provided for surface drainage.
('74 Code, § 14-28) (Ord. passed 11-25-67)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 151.61 CURBS AND GUTTERS.
   Wherever a proposed subdivision lies adjacent to or between other
subdivisions which have been provided with curbs and gutters, or wherever the
proposed subdivision will have lots 23,000 square feet or less in area, the
Commission shall require curbs and gutters to be installed on each side of the
street surface. The curbs shall be roll curbs one foot in height in the back
and eighteen inches on the bottom. All of said curbs and gutters shall be in
keeping with the State Highway Commission standards and specifications and
shall be constructed and poured with cement concrete and shall be built
separate from the street.
('74 Code, § 14-29) (Ord. passed 11-25-67; Am. Ord. 1979-2, passed 1-22-79)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 151.62 SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Wherever a proposed subdivision lies adjacent to or between other
subdivisions which have been provided with sidewalks, the Commission shall
require connecting sidewalks on both sides of the streets which are extensions
of existing streets having such sidewalks. Sidewalks on each side of a street
within a subdivision shall also be required where the lots are 23,000 square
feet or less in area.
   (B)   When sidewalks are provided they shall be constructed of Portland
cement concrete at least four inches thick and four feet wide. In residential
subdivisions sidewalks shall be at least five feet from the curb or edge of
pavement.
('74 Code, § 14-30) (Ord. passed 11-25-67)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 151.63 STREET SIGNS.
   The subdivider shall provide standard city street signs at each street
intersection as shown on the final plat, together with the proper number
indicated on the sign according to the established house numbering system of
the city. The signs shall be placed between the inside, intersecting lines of
the sidewalks and the curb line of the intersection, or as near the right-of-
way line as possible on streets without sidewalks and shall be in the southeast
quadrant of the intersection. The signs shall be placed on posts not less than
ten feet long and seven feet above finished ground level. The post shall be not
less than two inches inside diameter, galvanized steel or as otherwise stated
by Council. Each sign post shall be set in an underground foundation not less
than 36 inches in depth with a diameter of not less than four inches greater
than the diameter of the post and shall be constructed of Portland cement.
('74 Code, § 14-31) (Ord. passed 11-25-67)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 151.64 STREET TREES.
   The subdivider shall provide street trees selected from a list of trees
recommended by the County Agricultural Agent. Such trees shall be located on
both sides of each street at intervals of from 40 to 60 feet. The position of
such trees in the street right-of-way shall be determined by the Commission.
('74 Code, § 14-32) (Ord. passed 11-25-67)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 151.65 UNPAVED AREAS WITHIN DEDICATED STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   All unpaved areas within a dedicated street right-of-way shall be graded and
seeded or sodded in accordance with city standard design and specifications.
('74 Code, § 14-33) (Ord. passed 11-25-67)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 151.66 CONSTRUCTION PLANS.
   Construction plans, including the following, for improvements to be
installed, shall be furnished in accordance with the specifications of the City
Engineer or County Engineer, as the case may be, and shall receive approval of
these officials before Improvements are installed:
   (A)   The profile of each proposed street, with tentative grades indicated.
   (B)   The cross-section of each proposed street, showing the width of
pavement, the location and width of sidewalks and the location and size of
utility mains.
   (C)   The plans and profiles of proposed sanitary sewers and stormwater
sewers, with grades and sizes indicated, or method of sewage or stormwater
disposal in lieu of sewers.
   (D)   A plan of the proposed water distribution system, showing pipe sizes
and the location of valves and fire hydrants.
('74 Code, § 14-34) (Ord. passed 11-25-67)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 151.67 INSPECTION.
   The Engineer shall be notified 48 hours in advance of the starting date of
any work on the proposed improvements by the subdivider. He shall be furnished
with a list of the sources of materials used on the job so that there will be
ample time to check the same. All material delivered to the job shall be
subject to inspection at the source or site and may be rejected at either
location. Final acceptance of the work rests with the Engineer and the
performance bond shall be retained in full effect until the acceptance of the
work is made official. All inspection of materials and work shall be made at
the expense of the owner or subdivider.
('74 Code, § 14-35) (Ord. passed 11-25-67)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 151.68 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Where the Commission finds that extraordinary hardships may result
from strict compliance with the provisions of this subchapter, it may vary the
requirements; provided, that such variations will not have the effect of
nullifying the intent and purpose of the master plan and the regulations of
this chapter.
   (B)   In granting variances and modifications, the Plan Commission may
require such conditions as will, in its judgment, secure substantially the
objectives of the standards or requirements so varied or modified.
('74 Code, § 14-36) (Ord. passed 11-25-67)
CHAPTER 152: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Title
   
152.002   Purpose and scope
   
152.003   Interpretation of standards
   
152.004   Definitions
   
152.005   Dwelling on any lot of record
   
152.006   Public sanitary facilities not available
Districts and Boundaries
   
152.015   Division of city into districts
   
152.016   Districts and boundaries established on zoning map
   
152.017   Interpretation of district boundaries
   
152.018   Division of lot; extension of district
   
152.019   Vacated street or alley
   
152.020   Annexations; property not included
General Use Regulations
   
152.030   Conformance required
   
152.031   Additional permitted and prohibited uses; Board determination
   
152.032   Rear dwellings in R District
   
152.033   Accessory buildings in R District
   
152.034   Yard requirements along zoning boundary line in less restricted
district
   
152.035   Compliance with performance standards
   
152.036   Street frontage required
   
152.037   Required area or space cannot be reduced
   
152.038   Off-street parking and loading
   
152.039   Unsafe buildings
   
152.040   Pending applications for building permits
   
152.041   Outside storage
Nonconforming Uses
   
152.050   Continuation of existing nonconforming uses
   
152.051   Enlargement, substitution and the like of nonconforming uses
   
152.052   Nonconforming use made to conform
   
152.053   Discontinuance; use ceased
   
152.054   Performance standards
   
152.055   Replacing damaged buildings
   
152.056   Repairs and alterations; adding dwelling units
   
152.057   Street-level and first-floor residences in B-2 District
District Regulations
   
152.070   Agricultural District
   
152.071   R-1 One-Family Residence District
   
152.072   R-2 One- and Two-Family Residence District
   
152.073   R-3 Multi-Family Residence District
   
152.074   B-1 Neighborhood Business District
   
152.075   B-2 Community Business District
   
152.076   B-3 Community Business and Retail Shopping District
   
152.077   M General Manufacturing District
Performance Standards
   
152.090   Certain conditions adversely affecting adjoining premises or
surrounding area prohibited
   
152.091   Existing uses
   
152.092   New uses
Off-Street Loading and Parking Regulations
   
152.105   Off-street loading spaces
   
152.106   Number of parking spaces required
   
152.107   Change in use; addition and enlargements
   
152.108   Collective provision
   
152.109   Community Business District; requirements and exemptions; public
parking fees
   
152.110   Standards for accessory off-street parking
   
152.111   Development and maintenance of off-street parking areas
   
152.112   Modifications
   
152.113   Parking and storage of certain vehicles
   
152.114   Approval of access points
   
152.115   Existing access
   
152.116   Minimum sight distances
   
152.117   Sight triangle
Manufactured Homes
   
152.125   Intent
   
152.126   Standards
   
152.127   Appeal
   
152.128   Violations
Signs
   
152.140   Intent
   
152.141   General provisions
   
152.142   Exempt signs
   
152.143   Prohibited signs
   
152.144   Computation
   
152.145   Nonconforming signs
   
152.146   Sign permits
   
152.147   Temporary signs
   
152.148   Residential and agricultural districts (Zones A, R-1, R-2 and R-3)
   
152.149   Business and manufacturing districts (Zones B-1, B-2, B-3 and M-1)
   
152.150   Billboards/off premise signs
   
152.151   Overlay signs for Downtown Historic District
Motor Vehicle Service Stations, Garages and Parking Areas
   
152.155   Entrance; distance requirements
   
152.156   Oil draining
Planned Unit Development (PUD)
   
152.165   Policy
   
152.166   Planned Unit Development restrictions
   
152.167   Increased residential density
   
152.168   Procedure for approval
Sexually Oriented Businesses
   
152.170   Regulations for sexually oriented businesses
   
152.171   Measurement of distance
   
152.172   Regulations governing existing sexually oriented businesses
Conversion of Dwellings
   
152.180   When permitted; compliance
   
152.181   Exceptions
   
152.182   Board authorization
Extraction of Minerals
   
152.195   Procedure; application; hearing
   
152.196   Minimum standards
   
152.197   Rehabilitation
Height and Yard Modifications
   
152.210   Height limitations not applicable
   
152.211   Minimum height requirements
   
152.212   Average depth of front yards
   
152.213   Rear and side yards; computation
   
152.214   Side yard modifications
   
152.215   Reduction of rear and side yards
Yard Projections
   
152.225   Projection of architectural features
   
152.226   Fences, walks and hedges
Board of Zoning Appeals
   
152.235   Appointment and composition of Board
   
152.236   Procedure and organization
   
152.237   Quorum
   
152.238   Employees; assistance of other departments
   
152.239   Applications; appeals; hearings; and stay of proceedings
   
152.240   Powers
   
152.241   Conditional uses
   
152.242   Interpretation of zoning map
   
152.243   Variances
   
152.244   Administrative review
District Changes and Regulations Amendments
   
152.255   Common Council may amend regulations
   
152.256   Procedure for change
Flood Hazard Areas
   
152.265   Statutory authorization, findings of fact, purpose, and objectives
   
152.266   Definitions
   
152.267   General provisions
   
152.268   Administration
   
152.269   Provisions for flood hazard reduction
   
152.270   Variance procedures
Administration and Enforcement
   
152.295   Permits required
   
152.296   Requirements of zoning permit applications
   
152.297   Failure to obtain zoning permits and certificates of occupancy
   
152.298   Construction and use to be as provided in approved zoning permit
   
152.299   Remedies complaints regarding violations
   
152.300   Inspection of property; right-of-entry
   
152.301   Intent of plot plan review for improvement location permits
   
152.302   Intent of site plan review
   
152.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the City of
Aurora, Indiana Zoning Code.
(Ord., passed - -79)
§ 152.002 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   This chapter is enacted for the purpose of securing light, air, convenience
of access and safety from fire, flood and other danger; for the lessening or
avoiding of congestion in the public streets; and for the promoting of the
public health, safety, comfort, morals, convenience and general public welfare;
and for promoting the orderly development of the city and its environs by
classifying, regulating and limiting the height, area, bulk and use of
buildings hereinafter erected; by regulating and determining the area of front,
rear and side yards, courts and other open spaces about such buildings; by
regulating and determining the use and intensity of use of land and lot areas;
by classifying, regulating and restricting the location of trades, callings,
industries, commercial enterprises, and the location of buildings designed for
specific uses; by classifying and designating the rural lands amongst
agricultural, industrial, commercial, residential and other uses or purposes,
all in accordance with the comprehensive plan for the desirable future
development of the community; and for providing a method of administration and
prescribing penalties for the violations of provisions hereinafter prescribed.
(Ord., passed - -79)
§ 152.003 INTERPRETATION OF STANDARDS.
   Requirements as minimum. In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements necessary
to assure the promotion of public health, safety, comfort, morals, convenience
and general public welfare. Wherever this chapter imposes a greater restriction
than is imposed or required by other provisions of law or by other rules,
regulations or resolutions, the provisions of this chapter shall govern.
(Ord., passed - -79)
§ 152.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
    ACCESSORY USE or STRUCTURE. One which is subordinate to and serves a
principal building or principal use; is subordinate in area, extent, or purpose
to the principal building or principal use served; contributes to the comfort,
convenience, or necessity of occupants of the principal building or principal
use served; and is located on the same lot as the principal building or
principal use served, with the single exception of such accessory off-street
parking facilities as are permitted hereinafter to locate elsewhere than on the
same lot with the building or use served.
   AGRICULTURE. The use of land for agricultural purposes, including farming,
dairying, pasturage, apiculture, horticulture, floriculture, viticulture, and
animal and poultry husbandry and the necessary accessory uses for packing,
treating or storing the produce; provided, however, that the operation of such
accessory uses shall be secondary to that of normal agriculture activities and
further provided that the above uses shall not include the commercial feeding
of garbage or offal to swine or other animals.
   ALLEY or LANE. A public or private way not more than 20 feet wide affording
only secondary means of access to abutting property.
   ALTERATIONS. As applied to a building or structure, a change or
rearrangement in the structural parts or in the exit facilities, or an
enlargement, whether by extending on a side or by increasing in height, or the
moving from one location or position to another.
   APARTMENT. A suite of rooms or a room in a multi-family building arranged
and intended for a place of residence of a single family or a group of
individuals living together as a single housekeeping unit.
   APARTMENT HOUSE. See DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY.
   BASEMENT. A story whose floor is more than 12 inches but not more than half
of its story height below the average level of the adjoining grounds (as
distinguished from a CELLAR which is a story more than one-half below such
level). A basement, when used as a dwelling, shall be counted as a story for
purposes of height measurement, and as a half-story for purposes of side yard
determination.
   BEGINNING OF CONSTRUCTION. The incorporation of labor and materials within
the walls of the building or buildings.
   BOARD. The Board of Zoning Appeals of the City of Aurora, Indiana.
   BOARDING or LODGING HOUSE. A building or portion thereof where meals and/or
lodging are provided, for compensation, for five or more persons not
transients.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, used or
intended to be used for the shelter or enclosure of persons, animals or
property. When such a structure is divided into separate parts by one or more
unpierced walls extending from the ground up, each part is deemed a separate
building, except as regards minimum side yard requirements as hereinafter
provided.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance measured from the average
elevation of the proposed finished grade at the front wall of the building to
the highest point of the coping of a flat roof or to the deck line of mansard
roof, or to the mean height level between eaves and ridge for gable, hip or
gambrel roofs.
   CELLAR. A story the floor of which is more than one-half of its story height
below the average level of the adjoining ground at the exterior walls of the
building. A cellar, when used as a dwelling, shall be counted as a story for
purposes of height measurement.
   CITY. City of Aurora, Indiana.
   CITY ENGINEER. That engineer so designated by the Common Council for the
purpose of this chapter.
   CLINIC. A place used for the care, diagnosis and treatment of sick, ailing,
infirm and injured humans, but who are not provided with board or room nor kept
overnight on the premises.
   CLUB. A nonprofit association of persons who are bona fide members organized
for some common purposes and paying regular dues; not including a group
organized solely or primarily to render a service customarily carried on as a
commercial enterprise.
   COMMERCIAL RECREATIONAL. The use of land for recreational uses designed or
motivated for profit, to include marinas, driving ranges, golf courses,
miniature golf courses, batting cages, gym facilities, billiard games or game
rooms, etc.
   COMMISSION, PLAN. The Plan Commission of the City of Aurora, Indiana.
   COMMON COUNCIL. The Common Council of the City of Aurora, Indiana.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use that is permitted, but only by application to the
Board in each specific instance, and after a determination by the Board that
all regulations and standards of this chapter applying to the specific use in
the particular location will be met, along with such additional conditions or
safeguards as the Board may prescribe in the specific case and circumstances in
order to prevent harm or injury to adjacent uses, the neighborhood, and/or in
order to improve the public health, safety, convenience, comfort, prosperity,
and general welfare.
   CORNICE. A horizontal molded projection crowning a building or structure.
   COUNTY. Dearborn County, Indiana.
   COURT. An unoccupied open space, other than a yard, on the same lot with a
building, which is surrounded wholly or in part by the walls of such building.
   DISTRICT. A portion of the territory of the City of Aurora within which
certain uniform regulations and requirements or various combinations thereof
apply under the provisions of this chapter.
   DISTRICT, MORE RESTRICTED OR LESS RESTRICTED. Each of the districts in the
following list shall be deemed to be more restricted than any of the districts
succeeding it, and each shall be deemed to be less restricted than any of the
districts preceding it: R-1, R-2, R-3, A, B-1, B-2 and M.
   DUMP. A lot or land or part thereof used primarily for the disposal by
abandonment, dumping burial, burning or any other means and for whatever
purpose, of garbage, sewage, trash, refuse, junk, discarded machinery, vehicles
or parts thereof, or waste material of any kind.
   DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof designed or used exclusively as
the residence or sleeping place of one or more persons, but not including a
tent, boarding or lodging house, motel, hotel, tourist home, and trailer or
trailer coach.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A building or portion thereof designed for or used
exclusively for residence purposes by three or more families living
independently of each other.
   DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY. A building designed for or used exclusively for
residence purposes by one family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building designed for or used exclusively for
residence purposes by two families living independently of each other.
   ENCROACHMENT PERMIT. A permit required to request permission to encroach on
the following public right-of-way, which is defined as follows: any public
street, way, place, alley, sidewalk, easement, park, square, median, parkway,
boulevard or plaza that is dedicated to public use, or owned by the city,
except for those rights- of-way owned by the Indiana Department of
Transportation located within the city.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. The erection, construction, alteration, or maintenance,
by public utilities or governmental agencies, of underground or overhead gas,
electrical, steam or water transmission or distribution systems, collection,
communication, supply or disposal systems, including poles, wires, mains,
drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call boxes,
traffic signals, hydrants, and other similar equipment for the furnishing of
adequate service by such public utilities or municipal or other governmental
agencies or for the public health or safety or general welfare, but not
including buildings.
   FACADE. The face of a building that looks onto a street or open space.
   FAMILY. A person living alone, or two or more persons living together as a
single housekeeping unit, in a dwelling unit, as distinguished from a group
occupying a boarding or lodging house, motel or hotel, fraternity or sorority
house.
   FOOTCANDLES. A measurement of illuminance or light intensity that is cast on
a surface and being the measurement of lumens per square foot.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. A garage used for storage purposes only and having a
capacity of not more than four motor vehicles or not more than two motor
vehicles per family housed in the building to which such garage is accessory,
whichever is greater.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. Any garage other than a private garage, available to the
public, operated for gain, and which is used for storage, repair, rental,
greasing, washing, servicing, adjusting or equipping of automobiles or other
motor vehicles.
   HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION or HPC. A seven-person board set up to
approve applications for certificates of appropriateness (CPAs) required for
signs and external changes to buildings and resources within the Downtown
Historic District. They work with property and business owners to maintain
historic appearances.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An accessory use of a service character customarily
conducted within a dwelling by only the residents thereof, which is clearly
secondary to the use of the dwelling for living purposes, does not change the
character thereof or require alterations to accommodate the use, and of which
there is no exterior evidence other than a small nameplate, and which does not
involve the keeping of a stock-in-trade in connection therewith. The practice
of a single physician, surgeon, dentist or other professional person, including
an instructor in violin, piano, or other individual musical instrument limited
to a single pupil at a time, who offers skilled services to clients, and is not
professionally engaged in the purchase or sale of goods, shall be deemed to be
HOME OCCUPATIONS; and the occupations of dressmaker, milliner, or seamstress,
each with not more than one paid assistant shall be deemed to be HOME
OCCUPATIONS. Dancing instruction, musical instrument instruction in groups, tea
rooms, tourist homes, beauty parlors, barber shops, real estate offices,
hospitals, kennels, mortuary establishments, and stores, trades or business of
any kind not herein excepted shall not be deemed to be HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   HOSPITAL. Unless otherwise specified, the term HOSPITAL shall be deemed to
include sanitarium, sanitorium, preventorium, rest home, nursing home,
convalescent home and any other place for the diagnosis or treatment of human
ailments or the care of humans, except a CLINIC.
   HOTEL. Any building or portion thereof used as a temporary abiding place for
remuneration, with or without meals, containing 12 or more guest rooms or
suites where no provision for cooking is made in any individual room or suite,
except hospitals and jails.
   IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT. A document issued by the Zoning Inspector
authorizing buildings, structures and/or uses consistent with the terms of this
chapter and for the purpose of carrying out and enforcing its provisions.
   JUNK YARD. Any area where waste, discarded or salvaged materials are bought,
sold, exchanged, baled, packed, disassembled or handled, including motor
vehicle wrecking yards, house wrecking yards, used lumber yards and places or
yards for storage of salvaged house wrecking and structural steel materials and
equipment; but not including establishments where such uses are conducted
entirely within a completely enclosed building, and not including
establishments for the sale, purchase or storage of used cars in operable
condition, or storage of materials incidental to manufacturing operations.
   KENNEL. Any premises, or portion thereof, on which four or more dogs, cats
and/or other household domestic animals over four months of age are kept, or on
which more than two such animals are maintained, boarded, bred or cared for in
return for remuneration or kept for the purpose of sale.
   LAND USE PLAN. The long-range plan for the desirable use of land within the
city and within the unincorporated territory within the extraterritorial
jurisdiction of the Plan Commission, as officially adopted and as amended from
time to time.
   LINTEL. A horizontal support of timber, stone, concrete, or steel across the
top of a door or window.
   LOADING SPACE. An off-street space or berth on the same lot with a building,
or contiguous to a group of buildings, for the temporary parking of a
commercial vehicle while loading or unloading merchandise or materials, and
which abuts upon a street, alley or other appropriate means of access.
   LOT. Any piece or parcel of land or a portion of a subdivision, the
boundaries of which have been established by some legal instrument of record,
that is recognized and intended as a unit for the purpose of transfer of
ownership.
   LOT AREA. The computed area contained within the lot lines.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersection
or upon two parts of the same street, such streets or parts of the same street
forming an interior angle of less than 135 degrees. The point of intersection
of the street lines is the "corner."
   LOT, DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front and the rear lot
lines measured in the general direction of the side lot lines.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT LINES. The property lines bounding the lot.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The line separating the lot from a street. On a corner lot,
the front lot line shall be the street lot line having the least dimension.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The lot line opposite and most distant from the front lot
line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot line other than front or rear lot line. A side lot
line separating a lot from a street is called a side street lot line. A side
lot line separating a lot from another lot or lots is called an interior side
lot line.
   LOT LINE, STREET OR ALLEY. A lot line separating the lot from a street or
alley.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is a part of a subdivision, the plat of which has
been recorded in the office of the Recorder of Dearborn County, Indiana; or a
parcel of land, the deed to which was recorded in the office of said Recorder
prior to the adoption of this chapter.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot having frontage on two parallel or approximately
parallel streets.
   LOT WIDTH. The mean horizontal width of the lot measured at right angles to
its depth.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A dwelling unit, designed and built in a factory which
bears a seal certifying that it was built in compliance with the Federal
Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Law of 1974 [42 U.S.C. §
5401 et seq.].
   MARQUEE. Any permanent roof-like structure projecting beyond a building or
extending along and projecting beyond the wall of the building, generally
designed and constructed to provide protection from the weather.
   MOTOR VEHICLE REPAIR, MAJOR. General repair, rebuilding or reconstruction of
engines, motor vehicles or trailers; collision services including body, frame,
or fender straightening or repair; overall painting or paint shop, vehicle
steam cleaning.
   MOTOR VEHICLE REPAIR, MINOR. Incidental body or fender work, other minor
repairs, painting and upholstering, replacement of parts and motor service to
passenger cars and trucks not exceeding 1-1/2 tons capacity, but not including
any operation named under MOTOR VEHICLE REPAIR, MAJOR, or any other similar
thereto.
   MOTOR VEHICLE or TRAILER SALES AREA. An open area, other than a street, used
for the display, sale or rental of new or used motor vehicles or trailers in
operable condition and where no repair work is done.
   MOTOR VEHICLE SERVICE STATION or FILLING STATION. A place where gasoline or
other motor fuel, lubricants, tires, batteries, accessories and supplies for
operating and equipping motor vehicles are sold at retail to the public and
deliveries are made directly into or onto motor vehicles, incidental battery,
brake, muffler and tire service, washing and polishing.
   NONCOMMERCIAL RECREATIONAL. The use of land for recreational purposes not
designed or motivated for profit including free and open city parks, sports
fields for general public use, organized league sports, or recognized
recreational nonprofit clubs (YMCA, YWCA, Boys or Girls Clubs of America, Boy
or Girl Scouts and the like).
   NONCONFORMING USE. A use of a building or land legally existing at the time
of adoption of this chapter, or any amendment thereto, and which does not
conform with the use regulations of the district in which located.
   OCCUPIED SPACE. The total area of earth horizontally covered by the
structure excluding accessory structures such as, but not limited to, garages,
patios and porches.
   PARKING AREA, PRIVATE. An open area for the same uses as a private garage.
   PARKING AREA, PUBLIC. An open area, other than a street or other public way,
used for the parking of automobiles or other motor vehicles and available to
the public whether for a fee, or as an accommodation for clients or customers.
   PARKING SPACE. An area, either within a structure or in the open, exclusive
of driveways or access drives, for the parking of a single motor vehicle.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.  An area of land in which a variety of uses are
planned and developed as a whole according to comprehensive and detailed plans
with more flexible standards, such as lot sizes and setbacks, than those
restrictions that would normally apply under these regulations.
   PUBLIC PARK OR RECREATION AREA. Public land which has been designated for
park or recreational activities including but not limited to a park,
playground, nature trails, swimming pool, reservoir, athletic field, basketball
or tennis courts, pedestrian/bicycle paths, open space, wilderness areas, or
similar public land within the city which is under the control, operation, or
management of the city park and recreation authorities.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. Any person, firm, corporation, governmental department or
board, duly authorized to furnish and furnishing under state or municipal
regulation to the public, electricity, gas, steam, communications, telegraph,
transportation, or water.
   RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION. Any church, synagogue, mosque, temple or building
which is used primarily for religious worship and related religious activities.
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT OR USE. A single family, duplex, townhouse, multiple
family, or mobile park or subdivision and campground as defined in the City of
Aurora Zoning Code, regardless of whether such use is a conforming use or non-
conforming use. A RESIDENTIAL USE shall also include any structure containing a
residential dwelling or rooming unit that is otherwise in compliance with this
chapter.
   SCHOOL. Any public or private educational facility including but not limited
to child day care facilities, nursery schools, preschools, kindergartens,
elementary schools, primary schools, intermediate schools, junior high schools,
middle schools, high schools, vocational schools, secondary schools,
continuation schools, special education schools, junior colleges, and
universities. SCHOOL includes the school grounds, but does not include the
facilities used primarily for another purpose and only incidentally as a
school.
   SETBACK. The distance from the property line to the nearest part of the
applicable building, structure, or sign, measured perpendicularly to the
property line.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. For the purposes of this chapter, SEXUALLY
ORIENTED BUSINESS shall be defined as it is in §
114.02 and any subsequent amendments thereto.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES. As the word or term is used in §§
152.070,
152.170 through
152.172 of this Chapter of the City of Aurora, Indiana Code of Ordinances, are
those businesses defined as follows:
      (1)   ADULT ARCADE. An establishment where, for any form of
consideration, one or more still or motion picture projectors, slide
projectors, or similar machines, or other image producing machines, for viewing
by five or fewer persons each, are regularly used to show films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions which
are characterized by the depiction or descriptions of “specified sexual
activities” or “specified anatomical areas.”
      (2)   ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE OR ADULT VIDEO STORE. A
commercial establishment which has as a significant or substantial portion of
its stock- in-trade or derives a significant or substantial portion of its
revenues or devotes a significant or substantial portion of its interior
business or advertising to the sale, rental for any form of consideration, of
any one or more of the following:
         (a)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other visual
representations which are characterized by the depiction or description of
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas.”
         (b)   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed for
use or marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of themselves or others.
         (c)   An establishment may have other principal business purposes that
do not involve the offering for sale rental or viewing of materials depicting
or describing “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas,”
and still be categorized as adult bookstore, adult novelty store, or adult
video store. Such other business purposes will not serve to exempt such
establishments from being categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty
store or adult video store so long as one of its principal business purposes is
offering for sale or rental, for some form of consideration, the specified
materials which depict or describe “specified anatomical areas” or “specified
sexual activities.”
      (3)   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant "bottle club", or
similar commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages are
served, which regularly features: (a) persons who appear nude, semi-nude or in
a state of nudity; (b) live performances which are characterized by the
exposure of “specified anatomical areas” or by “specified sexual activities,”
or (c) films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic
reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or description of
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas.”
      (4)   ADULT MOTEL. A motel, hotel or similar commercial establishment
which: (a) offers public accommodations, for any form of consideration, which
provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions which are
characterized by the depiction or description of “specified sexual activities”
or “specified anatomical areas” and which advertises the availability of this
sexually oriented type of material by means of a sign visible from the public
right-of-way, or by means of any off-premises advertising including but not
limited to, newspapers, magazines, pamphlets or leaflets, radio or television,
or (b) offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time less than ten
hours; or (c) allows a tenant or occupant to sub-rent the sleeping room for a
time period of less than ten hours.
      (5)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or similar photographic
reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or description of
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas” are regularly
shown for any form of consideration.
      (6)   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar
commercial establishment which, for any form of consideration, regularly
features persons who appear in a state of nudity or live performances which are
characterized by exposure of “specified anatomical areas” or by “specified
sexual activities.”
      (7)   ESCORT. A person who, for any form of consideration, agrees or
offers to act as a companion, guide, or date for another person, or who agrees
or offers to privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for
another person.
      (8)   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business association who furnishes,
offers to furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary
business purpose for a fee, tip, or other consideration.
      (9)   MASSAGE PARLOR. Any place where, for any form of consideration or
gratuity, massage, alcohol rub, administration of fomentations, electric or
magnetic treatments, or any other treatment manipulation of the human body
which occurs as a part of, or in connection with “specified sexual activities,”
or where any person providing such treatment, manipulation, or service related
thereto, exposes his or her “specified anatomical areas.” The definition of
sexually oriented business shall not include the practice of massage in any
licensed hospital, nor by a licensed hospital, nor by an licensed physician,
surgeon, chiropractor or osteopath, nor by any nurse or technician working
under the supervision of a licensed physician, surgeon, chiropractor or
osteopath, nor by trainers for any amateur, semiprofessional or professional
athlete or athletic team or school athletic program.
      (10)   NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person, who regularly appears
in a state of nudity or displays “specified anatomical areas” is provided for
money or any form of consideration to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted,
sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by other persons.
      (11)   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER ESTABLISHMENT. A business or commercial
establishment, that as one of its primary business purposes, offers for any
form of consideration, a place where two or more persons may congregate,
associate, or consort for the purpose of “specified sexual activities” or the
exposure of “specified anatomical areas” or activities when one or more of the
persons is in a state of nudity or seminude. The definition of sexually
oriented businesses shall not include an establishment where a medical
practitioner, psychologist, psychiatrist, or similar professional person
licensed by the state engages in medically approved and recognized sexual
therapy.
   SIGN. Any device, fixture, placard, or structure that uses any color, form,
graphic, illumination, symbol, or writing to advertise, announce the purpose
of, or identify the purpose of a person or entity, or to communicate
information of any kind to the public.
      (1)   ABANDONED SIGN. A sign which no longer identifies or advertises a
bona fide business, lessor, service, owner, product or activity, or for which
no legal owner can be found.
      (2)   ANIMATED SIGN. Any sign that uses movement or change of lighting to
depict action or create a special effect or scene.
      (3)   AWNING/CANOPY SIGN. A sign that is painted on or attached to the
vertical face of an awning or canopy.
      (4)   BANNER. Any sign of lightweight fabric or similar material that is
mounted to a pole or a building by a permanent frame at one or more edges.
National flags, state or municipal flags, or the official flag of any
institution or business shall not be considered banners.
      (5)   BEACON. Any light with one or more beams directed into the
atmosphere or directed at one or more points not on the same zone lot as the
light source; also, any light with one or more beams that rotate or move.
      (6)   BILLBOARD. A sign which directs attention to a business, use,
service, activity, commodity, or profession which is not conducted, sold or
offered at the same lot where such sign is located.
      (7)   BUILDING MARKER. Any sign indicating the name of a building and
date and incidental information about its construction, which sign is cut into
a masonry surface or made of bronze or other permanent material.
      (8)   BUILDING SIGN. Any sign attached to any part of a building, as
contrasted to a freestanding sign.
      (9)   CANOPY SIGN. Any sign that is a part of or attached to an awning,
canopy, or other fabric, plastic, or structural protective cover over a door,
entrance, window, or outdoor service area. A marquee is not a canopy.
      (10)   CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN.  A sign or portion thereof with characters,
letters, or illustrations that can be changed or rearranged without altering
the face or the surface of the sign. A sign on which the message changes more
than eight times per day shall be considered an animated sign and not a
changeable copy  sign for purposes of this section. A sign on which the only
copy that changes is an electronic or mechanical indication of time or
temperature shall be considered a "time and temperature" portion of a sign and
not a changeable copy sign for purposes of this section.
      (11)   DIRECTIONAL SIGN or INFORMATIONAL SIGN. A sign which provides
special information, such as tourist information, entrance/exit, parking,
public restrooms and telephones, or the like, and does not include any business
product or service information.
      (12)   DOUBLE-FACED SIGN. A sign with two faces that are back to back.
      (13)   FLAG. Any fabric, banner, or other flexible material containing
distinctive colors, patterns, or symbols, used as a symbol of a government,
political subdivision, or other entity.
      (14)   FREE-STANDING SIGN. Any sign supported by structures or supports
that are placed on, or anchored in, the ground and that are independent from
any building or other structure.
      (15)   HISTORICAL MARKER. A sign erected by a recognized federal, state
or local organization, the purpose of which is to mark a historical site or
structure.
      (16)   IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A sign identifying the name or address of a
building, institution, or person, or the activity or occupation being
identified.
      (17)   ILLEGAL SIGN. A sign which does not comply with the provisions of
this chapter and which has not received legal nonconforming status.
      (18)   ILLUMINATED SIGN. A sign with an artificial light source which is
either internal or external to the sign structure.
      (19)   INCIDENTAL SIGN. A sign, generally informational, that has a
purpose secondary to the use of the land use zone lot on which it is located,
such as "no parking," "entrance," "loading only," "telephone," and other
similar directives. No sign with a commercial message legible from a position
off the zone lot on which the sign is located shall be considered incidental.
The maximum allowable sign area for individual incidental signs shall be three
square feet. In no case shall the total area for incidental signage on a single
land use land use zone lot be greater than 0.1% of the total ground floor
principal building area.
      (20)   MAINTENANCE. For the purposes of this chapter, the cleaning,
repainting or cracked or faded areas, or replacement of electric parts of a
sign in a manner that does not alter the basic copy, design or structure of the
sign.
      (21)   MARQUEE SIGN. Any sign attached to, in any manner, or made a part
of a marquee.
      (22)   MONUMENT SIGN or GROUND-MOUNTED SIGN. A free-standing or ground-
mounted sign that is part of a decorative structure. Does not include pole-
mounted signs.
      (23)   MURAL. A work of art placed on the side of a building or face of a
wall. A mural does not advertise or identify a person or entity, and is not
intended to communicate information to the general public. A mural may contain
corporate logos or text, which is subject to regulation as a wall sign.
      (24)   NONCONFORMING SIGN. A sign which was erected legally but which
does not comply with subsequent sign regulations.
      (25)   PENNANT. Any lightweight plastic, fabric, or other material,
whether or not containing a message of any kind, suspended from a rope, wire,
or string, sometimes placed in series, and sometimes designed to move in the
wind. Pennants shall be considered temporary signage.
      (26)   POLE-MOUNTED SIGN. A sign mounted on a free-standing pole or other
support so that the height of the sign is no more than 20 feet in height.
      (27)   POLITICAL SIGN. A sign which announces the candidacy of a person
or slate of persons running for elective offices, or a political party or
issue.
      (28)   PORTABLE SIGN. Any sign not permanently attached to the ground or
other permanent structure, or a sign designed to be transported, including, but
not limited to, signs designed to be transported by means of wheels; signs
converted to A- or T-frames; menu and sandwich board signs; balloons used as
signs; umbrellas used for advertising; and signs attached to or painted on
vehicles parked and visible from the public right-of-way, unless said vehicle
is used in the normal day-to-day operations of the business.
      (29)   PORTABLE MARQUEE SIGN. A temporary sign, with or without wheels,
illumination, or a large arrow as part of the sign structure, the purpose of
which is to announce or advertise on a temporary basis.
      (30)   PROJECTING SIGN. Any sign affixed to a building or wall in such a
manner that its leading edge extends more than six inches beyond the surface of
such building or wall.
      (31)   REAL ESTATE SIGN. Any sign which advertises or announces the sale,
rental, or lease of the premises upon which the sign is located.
      (32)   RESIDENTIAL SIGN. Any sign located with residential household
activities containing no commercial message except advertising for goods or
services legally offered on the premises where the sign is located, if offering
such service at such location conforms with all requirements of the zoning
ordinance (such as real estate "For Sale" signs).
      (33)   ROOF SIGN. Any sign erected above the gutter line of a building.
      (34)   ROOF SIGN, INTEGRAL. Any sign erected or constructed as an
integral or essentially integral part of a normal roof structure of any design,
such that no part of the sign extends vertically above the highest portion of
the roof and such that no part of the sign is separated from the rest of the
roof by a space of more than six inches. Integral roof signs are not allowed in
the Aurora Downtown Historic District.
      (35)   SIGN FACE MESSAGE or DISPLAY MESSAGE. The components of a sign
that contains a message, excluding components used as support and framing.
      (36)   SUSPENDED SIGN. A sign that is suspended from the underside of a
horizontal plane surface and is supported by such surface.
      (37)   TEMPORARY SIGN. Any sign, otherwise permitted by this section,
that is used only temporarily and is not permanently mounted, and which is
erected and displayed for a period not to exceed continuous 45 days.
      (38)    TEMPORARY MESSAGE SIGN. A permanent sign capable of having the
message changed.
      (39)   WALL SIGN or WALL-MOUNTED SIGN. Any sign attached parallel to, but
within six inches of, a wall, painted on the wall surface of, or erected and
confined within the limits of an outside wall of any building or structure,
which is supported by such wall or building, and which displays only one sign
surface.
      (40)   WINDOW SIGN. A sign affixed to, displayed from, or installed
inside a window for purposes of viewing from outside the premises. This does
not include merchandise and other displays located in a window.
   SIGN STRUCTURE. Any structure which supports, holds, has supported, or is
capable of supporting a sign.
   SPANDREL. An architectural feature that adjoins arches or moldings.
   STANDARD, PERFORMANCES. A criterion established in the interest of
protecting the public health and safety for the control of noise, odor, smoke,
noxious gases and other objectionable or dangerous elements generated by and
inherent in, or incidental to, certain uses and activities.
   STORY. That portion of a building, included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the floor next above it, then the space between the floor
and the ceiling next above it.
   STORY, FIRST. The lowest story or the ground story of any building the floor
of which is not more than 12 inches below the average level of the adjoining
ground at the exterior walls of the building; except that any basement or
cellar used as a dwelling shall be deemed the first story.
   STORY, HALF. A story under a gable, hip or gambrel roof, the wall plates of
which on at least two opposite exterior walls are not more than four feet above
the floor of such story; provided, however, that any partial story used as a
dwelling shall be deemed a full story.
   STREET. A public right-of-way 50 feet or more in width which provides a
public means of access to abutting property, or any such right-of-way more than
20 feet and less than 50 feet in width provided it existed prior to the
enactment of this chapter. The term "street" shall include avenue, drive,
circle, road, parkway, boulevard, highway, thoroughfare, or any other similar
term.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed, the use of which requires permanent
location on the ground, or attachment to something having a permanent location
on the ground.
   THOROUGHFARE PLAN. The official Thoroughfare Plan establishing the general
location, character and extent of streets and thoroughfares in the city and
within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the Plan Commission, as officially
adopted and as amended from time to time.
   TOURIST HOME. A building or part thereof, other than a hotel, boarding or
lodging house, or motel, where lodging is provided by a resident family for
compensation, mainly for transients.
   TRANSOM. A strengthening crossbar set above a window or door.
   UNDER FLOOR SPACE. That space between the bottom of the floor joist and the
earth.
   USE. The purpose for which land and/or a building or structure is arranged,
designed or intended, or for which either land or a building or structure is,
or may be, occupied or maintained.
   USED. Includes arranged, designed, constructed, altered, converted, rented,
leased or intended to be used.
   USE - FIRST PERMITTED IN "X" DISTRICT. A use which in the sequence of
successively less restricted districts occurs as a permitted use for the first
time in the "X" District.
   VALANCE. A length of decorative drapery attached to a canopy, in order to
screen the space beneath it.
   VARIANCE. A variation of the requirements of this chapter, not contrary to
the public interest, granted by the Board, in specific cases when warranted, in
order to alleviate unnecessary and undue hardship which may otherwise ensue
owing to exceptional narrowness, shallowness or shape of a lot, to difficult
topography or other peculiar physical conditions of a lot, or to the nature of
existing uses or structures on adjoining lots; and so that the spirit of this
chapter shall be observed and substantial justice done. Such variance shall not
include authorizing a use not among the permitted uses specified in this
chapter for the district in which the lot is located.
   YARD. An open space other than a court, on a lot, unoccupied and
unobstructed from the ground upward except as expressly permitted in this
chapter.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the full width of the lot between any
part of a building not hereafter excepted and the front lot line; and the depth
of a front yard is the minimum horizontal distance between any part of the
building, other than such parts as hereinafter excepted, and the front lot
line.
   YARD, FRONT - LEAST DEPTH, HOW MEASURED. Front yard depth shall be measured
from the right-of-way line of the existing street on which the lot fronts (the
front lot line); provided, however, that if a proposed right-of-way line of
such street has been officially established, then the required front yard least
depth shall be measured from such proposed right-of-way line.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot between a
building and the rear lot line; and the depth of a rear yard is the minimum
horizontal distance between any part of the building, other than such parts as
hereinafter excepted, and the rear lot line.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard extending between the front yard and the rear yard
between a building and the nearest side lot line; and the width of a side yard
is the minimum horizontal distance between any part of a building, other than
such parts as hereinafter excepted, and the nearest side lot line.
   YARD, SIDE - LEAST WIDTH, HOW MEASURED. Side yard widths shall be measured
from the nearest side lot line and, in case such lot line is a side street lot
line, from the right-of-way line of the existing street; provided, however,
that if a proposed right-of-way line of such street has been officially
established, then the required side yard least width shall be measured from
such proposed right-of-way line.
   ZONING INSPECTOR. The Zoning Inspector of the city or his authorized
representative.
   ZONING MAP. The Zoning Map or Maps of the city dated December, 1979,
together with all amendments subsequently adopted.
(Ord., passed - -79; Am. Ord. 91-11, passed 7-1-91; Am. Ord. 98-12, passed 9-1-
98; Am. Ord. 1999-1, passed 1-1-99; Am. Ord. 1999-2, passed 2-1-99; Am. Ord.
2002-9, passed 7-11-02; Am. Ord. 2017-14, passed 12-4-17)
§ 152.005 DWELLING ON ANY LOT OF RECORD.
   In any district where dwellings are permitted, a one-family detached
dwelling may be erected on any lot of record at the effective date of this
chapter, irrespective of its area or width, the owner of which does not own any
adjoining property, provided that yard spaces satisfy requirements stipulated
for the district in which such lot is located, or requirements as may be
modified under §
152.215 or by the Board as set forth in §
152.243 (A).
(Ord., passed - -79; Am. Ord. 1980-5, passed 7-7-80)
§ 152.006 PUBLIC SANITARY FACILITIES NOT AVAILABLE.
   In any district, where either public water supply or public sanitary sewer
is not accessible, the otherwise specified lot area and frontage requirements
for dwellings, if less than the following, shall be: if lacking only public
sewer, lot area - 23,000 square feet - frontage, 100 feet; and if lacking both
public water and sewer, lot area - one acre, and frontage 175 feet.
(Ord., passed - -79)
DISTRICTS AND BOUNDARIES
§ 152.015 DIVISION OF CITY INTO DISTRICTS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the city and the territory within the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the Plan Commission are hereby divided into
eight categories of zoning districts as follows:
      A      Agricultural
      R-1      One-Family Residential
      R-2      One- and Two-Family Residential
      R-3      Multi-Family Residential
      B-1      Neighborhood Business
      B-2      Community Business
      M      General Manufacturing
(Ord., passed - -79)
§ 152.016 DISTRICTS AND BOUNDARIES ESTABLISHED ON ZONING MAP.
   The several districts and boundaries thereof are hereby adopted and
established as shown on the Zoning Map of the city, which map, together with
all notations, references, data, district boundaries and other information
shown thereon shall be and are hereby made a part of this chapter. The Zoning
Map, properly attested, shall be and remain on file in the office of the Zoning
Inspector.
(Ord., passed - -79)
§ 152.017 INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Except where referenced on the map to a street or alley lines or other
designated line by dimensions shown on the map, the district boundary lines
follow lot lines or the center lines of streets or alleys as they existed at
the time of the adoption of this chapter; but where a district line obviously
does not coincide with the lot lines or such center lines or where it is not
designated by dimensions, it shall be determined by scaling.
   (B)   All questions concerning the exact location of district boundary lines
shall be determined by the Board according to rules and regulations which may
be adopted by it.
(Ord., passed - -79)
§ 152.018 DIVISION OF LOT; EXTENSION OF DISTRICT.
   Where a district boundary line established in this subchapter or as shown on
the Zoning Map divides a lot which was in single ownership at the time of
enactment of this chapter, the use authorized thereon and the other district
requirements applying to the least restricted portion of such lot under this
chapter shall be considered as extending to the entire lot, provided the more
restricted portion of such lot is entirely within 25 feet of the dividing
district boundary line. The use so extended shall be deemed to be conforming.
(Ord., passed - -79)
§ 152.019 VACATED STREET OR ALLEY.
   Whenever any street, alley or other public way is vacated by official action
as provided by law, the zoning district adjoining the side of such public way
shall be extended automatically, depending on the side or sides to which such
lands revert, to include the right-of-way thus vacated, which shall henceforth
be subject to all regulations of the extended district or districts.
(Ord., passed - -79)
§ 152.020 ANNEXATIONS; PROPERTY NOT INCLUDED.
   In every case where property has not been specifically included within a
district, the same is hereby declared to be in R-1 District. Territory included
within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the Plan Commission subsequent to
the effective date of this chapter shall upon the effective date of such
inclusion become a part of the A District. Such districting shall be temporary,
and the Plan Commission shall recommend to the Common Council, within a period
of not to exceed six months from the effective date of such inclusion, a final
zoning districting of such property.
(Ord., passed - -79)
GENERAL USE REGULATIONS
§ 152.030 CONFORMANCE REQUIRED.
   Except as hereinafter specified, no land, building, structure or premises
shall hereafter be used, and no building or part thereof, or other structure
shall be located, erected, moved, reconstructed, extended, enlarged or altered
except in conformity with the regulations herein specified for the district in
which it is located; such regulations including, but without limitation, the
following: the use of buildings, structures or land, including performance
standards for the control of any "dangerous and objectionable elements," as
defined herein, in connection with such use; the height, size or dimensions of
buildings or structures; the size or dimensions of lots, yards and other open
spaces surrounding buildings; the provision, location, size, improvement and
operation of off-street parking, loading and unloading spaces.
(Ord., passed - -79)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.031 ADDITIONAL PERMITTED AND PROHIBITED USES; BOARD DETERMINATION.
   (A)   Uses other than those specifically mentioned in this chapter as
permitted uses in each of the districts may also be allowed therein, except for
uses prohibited therein or which are first permitted in a less restrictive
district and provided that, in the judgment of the Board as evidenced by
resolution of record, such other uses are of similar character to those
mentioned and will have no adverse influence or no more adverse influence on
adjacent properties or the neighborhood or the community than the permitted
uses specifically mentioned for the district.
   (B)   Uses other than those specifically prohibited in this chapter in any
district shall also be prohibited therefrom, provided that in the judgment of
the Board, as evidenced by resolution of record, such other uses are similar in
character to those specifically prohibited in that they would have similar or
more serious adverse influence on adjacent properties or the neighborhood or
the community than the uses specifically mentioned as prohibited in the
district.
(Ord., passed - -79)
§ 152.032 REAR DWELLINGS IN R DISTRICT.
   In any R District, no building in the rear of a principal building on the
same lot shall be used for residential purposes unless it conforms to all the
yard and other open space and off-street parking requirements of this chapter,
and for the purpose of determining the front yard in such cases, the rear line
of the required rear yard for the principal building in front shall be
considered the front line for the building in the rear. In addition, there must
be provided for any such rear dwelling, an unoccupied and unobstructed
accessway not less than ten feet wide to a public street for each dwelling unit
in such dwelling, or one not less than 30 feet wide for three or more dwelling
units.
(Ord., passed - -79)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.033 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS IN R DISTRICT.
   In any R District, an accessory building may be erected detached from the
principal building or may be erected as an integral part of the principal
building, or it may be connected therewith by a breezeway or similar structure.
Except as provided in §§
152.212 through
152.215 no accessory building shall be erected in any required yard or court,
except a rear yard, and shall not occupy more than 35% of a required rear yard.
Accessory buildings shall be distant at least six feet from any dwelling
situated on the same lot, unless an integral part thereof, and at least six
feet from all lot lines or adjoining lots which are within any R District. No
accessory building or structure shall be erected or constructed prior to the
erection or construction of the principal or main building.
(Ord., passed - -79)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.034 YARD REQUIREMENTS ALONG ZONING BOUNDARY LINE IN LESS RESTRICTED
DISTRICT.
   Along any zoning boundary line on a lot in the less restricted district, a
front yard facing a lot in the more restricted district and any side yard, rear
yard or court abutting said zoning boundary line, unless subject to greater
restrictions or requirements stipulated by other provisions of this chapter,
shall have a minimum depth and width equal to the average of the required
minimum depth or width for such front yards, side yards, rear yards or courts
in the two districts on either side of such zoning boundary line. In cases
where the height of a proposed structure on such lot in the less restricted
district is greater than the maximum height permitted in the adjoining more
restricted district, the minimum depth or width of the side yard, rear yard or
court for such structure shall be determined by increasing the minimum depth or
width for the highest structure permitted in such more restricted district by
one foot for each two feet by which the proposed structure exceeds the maximum
height permitted in said more restricted district.
(Ord., passed - -79)
§ 152.035 COMPLIANCE WITH PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   Even though compliance with performance standards' procedure, §§
152.090 through
152.092, may not be expressly required for a particular use, initial and
continued compliance with performance standards is required of every use.
(Ord., passed - -79; Am. Ord. 1980-5, passed 7-7-80)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.036 STREET FRONTAGE REQUIRED.
   Except as permitted by other provisions of this chapter, no lot shall
contain any building used in whole or in part for residential purposes unless
such lot abuts for at least 20 feet on a street; and there shall be not more
than one single-family dwelling for such frontage.
(Ord., passed - -79)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.037 REQUIRED AREA OR SPACE CANNOT BE REDUCED.
   No lot, yard, court, parking area or other space shall be reduced in area or
dimension so as to make said area or dimension less than the minimum required
by this chapter. No part of a yard, court, parking area, or other space
provided about or for any building, structure or use for the purpose of
complying with the provisions of this chapter shall be included as part of a
yard, court, parking area or other space required under this chapter for
another building, structure or use.
(Ord., passed - -79)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.038 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   In every district spaces for off-street parking and for off-street loading
and unloading shall be provided in accordance with the provisions of §§
152.105 through
152.112.
(Ord., passed - -79; Am. Ord. 1980-5, passed 7-7-80)
§ 152.039 UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the strengthening or restoring to a
safe condition of any part of any building or structure declared unsafe by
proper authority.
(Ord., passed - -79)
§ 152.040 PENDING APPLICATIONS FOR BUILDING PERMITS.
   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the overall layout,
plans, construction, size or designated use of any development, building,
structure or part thereof for which official approvals and required permits
have been granted before the enactment of this chapter, the construction of
which shall have been completed within 12 months after the effective date of
this chapter.
(Ord., passed - -79)
§ 152.041 OUTSIDE STORAGE.
   The outside storage of materials, vehicles, products, parts or other similar
items shall be prohibited unless approved through site plan review and
permitted within the zoning district. In situations where outside storage
exists or is proposed, the Planning Director or designee shall have the
authority to determine the appropriate screening if necessary or required.
(Ord. 2016-003, passed 5-2-16)
NONCONFORMING USES
§ 152.050 CONTINUATION OF EXISTING NONCONFORMING USES.
   Except as hereinafter specified, any use, building or structure, existing at
the time of the enactment of this chapter may be continued, even though such
use, building or structure may not conform with the provisions of this chapter
for the district in which it is located.
(Ord., passed - -79)
§ 152.051 ENLARGEMENT, SUBSTITUTION AND THE LIKE OF NONCONFORMING USES.
   No existing building or lot devoted to a use not permitted by this chapter
in the district in which such building or lot is located, except when required
to do so by law or order, shall be enlarged, extended, reconstructed,
substituted or structurally altered, unless the use thereof is changed to a use
permitted in the district in which such building or premises is located, and
except as follows:
   (A)   When authorized by the Board in accordance with the provisions of §§
152.235 through
152.244, the substitution for a nonconforming use of another not more
objectionable nonconforming use may be made.
   (B)   When authorized by the Board in accordance with the provisions of §§
152.235 through
152.244, the extension of a use and the extension or completion of a building
devoted to a nonconforming use may be made upon the lot occupied by such use
and/or building or on a lot adjoining, provided that the adjoining lot was
under the same ownership as the lot in question on the date the use of such
building became nonconforming and where such extension is necessary and
identical to the existing use.
   (C)   When authorized by the Board in accordance with the provisions of §§
152.235 through
152.244, nonconforming use may be extended throughout those parts of a building
which were manifestly designed and arranged for such use prior to the date when
such use of said building became nonconforming, if no structural alterations,
except those required by law, are made therein.
(Ord., passed - -79; Am. Ord. 1980-5, passed 7-7-80)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.052 NONCONFORMING USE MADE TO CONFORM.
   Whenever a nonconforming use has been changed to a conforming use, such use
shall not thereafter be changed to a nonconforming use.
(Ord., passed - -79)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.053 DISCONTINUANCE; USE CEASED.
   No building, structure or lot, or any part of a building, structure or lot,
where a nonconforming use has ceased for 90 days or more shall again be put to
a nonconforming use. If a dwelling unit that is a nonconforming use is vacant
or unoccupied for 90 days or more, the dwelling unit shall not be again put to
a nonconforming use.
(Ord., passed - -79; Am. Ord. 2013-012, passed 12-16-13) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.054 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   All uses nonconforming at the time of adoption of this chapter by reason of
noncompliance with the provisions of §§
152.090 through
152.092, if not otherwise stipulated by the Board, shall adopt necessary
measures to conform therewith within three years of the adoption of this
chapter.
(Ord., passed - -79; Am. Ord. 1980-5, passed 7-7-80)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.055 REPLACING DAMAGED BUILDINGS.
   Any nonconforming building or structure damaged more than 60% of its then
fair market value, exclusive of foundations at the time of damage by fire,
flood, explosion, wind, earthquake, war, riot or other calamity or act of God,
shall not be restored or reconstructed and used as before such occurrence, but
if less than 60% damaged above the foundation, it may be restored,
reconstructed or used as before, provided that it be done within six months of
such occurrence.
(Ord., passed - -79)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.056 REPAIRS AND ALTERATIONS; ADDING DWELLING UNITS.
   Such repairs and maintenance work as required to keep it in sound condition
may be made to a nonconforming building or structure, provided no structural
alterations and no addition of any dwelling units shall be made except such as
are required by law.
(Ord., passed - -79; Am. Ord. 2013-012, passed 12-16-13) Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.057 STREET-LEVEL AND FIRST-FLOOR RESIDENCES IN B-2 DISTRICT.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to prohibit the use of the street-
level, first-floor portion of any structure in the B-2 Community Business
District as shown on the Zoning Map from use and occupancy as a dwelling,
residence, boarding room, hotel room, motel room, or any other living area. It
shall be a nonconforming use for any person to use any part of the street-
level, first-floor portion of any structure in the B-2 Community Business
District as shown on the Zoning Map, as a dwelling, residence, boarding room,
hotel room, motel room, or any other living area, and any such use is hereby
prohibited. However, any structure in which the entire structure was originally
designed for use as a single-family residential dwelling, and where the entire
structure continues to be used as a single-family residential dwelling, may
continue to be used as a single-family residential dwelling unit even if a
portion of the single-family residential structure is located on the street-
level, first-floor portion of the structure.
   (B)   One intent of the B-2 Community Business District is to provide a
traditional center of commerce for the city. This district is characterized by
traditional and historic downtown development patterns and uses, including
buildings located close to the street and adjacent to pedestrian oriented
public sidewalks, and located close to a financial centers, government centers
and other retail and entertainment uses. Street-level, first-floor living areas
in this district are contrary to this intent.
(Ord. 2013-012, passed 12-16-13)
DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 152.070 AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Principal permitted uses. No building, structure or land shall be
erected, altered, enlarged or used which is arranged or designed for other than
one of the following uses, except as provided herein and in §§
152.050 through
152.056.
      (1)   Agricultural. Agriculture.
      (2)   Residential. One-family dwellings.
      (3)   Recreational. Noncommercial recreation facilities.
      (4)   Institutional and cultural. Churches; schools and colleges for
academic instruction; libraries.
      (5)   Club. Noncommercial clubs and lodges.
      (6)   Essential services. As defined in §
152.004.
      (7)   Sign. Subject to the provisions of §§
152.140 through
152.151.
      (8)   Sexually oriented business. Sexually oriented businesses subject to
the provisions of §§
152.170 et seq.
   (B)   Conditional uses. The following uses shall be permitted only if
expressly authorized by the Board.
      (1)   Residential. Trailer parks subject to the provisions of §§
152.125 through
152.128; tourist homes; lodging and boarding houses.
      (2)   Institutional. Hospitals; museums, art galleries and similar
cultural facilities.
      (3)   Recreational. Commercial recreation facilities.
      (4)   Storage and dumping. Dumps, sanitary landfills, junk yards, motor
vehicle wrecking yards and outdoor storage yards, provided that the use is
screened from neighboring properties, local streets and state and federal
numbered highways by natural objects and/or a well-maintained fence or wall at
least six feet in height, and further provided that all burning, dismantling
and compacting operations are conducted at least 100 feet from all lot lines.
      (5)   Airport and heliport. Provided that in addition to aviation
requirements which may be imposed by proper authority heliports shall comply
with the following requirements:
         (a)   The minimum unobstructed landing area shall be not less than 125
x 125 feet on the ground and not less than 40 x 40 feet on a rooftop;
         (b)   No landing area shall be developed or continued to be used
within a horizontal distance of 200 feet from the nearest wall of any other
building constructed to a height which exceeds that of the landing area;
         (c)   All open areas and landing pads shall be of hard surfaces; and
landing pads shall be enclosed by solid wall or chain link or similar fence not
less than three feet high and so located as not to obstruct the guide angle of
aircraft using said pad; and
         (d)   At least two approach lanes to each landing pad shall be
provided and maintained free of obstruction and shall be located not less than
90 degrees apart. Such approach lanes shall be located within 45 degrees left
or right of prevailing winds and shall fan out at an angle of 10 degrees from
the width of the landing pad to a width of 1,000 feet and shall have a guide
angle slope of 1:8.
      (6)   Utility. Public utility buildings necessary for the furnishing of
adequate service to the community.
      (7)   Cemetery.
      (8)   Extractive. Extraction of minerals and oil drilling subject to the
provisions of §§
152.195 through
152.197.
   (C)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses, buildings or structures customarily
incidental to any principal permitted or conditional use shall be permitted in
conjunction with such use, including the following:
      (1)   Residential. Living quarters for persons employed on the premises;
keeping of not more than four roomers or boarders by a resident family.
      (2)   Parking facility. Private garage or parking area, subject to the
provisions of §§
152.155 and
152.156.
      (3)   Home occupation. As defined in §
152.004, provided that not more than one- half the area of one floor of the
dwelling is devoted to such use.
      (4)   Temporary produce stand. On any premises used for agricultural
purposes.
      (5)   Sign. Subject to the provisions of §§
152.140 through
152.151.
      (6)   Temporary buildings. For uses incidental to construction.
   (D)   Height regulations. No structure shall exceed 2-1/2 stories or 30 feet
except as provided in §§
152.210 and
152.211.
   (E)   Lot area frontage and yard requirements. The following minimum
requirements shall apply except as provided in §§
152.030 through
152.040.
 
 
         Lot Area Acres  Lot Width ft.Front Yard Side Yard Rear Yard Depth
                                       Depth ft.  Width ft. ft.
All Uses 1              100            50         20        50
 
(Ord., passed - -79; Am. Ord. 1980-5, passed 7-7-80; Am. Ord. 98-12, passed 9-
1-98; Am. Ord. 1999-1, passed 1-1-99)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.071 R-1 ONE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Principal permitted uses. No building, structure or land shall be
erected, altered, enlarged or used which is arranged or designed for other than
one of the following uses except as provided herein and in §§
152.050 through
152.056.
      (1)   Agricultural. Agriculture, but not including animal and poultry
husbandry and dairying.
      (2)   Residential. One-family dwellings; residential planned development
projects subject to the provisions of §§
152.165 through
152.168.
      (3)   Institutional. Churches; schools and colleges for academic
instruction.
      (4)   Essential services. As defined in §
152.004.
   (B)   Conditional uses. The following uses shall be permitted only if
expressly authorized by the Board.
      (1)   Recreational. Commercial and noncommercial recreation facilities.
      (2)   Institutional. Hospitals, libraries.
      (3)   Club. Noncommercial clubs and lodges.
      (4)   Utility. Public utility buildings necessary for the furnishing of
adequate service to the area but not including general offices, garages,
warehouses or outdoor storage yards.
   (C)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses, buildings or structures customarily
incidental to any principal or conditional use shall be permitted in
conjunction with such use, including the following:
      (1)   Residential. The keeping of not more than two roomers or boarders
by a resident family.
      (2)   Domestic animal. The keeping of domestic animals exclusively for
the use and personal enjoyment of the occupants of the principal building but
not including a kennel.
      (3)   Parking facility. Parking garage or parking area subject to the
provisions of §§
152.155 and
152.156.
      (4)   Recreational. Private swimming pools.
      (5)   Home occupation. As defined in §
152.004 provided that not more than 1/4 of the area of one floor of the
dwelling is devoted to such use.
      (6)   Sign. Subject to the provisions of §§
152.140 through
152.151.
      (7)   Temporary buildings. For uses incidental to construction.
   (D)   Height regulations. No principal structure shall exceed 2-1/2 stories
or 30 feet and no accessory structure shall exceed one story or 15 feet, except
as provided in §§
152.210 and
152.211.
   (E)   Lot area, frontage and yard requirements. The following minimum
requirements shall apply, except as provided in §
152.030 through
152.040.
 
               Lot Area sq. Lot Width ft. Front Yard Side Yard Rear Yard Depth
               ft.                        Depth ft.  Depth ft. ft.
Dwellings
1 & 1-1/       10,000       75            25         10        35
2 stories
2 & 2-1/       10,000       75            25         12        35
2 stories
All Other Uses 20,000       100           25         15        35
 
   (F)   Courts. Whenever any room in which persons live or sleep cannot be
reasonably and adequately lighted and ventilated from a front, side or rear
yard, a court, conforming with the provisions of this section, shall be
provided on which such rooms shall open. Such court need not extend below the
lowest story it is required to serve.
      (1)   Outer court. A court which extends directly to and opens for its
full width on a front, side or rear yard, shall be not less than six inches
wide for each foot of height above the sill of the lowest window served by it
nor, in any case, less than six feet wide. The length of such court, measured
perpendicular to the width, shall not exceed twice such width unless such width
conforms to the requirements of §
152.071 (C)(11).
      (2)   Inner court. A court which does not extend directly to nor open for
its full width on a front, side or rear yard shall be not less than nine inches
wide for each foot of height above the sill of the lowest window served by it
nor, in any case, less than ten feet wide.
(Ord., passed - -79; Am. Ord. 1980-5, passed 7-7-80; Am. Ord. 1999-1, passed 1-
1-99)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.072 R-2 ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Principal permitted uses. No building, structure or land shall be
erected, altered, enlarged or used which is arranged or designed for other than
one of the following uses, except as provided herein and in §§
152.050 through
152.056.
      (1)   General. All principal permitted uses except agriculture permitted
and as regulated in the R-1 District except as modified herein.
      (2)   Residential. Two-family dwellings.
   (B)   Conditional uses. The following uses shall be permitted only if
expressly authorized by the Board.
      (1)   General. All conditional uses permitted and as regulated in the R-
1 District.
      (2)   Offices. Business and or professional offices which do not require
the keeping of a stock in trade in connection therewith; and which does not
include the purchase of goods; and for which the Board determines is not a
business or profession which will promote a high volume of traffic in and out
of such office and for which where is no exterior evidence other than minimal
signage identifying the business or profession, such as not to alter the
residential character of the neighborhood in which it is located. Business or
professional offices requiring large parking areas adjacent to, near or on the
premises in which the office is located shall not be permitted.
   (C)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses, buildings or structures customarily
incidental to any aforesaid principal or conditional use, shall be permitted in
conjunction with such use, including the following:
      (1)   General. All accessory uses permitted and as regulated in the R-
1 District except as modified herein.
      (2)   Residential. The keeping of not more than four roomers or boarders
by a resident family.
      (3)   Gardening. Gardening and the raising of vegetables or fruits
exclusively for the use and personal enjoyment of the occupants of the
principal building and not for commercial purposes.
   (D)   Height regulations. No dwelling shall exceed 2-1/2 stories or 35 feet
in height; no other principal structure shall exceed three stories or 40 feet
in height; and no accessory structure shall exceed two stories or 25 feet in
height, except as provided in §§
152.210 and
152.211.
   (E)   Lot area, frontage and yard requirements. The following minimum
requirements shall apply, except as provided in §
152.030 through
152.040.
 For Each One-Family Dwelling
 Unit
 Lot Area sq. Lot Width ft.    Front Yard Depth Side Yard Depth Rear Yard Depth
 ft.                           ft.              ft.             ft.
               For Each One-Family
               Dwelling Unit
               Lot Area sq. Lot Width ft. Front Yard Side Yard Rear Yard Depth
               ft.                        Depth ft.  Depth ft. ft.
Dwellings
1 & 1-1/       5,000        50            25         6         35
2 stories
2 & 2-1/       5,000        50            25         15        35
2 stories
Other          10,000       100           25         15        35
Permitted Uses
 
   (F)   Courts. Same as required in the R-1 District.
(Ord., passed - -79; Am. Ord. 1980-5, passed 7-7-80; Am. Ord. 2002-03, passed
3-13-02)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.073 R-3 MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Principal permitted uses. No building, structure or land shall be
erected, altered, enlarged or used which is arranged or designed for other than
one of the following uses, except as provided herein and in §§
152.050 through
152.056.
      (1)   General. All principal permitted uses permitted and as regulated in
the R-2 District except as modified herein.
      (2)   Residential. Multi-family dwellings; boarding and lodging houses.
      (3)   Institutional. Hospitals, but not including those primarily or
exclusively for the care of epileptics, drug addicts, the feebleminded or
insane, or for contagious diseases; libraries, museums, art galleries and
similar cultural facilities.
      (4)   Club. Noncommercial clubs and lodges.
      (5)   Recreational. Noncommercial recreation facilities.
      (6)   Services. Funeral homes and mortuaries.
   (B)   Conditional uses. The following uses shall be permitted only if
expressly authorized by the Board.
      (1)   General. All conditional uses permitted and as regulated in the R-
2 District except as modified herein.
      (2)   Residential. Trailer parks, subject to the provisions of §§
152.125 through
152.128.
      (3)   Motels, motor hotels and tourist homes. On lots that front only on
a street officially designated as a state or federal highway, and subject to
the provisions of §§
152.125 through
152.128.
   (C)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses, buildings or structures customarily
incidental to any aforesaid principal or conditional use shall be permitted in
conjunction with such use, including the following:
      (1)   General. All accessory uses permitted and as regulated in the R-
2 District except as modified herein.
      (2)   Home occupation. As defined in §
152.004 provided that not more than one-half the area of one floor of the
dwelling is devoted to such use.
   (D)   Height regulations. No one-family or two-family dwellings shall exceed
2-1/2 stories or 35 feet in height; no other principal structure shall exceed a
maximum height of 60 feet; and no accessory structure shall exceed 2 stories or
25 feet except as provided in §§
152.210 and
152.211.
   (E)   Lot area, frontage and yard requirements. The following minimum
requirements shall be observed except as provided in §
152.030 through
152.040.
 Lot Area Lot Area Per Maximum    Lot Frontage Front Yard Side Yard Rear Yard
 sq. ft.  Family sq.   Floor Area ft.          Depth ft.  Depth ft. Depth ft.
          ft.          Ratio*
                   Lot Area Maximum    Lot
          Lot Area Per      Floor Area Frontage Front Yard Side Yard Rear Yard
          sq. ft.  Family   Ratio*     ft.      Depth ft.  Depth ft. Depth ft.
                   sq. ft.
One- &
Two-      Same as required in the R-2 District
Family
Dwellings
Multi-
Family
Dwellings
1 & 1-1/  6,000    1,800    .40        50       25         6         30
2 stories
2 & 2-1/  8,000    1,600    .60        50       25         8         30
2 stories
3 & 3-1/  8,000    1,400    .80        65       25         10        35
2 stories
4 or more 10,000   1,400    1.00       80       25         15        40
stories
Other
Permitted 10,000                       100      25         15        40
Uses
 
*Ratio of total building floor area including all habitable rooms and any
common areas which are above ground level to lot area.
   (F)   Courts. Same as required in the R-1 District.
(Ord., passed - -79; Am. Ord. 1980-5, passed 7-7-80)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.074 B-1 NEIGHBORHOOD BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Principal permitted uses. No building, structure or land shall be
erected, altered, enlarged or used which is arranged or designed for other than
one of the following uses except as provided herein and in §§
152.050 through
152.056.
      (1)   General. All principal permitted uses permitted and as regulated in
the R-3 District except as modified herein.
      (2)   Retail and service. Any local small (as set forth in division (E))
retail business or service establishment supplying commodities or performing
services primarily for residents of the neighborhood on a day-to-day basis
including grocery stores, drug stores, barber shops, beauty parlors, apparel
stores, self-laundry stores, antique shops, craft/artist supply stores and
interior decorating supply stores.
   (B)   Conditional uses. The following uses shall be permitted only if
expressly authorized by the Board.
      (1)   General. All conditional uses permitted and as regulated in the R-
3 District except as modified herein.
      (2)   Eating place. Restaurants whose primary purpose is to serve food,
and ice cream parlors, not to include adult entertainment or dancing.
      (3)   Clinic. Any clinic whose principal use is to provide human health
services.
      (4)   Retail and service. Any retail business or service establishment
not a principal permitted use and which is determined by the Board to be of the
same general character as one of the principal permitted uses; but not
including those uses which are first permitted, or are not permitted, in the B-
2 District, unless demonstrated as necessary for normal day-to-day needs.
      (5)   Office. Business and/or professional offices, or office buildings.
      (6)   Bank. Including drive-in banks and savings and loan associations.
   (C)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses, buildings or structures customarily
incidental to any aforesaid principal permitted or conditional use shall be
permitted in conjunction with such use including the following:
      (1)   General. Accessory uses permitted and as regulated in the R-
3 District.
      (2)   Nonresidential. Accessory uses and structures customarily accessory
and incidental to any of the foregoing permitted B-1 nonresidential uses and
including off-street parking facilities subject to the provisions of §§
152.105 through
152.112,
152.155 and
152.156, and business signs subject to the provisions of §§
152.140 through
152.151.
   (D)   Required conditions.
      (1)   Business in enclosed buildings. All businesses, services or
processing shall be conducted wholly within a completely enclosed building
except for off-street parking and such outdoor displays as are required for the
sale of seasonal merchandise, not to exceed 16 weeks per calendar year.
      (2)   Production for sale at retail. All products produced on the
premises whether primary or incidental shall be sold at retail primarily on the
premises where produced.
      (3)   Uses must be nonobjectionable. Processes and equipment employed and
goods processed or sold shall be limited to those which are not objectionable
by any reason of odor, dust, smoke, cinders, gas, fumes, noise, vibration,
refuse matter or water-carried waste.
      (4)   New merchandise. Goods for sale shall consist primarily of new
merchandise.
   (E)   Height regulations. No principal structure shall exceed three stories
or 40 feet in height and no accessory structure shall exceed two stories or 25
feet in height, except as provided in §§
152.210 and
152.211.
   (F)   Building square footage. No building shall exceed 3,000 square feet in
size.
   (F)   Lot area, frontage and yard regulations. The following minimum
requirements shall be observed, except as provided in §
152.030 through
152.040.
 
               Lot Area ft. Lot Frontage Front Yard Side Yard     Rear Yard
                            ft.          Depth ft.  Width ft.     Depth ft.
                                                    Ten feet,     Ten feet,
                                                    except  when  except  when
Nonresidential None         None         20         adjoining an  adjoining an
Uses                                                R-District -  R-District -
                                                    then no less  then no less
                                                    than 20 feet. than 20 feet.
Residential    Same as required in the R-3 District.
 
(Ord., passed - -79; Am. Ord. 1980-5, passed 7-7-80; Am. Ord. 1999-2, passed 2-
1-99)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.075 B-2 COMMUNITY BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Principal permitted uses. No building, structure or land shall be
erected, altered, enlarged or used which is arranged or designed for other than
one of the following uses, except as provided herein and in §§
152.050 through
152.056.
      (1)   General. All principal permitted uses permitted and as regulated in
the B-1 District, except as modified herein.
      (2)   Commercial. Any retail business, service establishment or office
serving primarily customers outside local neighborhoods.
         (a)   Retail and services. Retail business or service establishments
including supermarkets, fruit and vegetable stores, garden supply stores,
furniture and appliance stores, dry cleaning or dyeing establishments,
department stores, variety and dime stores, hardware stores, laundries, used
merchandise stores, mail order houses.
         (b)   Eating and drinking establishments. Restaurants, bars, cocktail
lounges, liquor sales, soda fountains and ice cream parlors; drive-in eating
and drinking places, provided the principal building is a distance of not less
than 100 feet from any R District.
         (c)   Entertainment. Nightclubs, theaters, billiard parlors, bowling
alleys and similar enterprises, but not within 100 feet of any R District and
subject to all applicable regulations and such permits as may be required by
law, including the restrictions and regulations for sexually oriented
businesses as set forth within
Chapter 114, §
152.070 and §§
152.170 -
152.172.
         (d)   School and studio. Trade or business schools provided machinery
which is used for instruction purposes is not objectionable due to noise,
fumes, smoke, odor or vibration; photographic studios, dancing studios, radio
and telecasting studios, and the like.
         (e)   Hotel. Hotels; motels and motor hotels, subject to the
provisions of §§
152.125 through
152.128.
         (f)   Motor vehicle service. Motor vehicle display, hire and sales
subject to the provisions of §§
152.155 and
152.156. Also major and minor motor vehicle repair including sales lots, used
car lots, repair garages, body and fender shops, paint shops, subject to the
provisions of §§
152.155 through
152.156, and further provided that buildings shall be at least 100 feet from
any R District and shall have no openings adjoining an R District other than
stationary windows and fire escapes.
         (g)   Parking facility. Public or private parking garages or areas
subject to the provisions of §§
152.105 through
152.112,
152.155 and
152.156.
         (h)   Printing and related trade. Publishing, job printing,
lithographing, blue printing, etc.
         (i)   Public utility. Public utility buildings and structures
necessary for providing service to the area, but not including warehouses,
storage yards or garages.
         (j)   Commercial recreation facility.
         (k)   Essential services. As defined in §
152.004.
         (l)   Clinics, offices and banks. Medical clinics, professional
business offices and banks, including "drive-thru" services, and savings and
loan associations.
   (B)   Conditional uses. The following uses shall be permitted only if
expressly authorized by the Board.
      (1)   General. All conditional uses permitted and as regulated in the R-
3 District, except as modified herein.
      (2)   Retail and service. Any other retail business or service
establishment or use which is determined by the Board to be of the same general
character as one of the permitted uses, but not including any such use which is
first permitted or which is not permitted in the M District.
   (C)   Accessory uses. Accessory use, buildings or structures customarily
incidental to any aforesaid principal permitted or conditional use shall be
permitted in conjunction with such use, including the following:
      (1)   General. Accessory uses and structures as permitted and as
regulated in the B-1 District, as well as accessory uses and structures not
otherwise prohibited customarily accessory and incidental to any of the
foregoing permitted B-2 uses.
      (2)   Signs. Subject to the provisions of §§
152.140 through
152.151.
      (3)   Temporary buildings. For uses incidental to construction.
   (D)   Required conditions. All conditions as specified for the B-1 District.
   (E)   Height regulations. Same as required in the B-1 District.
   (F)   Lot area, frontage and yard requirements.
      (1)   The following minimum requirements shall be observed for lot areas
of less than 20,000 square feet, except as provided in §
152.030 through
152.040.
         (a)   Nonresidential uses: None.
         (b)   Residential uses: Same as required in the R-3 District.
      (2)   The following minimum requirements shall be observed for lot areas
of 20,000 square feet or greater, except as provided in §§
152.030 through
152.040.
 
         Lot Area Sq. Lot Width Ft. Front Yard Side Yard Width Rear Yard Depth
         Ft.                        Depth Ft.  Ft.             Ft.
All uses 20,000+      100           40         20              40
 
   (G)   Courts. Same as required in the R-1 District.
(Ord., passed - -79; Am. Ord. 1980-5, passed 7-7-80; Am. Ord. 1999-1, passed 1-
1-99; Am. Ord. 1999-2, passed 2-1-99)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.076 B-3 COMMUNITY BUSINESS AND RETAIL SHOPPING DISTRICT.
   (A)   Principal permitted uses. No building, structure or land shall be
erected, altered, enlarged or used which is arranged or designed for other than
one of the following uses, except as provided herein and in §§
152.050 through
152.056.
      (1)   General. All principal permitted uses permitted and as regulated in
the B-1 District, except as modified herein.
      (2)   Commercial. Any retail business, service establishment or office
serving primarily customers outside local neighborhoods.
         (a)   Retail and services. Retail business or service establishments
including supermarkets fruit and vegetable stores, garden supply stores
furniture and appliance stores, dry cleaning or dyeing establishments
department stores varied and dime stores, hardware stores, laundries, used
merchandise stores, mail order houses.
         (b)   Eating and drinking establishments. Restaurants, bars, cocktail
lounges, liquor sales, soda fountains and ice cream parlors; drive-in eating
and drinking places, provided the principal building is a distance of not less
than 100 feet from any R District.
         (c)   Entertainment. Nightclubs, theaters, clubs, theaters, billiard
parlors, bowling alleys and similar enterprises, but not within 100 feet of any
R District and subject to all applicable regulations and such permits as maybe
required by law, including the restrictions and regulations for sexually
oriented businesses as set forth within
Chapter 114, and §
152.070 and §§
152.170 through
152.172.
         (d)   School and studio. Trade or business schools provided machinery
which is used for instruction purposes is not objectionable due to noise,
fumes, smoke, odor or vibration; photographic studios, dancing studios, radio
and telecasting studios, and the like.
         (e)   Hotel. Hotels; motels and motor hotels, subject to the
provisions of §§
152.125 through
152.128.
         (f)   Motor vehicle service. Motor vehicle display, hire and sales
subject to the provisions §§
152.155 and
152.156. Also major and minor motor vehicle repair including sales lots, used
car lots, repair garages, body and fender shops, paint shops, subject to the
provisions §§
152.155 through
152.156, and further provided that buildings shall be at least 100 feet from
any R District and shall have no openings adjoining an R District other than
stationary windows and fire escapes.
         (g)   Parking facility. Public or private parking garages or areas
subject to the provisions of §§
152.105 through
152.112,
152.155 and
152.156.
         (h)   Printing and related trade. Publishing, job printing,
lithographing, blue printing, and the like.
         (i)   Public utility. Public utility buildings and structures
necessary for providing service to the area, but not including warehouses,
storage yards or garages.
         (j)    Commercial recreation facility,
         (k)   Essential services as defined in §
152.004.
         (l)   Clinics, offices and banks. Medical clinics, professional
business offices and banks, including "drive-thru" services, and savings and
loan associations.
         (m)   Sexually oriented businesses. Sexually oriented businesses
subject to the provisions of §§
152.170 et seq.
   (B)   Conditional uses. The following uses shall be permitted only if
expressly authorized by the Board.
      (1)   General. All conditional uses permitted and as regulated in the R-
3 District, except as modified herein.
      (2)   Retail and service. Any other retail business or service
establishment or use which is determined by the Board to be of the same general
character as one of the permitted uses, but not including any such use which is
first permitted or which is not permitted in the M District.
   (C)   Accessory uses. Accessory use, buildings or structures customarily
incidental to any aforesaid principal permitted or conditions use shall be
permitted in conjunction with such use, including the following:
      (1)   General. Accessory uses and structures as permitted and as
regulated in the B-1District, as well as accessory uses and structures not
otherwise prohibited customarily accessory and incidental to any of the
foregoing permitted B-2 uses.
      (2)   Signs. Subject to the provisions of §§
152.140 through
152.151.
      (3)   Temporary buildings. For uses incidental to construction.
   (D)   Required conditions. All conditions as specified for the B-1 District.
   (E)   Height regulations. Same as required in the B-1 District.
   (F)   Lot area, frontage and yard requirements.
      (1)   The following minimum requirements shall be observed for lot areas
of less than 20,000 square feet, except as provided in §§
152.030 through
152.040.
         (a)   Nonresidential uses: none.
         (b)   Residential uses: same as required in the R-3 District.
      (2)   The following minimum requirements shall be observed for lot areas
of less than 20,000 square feet or greater, except as provided in §§
152.030 through
152.040.
 
         Lot Area Lot Width Front Yard Side Yard  Rear Yard
         Sq. Ft.  Ft.       Depth Ft.  Width Ft.  Depth Ft.
All uses 20,000+  100       40         20         40
 
   (G)   Courts. Same as required in R-1 District.
(Ord. 2002-9, passed 7-11-02)
§ 152.077 M GENERAL MANUFACTURING DISTRICT.
   (A)   Principal permitted uses. No building, structure or land shall be
erected, altered, enlarged or used which is arranged or designed for other than
one of the following uses except as provided herein and in §§
152.050 through
152.056.
      (1)   General. All nonresidential principal permitted uses permitted and
as regulated in the B-2 and HS Districts, except as hereinafter specified or
modified.
      (2)   Manufacturing. The manufacturing, compounding, processing,
packaging and assembling of:
         (a)   Bakery goods, candy, cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, toiletries, and
food products; except fish or meat products, sauerkraut, vinegar, yeast, the
rendering or refining of fats or oils and the distillation of alcoholic
beverages.
         (b)   Products from the following previously prepared materials: bone,
canvas, cellophane, cloth, cork, feathers, fibre, fur, glass, hair, horn,
leather, paper, plastics, precious or semiprecious metals or stones, sheet
metal (except where presses over 20 tons rated capacity are employed), shell,
textiles, tobacco, wax, wood (except where saw and planing mills are employed),
yarns.
         (c)   Pottery and figurines, using previously pulverized clay, and
kilns fired only with gas or electricity.
         (d)   Musical instruments, toys, novelties, rubber or metal stamps and
other small rubber products.
         (e)   Electrical and electric appliances, instruments and devices,
television sets, radios, phonographs.
         (f)   Electric and neon signs, billboards and other commercial
advertising structures; light sheet metal products including heating and
ventilating equipment, cornices, eaves and the like.
      (3)   Animal hospital, veterinary clinic, etc. Animal hospitals, kennels,
display and housing or boarding of pets and other domestic animals, provided
that any enclosure or building in which the animals are kept shall be at least
100 feet from any R District and at least 50 feet from any B District. Exercise
runs shall be enclosed on four sides by an unpierced well-maintained fence or
wall at least six feet in height.
      (4)   Building and related trade. Carpenter shops, electrical, plumbing,
paint shops, heating shops, paper-hanging shops, furniture upholstering and
similar enterprises but not within 50 feet of any R District.
      (5)   Wholesale. Any wholesale business including incidental warehousing;
commercial greenhouses.
      (6)   Warehousing and truck terminals. Warehouses for the storage of
merchandise and materials, trucking or motor freight stations or terminals and
carting, expressing or hauling establishments, providing such uses are
conducted wholly within a completely enclosed building or buildings except for
storage of vehicles; and further provided that no part of such building or
buildings shall have any opening other than stationary windows or required fire
exits within 200 feet of any R District.
      (7)   Laboratories. Experimental, film or testing laboratories, provided
no operation shall be conducted or equipment used which would create hazards,
noxious or offensive conditions.
      (8)   The following uses: Provided no part of a building occupied by such
uses shall have any opening other than stationary windows or required fire
exits within 100 feet of any R District.
         (a)   Blacksmith, welding or other metal working shop, excluding punch
presses over 20 tons rated capacity, drop hammers and other noise-producing
machine-operated tools; machine shops, cooperage works.
         (b)   Foundry, casting lightweight nonferrous metals, or electric
foundry not causing noxious fumes or odors.
         (c)   Bag, carpet and rag cleaning, provided necessary equipment is
installed and operated for the effective precipitation or recovery of dust.
         (d)   Ice manufacturing and cold storage plant.
         (e)   Bottling of soft drinks, milk, alcoholic products or other
beverages and distribution stations therefor.
      (9)   The following uses: When located not less than 200 feet from any R
District.
         (a)   Inflammable liquids, underground storage only, not to exceed
25,000 gallons.
         (b)   Building materials sales yards, including concrete mixing;
lumber yards including millwork, open yards for storage; sale of feed and/or
fuel; and contractors' equipment storage.
         (c)   Retail lumber yards including incidental millwork, building
material yards; storage and sales of grain, livestock, feed or fuel; provided
such uses are conducted within an area completely enclosed on all sides with a
solid wall or uniformly painted solid board fence not less than six feet high.
      (10)   The following uses: When located not less than 500 feet from any R
District, and not less than 200 feet from any other district: distilleries.
      (11)   Public utilities. Public utility buildings and facilities.
      (12)   Motor vehicle service. Farm implements, trucks and trailers for
sale, display, hire or major repair, including sales lots, trailer lots, repair
garages, subject to the provisions of §§
152.155 and
152.156, and provided that buildings shall be at least 100 feet from any R
District, and shall have no openings adjoining an R District other than
stationary windows and fire escapes.
   (B)   Conditional uses. The following uses shall be permitted only if
expressly authorized by the Board.
      (1)   General. Any other use not prohibited by division (D) of this
section and that is determined by the Board not to be injurious or detrimental
to the public health, safety, comfort, morals, convenience or general public
welfare or to neighboring property and subject to such terms and conditions,
including the performance standards requirements set forth in §§
152.090 through
152.092, deemed necessary by the Board to protect the above enumerated
interests.
   (C)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses, buildings or structures customarily
incidental to any aforesaid principal permitted or conditional use shall be
permitted in conjunction with such use, including the following:
      (1)   Heliport. Subject to the conditions and requirements of §
152.070 (B)(5).
   (D)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   Dwellings, etc. Dwellings and residences of any kind, including
motels, trailer parks; schools, hospitals, clinics and other institutions for
human care, except where incidental to a permitted principal use; provided,
however, that any of the aforesaid uses legally existing in the M-1 District at
the time of adoption of this chapter, or any amendment thereof, shall not be
classified as a nonconforming use as defined in §
152.004 and shall not be subject to the provisions of §§
152.050 through
152.056.
      (2)   Offensive uses - not to be authorized. No use shall be permitted or
authorized to be established or maintained which, when conducted under adequate
conditions and safeguards in compliance with the provisions of this chapter,
and any additional conditions or requirements prescribed by the Board, is
hazardous, noxious or offensive, due to the emission of odor, dust, smoke,
cinders, gas, fumes, noise, vibration, beat frequency, refuse matter, or water-
carried waste.
   (E)   Height regulations. Within 200 feet of any R District, no structure
shall exceed four stories or 50 feet in height, and no structure in any case
shall exceed in height the distance measured to the center line of any
adjoining street; except as provided in §§
152.210 and
152.211.
   (F)   Lot area, frontage and yard requirements. The following minimum
requirements shall be observed, except as otherwise provided in §§
152.212 through
152.215,
152.225 and
152.226.
 
               Lot Area Lot Frontage Front Yard Side Yard Width Rear Yard Depth
                                     Depth
                                                                1 story: 40 ft.
                                                None, except    2 stories: 50
                                                when adjoining  ft.
Nonresidential None     None         20 ft.     R District -    3 stories: 60
                                                then not less   ft.
                                                than 50 feet.   Five feet more
                                                                each additional
                                                                story.
Existing       Same as required in the R-3 District.
Residential:
 
   (G)   Courts. Same as required in the R-3 District.
(Ord., passed - -79; Am. Ord. 1980-5, passed 7-7-80; Am. Ord. 1999-2, passed 2-
1-99; Am. Ord. 2002-9, passed 7-11-02)
Penalty, see § 152.999
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
§ 152.090 CERTAIN CONDITIONS ADVERSELY AFFECTING ADJOINING PREMISES OR
SURROUNDING AREA PROHIBITED.
   General requirements. No land or structure, in any district, shall be used
or occupied in any manner so as to create any dangerous, injurious, noxious or
otherwise objectionable fire, explosive, or other hazard, including potential
hazards; noise or vibration; smoke, dust, odor or other form of air pollution;
heat, cold, dampness, electrical or other substance, condition or element
(referred to herein as "dangerous or objectionable elements"); in such a manner
or in such amount as to adversely affect the adjoining premises or surrounding
area; provided that any use permitted or not expressly prohibited by this
chapter may be undertaken and maintained if it conforms to the provisions of
this subchapter limiting dangerous and objectionable elements at the point of
the determination of their existence.
(Ord., passed - -79)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.091 EXISTING USES.
   (A)   Performance standards; review. Whenever it is alleged that a use of
land or structure creates or is likely to create or otherwise produce dangerous
or objectionable elements, the Board shall make a preliminary investigation of
the matter and shall forward its report, together with all preliminary findings
and evidence to the Common Council. In the event that the Board concurs in the
allegation that there exist or are likely to be created such dangerous or
objectionable elements, it shall request the Common Council to authorize the
employment of a competent specialist or testing laboratory for the purpose of
determining the nature and extent of said dangerous or objectionable elements
and of practicable means of remedying such condition.
   (B)   Enforcement. Upon receipt of the findings and recommendations of such
specialist or laboratory, the Board may approve, partially approve, or
disapprove the measures recommended therein and instruct the Zoning Inspector
to proceed with the enforcement of said measures in accordance with the
provisions of §§
152.295 through
152.299 of this chapter.
   (C)   Cost of investigation, etc. The city shall bear the costs of the
various tests, consultant fees or other investigations which are required
herein; provided, however, that the owner of the property under investigation
shall reimburse the city for all such expenses in the event that operation or
use of said property is found to be in violation of the provisions of this
subchapter by the Board or, if contested, by a court of competent jurisdiction.
Such reimbursement shall be made within 30 days from the date of the final
Board ruling or court judgment.
(Ord., passed - -79; Am. Ord. 1980-5, passed 7-7-80)
§ 152.092 NEW USES.
   (A)   Review of application for improvement location permit. Applications
for improvement location permits, together with plans and specifications for
the manufacture or processing of materials listed in division (B)(1) of this
section, and of such other uses which may be of similar character, in the
opinion of the Zoning Inspector, shall be referred by him to the Board. The
Board, in cases where indicated, shall cause such plans and specifications to
be examined by competent specialist or laboratory in the manner prescribed in §
152.091 (A).
   (B)   Uses subject to review. The following uses shall be subject to such
performance standard review:
      (1)   Manufacturing. Primary production of the following products from
raw materials: asphalt, cement, charcoal, and fuel briquettes; aniline dyes,
ammonia, carbide, caustic soda, cellulose, chlorine, carbon black and bone
black, creosote, hydrogen and oxygen, industrial alcohol, nitrates of explosive
nature, potash, plastic materials and synthetic resins, pyroxylin, rayon yarn
and hydrochloric, nitric, phosphoric, picric, and sulfuric acids; coal, coke
and tar products, explosives, fertilizers, gelatin, animal glue and size; gas
manufacturing, unless incidental to a principal use; turpentine, matches,
rubber, soaps, fat rendering.
      (2)   Processing. Primary processing of the following: nitration of
cotton or other materials; magnesium foundry; reduction, refining, smelting of
metal or metal ores; refining of petroleum products, such as gasoline,
kerosene, naphtha, curing or tanning of raw, green or salted hides or skins;
melting and alloying of metals; stockyards, slaughter houses, except for
poultry; slag piles, storage of fireworks or explosives, except where
incidental to a principal use.
   (C)   Continual compliance. Any use authorized under the provisions of this
subchapter shall comply continually therewith and shall remedy any additional
dangerous or objectionable elements which may develop in the course of its
operation.
   (D)   Costs of review. The applicant shall bear the actual costs of all
tests and investigations required under §
152.091 (C), which shall be in addition to the usual fees prescribed by this
chapter.
(Ord., passed - -79; Am. Ord. 1980-5, passed 7-7-80)
Penalty, see § 152.999
OFF-STREET LOADING AND PARKING REGULATIONS
§ 152.105 OFF-STREET LOADING SPACES.
   (A)   Off-street loading space.
      (1)   When required. In any district in connection with any building or
part thereof hereafter erected or altered, which is to be occupied by
industrial, warehousing, wholesale commercial, retail commercial, service or
other uses requiring the receipt or distribution by truck of materials or
merchandise, there shall be provided and maintained off-street loading spaces
in accordance with the following schedule:
Required Floor Area of Building Square Feet Number of Off-Street Loading Spaces
Required Floor Area of Building Square Feet Number of Off-Street Loading Spaces
Less than 10,000                            0
10,000 to 19,999                            1
20,000 to 39,999                            2
40,000 to 59,999                            3
60,000 to 79,999                            4
80,000 to 99,999                            5
 
Where the floor area of the building is 100,000 square feet or more, the number
of off-street loading spaces shall be determined by the Board.
      (2)   Minimum size of space. Each loading space shall be not less than
ten feet in width, 50 feet in length and 14 feet in height.
      (3)   Location of space. Loading spaces shall be located on the same lot
with the building they are intended to serve and may occupy all or any part of
any required yard, provided no such space shall be closer than 50 feet from any
other lot located in any R District unless wholly within a completely enclosed
building or enclosed on all sides by a well-maintained wall or uniformly
painted solid board fence not less than six feet in height.
      (4)   Access to space. There shall be adequate provision for ingress and
egress. Where a lot does not abut on a public or private street, alley or
easement of access, there shall be provided an access drive leading to the
loading spaces required hereunder; such access drive shall not be less than 18
feet in width, and shall not be located in any R District except where provided
in connection with a use permitted in the particular R District.
      (5)   Community Business District exempt. The loading space requirements
of this section shall not apply to the B-2 Community Business District as shown
on the Zoning Map, provided that loading facilities, if voluntarily
established, shall comply with the above standards and specifications regarding
size and location.
   (B)   Accessory off-street parking space.
      (1)   When required. In all districts, in connection with every
residential, office, retail commercial, service, wholesale commercial,
industrial, institutional, recreational, or other use, there shall be provided,
at the time any use and/or building or structure is erected or enlarged or
increased in capacity, off-street parking spaces for automobiles in accordance
with the requirements herein. Such spaces may be provided either in garages or
parking areas conforming with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Location. Accessory off-street parking spaces shall be located in
the same or a less restricted district as those in which the principal use is
permitted; provided, however, that the Board may authorize, as a conditional
use subject to the provisions of §§
152.235 through
152.244, the establishment and operation of accessory off-street parking
facilities in such sections of any R District which abut either directly or
across an alley any B or M District subject to the following requirements:
      (a)   Such parking area shall be accessory to one or more business or
industrial establishments located in said adjoining B or M District.
      (b)   Each entrance and exit of such parking area shall be distant at
least 20 feet from any adjacent lot in any R District.
      (c)   No sign of any kind shall be established and maintained on such
parking area except signs used for the direction of traffic.
      (d)   No motor vehicle repair work or other services shall be conducted
on such parking area.
      (e)   Such parking area shall be subject to all applicable requirements
of this subchapter and to any additional requirements or conditions which may
be determined necessary by the Board for the protection of adjacent property.
(Ord., passed - -79; Am. Ord. 1980-5, passed 7-7-80)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.106 NUMBER OF PARKING SPACES REQUIRED.
   (A)   The number of off-street parking spaces required shall be as set forth
in the following:
Use                                     Parking Spaces Required
Bowling alleys                          5 for each alley
Churches, auditoriums, theaters,        1 for each eight seats or 100 square
arenas, dance and assembly halls        feet of floor space; whichever is
                                        greater
Dwellings                               2 for each family or dwelling unit
                                        4 for each parlor or 1 for each 50
Funeral homes                           square feet of floor area; whichever is
                                        greater
Hospitals                               1 for each four beds
Hotels                                  1 for each unit
Libraries, museums, art galleries and   1 for each 500 square feet of floor
similar cultural facilities             area
Medical or dental clinics               1 for each 200 square feet of floor
                                        area
Motels                                  1 for each unit
Restaurants, beer parlors and           1 for each 50 square feet of floor area
nightclubs
Retail businesses, service              1 for each 400 square feet of floor
establishments and offices under 2,000  area
square feet in floor area
Retail businesses, service              1 for each 200 square square feet of
establishments and offices 2,000 square floor area
feet or over in floor area
                                        1 for each three faculty and staff
Schools                                 members plus 1 for each ten students at
                                        the high school or college level
Trailer parks                           2 for each trailer space plus 1
                                        additional for each four such spaces
                                        1 for each three employees on the
Wholesale commercial, ware-housing,     maximum shift or for each 3,000 square
manufacturing and industrial uses       feet of floor area; whichever is
                                        greater
 
   (B)   Uses not listed. In the case of any building, structure, or premises,
the use of which is not specifically mentioned herein, the provisions for a use
which is so mentioned and to which said use is similar shall apply.
   (C)   Units of measurement. For the purposes of this section, the following
units of measurement shall apply:
      (1)   In the case of offices, merchandising or service types of uses,
"floor area" shall mean the gross floor area used or intended to be used by
tenants or for service to the public as customers, patrons, clients or
patients, including areas occupied by fixtures and equipment used for the
display or sale of merchandise. It shall not include areas used principally for
nonpublic purposes, such as storage, incidental repair, processing or packing
of merchandise, for show windows, for offices incidental to the management or
maintenance of stores or buildings, for toilet or rest rooms, for utilities, or
for dressing rooms, fitting or alteration rooms.
      (2)   In hospitals, bassinets shall not be counted as beds.
      (3)   In places of public assembly in which patrons or spectators occupy
benches, pews, or other such seating facilities, each 20 inches of such seating
facilities shall be counted as one seat.
(Ord., passed - -79; Am. Ord. 1993-3, passed 5-3-93)
§ 152.107 CHANGE IN USE; ADDITION AND ENLARGEMENTS.
   Whenever on any lot or in any building there is a change in use or an
increase in floor area or in the number of employees or other unit of
measurement hereinbefore specified for the determination of required off-street
parking spaces, additional off-street parking facilities shall be provided on
the basis of the increased requirements of the new use or other unit of
measurement; provided, however, that in case such change in use creates a need
for increase in off-street parking spaces of less than 10% of the parking
facilities previously required, no additional parking facilities shall be
required.
(Ord., passed - -79)
§ 152.108 COLLECTIVE PROVISION.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to prevent collective
provision of accessory off-street parking facilities for two or more buildings
or uses, provided that the total of such off-street parking spaces supplied
collectively shall not be less than the sum of the requirements for the various
uses computed separately.
(Ord., passed - -79)
§ 152.109 COMMUNITY BUSINESS DISTRICT; REQUIREMENTS AND EXEMPTIONS; PUBLIC
PARKING FEES.
   (A)   The parking space requirements in §
152.106 shall not apply to the B-2 Community Business District as shown on the
Zoning Map, provided that parking facilities, if voluntarily established, shall
comply with all standards and specifications set forth in §
152.110 (A) and (B). Notwithstanding this provision, all parking space
requirements in §
152.106 related to dwelling, hotels or motels, shall apply to the B-2 Community
Business District, unless otherwise approved and authorized by the Board.
   (B)   Within the B-2 Community Business District as shown on the Zoning Map,
public off-street parking lots or spaces owned and maintained by the city shall
not be used to meet the dwelling, hotel, or motel parking space requirements in
§
152.106. Within the B-2 Community Business District, off-street parking space
requirements in §
152.106 for dwellings, hotels, or motels, must be established on lots, or in
garages, owned or leased by the owner of the dwelling, hotel, or motel
structure, unless otherwise approved and authorized by the Board.
   (C)   If the Board approves or authorizes use of public, off-street, parking
spaces to meet the parking space requirements in §
152.106 within the B-2 Community Business District as shown on the zoning map,
the owner of each dwelling, hotel, or motel unit requiring off-street parking
shall pay an annual public, off-street, parking fee of $250 per required
parking space. This annual parking fee shall be paid each year by January 1 to
the Clerk Treasurer of the city, and shall be prorated if paid after January 1
in the first year of payment. Use of the unit shall immediately become
nonconforming if the fee is not paid by January 1 of each calendar year.
(Ord., passed - -79; Am. Ord. 1980-5, passed 7-7-80; Am. Ord. 2013-012, passed
12-16-13)
§ 152.110 STANDARDS FOR ACCESSORY OFF-STREET PARKING.
   (A)   Minimum size of space. Each off-street parking space shall be at least
nine feet in width and at least 20 feet in length exclusive of access drives,
aisles or columns. Except in the case of dwellings, no parking area provided
hereunder shall be less than 1,000 square feet in area.
   (B)   Access to space. There shall be adequate provision for ingress and
egress. Where a lot does not abut on a public or private street, alley or
easement of access, there shall be provided an access drive leading to the
parking areas or spaces required hereunder; such access drive shall not be less
than eight feet in width in the case of a dwelling and not less than 18 feet in
width in all other cases; provided, however, that one-way aisles for either
ingress or egress for uses other than dwellings may be reduced to not less than
ten feet in width. Such access drives shall not be located in any R District
except where provided in connection with a use permitted in the particular R
District.
(Ord., passed - -79)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.111 DEVELOPMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF OFF-STREET PARKING AREAS.
   Every lot hereinafter used as a public or private parking area, including a
public parking lot as well as motor vehicle and trailer sales lots, shall be
developed and maintained in accordance with the following requirements:
   (A)   Screening and landscaping. Off-street parking areas for more than five
vehicles shall be effectively screened on each side which adjoins or faces
institutional premises or premises situated in any R District by a masonry wall
or solid fence. Such wall or fence shall not be less than four feet in height
and shall be maintained in good condition.
   (B)   Minimum distance. Parking areas for 25 or more automobiles or for
trucks and buses shall not have an entrance or exit for vehicles within 200
feet along the same side of the street of any school, public playground,
church, hospital, public library or institution for dependents or for children,
except where such property is in another block or on another street which the
lot in question does not abut.
   (C)   Any off-street parking area for more than five vehicles shall be
surfaced with an asphaltic or Portland cement binder pavement so as to provide
a durable, dustless surface; shall be so graded and drained as to dispose of
all surface water accumulated within the area; and shall be so arranged and
marked as to provide for orderly and safe loading or unloading and parking and
storage of self-propelled vehicles.
   (D)   Lighting. Any lighting used to illuminate any off-street parking area
shall be so arranged as to reflect the light away from adjoining premises.
(Ord., passed - -79)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.112 MODIFICATIONS.
   The Board may, on appeal, authorize a modification, reduction or waiver of
the foregoing requirements if it should find that, in the particular case
appealed, the peculiar nature of the residential, office, retail commercial,
service, wholesale commercial, industrial, institutional, recreational, or
other use, or the exceptional shape or size of the lot, or other exceptional
situation and condition would justify such an action.
(Ord., passed - -79)
§ 152.113 PARKING AND STORAGE OF CERTAIN VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   Unlicensed or non-operable vehicles shall be stored inside an
enclosed building or structure or may be fenced if determined by the Planning
Director or designee.
      (2)   Operational automotive vehicles larger than a full size pick-up or
van, boats, trailers, campers and the like shall be stored inside a structure
or parked or stored on a paved or gravel surface either behind the required
minimum front yard building setback or in the side or rear of the property and
located at least five feet from the property line. In situations where the
vehicles are not visible from an adjoining property or public roadway they can
be located within the front yard.
      (3)   One vehicle larger than a full size pickup or van, which is used
for business or employment by the resident of the property may be permitted as
per division (2) above.
      (4)   In no situation shall vehicles not driven or owned by the residents
of the property be permitted to be stored on the property unless permitted by
the Zoning District or be a conditional use from the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (B)   In multi-family manufactured home parks, or townhouse developments,
the storage of recreational vehicles or boats shall be in designated areas
only. The designated areas shall be illustrated on the appropriate zoning
permit or site plan. In business districts, recreational vehicles or boats
shall be placed in designated storage areas only, which are indicated on the
approved site plan and not in any designated parking area.
(Ord. 2016-003, passed 5-2-16)
§ 152.114 APPROVAL OF ACCESS POINTS.
   All new access points to roadways and/or any access points involving a
change in use or an increased intensity of an existing use shall require a
permit from the state or city, depending on the responsible authority for
maintenance and issuance of permits. Projects involving either three or more
residential units or 30 vehicle trips per day (or more, regardless of the
proposed use) shall not be permitted access to Arterial roadways or to an
existing or proposed Collector roadway that exceeds 1,000 vehicle trips per day
without approval of the Commission. Projects involving access either to a
Category I Collector roadway or to a proposed use that generates more than ten
but less than 30 vehicle trips per day—on all other types of Arterial and
Collector roadways—shall require approval of the Technical Review Committee.
Direct access to an arterial or collector roadway shall only be permitted if
the other access scenarios such as local street access, frontage roads, shared
driveways and other forms of access control are unacceptable, unsafe or
inappropriate as determined by the Commission.
(Ord. 2019-010, passed 5-13-19)
§ 152.115 EXISTING ACCESS.
   Existing access points even if not in use, may not be relocated, altered, or
developed without approval of the Plan Commission.
(Ord. 2019-010, passed 5-13-19)
152.116 MINIMUM SIGHT DISTANCES.
   (A)   All driveways for residential uses shall be designed and located so
that the minimum sight distances are provided. The sight distance for speeds
not located on the table below should be computed by dividing the speed limit
by five and multiplying that number by 35 feet [(speed limit/5) 35].
   (B)   All driveways for commercial uses shall be designed and located so
that the minimum sight distances are provided. The sight distance for speeds
not located on the chart should be computed by dividing the speed limit by five
and multiplying that number by 50 feet [(speed limit/5) 50].
   (C)   All street intersections shall be designed and located so that the
minimum sight distances as shown in the table below are provided. The sight
distance for speeds not located on the chart should be determined by
referencing Intersection Safety: A Manual for Local Rural Road Owners, as
prepared and distributed by the U.S. Department of Transportation, Federal
Highway Administration.
Minimum Sight Distance Requirements
 
Operating Speed                 25  30  35  40  45  50  55  60  65
New Residential Driveway Access 175 210 245 280 315 350 385 420 455
New Commercial Driveway Access  250 300 350 400 450 500 550 600 650
New Street Intersection         280 335 390 445 500 555 610 665 720
 
   (D)   All driveways and street intersections proposed to access state roads
require an access permit from the Indiana Department of Transportation (INDOT).
   (E)   Any road or street that does not have a posted speed limit should
refer to the Dearborn County, Indiana Code of Ordinances for its appropriate
speed. The sight distances shall be applied as demonstrated.
   (F)   The Technical Review Committee can grant a 20% reduction of the
required sight distance for proposed driveway accesses in certain situations,
such as where the street is: minimally traveled, located on a dead-end street,
contains little or no development, or is a gravel road.
(Ord. 2019-010, passed 5-13-19)
§ 152.117 SIGHT TRIANGLE.
   In addition to the design and location of new access points with adequate
sight distance, an adequate sight triangle shall also be maintained. Sight
triangles are areas clear of visual obstruction to allow for the safe egress of
vehicles from an access point, including an intersecting street onto a roadway.
Sight triangles shall conform to the distances detailed in §
152.116.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8570a543734638df6f91808289340e0d5e3e5213/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1991.gif]
 
(Ord. 2019-010, passed 5-13-19)
MANUFACTURED HOMES
§ 152.125 INTENT.
   It is the intent of this subchapter to encourage provision of alternative
modest income housing in general residential areas by permitting the use of
certain manufactured homes, as defined in §
152.004, in all districts in which similar dwellings constructed on site are
permitted, subject to the requirements set forth herein to assure acceptable
similarity in exterior appearance between such manufactured homes and dwellings
that have been and might be constructed under these and other lawful
regulations on adjacent or nearby lots in the same district.
(Ord. 91-11, passed 7-1-91)
§ 152.126 STANDARDS.
   (A)   Permitted placement. It shall be a nonconforming use for any person to
place a manufactured home in the B-2 Community Business District as shown on
the Zoning Map, and any such use in the B-2 District is hereby prohibited. The
establishment, location and use of manufactured homes as residences shall be
permitted in any other zone or district permitting installation of a dwelling
unit subject to requirements and limitations applying generally to such
residen-tial use in the district, including standards and requirements
concerning setback distance, side and rear yard area, vehicle parking spaces,
minimum square footage of the dwelling unit, and underfloor space enclosure
requirements, and provided such homes shall meet the following requirements and
limitations:
      (1)   The home shall meet all requirements applicable to single-family
dwellings and possess all necessary improvement locations, building and
occupancy permits and other cer-tifications required by the code.
      (2)   The home shall be larger than 950 square feet of occupied space or
meet the minimum square footage requirements for the appropriate zones.
      (3)   The home shall be attached and anchored to a permanent foundation
and in conformance with the regulations in the Indiana One and Two Family
Dwelling Code and with the manufacturers installation specifications;
      (4)   The home shall be covered with an exte-rior material customarily
used on site built residential dwellings, and such material shall extend over
the top of the foundation.
      (5)   The home shall have a roof composed of a material customarily used
on site built residential dwellings, such as fiberglass, shake, asphalt or
tile, which shall be installed onto a surface appropriately pitched for the
materials used.
      (6)   The home shall have been constructed after January 1, 2001.
   (B)   Structural alterations. Due to its integral design, any structural
alteration or modification of a manufac-tured home or mobile home after it is
placed on the site must be approved by the authorized Building Inspector of the
city.
(Ord. 91-11, passed 7-1-91; Am. Ord. 2013-012, passed 12-16-13)
§ 152.127 APPEAL.
   An action to review any order, requirement, decision or determination made
by administrative official or board charged with the enforcement of the zoning
ordinance shall be pursuant to IC 36-7-4-919.
(Ord. 91-11, passed 7-1-91)
§ 152.128 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Failure to comply. Failure to comply with the terms of this subchapter
shall be punishable in the same manner and method as any other violation of the
zoning ordinance.
   (B)   Subject to removal. A home, sited upon property in violation of this
subchapter, shall be subject to removal from such property. However, the
homeowner must be given a reasonable opportunity to bring the property in
compliance before action for removal can be taken. If action is finally taken
by the appropriate authority to bring the property into compliance, the
expenses involved may be made a lien against the property.
   (C)   Removal method. The Planning Commission or its designated agent may
initiate a suit in an appropriate court for injunctive relief to cause such
violation to be prevented, abated or removed.
(Ord. 91-11, passed 7-1-91)
SIGNS
§ 152.140 INTENT.
   The intent of this subchapter is to allow adequate communication through
signage while encouraging aesthetic quality in the design, location, size and
purpose of all signs to ensure the protection of property values, the character
of various neighborhoods, the creation of a convenient, attractive and
harmonious community, and encouraging economic development. Signs obstruct
views, distract motorists, and pose other problems that call for regulation.
This subchapter must be interpreted in a manner consistent with the First
Amendment guarantee of free speech.
(Ord. 2017-13, passed 12-4-17)
§ 152.141 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No sign shall be permitted or placed in any district except as
described in this subchapter.
   (B)   No sign shall obstruct vehicular driver viewing for safe passage or
ingress and egress of vehicular traffic on public roadways.
   (C)   All signs shall comply with applicable provisions of the Uniform
Building Code and the Electrical Code of the city at all times.
   (D)   Sign content shall not contain language or symbols that can reasonably
been seen as potentially harming the community image, and or would impair
future economic development efforts.
   (E)   Sign illumination or lighting device, when permitted, shall only
employ light which emits illumination of constant intensity changing no more
than one time per eight seconds, nor shall any sign be illuminated by or
contain flashing, intermittent, rotating, or moving lights. In no event, shall
such devices be placed or directed so as to directly beam upon a public road,
highway, street, sidewalk, other vehicular or pedestrian system, or adjacent
premises so as to cause glare or reflection that may constitute a hazard or
nuisance nor have a night-time brightness level greater than 0.3 footcandles
above ambient lighting.
   (F)   Freestanding signs shall be five feet outside the public right-of-way
and public easement, unless otherwise stated. In cases where a road may not
have a dedicated right-of-way the sign must be placed a minimum of 30 feet from
the centerline of the road.
   (G)   Signs shall not be placed in any public right-of-way, except publicly
owned signs, without obtaining an encroachment permit.
   (H)   Sign types not specifically recognized in this chapter that are
similar in type to another type specifically described may be allowed in
accordance with such like type with approval from the planning director or
designee.
   (I)   Signs shall be maintained in a safe, legible condition, nor be in a
state of disrepair.
      (1)   Disrepair shall include, but not be limited to, burned out lights,
broken sign faces or sign structures, peeling paint, and weathered or
discolored sign faces or structures.
      (2)   Sign face messages must be removed from an abandoned sign if a
location has been out of business or abandoned for six months or more; however,
the sign structure may remain for an additional six months if the property
owner is actively pursuing a new tenant or buyer.
      (3)   Landscaping around ground signs shall be maintained.
   (J)   Signs not installed in accordance with this subchapter shall be
forfeited to the public and subject to confiscation. In addition to other
remedies hereunder, the city shall have the right to recover from the owner or
person placing such a sign the full costs of removal and disposal of such sign.
(Ord. 2017-13, passed 12-4-17)
§ 152.142 EXEMPT SIGNS.
   The following signs are exempted from obtaining a sign permit as described
in §
151.146, but must be established and maintained in accordance with this
subchapter as to not cause safety hazards.
   (A)   The replacement of a panel or display message on an approved sign,
involving no changes to approved size, location, or lighting.
   (B)   Painting, repainting, cleaning, or other normal maintenance and repair
of an existing sign or sign structure, unless a structural change is involved;
      (1)   General maintenance does not include redesigning such sign.
   (C)   Window signs covering not more than 30% of the window area.
      (1)   Only neon or external illumination shall be permitted.
   (D)   Non-illuminated temporary noncommercial signage per tenant for a
period not to exceed 45 consecutive days. A 90-day period must expire before
such sign can be reestablished.
      (1)   Sign shall be limited to either one sign that is 16 square feet in
area or two signs not exceeding 16 square feet in combined area.
      (2)   Sign shall not be greater than five feet above the grade level of
the adjacent street to which the sign is located or four feet above ground
level, whichever is greater.
   (E)   Property actively for sale or for lease is permitted one sign per road
frontage. Such property must be offered for sale or lease through a licensed
real estate agent or through advertising in a local newspaper of general
circulation.
      (1)   Residential zoning districts shall be permitted 6 square feet for
contiguous parcels on less than 100 feet of road frontage and 20 square feet on
contiguous parcels with greater than 100 feet of road frontage.
      (2)   Business and manufacture zoning districts shall be permitted 20
square feet of sign area when not adjoining a highway and 32 square feet when
adjoining a highway, but at no time exceed two signs.
      (3)   Signs shall not exceed a maximum height of 5 feet for contiguous
parcels containing less than 100 feet of road frontage and a height of eight
feet for contiguous parcels containing more than 100 feet of road frontage.
      (4)   No more than one sign shall be permitted per street frontage and
shall be at least 15 feet from the intersection corner.
      (5)   For through lots (fronting on two parallel streets), two signs may
not face the same street.
      (6)   Illumination is not permitted.
      (7)   Sign must be removed 15 days after the date of on which a contract
of sale has been executed.
   (F)   On-premise incidental signs not exceeding six square feet of area, or
four feet in height. Such sign shall not contain any logos, and only give
information or direction for the convenience and necessity of the public such
as "entrance," "exit," "no admittance," "parking," and "123 Main St.".
      (1)   Each property must be marked using numerals that identify the
address of the property so that public safety departments can easily identify
the address from the public street.
      (2)   A directional sign shall be permitted near each entrance of a
business or manufacture zoned property.
      (3)   Standard traffic directional signs, such as STOP and Yield signs,
shall comply with the "Manual for Uniform Traffic Control Devices".
   (G)   Government signs.
   (H)   Flags which are fastened to poles and setback a minimum of ten feet
from the public right-of-way and property lines.
      (1)   Up to three flag poles containing no more than two flags per pole.
         (a)   Residential zoned properties are permitted a flagpole height of
25 feet and 40 square feet of total flag area.
         (b)   Nonresidential zoned properties are permitted a flagpole height
of 70 feet and 216 square feet of total flag area.
   (I)   Election signs that are not detrimental to public safety are permitted
beginning 60 days before an election and ending the sixth day after the
election if the surface area of the sign is not greater than 32 square feet,
pursuant to IC 36-1 -3-11.
      (1)   Only the surface area of one of the faces is considered for signs
consisting of two faces, if both of the following apply:
         (a)   The faces are mounted back to back.
         (b)   The measure of the angle between the faces is not more than 15
degrees.
   (J)   Umbrella signs of three square feet or less.
   (K)   Interior signs located in a building, not attached to a window or
door, that is not legible from a distance of more than three feet beyond the
lot line on which such sign is located.
   (L)   Miniscule messages displayed on or near a primary entrance.
      (1)   Sign shall not exceed 30 square inches nor shall the cumulative
area of all miniscule messages exceed 288 square inches per primary entrance.
Examples include "Visa", "ATM", and corporate logos.
   (M)   A work of art for the expression of a message which is political,
religious, or pertaining to a view, expression, opinion, or idea that contains
no reference to the endorsement, advertising of, or promotion of patronage of a
business, commodity, service, entertainment, or attraction that is sold,
offered, or existing.
      (1)   Murals that contain a commercial message shall be regulated as a
wall sign. Only areas of the mural that provide a commercial message will be
subject to wall sign square footage standards, and shall be computed by means
of the smallest rectangle that will encompass the extreme limits of the
commercial message.
   (N)   Holiday lights and decorations containing no commercial message.
(Ord. 2017-13, passed 12-4-17)
§ 152.143 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   The following types of signs are prohibited.
   (A)   Signs imitating, resembling or conflicting with official traffic signs
or signals.
   (B)   Signs of the flashing, blinking, animated, or audible type, except
those giving public service information placed by the City of Aurora and/or the
State of Indiana.
   (C)   Skyward lights, search lights, beacons, or any light or lights that
project light in visible beams skyward, or project light horizontally or
vertically in a circle or other pattern regardless if the light is part of or
independent of a sign.
   (D)   Signs which rotate, swing, inflate or move, pennants, ribbons,
streamers, spinners, strings of lights, other similar devices or any sign that
is temporary in nature due to its design or construction except as permitted in
§
152.147.
   (E)   Signs established on trees, utility poles and fences.
   (F)   Roof signs.
   (G)   Signs that promote illegal activity, profanity, or obscene or
pornographic content.
   (H)   Vehicle signs with a sign area greater than 50 square feet in
cumulative area. Prohibited vehicle signs shall not be construed to include
vehicles with signs on them that:
      (1)   Are lawfully parked overnight during non-business hours on a paved
surface in a discreet location, or in an enclosed location; or
      (2)   Are making deliveries, sales calls, transporting persons or
property, or customary practices relating to operating the business; or
      (3)   Are used in conjunction with customary construction operations on a
construction site.
(Ord. 2017-13, passed 12-4-17)
§ 152.144 COMPUTATION.
   (A)   Computation of sign area.
      (1)   The area of a sign face shall be computed by means of the smallest
rectangle that will encompass the extreme limits of the sign, but not including
any supporting framework, bracing, or decorative fence or wall when such fence
or wall otherwise meets the regulations and is clearly incidental to the
display itself.
      (2)   Computation of area of multi-faceted sign. Double sided signs with
parallel faces shall be computed as the greater square footage of the two
sides. If a sign has faces that are not parallel then the sign area shall be
computed by adding together the area of all sign faces.
   (B)   Computation of height.
      (1)   The height of a sign shall be computed as the distance from the
base of the sign at normal grade to the top of the highest attached component
of the sign or structure supporting the sign.
         (a)   Normal grade shall be construed to be the lower of existing
grade prior to construction or the newly established grade after construction,
exclusive of any filling, berm, mounding, or excavating solely for the purpose
of locating the sign. In cases in which the normal grade cannot reasonably be
determined, sign height shall be computed on the assumption that the elevation
of the normal grade at the base of the sign is equal to the elevation of the
nearest point of the crown of a public street or the grade of the land at the
primary entrance to the primary structure on the lot, whichever is lower.
   (C)   Computation of maximum total permitted sign area for a lot.
      (1)   The permitted sum of the area of all individual signs, excluding
incidental signs, shall be computed by totaling the sign area of each sign, as
described above. In cases where multiple regulations cover one lot, the most
restrictive regulation shall be used.
   (D)   Sign setback and spacing.
      (1)   Setbacks shall be measured from the sign's leading edge, including
associated ornamental and structural components.
(Ord. 2017-13, passed 12-4-17)
§ 152.145 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   Any sign located within the city limits on the date of adoption of
this subchapter that does not conform to the provisions of this subchapter is
eligible for characterization as a legal nonconforming sign and is permitted,
provided it also meets the following requirements:
      (1)   The sign was approved by a sign permit or variance on or before the
date of adoption of this subchapter if one was required under applicable law,
or, if no sign permit was required under applicable law for the sign in
question, the sign was in all respects in conformity with the applicable law
immediately prior to the adoption of this subchapter or had legal nonconforming
status at such time; and
       (2)   The sign is a permanent sign.
   (B)   If land is annexed to the city after the effective date of this
subchapter, any sign not conforming to the provisions of this subchapter at
such time shall have legal nonconforming status if:
      (1)   Under applicable federal, state, and county regulations, the sign
was legal in all respects immediately prior to annexation;
      (2)   The sign is a permanent sign; and
      (3)   The annexation was not conditioned upon the removal or modification
of the sign.
   (C)   Any nonconforming sign that does not fit the definition of a legal
nonconforming sign is an unlawful sign.
   (D)   A legal nonconforming sign shall immediately lose its legal
nonconforming status if:
      (1)   The sign or sign structure, because of improper installation or
maintenance, constitutes a threat to public health or safety and remains in
such condition after a reasonable time is given to remedy the problem; or
      (2)   The sign is demolished or damaged to the extent of 50% or more of
its value; or
      (3)   The permit, variance, or condition under which the sign was
permitted expires; or
      (4)   The sign or sign structure is substantially structurally altered so
as to prolong its expected life.
   (E)   On the happening of any one of the above-listed items, the sign shall
be immediately brought into conformance with this subchapter or shall be
removed. The following shall not result in loss of legal nonconforming status:
      (1)   Any changes of color, design, or message on the sign's face; and
      (2)   Any modification to the sign or sign structure which does not
constitute a substantial structural modification.
   (F)   Safety, maintenance and repair.
      (1)   Nothing in this subchapter shall relieve the owner or user of a
legal nonconforming sign or owner of the property on which the legal
nonconforming sign is located from any provisions regarding safety, maintenance
and repair of signs.
(Ord. 2017-13, passed 12-4-17)
§ 152.146 SIGN PERMITS.
   (A)   Sign permits are required for all signs unless stated otherwise in
this section. An application must be submitted for all proposed signs and must
be filed with the Plan Commission. A sign permit shall only be issued if the
proposed sign meets the requirements of this subchapter. The sign permit
application shall include, at a minimum, the following information:
      (1)   Name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   Name and address of the owner of the property on which the sign is
to be located, and the owners signature that will authorize the use of the land
for the purposes of locating a sign;
      (3)   A description of the proposed sign including type of sign,
supporting structure, method of illumination (if any), and construction
materials to be used in the sign;
      (4)   A scaled site plan of the property on which the sign is to be
erected showing existing structures and signs, right-of-way lines and the
proposed location of the sign(s);
      (5)   A scaled drawing of existing signage and the proposed sign showing
display area dimensions, height of sign from grade to bottom and top of the
sign and the information to be conveyed on sign.
      (6)   In situations where allowable sign area is contingent upon store
frontage, such frontage elevation must be provided to scale.
      (7)   Additional information may be required to verify conformance with
this subchapter.
      (8)   In situations where a certificate of appropriateness, an
encroachment permit, a variance, or similar additional approval is necessary,
such documentation must be provided.
   (B)   Upon receipt of a full and complete application and applicable fees as
approved by Council for a sign permit, the Planning Director or designee shall
issue a permit or notify the applicant of any nonconformance with the
provisions of this subchapter within ten working days. Failure to issue a
permit or notify the applicant of any nonconformance does not constitute
approval of the proposed sign. If the sign described in any sign permit has not
been erected or installed within one year from the date of issuance, the permit
shall expire without further notice. The permit may be extended upon request of
the applicant prior the date of expiration for a period not to exceed six
months. The Planning Director or designee shall maintain a file of all
applications for sign permits.
(Ord. 2017-13, passed 12-4-17)
§ 152.147 TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   (A)   General standards.
      (1)   A temporary advertising permit shall be obtained prior to the
placement of any such signage.
      (2)   The procedure for acquiring a temporary advertising permit shall be
as described in §
152.146, except that all temporary advertising permits must contain the dates
that the display will be utilized.
      (3)   No temporary sign shall be maintained, displayed or placed on a
property for a period longer than 45 days after the issuance of the permit and
90 days must expire before the applicant can reapply for a new permit for said
sign on the property. A new permit is to be obtained for each period.
   (B)   Temporary signage standards.
      (1)   Freestanding signs are permitted in accordance with §
152.142. Signage larger than described can be permitted with a temporary sign
permit and be subject to regulations of a freestanding sign, pole sign, or
monument sign as described for each zoning district.
      (2)   Banner signs are intended to be attached to the wall and be
regulated in accordance with wall signs by each zoning district.
      (3)   Portable message center sign.
         (a)   Sign shall be no more than 32 square feet and no greater than
eight feet above the grade level of the adjacent street to which the sign is
located or four feet above ground level, whichever is greater.
         (b)   Sign shall have an eight second hold time between messages.
      (4)   Blade signs are permitted once every 50 feet of street frontage up
to three per frontage.
         (a)   Signs must be no higher than 18 feet and no wider than three and
one-half feet at its widest point.
         (b)   Illumination is not permitted.
      (5)   Sidewalk signs, such as A-frame and T-frame signs are permitted
during regular business hours if they are temporarily placed and the following
conditions are met:
         (a)   A sign is permitted per tenant up to eight square feet per sign
face nor exceeding three feet in width.
         (b)   No such sign shall exceed a height of four feet above the
ground.
         (c)   The sign is placed on the sidewalk pavement and there remains
sufficient clearance, of at least five feet.
         (d)   Sign must be located within ten feet of the entrance.
   (C)   Temporary special event signage.
      (1)   Only four temporary special event sign permits shall be issued to
any one property in any calendar year.
      (2)   Permit shall be valid for a maximum of 30 days.
      (3)   A banner shall be permitted per business, which shall not exceed 32
square feet in size nor 15 feet in height.
      (4)   No more than two temporary free-standing ground signs for each
roadway frontage not exceeding four square feet each shall be permitted per
lot.
         (a)   For lots with buildings containing multiple tenants and that
have applied for simultaneous special event signs, no more than three temporary
ground signs may be permitted per roadway frontage at any one time.
         (b)    Sign shall not be greater than five feet above the grade level
of the adjacent street to which the sign is located or four feet above ground
level, whichever is greater.
      (5)   In lieu of a banner or temporary ground signs, one gas or air-
filled advertising device may be permitted per lot, not to exceed a height of
15 feet.
      (6)   Pennants, streamers, and other wind-blown devices shall not be
permitted as part of a temporary special event sign permit.
(Ord. 2017-13, passed 12-4-17)
§ 152.148 RESIDENTIAL AND AGRICULTURAL DISTRICTS (ZONES A, R-1, R-2 AND R-3).
   Signs for residential and agriculture zoned districts are permitted only
when in compliance with the following:
   (A)   Each of the following is permitted per parcel.
      (1)   Monument signs.
         (a)   Sign shall be free-standing or ground-mounted and be part of a
decorative structure made of wood, brick, stone or masonry with an overall
design compatible with the character of the neighborhood.
         (b)   Sign shall be no larger than 32 square feet and no greater than
eight feet above the grade level of the adjacent street to which the sign is
located or four feet above ground level, whichever is greater.
         (c)   Sign may be externally illuminated.
      (2)   Wall-mounted signs.
         (a)   Sign must fit within the horizontal and vertical elements of the
building nor obscure architectural details of the Building nor exceed 10% of
wall surface up to 40 square feet.
         (b)   No wall sign shall be allowed to extend above the cornice line
of a building, beyond the edges of the wall upon which it is mounted, nor above
the roofline.
         (c)   Sign shall be designed to relate to the architectural style of
the main building or buildings upon the site.
         (d)   Sign shall not project more than 18 inches perpendicular from
the wall face.
         (e)   Sign may be externally illuminated.
      (3)   Projecting signs.
         (a)   Sign shall be no more than four feet in height, and shall not
extend more than four feet from the face of the building.
         (b)   Sign shall not exceed a maximum width of three feet.
         (c)   Sign shall be a minimum of eight feet above the adjacent grade
nor extend above the cornice line of a building.
         (d)   Sign shall be perpendicular to the building face that the sign
is mounted to.
         (e)   Sign may be externally illuminated.
      (4)   Awning or canopy signs.
         (a)   Canopy signs shall have a ground clearance of no less than eight
feet above the lowest ground elevation.
         (b)   Canopy signs shall cover no more than 65% of the area of the
side faces (awning flaps) of the canopy and no more than 40% of the front (or
front-angled or sloped) face of the canopy.
         (c)   Illumination is prohibited.
(Ord. 2017-13, passed 12-4-17)
§ 152.149 BUSINESS AND MANUFACTURING DISTRICTS (ZONES B-1, B-2, B-3 AND M-1).
   Signs for B-l, B-2 and manufacturing zoned districts are permitted only when
in compliance with the following:
   (A)   Each of the following is permitted per parcel.
      (1)   Monument/freestanding signs.
         (a)   Sign shall be no larger than 80 square feet and located no
higher than the gutter line of the building or 15 feet whichever is less and no
closer than five feet to any right-of-way or property line.
         (b)   Such signs may be illuminated provided the light source is
designed, located and installed in such a way that there is no glare on public
streets or neighboring premises.
         (c)   Planned developments shall be permitted 1 monument sign for each
entrance up to two signs. The permitted sign shall be no more than one square
foot of sign area per linear foot of the contiguous parcels width at the point
of the sign location up to 100 square feet in area nor shall exceed 20 feet in
height.
      (2)   Wall-mounted signs.
         (a)   Sign must fit within the horizontal and vertical elements of the
building not obstructing architectural details of the building nor exceed 25%
of wall surface or 64 square feet. For multiple-tenant buildings, each business
shall be permitted a wall-mounted sign, not exceeding 10% of wall surface or
one and one- half square feet of sign area per linear foot of store frontage
per unit, to a maximum of 64 square feet.
         (b)   No wall sign shall be allowed to extend above the cornice line
of a building, beyond the edges of the wall upon which it is mounted, nor above
the roofline.
         (c)   Sign shall be designed to relate to the architectural style of
the main building or buildings upon the site.
         (d)   Sign shall not project more than 18 inches perpendicular from
the wall face.
      (3)   Projecting signs.
         (a)   Sign shall not to exceed 32 square feet.
         (b)   Sign shall not exceed 8 feet in height, nor extend more than six
feet from the face of the building.
         (c)   Sign shall not exceed four feet in width.
         (d)   Sign shall be a minimum of eight feet above the adjacent grade
nor extend above the cornice line of a building.
         (e)   Sign shall be perpendicular to the building face that the sign
is mounted to.
      (4)   Awning or canopy signs.
         (a)   Canopy signs shall have a ground clearance of no less than eight
feet above the lowest ground elevation.
         (b)   Canopy signs shall cover no more than 65% of the area of the
side faces (awning flaps) of the canopy and no more than 40% of the front (or
front-angled or sloped) face of the canopy.
         (c)   Illumination is prohibited.
(Ord. 2017-13, passed 12-4-17; Am. Ord. 2018-014, passed 10-8-18)
§ 152.150 BILLBOARDS/OFF PREMISE SIGNS.
   A sign containing a message not related to the business or activity
conducted on site. The Board of Zoning Appeals may permit such sign as a
conditional use provided they meet any applicable federal or state law and the
following minimum regulations and requirements:
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   Such signage must meet general requirements of §
152.141.
      (2)   No more than one off-premises sign may be permitted per property.
      (3)   Sign illumination shall be regulated by sign type pursuant to the
zoning district.
   (B)   A small scale off-premise sign shall be no larger than 32 square feet
in area and no more than eight feet in height.
      (1)   Sign standards shall be regulated pursuant to the zoning district.
   (C)   Large scale off-premise signs shall be no larger than 100 square feet
in total sign area, nor exceed 25 feet in height and shall conform, at minimum,
to the following requirements:
      (1)   Sign shall only be permitted along US 50 and be prohibited in
residential zoned districts and the Historic District.
      (2)   Sign may be no closer than 1,000 feet to another large scale off-
premise sign.
      (3)   Sign shall have no more than two sides, back to back.
      (4)   Sign shall not have a face height nor width of more than ten feet.
      (5)   Sign shall be set back from any street right-of-way a distance
equal to the greatest front yard setback for principally permitted uses in the
zoned district in which the sign is proposed or 50 feet, whichever is greater.
   (D)   The application for off premise signage shall be accompanied by the
information below:
      (1)   All of the information required by §
152.146;
      (2)   Identification of all highways or other thoroughfares from which
the sign will be visible;
      (3)   The location of the proposed sign as well as the location of all
existing off-premise signs within one-half mile radius of the proposed
location, on a scaled map;
      (4)   A picture or photograph, not less than eight inches by ten inches
in size, of the proposed location of the sign taken from each thoroughfare from
which the sign will be visible. The proposed location of the sign shall be
clearly marked to scale on each photograph.
(Ord. 2017-13, passed 12-4-17)
§ 152.151 OVERLAY SIGNS FOR DOWNTOWN HISTORIC DISTRICT.
   (A)   This section supplements existing sign regulations with regulations
specifically designed to ensure compatibility and pedestrian scale of all
signage in the Downtown Historic District. No sign shall be permitted, erected,
established, or allowed to be erected or established, within the area governed
by this subchapter, unless it is in conformity with this subchapter. It shall
be unlawful to erect any sign in the area governed by this subchapter unless a
certificate of appropriateness is granted by the Historic Preservation
Commission (HPC).
   (B)   The boundaries of the Downtown Historic District are established as
the Downtown Historic District overlay zone and generally includes the area
between the Ohio River on the east, Hogan Creek on the north, US 50 and
Exporting Street to the west, and 5th Street on the south.
   (C)   The following procedures shall govern the application for, and
issuance of, all sign permits within the Downtown Historic District.
      (1)   If a sign requires a permit under the provision of this section, a
sign permit shall be obtained prior to the construction, placement, erection,
or modification of such a sign in accordance with the requirements of this
division.
      (2)   All requirements of §
152.146 must be submitted to the Planning Director or designee and be
accompanied by a certificate of appropriateness.
      (3)   Proposals must be submitted to the Historic Preservation Commission
(HPC) to obtain a certificate of appropriateness.
      (4)   Each permit/application for a sign or for approval shall be
accompanied by the applicable fees as calculated from the current adopted fee
schedule.
      (5)   At each monthly HPC meeting all proposals for a certificate of
appropriateness shall be reviewed. The actions taken shall be one of the
following.
         (a)   HPC will approve the certificate of appropriateness if the sign
(s) conforms with all requirements of this section.
         (b)   The HPC rejects the certificate of appropriateness if the sign
(s) fails in any way to conform with the requirements of this section. In case
of a rejection, the HPC shall specify the division or divisions of the section
or applicable plan with which the sign(s) is inconsistent and counsel the
applicant to return at the next monthly meeting.
      (6)   Within six months of the issuance of a permit, the local building
official shall cause an inspection of the new sign or for the modification of
an existing sign. If the construction is not substantially completed at the
time of inspection, the permit shall lapse and the local building official
shall issue a letter regarding the lapse of the permit. If the construction is
substantially complete but not in full compliance with this section and
applicable codes, the local building official shall give the owner or applicant
notice of the deficiencies and shall allow an additional 30 days from the date
of inspection for the deficiencies to be corrected. If the deficiencies are not
corrected by such date, the permit/application shall lapse. If the deficiencies
have been corrected, the local building official shall reinstate the sign
permit/application.
   (D)   All signs shall be designed, constructed and maintained in accordance
with the following standards.
      (1)   All signs shall conform to the general requirements of §
152.141.
      (2)   Signs shall be sized in proportion to the building. A certificate
of appropriateness may be disapproved if the proposal is found to be excessive
or non-proportional in relation to the building on which it is place or which
it serves.
      (3)   Exposed surfaces of signs must be constructed of or appear to be
constructed of metal, glass, stone, concrete, brick, cloth, or wood, or similar
approved material. If synthetic materials are authorized, they shall have the
same finished appearance as materials specified here.
         (a)   Plastic substrate, plywood or unfinished wood are not
appropriate materials for signs and shall not be permitted.
      (4)   If signs are illuminated they shall be externally lit. Lighting
directed toward a sign shall be shielded or recessed so that only the face of
the sign is illuminated and does not shine directly into a public right-of-way
or sidewalk.
         (a)   No colored lights shall be used.
   (E)   Sign types and standards.
      (1)   Monument sign.
         (a)   Ground signs shall only be permitted in the front yard of
properties containing an appropriate landscaped front yard area.
         (b)   The maximum height of any ground sign shall be eight feet.
         (c)   Except for temporary signs permitted by the Zoning Administrator
or designee, any permanent ground sign permitted pursuant to this subchapter
shall be supported by at least two wooden posts, no less than four inches by
four inches. However, the Historic Preservation Commission may allow single
post signs and metal posts, if deemed more compatible with the building,
property, and/or surroundings.
         (d)   A ground sign shall be permitted per property frontage.
         (e)   Sign shall not exceed an area of 32 square feet.
      (2)   Wall signs.
         (a)   Wall signs shall be mounted flush against the facade of the
building adjacent to the front entryway of the unit.
         (b)   Appropriate locations for wall signage on buildings with more
than one story shall be in the lintel space which separates the storefront from
the upper floor, and the space above the transom in the storefront, where one
exists (see figure on following page). Wall signs should be located on flat,
unadorned parts of the building facade, somewhere above storefront display
windows (where they exist) and below second-story windows (where they exist).
If the building facade or storefront has a lintel strip or sign board, the wall
sign should be placed directly on it. Wall signs should be located centrally on
the facade. Sign boards should not exceed two and one-half feet in height.
         (c)   Sign should be attached through joints in the masonry rather
than the brick itself.
         (d)   Sign shall not protrude more than six inches from the facade,
when mounted flush against the facade of the building.
         (e)    No more than two wall signs shall be permitted per building
facade of the leasable space.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8570a543734638df6f91808289340e0d5e3e5213/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1827.jpg]
 
         (f)    Wall signs, individually or in total allowed, shall not exceed
more than 30% of the wall area on which they are displayed, or 1.5 square feet
per linear feet of leased building frontage of the business or establishment,
whichever is greater.
      (3)    Canopy and awning signs.
         (a)   Storefront awnings should be positioned either above the display
window and below the transom window(s), or above both the display and transom
windows but below the sign board area, cornice, or spandrel, where these
architectural features exist. Such signs should be silk-screened or sewn onto
the awning fabric, and they should be placed on the valance of the awning.
Signs on canopies should be located on the primary face or top edge (or front-
angled or sloped part) of canopies.
         (b)   Canopy signs shall have a ground clearance of no less than eight
feet above the lowest ground elevation.
         (c)   Canopy signs shall cover no more than 65% of the area of the
side faces (awning flaps) of the canopy and no more than 40% of the front (or
front-angled or sloped) face of the canopy.
      (4)   Projecting signs.
         (a)   Projecting signs are permissible, but the Historic Preservation
Commission may restrict them if other alternatives (wall, window, door, and
awning) signs are also present or proposed.
         (b)   Sign should be placed near the entry door.
         (c)   Sign shall project perpendicular from the building.
         (d)   Sign shall be secured in place with a frame mount assembly.
         (e)   Sign may be suspended from an awning or similar type structure
or affixed to a bracket-mount to the building or structure in a manner where
the sign face sways; such motion shall not make a swinging sign a prohibited
animated sign.
         (f)   Any sign that is suspended from the underside of a canopy
(including awnings), shall be located perpendicular to the wall surface of a
building.
         (g)   Sign shall have a ground clearance of no less than eight feet
above the lowest ground elevation.
         (h)    Sign shall project no more than 60 inches from the building
face.
         (i)   Signs shall be limited to one per business or establishment.
         (j)   No projecting sign shall exceed an area of nine square feet per
sign face.
         (k)   When applicable, projecting signs that encroach on city property
shall obtain an encroachment permit.
      (5)   Window signs.
         (a)   Window signs may be displayed on or in display windows on the
ground floor. Window signs in upper facade windows are generally not encouraged
and should be justified by the applicant.
         (b)   Window signage should be painted. Applied vinyl letters are
discouraged but may be approved by the Historic Preservation Commission.
         (c)   No window advertising sign shall extend from one window to
another.
         (d)   No window sign shall be installed above the level of second
floor windows.
         (e)   Window signs shall not exceed 25% of the total window area of
the business or establishment, or 32 square feet total of window signage for
any single business or establishment, whichever is less.
         (f)   The number of window signs for any individual business or
establishment is not limited by this subchapter but limitations may be imposed
via the certificate of appropriateness.
         (g)   Window signs should be placed approximately three and one-half
feet above the sidewalk.
         (h)   Window signs should not extend within 18 inches from the top or
bottom of the display window glass.
      (6)   Door signs.
         (a)   Signs on doors should be located on or in the glazing of the
doors. Painting of letters is preferred. Vinyl letters are discouraged but
permitted.
         (b)   There shall be no more than two door signs for any individual
business or establishment.
         (c)   The maximum area for any individual door sign shall be one and
one-half square feet.
         (d)   There shall be a maximum of three square feet total area of door
signs allowed for any single business or establishment.
      (7)   Sidewalk signs.
         (a)   Movable sandwich signs, also called A-frame and T-frame signs,
may be used in the historic district, limited to one per business or
establishment and be subject to standards as set in §
152.147.
      (8)   Temporary special event signage.
         (a)   Property owners in the historic district may apply for permits
for special events and associated signage, as provided in §
152.147, except that gas or air-filled advertising devices shall not be
allowed.
   (F)   The following sign types are prohibited in the Downtown Historic
District:
      (1)   Signs prohibited under §
152.143;
      (2)   Internally illuminated signs;
      (3)   Bus shelter signs;
      (4)   Strings of lights not permanently mounted to a rigid background,
except those exempt under §
152.142;
      (5)   Street bench signs;
      (6)   Temporary signs on street lights or utility poles;
      (7)   Animated signs.
   (G)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Variances. Variances to the requirements of this section may be
approved as provided in §
152.243. A variance to the requirement for area, height, location, number of
signs, or sign form may be approved if necessary to make the sign or a use
reasonably visible from the abutting street to which the sign or use is
oriented if without the variance such visibility would be impaired by
topography, landscaping, or existing development.
      (2)   Design exceptions. The HPC may approve a special exception to one
or more requirements of this section when it makes its review of the sign
certificate of appropriateness that literal conformance to such requirements
would be detrimental to the creation of a sign display of unusual or
outstanding design quality, or would not take into consideration the unique
characteristics of a property.
   (H)   Appeals.
      (1)   If HPC rejects a sign application, the applicant may then seek a
hearing with the Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Ord. 2017-13, passed 12-4-17; Am. Ord. 2018-015, passed 10-8-18)
TABLE A: PERMITTED SIGNS BY DISTRICT AND SIGN TYPE
                          Setback As
                          measured
          Maximum Maximum from                      Maximum    Other
Sign Type Area    Height  property     Illumination Projection Restrictions
                          line/pub lic
                          rights- of-
                          way
                                           Setback As
                                           measured
                             Maximum       from                      Maximum
Sign Type     Maximum Area   Height        property     Illumination Projection   Other Restrictions
                                           line/pub lic
                                           rights- of-
                                           way
RESIDENTIAL AND AGRICULTURAL DISTRICTS
                             8 feet above
                             the grade
                             level of the
                             adjacent
                             street to                                            Such signs shall be part of a decorative structure made
Monument sign 32 square feet which the     5 feet       External     N/A          of wood, brick, stone or masonry with an overall design
                             sign is                    only                      compatible with the character of the neighborhood.
                             located or 4
                             feet above
                             ground level,
                             whichever is
                             greater
                             Sign shall
                             not extend
                             above the
                             cornice line
              10% of wall    of a building
Wall-mounted  surface up to  , beyond the  N/A          External     18 inche s   Sign shall be designed to relate to the architectural
sign          40 square feet edges of the               only                      style of the main building or buildings upon the site.
                             wall upon
                             which it is
                             mounted, nor
                             above the
                             roofline
                                           Projecting
                                           signs that
                                           encroach on                            Sign shall be a maximum of 8 feet above the adjacent
Projecting                                 city         External                  grade and not extend above the cornice line of a
sign          12 square feet 4 feet        property     only         4 feet       building, and be perpendicular to the building face that
                                           shall obtain                           the sign is mounted to.
                                           an
                                           encroachment
                                           permit
              65% of the
              area of the
              side faces                   Signs that
              (awning flaps)               encroach on
              of the canopy                city
Awning/canopy and no more    See area      property     Prohibited   N/A          N/A
              than 40% of    restrictions  shall obtain
              the front (or                an encroach
              front- angled                ment permit
              or sloped)
              face of the
              canopy
BUSINESS AND MANUFACTURING DISTRICTS
For single occupancy buildings, the lot shall be permitted one of the following signs. For multiple occupancy buildings, the lot or parcel
shall be permitted each of the following.
               
Monument sign 80 square feet
Single        1 square foot                                                       
occupancy     of sign area   Gutter line                                        
building      per linear     of building   5 feet       Allowed      N/A          Planned developments shall be permitted 1 monument sign
Planned       foot of the    or 15 feet    5 feet       Allowed      N/A          for each entrance up to 2 signs.
development   lot's width up 20 feet
              to 100 square
              feet
               
              10% of wall
              surface or 64   
Wall- mounted square feet    Cornice line
sign          10% of wall    of a building
Single        surface or 1.5 or the                                             
occupancy     square feet of roofline      N/A          Allowed      18 inches    N/A
building      sign area per                                                    
Multi-        linear foot of Cornice line  N/A          Allowed      18 inches    N/A
occupancy     store frontage of a building
building      per unit, up   or the
              to a maximum   roofline
              of 64 square
              feet
                                           Projecting
                                           signs that
                             8 feet and    encroach on
Projecting                   not extend    city                                   Sign shall be perpendicular to the building face that
sign          32 square feet above the     property     Allowed      6 feet       the sign is mounted, shall be a minimum of 8 feet above
                             cornice line  shall obtain                           the adjacent grade and not exceed a width of 4 feet.
                             of a building an
                                           encroachment
                                           permit
              65% of the
              area of the
              side faces                   Signs that
              (awning flaps)               encroach on
              of the canopy                city
Awning/canopy and no more    See area      property     Prohibited   N/A          N/A
              than 40% of    restrictions  shall obtain
              the front (or                an
              front-angled                 encroachment
              or sloped)                   permit
              face of the
              canopy
BILLBOARD/OFF PREMISE SIGNS
The Board of Zoning Appeals may permit such sign as a conditional use
                                                                     No larger
              The allowable  The allowable                           than what is
              square footage height per                              principally
Small scale   by sign type   sign type per 5 feet       External     permitted by A maximum of 1 off premises sign can be permitted per
off premise   per district   district up                only         sign type    property, and illuminated only from below the sign
              up to 32       to 8 feet                               per the
              square feet                                            zoning
                                                                     district
                                           Equal to the
                                           greatest
                                           front yard
                                           setback for
                                           principally                            Sign shall not have a face height or width of more than
                                           permitted                              10 feet, shall be no closer than 1,000 feet to another
Large scale   100 square                   uses in the  External                  such sign, shall be a pole or monument sign and shall
off premise   feet           25 feet       zoned        only         N/A          only be permitted along US 50 and prohibited in R-1, R-
                                           district in                            2, R-3, B-1 and M zoned districts and the Historic
                                           which the                              District.
                                           sign is
                                           proposed, or
                                           50 feet,
                                           whichever is
                                           greater
TEMPORARY SIGNS
Maximum of 90-day periods and a 90-day period must expire before the permit can be reestablished
                             5 feet above
                             the grade
              1 sign that is level of the
              16 square feet adjacent
              in area or up  street to                                            Shall conform to the general requirements defined by §
Noncommercial to 2 signs not which the     5 feet       Prohibited   N/A          152.141.
freestanding  exceeding a    sign is                                              NO PERMIT REQUIRED
              combined 16    located or 4
              square feet in feet above
              area           ground level,
                             whichever is
                             greater
Nonspecified  See other      See other     5 feet       See other    See other    Subject to regulations of a freestanding sign, pole sign
freestanding  restrictions   restrictions               restrictions restrictions or monument sign as described for each zoning district.
                             5 feet above
                             the grade
              1 sign that is level of the
              16 square feet adjacent
              in area or up  street to                                            Shall conform to the general requirements defined by §
Noncommercial to 2 signs not which the     5 feet       Prohibited   N/A          152.141.
freestanding  exceeding a    sign is                                              NO PERMIT REQUIRED
              combined 16    located or 4
              square feet in feet above
              area           ground level,
                             whichever is
                             greater
Nonspecified  See other      See other     5 feet       See other    See other    Subject to regulations of a freestanding sign, pole sign
freestanding  restrictions   restrictions               restrictions restrictions or monument sign as described for each zoning district.
                             8 feet above
                             the grade
                             level of the
                             adjacent
Portable                     street to                                            Sign shall have a night-time brightness level no more
message       32 square feet which the     5 feet       Allowed      N/A          than 0.3 footcandles above ambient lighting and an 8
center sign                  sign is                                              second hold time between messages.
                             located or 4
                             feet above
                             ground level,
                             whichever is
                             greater
              See other      See other                  See other    See other    Banner signs are intended to be attached to the wall and
Banner        restrictions   restrictions  N/A          restrictions restrictions be regulated in accordance with wall signs by each
                                                                                  zoning district.
              No wider than
Blade sign    3.5 feet at    18 feet       5 feet       Prohibited   N/A          Permitted once every 50 feet of street frontage up to 3
              its widest                                                          per frontage.
              point
              1 sign is
              permitted per  No such sign                                         Signs must be placed on the sidewalk pavement and there
              tenant up to 8 shall exceed                                         must remain sufficient clearance, of at least 5 feet.
Sidewalk sign square feet    a height of 4 N/A          N/A          N/A          Sign must be located within 10 feet of the entrance.
              per sign face  feet above                                           Sign shall only be used during hours the business is
              and not        the ground                                           open and shall be removed when the business or
              exceeding 3                                                         establishment is not open to the public.
              feet in width
TEMPORARY SPECIAL EVENT SIGNAGE
                             Signs shall
                             not be
                             greater than
                             5 feet above
                             the grade
              2 signs for    level of the                                         For lots with buildings containing multiple tenants and
              each roadway   adjacent                                             that have applied for simultaneous special event signs,
Ground sign   not exceeding  street to     5 feet       N/A          N/A          no more than 3 temporary ground signs may be permitted
              4 square feet  which the                                            per roadway frontage at any one time.
              each           sign is
                             located or 4
                             feet above
                             ground level,
                             whichever is
                             greater
                                                                                  Such signs are intended to be attached to the wall and
Banner        32 square feet 15 feet       N/A          N/A          N/A          be regulated in accordance with wall signs by each
                                                                                  zoning district.
Gas or air-
filled        N/A            15 feet       N/A          N/A          N/A          In lieu of a banner or temporary ground sign, 1 gas or
advertising                                                                       air-filled advertising device may be permitted per lot.
device
DOWNTOWN HISTORIC DISTRICT OVERLAY
To obtain approval of a sign, in addition to §
152.146, a complete permit application(s) must be submitted and approved by the Historic Preservation Commission
              No ground sign               Shall not
              shall exceed                 encroach on  External                  Ground signs shall only be permitted in the front yard
Monument sign an area of 32  8 feet        public       only         N/A          of properties containing an appropriate landscaped front
              square feet                  property                               yard area.
              per sign face
              30% of the
              wall area on                                                        Appropriate locations for wall signage on buildings with
              which they are                                                      more than 1 story shall be in the lintel space which
              displayed or                                                        separates the storefront from the upper floor, and the
              1.5 square                                                          space above the transom in the storefront (where one
              feet per                                                            exists). Wall signs should be located on flat, unadorned
Wall-mounted  linear foot of                            External                  parts of the building facade, somewhere above storefront
sign          leased         2.5 feet      N/A          only         6 inches     display windows (where they exist) and below second
              building                                                            story windows (where they exist). If the building facade
              frontage of                                                         or storefront has a lintel strip or sign board, the wall
              the business                                                        sign should be placed directly on it. Wall signs should
              or                                                                  be located centrally on the facade. No more than 2 wall
              establishment,                                                      signs per building facade of the leasable space.
              whichever is
              greater
                             All           Projecting
                             projecting    signs that
                             signs shall   encroach on                            The HPC may restrict such signs if other alternatives
                             have a ground city                                   (wall, window, door and awning) are also present or
Projecting    9 square feet  clearance of  property     External     36 inches    proposed. Projecting signs shall project perpendicularly
sign          per sign face  no less than  shall obtain only                      from the building, limited to 1 per business or
                             8 feet above  an                                     establishment.
                             the lowest    encroachment
                             ground        permit
                             elevation
              65% of the
              area of the
              side faces                   Sign that
              (awning flaps)               encroaches
              of the canopy                on city
Canopy and    and no more    See area      property     Prohibited   N/A          N/A
awning sign   than 40% of    restrictions  shall obtain
              the front (or                an
              front-angled                 encroachment
              or sloped)                   permit
              face of the
              canopy
              25% of the     Window signs
              total window   should not
              area of the    extend within                                        Window signs may be displayed on or in display windows
              business or    18 inches                                            on ground floor. Window signs in upper facade windows
              establishment  from the top                                         are generally not encouraged and must be justified by
              or 32 square   or bottom of                                         the applicant. When window signage is provided, painting
Window sign   feet total of  the display   N/A          N/A          N/A          is recommended. Applied vinyl letters are discouraged
              window signage window glass                                         but may be approved by the HPC. No window advertising
              for any single and be placed                                        sign shall extend from one window to another. In no case
              business or    approximately                                        shall any window sign be installed above the level of
              establishment, 3.5 feet                                             second floor windows.
              whichever is   above the
              less           sidewalk
              The maximum                                                         Signs on doors should be located on or in the glazing of
              area for any                                                        the doors. Painting of letters is preferred. Vinyl
              individual                                                          letters are discouraged but permitted. There shall be no
Door sign     door sign      N/A           N/A          N/A          N/A          more than 2 door signs for any individual business or
              shall be 1.5                                                        establishment. There shall be a maximum of 3 square feet
              square feet                                                         total area of door signs allowed for any single business
                                                                                  or establishment.
              1 sign is
              permitt ed per No such sign                                         Sign must be placed on the sidewalk pavement and there
              tenant up to 8 shall exceed                                         must remain sufficient clearance of at least 5 feet.
Sidewalk sign square feet    a height of 4 N/A          N/A          N/A          Sign must be located within 10 feet of the entrance.
              per sign and   feet above                                           Sign shall only be used during hours the business is
              not exceeding  the ground                                           open and shall be removed when the business or
              3 feet in                                                           establishment is not open to the public.
              width
                                                                                  Property owners in the Historic District may apply for
Temporary     See other      See other     See other    See other    See other    permits for special events and associated signage, as
special event restrictions   restrictions  restrictions restrictions restrictions provided in §
signs                                                                             152.147, except that gas or air-filled advertising
                                                                                  devices shall not be allowed.
 
(Ord. 2017-13, passed 12-4-17)
MOTOR VEHICLE SERVICE STATIONS, GARAGES AND PARKING AREAS
§ 152.155 ENTRANCE; DISTANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   No motor vehicle service station, parking lot for 25 or more motor vehicles,
public parking garage or motor vehicle repair shop, shall have an entrance or
exit for vehicles within 200 feet along the same side of a street of any
school, public playground, church, hospital, public library or institution for
dependents or for children, except where such property is in another block or
on another street which the lot in question does not abut.
(Ord., passed - -79)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.156 OIL DRAINING.
   No motor vehicle service station or public garage shall be permitted where
any oil draining pit or visible appliance for any such purpose, other than
filling caps, is located within ten feet of any street lot line or within 25
feet of any R District, except where such appliance or pit is within an
enclosed building.
(Ord., passed - -79)
Penalty, see § 152.999
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD)
§ 152.165 POLICY.
   It shall be the policy of the city to promote progressive development of
land and construction thereon by encouraging planned unit developments to
achieve:
   (A)   A maximum choice of living environments by allowing a variety of
housing and building types and permitting an increased density per acre and a
reduction in lot dimensions, yards, building setbacks, and area requirements;
   (B)   A more useful pattern of open space and recreation areas and, if
permitted as part of the project, more convenience in the location of accessory
commercial uses and services;
   (C)   A development pattern which preserves and utilizes natural topography
and geologic features, scenic vistas, trees and other vegetation, and prevents
the disruption of natural drainage patterns;
   (D)   A more efficient use of land than is generally achieved through
conventional development resulting in substantial savings through shorter
utilities and streets;
   (E)   A development pattern in harmony with land use density, transportation
facilities, and community facilities objectives of the comprehensive plan.
(Ord., passed - -79)
§ 152.166 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Whenever there is a conflict or difference between the provisions of
this subchapter and those of the other subchapters of this chapter, the
provisions of this subchapter shall prevail. Subjects not covered by this
subchapter shall be governed by the respective provisions found elsewhere in
this chapter.
   (B)   A planned unit development shall conform to the following: The number
of dwelling units erected shall not exceed the number permitted by the
regulations of the district in which it is located unless a density increase is
permitted.
   (C)   All uses that may be allowed within the land use district may be
permitted within a PUD.
   (D)   Up to 10% of the gross land area in a residential district may be
directed to commercial, industrial, public and quasi-public uses that are not
allowed within the land use district, provided there is a favorable finding by
the Plan Commission:
      (1)   That the uses permitted by such exceptions are necessary or
desirable and are appropriate with respect to the primary purpose of
residential development.
      (2)   That the uses are not of such nature or so located as to exercise a
detrimental influence on the development nor on the surrounding neighborhood.
      (3)   That the uses are intended to serve principally the residents of
the PUD.
      (4)   That the uses are planned as an integral part of the PUD.
      (5)   That the uses be located and so designed as to provide direct
access to a collector or an arterial street without creating traffic congestion
or hazard.
   (E)   A minimum parcel area of five acres is required for PUD.
   (F)   There shall be a least 10% of the land area in the development
provided for park and recreational purposes which shall not be covered by
buildings, parking lots, driveways or streets. No more than 50% of this usable
open space shall be covered by water.
   (G)   If any open space or recreational facility is to be used solely by the
residents of the project, adequate provisions shall be made for assessments
against the property within the project so that such facilities can be properly
maintained and operated.
   (H)   All utilities, including communication and electric systems, shall be
placed underground within the limits of the development. Appurtenances to these
systems which can be effectively screened may be excepted.
   (I)   The design and designation of private streets shall be subject to the
approval of the Plan Commission.
   (J)   There shall be established a homeowners' association and its by-laws
and other similar deed restricts, which provide for the control and maintenance
of all common areas, recreation facilities or open space shall meet with the
approval of the Plan Commission.
   (K)   The development plan shall include a common water supply and
distribution system, either public or private, which shall meet the approval of
the Plan Commission and shall be built at no expense to the local government.
   (L)   The development plan shall include a sanitary sewer system connected
to a public sewer system, if available within a reasonable distance from the
project, or it shall provide for a central collection and treatment system in
accordance with the requirement of the Plan Commission.
   (M)   The plan of the project shall provide for the integrated and
harmonious design of buildings in commercial and industrial areas and the
parcels shall be developed in parklike surroundings utilizing landscaping and
existing woodlands as buffers to screen lighting, parking areas, loading areas
and other such features from the adjoining and surrounding residential areas. A
minimum parcel of five acres is required for such uses.
(Ord., passed - -79)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.167 INCREASED RESIDENTIAL DENSITY.
   To provide an incentive for quality PUD, the Plan Commission may authorize
an increased residential density of up to 20% of the allowable number of
dwelling units. In allowing for density increase the Commission shall be guided
by the following criteria:
   (A)   Usable open space provided equals or exceeds 20% - a maximum increase
of 5%.
   (B)   Dedication or donation of sites for public purposes such as schools,
parks and public buildings - a maximum increase of 5%. In the event that the
dedicated area equals or exceeds 25% of the total development area or 30 acres,
the full five percentage points shall be allowed.
   (C)   Landscape planting and screening and site planning - a maximum
increase of 4%.
   (D)   Traffic and parking facilities' design - a maximum increase of 3%.
   (E)   Community facilities and amenities (trails, pools, tennis courts, club
houses, lakes, plazas, fountains, etc.) - a maximum increase of 3%.
(Ord., passed - -79)
§ 152.168 PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL.
   The procedure for approval of a Planned Unit Development shall be the same
as for a subdivision.
(Ord., passed - -79)
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
§ 152.170 REGULATIONS FOR SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   The establishment of a sexually oriented business shall be permitted
only in the specified "A" (Agriculture)and "B-3"(community business and retail
shopping) zones; provided, however, that no person shall cause or permit the
establishment of sexually oriented business, as defined in §
152.004, within 500 feet of another sexually oriented business; religious
institution; school; boys' club, girls' club, or similar existing youth
organization; or public park or public building; residential district; or
residential use (the foregoing uses are hereinafter collectively referred to as
"sensitive uses").
   (B)   Nothing in this section prohibits the location of a sexually oriented
business within "A" or "B-3" zones, without regard to the distance requirements
of division (A) above, wherein such business will have its only frontage upon
an enclosed mall.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any other provision herein to the contrary, sexually
oriented businesses shall be considered permitted uses in the zoning districts
where sexually oriented businesses are allowed to locate under this chapter,
and shall not be subject to the standards applied to conditional uses.
(Ord. 98-12, passed 9-1-98; Am. Ord. 2002-09, passed 7-11-02)
§ 152.171 MEASUREMENT OF DISTANCE.
   For the purpose of determining the distance requirements set forth in §
152.170(A), the distance between any two sexually oriented businesses shall be
measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures, from the
closest exterior structural wall of each business. The distance between any
sexually oriented business and any sensitive use shall be measured from the
nearest portion of the building or structure used as part of the premises where
the sexually oriented business is conducted, to the nearest property line of
the premises of the sensitive use.
(Ord. 98-12, passed 9-1-98; Am. Ord. 2002-9, passed 7-11-02)
§ 152.172 REGULATIONS GOVERNING EXISTING SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Any sexually oriented businesses lawfully operating prior to the
effective date of this ordinance, that is in violation of this chapter shall be
deemed a non-conforming use and subject to the provisions of §§
152.050, et seq. and applicable state law governing non-conforming uses. If two
or more sexually oriented businesses are within 500 feet of each other and
otherwise in a permissible location, the sexually oriented business which was
first established and continually operating at the particular location is the
conforming use and the later established business is non-conforming.
   (B)   A sexually oriented business lawfully operating as a conforming use is
not rendered a non-conforming use by the subsequent location, of a sensitive
use within 500 feet of the sexually oriented business.
(Ord. 98-12, passed 9-1-98; Am. Ord. 2002-9, passed 7-11-02)
CONVERSION OF DWELLINGS
§ 152.180 WHEN PERMITTED; COMPLIANCE.
   The conversion of any building into a dwelling or the conversion of any
dwelling so as to accommodate an increased number of dwelling units shall be
permitted only within a district in which a new building for similar occupancy
would be permitted under this chapter and only when the resulting occupancy
will comply with the requirements governing new construction in such district
with respect to minimum lot size, lot area per dwelling, dimensions of yards
and other open spaces and off-street parking.
(Ord., passed - -79)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.181 EXCEPTIONS.
   The district requirements with respect to yards and other open spaces shall
not apply in cases where the conversion is a part of a planned development
project meeting the requirements specified in §§
152.165 through
152.168. Such yard and other open space requirements shall also not apply in
cases where the conversion will not involve any major exterior structural
changes; and
   (A)   There is a shortage in the required dimensional area of each of not
more than two said requirements as to yards and other open spaces; or
   (B)   In case the conversion will result in a lot area per dwelling unit or
family at least 20% greater than required for new buildings in the district.
(Ord., passed - -79; Am. Ord. 1980-5, passed 7-7-80)
§ 152.182 BOARD AUTHORIZATION.
   Any conversion which would result in one or more dwelling units containing
less than 600 square feet of gross floor area shall be permitted only upon
authorization by the Board in accordance with the provisions of §§
152.235 through
152.244.
(Ord., passed - -79; Am. Ord. 1980-5, passed 7-7-80)
EXTRACTION OF MINERALS
§ 152.195 PROCEDURE; APPLICATION; HEARING.
   (A)   Any owner, lessee or other person, firm or corporation having an
interest in mineral lands in any A District may file with the Board an
application for authorization to mine minerals therefrom.
   (B)   An application for such operation shall set forth the following
information:
      (1)   Name of the owner or owners of land from which removal is to be
made;
      (2)   Name of the applicant making request for such a permit;
      (3)   Name of the person or corporation conducting the actual removal
operation;
      (4)   Location, description and size of the area from which the removal
is to be made;
      (5)   Location of processing plant used;
      (6)   Type of resources or materials to be removed;
      (7)   Proposed method of removal and whether or not blasting or other use
of explosives will be required;
      (8)   Description of equipment to be used;
      (9)   Method of rehabilitation and reclamation of the mined area.
   (C)   Upon receipt of such application the Board shall set the matter for a
public hearing in accordance with the provisions of §§
152.235 through
152.244.
(Ord., passed - -79; Am. Ord. 1980-5, passed 7-7-80)
§ 152.196 MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   Structures and equipment, their use and operation shall comply with all
requirements of the district in which said property is located, and with the
following additional requirements:
   (A)   Distance from property lines. No quarrying operation shall be carried
on or any stockpile placed closer than 50 feet to any property line, unless a
greater distance is specified by the Board where such is deemed necessary for
the protection of adjacent property; provided that this distance requirement
may be reduced to 25 feet by written consent of the owner or owners of the
abutting property.
   (B)   Distance from public right-of-way. In the event that the site of the
mining or quarrying operation is adjacent to the right-of-way of any public
street or road, no part of such operation shall take place closer than 25 feet
to the nearest line of such right-of-way.
   (C)   Fencing. Fencing shall be erected and maintained around the entire
site or portions thereof where in the opinion of the Board such fencing is
necessary for the protection of the public safety, and shall be of a type
specified by the Board.
   (D)   Equipment. All equipment and machinery shall be operated and
maintained in such manner as to minimize dust, noise and vibration. Access
roads shall be maintained in dustfree condition by surfacing or other treatment
as may be specified by the City Engineer.
   (E)   Processing. The crushing, washing and refining or other similar
processing may be authorized by the Board as an accessory use; provided,
however, that such accessory processing shall not be in conflict with the use
regulations of the district in which the operation is located, and shall not be
located within 200 feet of any boundary of the site.
(Ord., passed - -79)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.197 REHABILITATION.
   To guarantee the restoration, rehabilitation, and reclamation of mined-out
areas, every applicant, granted a mining permit as herein provided shall
furnish a performance bond running to the city, in an amount of not less than
$1,000 and not more than $10,000, as a guarantee that such applicant, in
restoring, reclaiming and rehabilitating such land, shall within a reasonable
time and to the satisfaction of the Board meet the following minimum
requirements:
   (A)   Surface rehabilitation. All excavation shall be made either to a
water-producing depth, such depth to be not less than five feet below water
mark, or shall be graded or backfilled with non-noxious, noninflammable and
noncombustible solids, to secure that the excavated area shall not collect and
permit to remain therein stagnant water; or that the surface of such area which
is not permanently submerged is graded or backfilled as necessary so as to
reduce the peaks and depressions thereof and to produce a gently running
surface that will minimize erosion due to rainfall and which will be in
substantial conformity to the adjoining land area.
   (B)   Vegetation. Vegetation shall be restored by appropriate seeds of
grasses or planting of shrubs or trees in all parts of said mining area where
such area is not to be submerged under water as hereinabove provided.
   (C)   Banks of excavations not backfilled. The banks of all excavations not
backfilled shall be sloped to the water line at a slope which shall not be less
than three feet horizontal to one foot vertical and said bank shall be seeded.
   (D)   Additional requirements. In addition to the foregoing the Board may
impose such other conditions, requirements or limitations concerning the
nature, extent of the use and operation of such mines, quarries or gravel pits
as the Board may deem necessary for the protection of adjacent properties and
the public interest. The said conditions and the amount of the performance bond
shall be determined by the Board prior to issuance of the permit.
(Ord., passed - -79)
Penalty, see § 152.999
HEIGHT AND YARD MODIFICATIONS
§ 152.210 HEIGHT LIMITATIONS NOT APPLICABLE.
   The height limitations stipulated elsewhere in this chapter shall not apply
to the following:
   (A)   Farm buildings, architectural features, and the like. Barns, silos, or
other farm buildings or structures on farms; church spires, belfries, cupolas
and domes, monuments, water towers, fire and hose towers, observation towers,
transmission towers, windmills, chimneys, smokestacks, flag poles, radio
towers, masts and aerials; parapet walls extending not more than four feet
above the limiting height of the building.
   (B)   Places of public assembly. Places of public assembly in churches,
schools and other permitted public and semipublic buildings, provided that
these are located on the first floor of such buildings and provided that, for
each three feet by which the height of such building exceeds the maximum height
otherwise permitted in the district its side and rear yards shall be increased
in width or depth by an additional foot over the side and rear yards required
for the highest building otherwise permitted in the district.
   (C)   Elevator penthouses, water tanks, and the like. Bulkheads, elevator
penthouses, water tanks, monitors and scenery lofts, provided no linear
dimensions of any such structure exceeds 50% of the corresponding street lot
line frontage; or to towers and monuments, fire towers, hose towers, cooling
towers, grain elevators, gas holders or other structures, where the
manufacturing process requires a greater height.
(Ord., passed - -79)
§ 152.211 MINIMUM HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS.
   All such structures above the heights otherwise permitted in the district
shall not occupy more than 25% of the area of the lot and shall be distant not
less than 50 feet in all parts from every lot line not a street lot line.
(Ord., passed - -79)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.212 AVERAGE DEPTH OF FRONT YARDS.
   (A)   In any district, where the average depth of at least two existing
front yards on lots within 100 feet of the lot in question and within the same
block front is less or greater than the least front yard depth prescribed
elsewhere in this chapter, the required depth of the front yard on such lot
shall be modified. In such case, this shall not be less than the average of the
depth on the two lots immediately adjoining, or, in the case where there are no
buildings on both of the lots immediately adjoining, the average depth of the
front yards on lots within 100 feet of the lot in question and within the same
block front; provided, however, that the depth of a front yard on any lot shall
be at least ten feet and need not exceed 50 feet.
   (B)   Steep slopes - front yard garage. In the A and any R District where
the natural slope of a lot within the required front yard has an average slope,
normal to the front lot line at every point along said line, of such a degree
or percent of slope that it is not practicable to provide a driveway with a
grade of 12% or less to a private garage conforming with the requirements of
this chapter, such garage may be located within such front yard, but not in any
case closer than six feet from the front lot line.
   (C)   Double frontage lots. Buildings on lots having frontage on two
nonintersecting streets need not have a rear yard, if an equivalent open space
is provided on the lot in lieu of such required rear yard; applicable front
yards must be provided, however, on both streets.
(Ord., passed - -79)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.213 REAR AND SIDE YARDS; COMPUTATION.
   In computing the depth of a rear yard or the width of a side yard, where the
rear or side yard abuts an alley, one-half of the width of the alley may be
included as a portion of the required rear or side yard, as the case may be;
provided, however, that no side yard shall be less at any point than three
feet, and no rear yard less than ten feet.
(Ord., passed - -79)
§ 152.214 SIDE YARD MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Side yard increased. Each side yard, where required, shall be
increased in width by two inches for each foot by which the length of the side
wall of the building, adjacent to the side yard, exceeds 40 feet.
   (B)   Side yard varied - wall not parallel. Side yard width may be varied
where the side wall of a building is not parallel with the side lot line or is
broken or is otherwise irregular. In such case, the average width of the side
yard shall not be less than the otherwise required least width; provided,
however, that such side yard shall not be narrower at any point than one-half
the otherwise required least width, or narrower than three feet in any case.
(Ord., passed - -79)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.215 REDUCTION OF REAR AND SIDE YARDS.
   Depth of a rear yard or width of each side yard for a one-family or two-
family dwelling may be reduced by four inches and two inches respectively, for
each foot by which a lot at the time of enactment of this chapter is less than
100 feet deep or less than 50 feet wide; provided, however, that no such side
yard shall be less at any point than three feet, or, in the case of such side
yard along a side street lot line, less than five feet; and further provided
that no such rear yard shall be less than ten feet. The width of one side yard
may be reduced, when authorized by the Board in the case of a one-family or
two-family dwelling, to a width of not less than three feet, provided the sum
of the widths of the two side yards is not less than the required minimum, and
provided the distance between the proposed dwelling and another dwelling,
existing or proposed, on an adjacent lot is not less than the required minimum
sum of the widths of two side yards; provided, however, that such reduction may
be authorized only when the Board finds it warranted by the location of
existing buildings or conducive to the desirable development of two or more
lots.
(Ord., passed - -79)
Penalty, see § 152.999
YARD PROJECTIONS
§ 152.225 PROJECTION OF ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES.
   Certain architectural features may project into required yards or courts as
follows:
   (A)   Front and side yards. Into any required front yard, or required side
yard adjoining a side street lot line:
      (1)   Cornices, canopies, eaves or other architectural features may
project a distance not exceeding two feet, six inches.
      (2)   Fire escapes, uncovered stairs and necessary landings, and porches
may project a distance not to exceed four feet.
      (3)   Bay windows, balconies and chimneys may project a distance not
exceeding three feet, provided that such features do not occupy, in the
aggregate, more than one-third of the length of the building wall on which they
are located.
   (B)   Interior side yards. Subject to the same limitations, the above-named
features may project into any required side yard adjoining an interior side lot
line, a distance not to exceed one-third of the required least width of such
side yard, but not exceeding three feet in any case.
   (C)   Rear yards. Subject to the same limitations, the above-named features
may project into any required rear yard the same distances they are permitted
to project into a front yard; provided, however, that covered or uncovered
stairs and necessary landings and porches may project a distance not exceeding
ten feet but not closer than ten feet from the rear lot line.
(Ord., passed - -79)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.226 FENCES, WALKS AND HEDGES.
   Fences, walks and hedges may be located in required yards as follows:
   (A)   If not exceeding at any point four feet in height above the elevation
of the surface of the ground at such point, such features may be located in any
yard.
   (B)   If not exceeding at any point six feet in height above the elevation
of the surface of the ground at such point, they may be located in any rear
yard or side yard.
(Ord., passed - -79)
Penalty, see § 152.999
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
§ 152.235 APPOINTMENT AND COMPOSITION OF BOARD.
   (A)   A Board of Zoning Appeals is hereby created. Such Board shall consist
of five members who shall be appointed by the Mayor. Vacancies shall be filled
in the same manner for the unexpired term. Upon the creation of the Board the
members shall be appointed for the following terms: One for a term of one year;
one for a term of two years; one for a term of three years; and two for a term
of four years. The terms shall expire on January 1 of the first, second, third
or fourth year respectively, following their appointment and thereafter as
their terms expire each new appointment shall be for a term of four years.
Members of the Board shall be removable for nonperformance of duty, misconduct
in office or other causes by the Common Council upon written charges having
been filed with the Common Council and after a public hearing has been held
regarding such charges, a copy of the charges having been served upon the
members so charged at least ten days prior to the hearing, either personally or
by registered mail or by leaving the same at his usual place of residence. The
member shall be given an opportunity to be heard in answer to such charges.
   (B)   Said Board shall consist of five members as follows:
      (1)   Three citizen members appointed by the Mayor, of whom one must be a
member of the Plan Commission and two must not be members of the Plan
Commission;
      (2)   One citizen member appointed by the Common Council, who must not be
a member of the Plan Commission;
      (3)   One member appointed by the Plan Commission from the Plan
Commission's membership, who must be a county agricultural agent or a citizen
member of the Plan Commission other than the member appointed under division
(B)(1) above.
   (C)   None of the members of the Board may hold:
      (1)   An elected office (as defined in IC 3-5-2-17); or
      (2   Any other appointed office, except as permitted by IC 36-7-4-902, in
municipal, county, or state government.
   (D)   All members of the Board must meet one of the following requirements:
      (1)   The member must be a resident of the city; or
      (2)   The member must be a resident of the county and also an owner of
real property located in whole or in part in the city.
   (E)   However, at least a majority of the total number of citizen members
appointed to the Board must be residents of the city. The Board shall determine
whether a member meets all applicable residency requirements for appointment in
accordance with uniform rules prescribed by the Board.
(Ord., passed - -79; Am. Ord. 1980-5, passed 7-7-80; Am. Ord. 2017- 017, passed
12-4-17)
§ 152.236 PROCEDURE AND ORGANIZATION.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall adopt such rules concerning the filing of
appeals and applications for variances and exceptions, and giving of notice and
conduct of hearings as shall be necessary to carry out its duties. At the first
meeting of each year the Board shall elect a Chairperson and a Vice-Chairperson
from its members. The Vice-Chairperson shall have authority to act as
Chairperson in the absence or disability of the Chairperson. Meetings of the
Board shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and at such other times as
the Board may determine and all meetings of the Board shall be open to the
public. The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote of
each member upon each question or, if absent or failing to vote, indicating
such fact and shall keep records of its examinations and other official actions
all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the Board and shall be
a public record.
(Ord., passed - -79)
§ 152.237 QUORUM.
   A majority of the members of the Board shall constitute a quorum. The Board
shall act by resolution and no action of the Board shall be official unless
authorized by a majority of the members of the Board.
(Ord., passed - -79)
§ 152.238 EMPLOYEES; ASSISTANCE OF OTHER DEPARTMENTS.
   The Board may appoint and affix the compensation of a secretary and such
employees as are necessary for the discharge of its duties all in conformity to
and compliance with salaries and compensations theretofore fixed by the Common
Council. The Board may call upon the city departments for assistance in the
performance of its duties and it shall be the duty of such departments to
render such assistance to the Board as may reasonably be required. The Common
Council shall provide suitable offices for the holding of hearings and the
preservation of records, documents and accounts of the Board. The Board shall
have authority to expend under regular city procedure all sums appropriated to
it by the Common Council.
(Ord., passed - -79)
§ 152.239 APPLICATIONS; APPEALS; HEARINGS; AND STAY OF PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   Applications - when and by whom taken. An application, in cases in
which the Board has original jurisdiction under the provisions of this chapter,
may be taken by any property owner, including a tenant, or by a governmental
officer, department, board or bureau. Such application shall be filed with the
Board in accordance with its rules of procedure.
   (B)   Appeals - when and by whom taken. An appeal to the Board may be taken
by any person aggrieved or by any officer of the city affected by any decision
of the Zoning Inspector. Such appeal shall be taken within 20 days after the
decision, by filing with the Zoning Inspector and with the Board a notice of
appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The Zoning Inspector shall, upon request
of the Board, transmit to the Board all the papers constituting the record of
the action from which an appeal was taken.
   (C)   Hearings and fees.
      (1)   The Board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the
application or appeal and give public notice as well as due notice to the
parties in interest of such public hearing. At the hearing, any party may
appear in person or by attorney.
      (2)   The Board may require the party submitting the application or
taking the appeal to assume the cost of public notice and due notice to
interested parties.
   (D)   Decisions of the Board.
      (1)   The Board shall decide all applications and appeals within 30 days
after the final hearing thereon.
      (2)   A certified copy of the Board's decision shall be transmitted to
the applicant or appellant and to the Zoning Inspector. Such decision shall be
binding upon the Zoning Inspector and observed by him and he shall incorporate
the terms and conditions of the same in the improvement location permit to the
applicant or appellant whenever a permit is authorized by the Board.
      (3)   Any person or persons, firm or corporation, jointly or severally
aggrieved by any decision by the Board may present to the Circuit or Superior
Court of Dearborn County, a petition duly verified setting forth that such
decision is illegal in whole or in part and specifying the grounds of the
illegality. The petition shall be presented to the court within 30 days after
the date of the decision and the order of the Board with which there is a
complaint.
   (E)   Stay of proceedings. An appeal to the Board shall stay all proceedings
in furtherance of the action appealed from, unless the Zoning Inspector
certifies to the Board after notice of appeal shall have been filed with him,
that by reason of fact stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his opinion,
cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not
be stayed except by restraining order which may be granted by the Board or by
the Circuit or Superior Court of Dearborn County.
(Ord., passed - -79)
§ 152.240 POWERS.
   The powers of the Board shall be:
   (A)   To hear and determine appeals from and review any order, requirement,
decision or determination made by an administrative official or board in the
enforcement of this chapter;
   (B)   To authorize, upon appeal, a variance as defined in §
152.004;
   (C)   To grant an improvement location permit for conditional uses as
hereinbefore specified and as defined in §
152.004;
   (D)   To interpret the provisions of this chapter as provided in §§
152.015 through
152.020;
   (E)   To authorize or prohibit additional uses as provided in §§
152.030 through
152.040;
   (F)   To permit the extension and/or substitution of a nonconforming use as
provided in §§
152.050 through
152.056.
   (G)   To permit the temporary use of a structure or premises in any district
for a purpose or use that does not conform to the regulations prescribed
elsewhere in this chapter for the district in which it is located, provided
that such use be of a temporary nature and not involve the erection of a
substantial structure, and further provided that an improvement location permit
for such use shall be granted in the form of a temporary and revocable permit,
for not more than a 12-month period, subject to such conditions as will
safeguard the public health, safety, morals and general welfare; and
   (H)   Such other duties as may be required by the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord., passed - -79; Am. Ord. 1980-5, passed 7-7-80)
§ 152.241 CONDITIONAL USES.
   In considering an application for a conditional use, the Board shall give
due regard to the nature and condition of all adjacent uses and structures; and
in authorizing a conditional use, the Board may impose such requirements and
conditions with respect to location, construction, maintenance and operation
(in addition to those expressly stipulated in this chapter for the particular
conditional use) as the Board may deem necessary for the protection of public
health, safety, comfort, morals, convenience and general welfare, and for the
protection of adjacent properties.
(Ord., passed - -79)
§ 152.242 INTERPRETATION OF ZONING MAP.
   Where the street or lot layout actually on the ground, or as recorded,
differs from the street and lot lines as shown on the Zoning Map, the Board,
after notice to the owners of the property and after public hearing, shall
interpret the map in such a way as to carry out the intent and purpose of this
chapter. In case of any question as to the location of any boundary line
between zoning districts, a request for interpretation of the Zoning Map may be
made to the Board and a determination shall be made by the Board. In
considering an interpretation of the Zoning Map, the Board shall give due
regard to the nature and condition of all adjacent uses and structures.
(Ord., passed - -79)
§ 152.243 VARIANCES.
   (A)   In authorizing a variance, the Board may attach thereto such
conditions regarding the location, character and other features of the proposed
structure or use as it may deem necessary in the interest of the furtherance of
the purposes of this chapter and in the public interest. In authorizing a
variance with attached conditions, the Board shall require such evidence and
guarantee of bond, as it may deem necessary, that the conditions attached are
and will be complied with.
   (B)   No such variance shall be authorized by the Board unless the Board
finds that all the following facts and conditions exist:
      (1)   That there are exceptional or extraordinary circumstances applying
to the property in question, or to the intended use of the property, that do
not apply generally to other properties or classes of uses in the same zoning
district;
      (2)   That such variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment
of substantial property rights possessed by other properties in the same zoning
district and in the same vicinity; and so that the spirit of this chapter shall
be observed and substantial justice done; and
      (3)   That the authorizing of such variance will not be of substantial
detriment to adjacent property, and will not materially impair the purposes of
this chapter or the public interest.
   (C)   No grant of a variance shall be authorized unless the Board
specifically finds that the condition or situation of the specific piece of
property, or the intended use of said property for which variance is sought
(one or the other or in combination) is not of so general or recurrent a nature
as to make reasonably practicable the formulation of a general regulation for
such condition or situation.
   (D)   In exercising its power the Board may, in conformity with the
provisions of statute and of this chapter, reverse or affirm, wholly or partly,
or may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination made, and to
that end shall have all powers of the officer from whom the appeal is taken.
(Ord., passed - -79)
§ 152.244 ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW.
   In considering an appeal from an alleged error in the administration of this
chapter, the Board shall consider the intent and purpose of the provisions of
this chapter that apply and the effect of the desired interpretation upon
neighboring properties and the public interest. In exercising its power to
review such allegation, the Board may, in conformity with the provisions of
statute and of this chapter, reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify
the order, decision or determination made, and to that end shall have all
powers of the officer from whom the appeal is taken.
(Ord., passed - -79)
DISTRICT CHANGES AND REGULATIONS AMENDMENTS
§ 152.255 COMMON COUNCIL MAY AMEND REGULATIONS.
   Whenever the public health, safety, comfort, morals, convenience or general
welfare or good zoning practice require, the Common Council may by ordinance,
after recommendation thereon by the Plan Commission and subject to the
procedure provided in this subchapter, amend, supplement or change the
regulations, district boundaries or classifications of property, now or
hereinafter established by this chapter or amendments thereof. It shall be the
duty of the Commission to submit its recommendations regarding all applications
or proposals for amendments or supplements. An amendment, supplement,
reclassification or change may be initiated by the Common Council on its own
motion, by a petition of the Plan Commission or by a petition of the owners of
50% or more of the area proposed to be changed or affected by this chapter.
(Ord., passed - -79)
§ 152.256 PROCEDURE FOR CHANGE.
   (A)   Petitions for any change of the regulations or of district boundaries
or classifications of property as shown on the Zoning Map shall be submitted to
the Clerk of the Common Council at his public office, upon such forms, and
accompanied by such data and information as may be prescribed for that purpose,
so as to assure the fullest practicable presentation of facts for the permanent
record. Each such petition for a change of district boundaries or a
reclassification of property submitted by property owners shall be verified by
at least one such owner attesting to the truth and correctness of all facts and
information presented with the petition. Petitions for amendments submitted by
the Commission shall be accompanied by its own resolution pertaining to such
proposed amendment.
   (B)   Notice and hearing. Before submitting its recommendations on a
proposed change of the regulations or reclassification of property to the
Common Council, the Commission shall hold public hearing thereon, notice of
which shall be given by one publication in a newspaper of general circulation
in the city at least ten days before the date of such hearing. Such notice
shall state the place and time at which the proposed amendment to the chapter,
including text and maps, may be examined.
   (C)   Recommendation to Common Council. Following such hearing, the
Commission may recommend that the application be granted as requested, or it
may recommend a modification of the zoning change requested in the application,
or it may recommend that the application not be granted. These recommendations
shall then be certified to the Common Council.
(Ord., passed - -79)
FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
§ 152.265 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION. FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE, AND OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. The Indiana Legislature has in IC 36-7-
4 granted the power to local government units to control land use within their
jurisdictions. Therefore, the City Council does hereby adopt the following
floodplain management regulations.
   (B)   Findings of fact.
      (1)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic
inundation, which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
      (2)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities,
and by the occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or
hazardous to other lands that are inadequately elevated, inadequately
floodproofed, or otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
   (C)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this subchapter to promote
the public health, safety, and general welfare, and to minimize public and
private losses due to flood conditions in specific areas, by provisions
designed to:
      (1)   Restrict or prohibit uses dangerous to health, safety, and property
due to water or erosion hazards, which result in damaging increases in erosion
or in flood heights or velocities.
      (2)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities that
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction.
      (3)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers involved in the accommodation of floodwaters.
      (4)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development that may
increase erosion or flood damage.
      (5)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or that may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
      (6)   Make federally subsidized flood insurance available for structures
and their contents in the city by fulfilling the requirements of the National
Flood Insurance Program.
   (D)   Objectives. The objectives of this subchapter are:
      (1)   To protect human life and health.
      (2)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects.
      (3)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding, and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public.
      (4)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions.
      (5)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities, such as
water and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges,
located in floodplains.
      (6)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use
and development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood-
blight areas.
(Ord. 2014-001, passed 3-18-14)
§ 152.266 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this subchapter
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage,
and to give this subchapter its most reasonable application.
   A ZONE. Portions of the SFHA in which the principal source of flooding is
runoff from rainfall, snowmelt, or a combination of both. In A Zones,
floodwaters may move slowly or rapidly, but waves are usually not a significant
threat to buildings. These areas are labeled as Zone A, Zone AE, Zones A1-A30,
Zone AO, Zone AH, Zone AR and Zone A99 on a FIRM. The definitions are presented
below:
      ZONE A. Areas subject to inundation by the one-percent annual chance
flood event. Because detailed hydraulic analyses have not been performed, no
base flood elevation or depths are shown.
      ZONE AE AND ZONES A1-A30. Areas subject to inundation by the one-percent
annual chance flood event determined by detailed methods. Base flood elevations
are shown within these zones. (Zone AE is on new and revised maps in place of
Zones A1-A30.)
      ZONE AO. Areas subject to inundation by one-percent annual chance shallow
flooding (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain), where average depths are
between one and three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed
hydraulic analyses are shown within this zone.
      ZONE AH. Areas subject to inundation by one-percent annual chance shallow
flooding (usually areas of ponding), where average depths are between one and
three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed hydraulic analyses are
shown within this zone.
      ZONE AR.  Areas that result from the decertification of a previously
accredited flood protection system that is determined to be in the process of
being restored to provide base flood protection.
      ZONE A99. Areas subject to inundation by the one-percent annual chance
flood event, but which will ultimately be protected upon completion of an
under-construction federal flood protection system. These are areas of special
flood hazard where enough progress has been made on the construction of a
protection system, such as dikes, dams and levees, to consider it complete for
insurance-rating purposes. ZONE A99 may only be used when the flood protection
system has reached specified statutory progress toward completion. No base
flood elevations or depths are shown.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure, with a floor area
400 square feet or less, that is located on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure, and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should constitute a minimal initial
investment, may not he used for human habitation, and shall be designed to have
minimal flood damage potential. Examples of ACCESSORY STRUCTURES are detached
garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns, and hay sheds.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure, in which the ADDITION is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, connected
by a firewall or separated by independent perimeter load-bearing wails, is new
construction.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this subchapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on the community’s
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), with base flood depths from one to three feet,
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equated or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation of the one-percent annual chance
flood.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a structure having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BOUNDARY RIVER. The part of the Ohio River that forms the boundary between
the Kentucky and Indiana.
   BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY.  The floodway of a boundary river.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY.  A political entity that has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives for those communities in the Regular
Program that have gone beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to
develop extra measures to provide protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY.  A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire, and emergency response
installations, installations that produce, use or store hazardous materials or
hazardous waste.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to:
      (1)   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a structure or any
addition to a structure;
      (2)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
      (3)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction of
roads or similar projects;
      (4)   Construction of flood control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements, and the like;
      (5)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation, or drilling
operations;
      (6)   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
      (7)   Storage of materials; or
      (8)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance of existing
structures and facilities, such as painting and re-roofing; resurfacing roads;
or gardening, plowing, and similar agricultural practices that do not involve
filling, grading, excavation, or the construction of permanent structures.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, filled stem wall foundations (also called chain walls), pilings, or
columns (posts and piers).
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A certified statement that verifies a structure’s
elevation information.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM.  The first phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP. It is intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at
subsidized rates on all insurable structures in that community before the
effective date of the initial FIRM.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD.  A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA)
has delineated the areas of flood hazards and regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official hydraulic and hydrologic report
provided by FEMA. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the FIRM, FBFM
(where applicable), and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPG). The elevation of the regulatory flood plus two
feet at any given location in the SFHA (see FREEBOARD).
   FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area acknowledged by a community as being
susceptible to inundation by water from any source (see FLOOD).
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining any wetland, lake, or
watercourse that have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory flood.
The FLOODPLAIN includes both the floodway and the fringe districts.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT.  The operation of an overall program of corrective
and preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This subchapter and other zoning
ordinances, subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations,
special purpose ordinances, and other applications of police power that control
development in flood-prone areas. This term describes federal, state, or local
regulations, in any combination thereof, that provide standards for preventing
and reducing flood loss and damage. FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS are also
referred to as FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS, FLOODPLAIN ORDINANCE, FLOOD DAMAGE
PREVENTION ORDINANCE, and FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   FLOODPROOFING (DRY FLOODPROOFING). A method of protecting a structure that
ensures that the structure, together with attendant utilities and sanitary
facilities, is watertight to the floodproofed design elevation,  with walls
that are substantially impermeable to the passage of water. All structural
components of these walls are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy, and anticipated debris-impact
forces.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form used to certify compliance for
nonresidential structures as an alternative to elevating structures to or above
the FPG. This certification must be by a registered professional engineer or
architect.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel that are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flood flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE, that
is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to compensate
for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater
than those calculated for the base flood.
   FRINGE. Those portions of the floodplain lying outside the floodway.
   HARDSHIP (as related to variances of this subchapter). The exceptional
HARDSHIP that would result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The
Board of Zoning Appeals requires that the variance is exceptional, unusual, and
peculiar to the property involved. Mere economic or financial HARDSHIP alone is
not exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps,
personal preferences, or the disapproval of one’s neighbors likewise cannot, as
a rule, qualify as an exceptional HARDSHIP. All of these problems can be
resolved through other means without granting a variance, even if the
alternative is more expensive, or requires the property owner to build
elsewhere, or put the parcel to a different use than originally intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to the start of construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURES. Any structures individually listed on the National
Register of Historic Places or the Indiana State Register of Historic Sites and
Structures.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC). The cost to repair a substantially
damaged structure that exceeds the minimal repair cost, and that is required to
bring a substantially damaged structure into compliance with the local flood
damage prevention ordinance. Acceptable mitigation measures are elevation,
relocation, demolition, or any combination thereof. All renewal and new
business flood insurance policies with effective dates on or after June 1,
1997, will include ICC coverage.
   LETTER OF FINAL DETERMINATION (LFD). A letter issued by FEMA during the
mapping update process that establishes final elevations and provides the new
flood map and flood study to the community. The LFD initiates the six-month
adoption period. The community must adopt or amend its floodplain management
regulations during this six-month period, unless the community has previously
incorporated an automatic adoption clause.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). A general term used to refer to the several
types of revisions and amendments to FEMA maps that can be accomplished by
letter. They include Letter of Map Amendment  (LOMA), Letter of Map Revision
(LOMR), and Letter of Map Revision based on Fill (LOMR-F). The definitions are
presented below:
      LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment by letter to the currently
effective FEMA map that establishes that a property is not located in a SFHA
through the submittal of property specific elevation data. A LOMA is only
issued by FEMA.
      LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official revision to the currently
effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones, delineations,
and elevations.
      LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F).  An official revision by
letter to an effective NFIP map. A LOMR-F provides FEMA’s determination
concerning whether a structure or parcel has been elevated on fill above the
BFE and excluded from the SFHA.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The lowest elevation, after completion of
construction, of the ground, sidewalk, patio, deck support, or basement
entryway immediately next to the structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest elevation described among the following:
      (1)   The top of the lowest level of the structure.
      (2)   The top of the basement floor.
      (3)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level of
the structure.
      (4)   The top of the first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or
pillars.
      (5)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure, other than a basement,
below an elevated structure, where the walls of the enclosure provide any
resistance to the flow of floodwaters, unless:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls, by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters,
by providing a minimum of two openings (in addition to doorways and windows) in
a minimum of two exterior walls; if a structure has more than one enclosed
area, each shall have openings on exterior walls;
         (b)   The total net area of all openings shall be at least one square
inch for every one square foot of enclosed area; the bottom of all such
openings shall be no higher than one foot above the exterior grade or the
interior grade immediately beneath each opening, whichever is higher; and
         (c)   Such enclosed space shall be usable solely for the parking of
vehicles and building access.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, built
on a permanent chassis, and designed for use with or without a permanent
foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term MANUFACTURED HOME
does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, excluding the land (as agreed to between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. MARKET VALUE can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of building (actual cash value), or
adjusted assessed values.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of MITIGATION
is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the cost of
disaster response and recovery.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide, through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD) OF 1929. As corrected in 1929, a
vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within
the floodplain.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the “start of construction”
commenced after the effective date of the community’s first floodplain
ordinance.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   NON-BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY. The floodway of any river or stream other than
a boundary river.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 (NAVD 88). As adopted in 1993, a
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, canalization,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation, or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse that may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water; or due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
   ONE-PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. The flood that has a 1% chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with the
letter A is subject to the one-percent annual chance flood. See REGULATORY
FLOOD.
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR). An official republication of a community’s FEMA
map to effect changes to base (one-percent annual chance) flood elevations,
floodplain boundary delineations, regulatory  floodways, and planimetric
features. These changes typically occur as a result of structural works or
improvements, annexations resulting in additional flood hazard areas, or
correction to base flood elevations or SFHAs.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything that is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community, neighborhood or any considerable number of
persons, or that unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is (1) built on a single chassis; (2)
400 square feet or less, when measured at the largest horizontal projections;
(3) designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck;
and (4) designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as quarters
for recreational camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of the community’s participation in the NFIP
where more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and
higher amounts of insurance are available, based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure that is acceptable
to and approved by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The regulatory flood elevation at any location is
as defined in §
152.267(B) of this subchapter. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the terms
BASE FLOOD, ONE-PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD, and 100-YEAR FLOOD.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period, for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on the average, equaled or exceeds 25% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SECTION 1316. That section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, that states that no new flood insurance coverage shall be provided for
any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a duly
constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public body to
be in violation of state or local laws, regulations or ordinances that intended
to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy in flood-
prone areas.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS (SFHAs). Those lands within the jurisdiction of
the city subject to inundation by the regulatory flood. The SFHAs of the city
are generally identified as such on the Dearborn County, Indiana, and
Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map, dated April 16, 2014, as well as
any future updates, amendments, or revisions prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency with the most recent date. (These areas are shown on a FIRM
as Zone A, AE, A1-A30, AH, AR, A99, or AO.)
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION,
repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The ACTUAL START means either the first placement of permanent construction of
a structure on a site, such as the pouring of a slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work, beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
PERMANENT CONSTRUCTION does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers,
foundations, or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds,
not occupied as dwelling units, or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home, or a prefabricated building. The term also includes
recreational vehicles to be installed on a site for more than 180 days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE.  Damage of any origin sustained by a structure, whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL, IMPROVEMENT.  Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred “repetitive loss”
or “substantial damage”, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The
term does not include improvements of structures to correct existing violations
of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code requirements or any
alteration of a “historic structure”, provided that the alteration will not
preclude the structure’s continued designation as a “historic structure”.
   SUSPENSION. The removal of a participating community from the NFIP because
the community has not enacted and/or enforced the proper floodplain management
regulations required for participation in the NFIP.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this subchapter, which
permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this subchapter, where
specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this subchapter. A structure or other development without the
elevation, other certification, or other evidence of compliance required in
this subchapter is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
Shaded X ZONES shown on recent FIRMs (B Zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% chance of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood). Unshaded X ZONES (C Zones on older FIRMs)
designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is less
than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a FIRM that reflects the severity or type
of flooding in the area.
   ZONE A.  See definition for A ZONE.
   ZONE B, C, AND X. Areas identified in the community as areas of moderate or
minimal hazard from the principal source of flood in the area. However,
buildings in these zones could be flooded by severe, concentrated rainfall
coupled with inadequate local drainage systems. Flood insurance is available in
participating communities, but is not required by regulation in these zones.
(Zone X is used on new and revised maps in place of Zones B and C.)
(Ord. 2014-001, passed 3-18-14)
§ 152.267 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Lands to which this subchapter applies. This subchapter shall apply to
all SFHAs and known flood-prone areas within the jurisdiction of the city.
   (B)   Basis for establishing regulatory flood data. This subchapter’s
protection standard is the regulatory flood. The best available regulatory
flood data is listed below.
      (1)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for the
studied SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the city shall be as delineated on the
one-percent annual chance flood profiles in the Flood Insurance Study of
Dearborn County, Indiana, and Incorporated Areas and the corresponding Flood
Insurance Rate Map, dated April 16, 2014, as well as any future updates,
amendments, or revisions prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
with the most recent date.
      (2)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for
each of the SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the city, delineated as an “A
Zone” on the Dearborn County, Indiana, and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance
Rate Map, dated April 16, 2014, as well as any future updates, amendments, or
revisions prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most
recent date, shall be according to the best data available as provided by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources; provided the upstream drainage area
from the subject site is greater than one square mile. Whenever a party
disagrees with the best available data, the party needs to replace existing
data with better data that meets current engineering standards. To be
considered, this data must be submitted to the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources for review and subsequent approval.
      (3)   In the absence of a published FEMA map, or absence of
identification on a FEMA map, the regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and
fringe limits of any watercourse in the community’s known flood-prone areas
shall be according to the best data available as provided by the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources; provided the upstream drainage area from the
subject site is greater than one square mile.
      (4)   Upon issuance of a Letter of Final Determination (LFD), any more
restrictive data in the new (not yet effective) mapping/study shall be utilized
for permitting and construction (development) purposes, replacing all
previously effective, less restrictive flood hazard data provided by FEMA.
   (C)   Establishment of floodplain development permit. In conformance with
the provisions of this subchapter, a floodplain development permit shall be
required prior to the commencement of any development activities in areas of
special flood hazard.
   (D)   Compliance. No structure shall hereafter be located, extended,
converted or structurally altered within the SFHA without full compliance with
the terms of this subchapter and other applicable regulations. No land or
stream within the SFHA shall hereafter be altered without full compliance with
the terms of this subchapter and other applicable regulations.
   (E)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. This subchapter is not intended
to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this subchapter and another conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   (F)   Discrepancy between mapped floodplain and actual ground elevations.
      (1)   In cases where there is a discrepancy between the mapped floodplain
(SFHA) on the FIRM and the actual ground elevations, the elevation provided on
the profiles shall govern.
      (2)   If the elevation of the site in question is below the base flood
elevation, that site shall be included in the SFHA and regulated accordingly.
      (3)   If the elevation (natural grade) of the site in question is above
the base flood elevation and not located within the floodway, that site shall
be considered outside the SFHA and the floodplain regulations will not be
applied. The property owner shall be advised to apply for a LOMA.
   (G)   Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of this
subchapter, all provisions shall be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
      (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body;
      (3)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   (H)   Warning and disclaimer of liability. The degree of flood protection
required by this subchapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes,
and is based on available information derived from engineering and scientific
methods of study. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions.
Therefore, this subchapter does not create any liability on the part of the
City of Aurora, the Indiana Department of Natural Resources, or the State of
Indiana for any flood damage that results from reliance on this subchapter, or
any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
   (I)   Penalties for violation. Failure to obtain a floodplain development
permit in the SFHA, or failure to comply with the requirements of a floodplain
development permit or conditions of a variance, shall be deemed to be a
violation of this subchapter. All violations shall be considered a common
nuisance and shall be treated as such in accordance with the provisions of the
zoning ordinance.
      (1)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the
violation continues to exist.
      (2)   The Floodplain Administrator shall inform the owner that any
violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages, and therefore,
may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
      (3)   Nothing herein shall prevent the city from taking other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 2014-001, passed 3-18-14)
§ 152.268 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Designation of Administrator. The City Council hereby appoints the
Code Enforcement Administrator to administer and implement the provisions of
this subchapter, and is herein referred to as the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   Permit procedures. Application for a floodplain development permit
shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator, on forms furnished by the
Floodplain Administrator, prior to any development activities. The application
may include, but not be limited to, the following: plans, in duplicate, drawn
to scale, showing the nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area
in question; existing or proposed structures, earthen fill, storage of
materials or equipment, drainage facilities, and the location of the foregoing.
Specifically, the following information is required:
      (1)   Application stage.
         (a)   A description of the proposed development.
         (b)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structure(s) in relation to existing roads and streams.
         (c)   A legal description of the property site.
         (d)   A site development plan, showing existing and proposed
development locations, and existing and proposed land grades.
         (e)   Elevation of the top of the planned lowest floor (including
basement) of all proposed buildings. Elevation should be in NAVD 88 or NGVD.
         (f)   Elevation (in NAVD 88 or NGVD) to which any nonresidential
structure will be floodproofed.
         (g)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development. A hydrologic and
hydraulic engineering study is required, and any watercourse changes shall
submitted to DNR for approval and then to FEMA as a Letter of Map Revision.
(See §
152.268(C)(6) for additional information.)
      (2)   Construction stage. Upon establishment/placement of the lowest
floor, before framing continues, including any approved floodproofing, it shall
be the duty of the applicant to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a
certification of the NAVD 88 or NGVD elevation of the lowest floor or
floodproofed elevation, as built. The certification shall be prepared by or
under the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor or professional
engineer, and certified by the same. When floodproofing is utilized for a
particular structure, the certification shall be prepared by or under the
direct supervision of a professional engineer or architect, and certified by
same. Any work undertaken prior to submission of the floodproofing
certification shall be at the applicant’s risk. (The Floodplain Administrator
shall review the lowest floor and floodproofing elevation survey data
submitted.) The applicant shall correct deficiencies detected by the review
before any further work is allowed to proceed. Failure to submit the survey, or
failure to make the corrections required hereby, shall be cause to issue a
stop-work order for the project. Any work undertaken prior to submission of the
elevation certification shall be at the applicant’s risk. The Floodplain
Administrator shall review the lowest floor or floodproofed elevation survey
data submitted. The applicant shall correct any deficiencies detected by the
review. Failure to submit the elevation certification, or failure to make
correction required, shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
      (3)   Finished construction. Upon completion of construction, an
elevation certification that depicts the as-built lowest floor elevation is
required to be submitted to the Floodplain Administrator. If the project
includes a floodproofing measure, floodproofing certification is required to be
submitted by the applicant to the Floodplain Administrator.
   (C)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator. The
Floodplain Administrator, and/or designated staff, is hereby authorized and
directed to enforce the provisions of this subchapter. The Administrator is
further authorized to render interpretations of this subchapter consistent with
its spirit and purpose. The duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain
Administrator shall include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development permits to assure that the permit
requirements of this subchapter have been satisfied.
      (2)   Inspect and inventory damaged structures in the SFHA and complete
substantial damage determinations.
      (3)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources for all development projects subject to
§
152.269(E) and (G)(1) of this subchapter, and maintain a record of such
authorization (copy of either actual permit/authorization or floodplain
analysis/regulatory assessment).
      (4)   Ensure that all necessary federal or state permits have been
received prior to issuance of the local floodplain development permit. Copies
of such permits/authorizations are to be maintained on file with the floodplain
development permit.
      (5)   Maintain and track permit records involving additions and
improvements to residences located in the floodway.
      (6)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Floodplain Coordinator
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit copies of
such notifications to FEMA.
      (7)   Maintain for public inspection, and furnish upon request, local
permit documents, damaged structure inventories, substantial damage
determinations, regulatory flood data, SFHA maps, Letters of Map Change (LOMC),
copies of DNR permits, letters of authorization, floodplain analysis and
regulatory assessments (letters of recommendation), federal permit documents,
and as-built elevation and floodproofing data for all buildings constructed
subject to this subchapter.
      (8)   Utilize and enforce all Letters of Map Change (LOMC) or Physical
Map Revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently effective SFHA maps of the
community.
      (9)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished.
      (10)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance.
      (11)   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, in
accordance with §
152.268(B).
      (12)   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new or
substantially improved structures have been floodproofed in accordance with §
152.268(B).
      (13)   Stop-work orders.
         (a)   Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator, work on any
building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this subchapter shall immediately cease,
         (b)   The notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner
of the property, or to his agent, or to the person doing the work, and shall
state the conditions under which work may be resumed.
      (14)   Revocation of permits.
         (a)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval,
issued under the provisions of the subchapter, in cases where there has been
any false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the
application or plans on which the permit or approval was based.
         (b)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit, upon
determination by the Floodplain Administrator that the construction, erection,
alteration, repair, moving, demolition, installation, or replacement of the
structure for which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in
conformity with, the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2014-001, passed 3-18-14)
§ 152.269 PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION.
   (A)   General standards. In all SFHAs and known flood-prone areas, the
following provisions are required:
      (1)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
      (2)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not
limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard
shall be in addition to, and consistent with, applicable state requirements for
resisting wind forces.
      (3)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage below the FPG.
      (4)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
      (5)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, utility meters, and other service facilities shall be located at or
above the FPG, or designed so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components below the FPG. Water and sewer pipes, electrical and
telephone lines, submersible pumps, and other waterproofed service facilities
may be located below the FPG.
      (6)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
      (7)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
      (8)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them, or contamination from them, during flooding.
      (9)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a
structure that is in compliance with the provisions of this subchapter shall
meet the requirements of “new construction” as contained in this subchapter.
   (B)   Specific standards. In all SFHAs, the following provisions are
required:
      (1)   In addition to the requirements of §
152.269(A), all structures to be located in the SFHA shall be protected from
flood damage below the FPG. This building protection requirement applies to the
following situations:
         (a)   Construction or placement of any structure having a floor area
greater than 400 square feet.
         (b)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure where the
cost of the addition or improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the
existing structure (excluding the value of the land).
         (c)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged structure, where the
costs of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure (excluding the value of the
land) before damage occurred.
         (d)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site
for more than 180 days.
         (e)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new
manufactured home on an existing site. This subchapter does not apply to
returning the existing manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied
before it was removed to avoid flood damage.
         (f)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive-loss structure.
         (g)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure with a
previous addition or improvement constructed since the community’s first
floodplain ordinance.
      (2)   Residential structures. New construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest
floor, including basement, at or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood
elevation). Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a
structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movement of
floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of §
152.269 (B)(4).
      (3)   Nonresidential structures.  New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or nonresidential structure (or
manufactured home) shall either have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated to or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood elevation), or be
floodproofed to or above the FPG. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be
used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded
movements of floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of
§
152.269 (B)(4). Structures located in all “A Zones” may be floodproofed in lieu
of being elevated, if done in accordance with the following:
         (a)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify
that the structure has been designed so that, below the FPG, the structure and
attendant utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the
effects of the regulatory flood. The structure design shall take into account
flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures, and impacts
from debris or ice. The certification shall be provided to the official as set
forth in §
152.268(C)(12).
         (b)   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human
intervention and without an outside source of electricity.
      (4)   Elevated structures.
         (a)   New construction or substantial improvements of elevated
structures shall have the lowest floor at or above the FPG.
         (b)   Elevated structures with fully enclosed areas formed by
foundation and other exterior walls below the flood protection grade shall be
designed to preclude finished living space, and designed to allow for the entry
and exit of floodwaters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on
exterior walls. Designs must meet the following minimum criteria:
            1.   Provide a minimum of two openings located in a minimum of two
exterior walls (having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area).
            2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot
above the exterior grade or the interior grade immediately beneath each
opening, whichever is higher.
            3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or
other coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of
floodwaters in both directions.
            4.   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to
allow for parking for vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator).
            5.   The interior portion of the enclosed area shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms.
            6.   The interior grade of the enclosed area shall be at an
elevation at or higher than the exterior grade.
      (5)   Structures constructed on fill. A residential or nonresidential
structure may be constructed on a permanent landfill in accordance with the
following:
         (a)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the
Standard or Modified Proctor Test method, which shall be retained in the permit
file.
         (b)   The fill shall extend ten feet beyond the foundation of the
structure before sloping below the BFE.
         (c)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or bulkheading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three horizontal to one vertical.
         (d)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
         (e)   The top of the lowest floor, including basements, shall be at or
above the FPG.
      (6)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles to be installed or substantially
improved on a site for more than 180 days must meet one of the following of
requirements:
         (a)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed
on a site outside a manufactured home park or subdivision; in a new
manufactured home park or subdivision; in an expansion to an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision; or in an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision on which a manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage”
as a result of a flood:
            1.   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation so that the lowest floor shall be at or above the FPG, and securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement.
            2.   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space, and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in §
152.269(B)(4).
            3.   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
         (b)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed
on a site in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision that has not
been substantially damaged by a flood:
            1.   The manufactured home shall be elevated so that the lowest
floor of the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or
other foundation elevations that are no less than 36 inches in height above
grade, and shall be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation
system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
            2.   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space, and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in §
152.269(B)(4).
            3.   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
         (c)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site shall either:
            1.   Be on site for less than 180 days;
            2.   Be fully licensed and READY FOR HIGHWAY USE (defined as being
on its wheels or jacking system, attached to the site only by quick,
disconnect-type utilities and security devices, and having no permanently
attached additions); or
            3.   Meet the requirements for “manufactured homes” as stated
earlier in this section.
      (7)   Accessory structures. Relief from the elevation or dry
floodproofing standards may be granted for accessory structures. Such
structures must meet the following standards:
         (a)   Shall not be used for human habitation.
         (b)   Shall be constructed of flood-resistant materials.
         (c)   Shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the minimum
resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
         (d)   Shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation.
         (e)   Service facilities, such as electrical and heating equipment,
shall be elevated or floodproofed to or above the FPG.
         (f)   Shall be designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters
to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as
required for elevated structures in §
152.269(B)(4).
      (8)   Above-ground gas or liquid storage tanks. All above-ground gas or
liquid storage tanks shall be anchored to prevent flotation or lateral
movement.
   (C)   Standards for subdivision proposals.  
      (1)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
      (2)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and
facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, located and
constructed to minimize flood damage.
      (3)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
      (4)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision
proposals and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions) that is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five acres.
      (5)   All subdivision proposals shall minimize development in the SFHA
and/or limit density of development permitted in the SFHA.
      (6)   All subdivision proposals shall ensure safe access into/out of SFHA
for pedestrians and vehicles (especially emergency responders).
   (D)   Critical facilities.
      (1)    To the extent possible, construction of new critical facilities
shall be located outside the limits of the SFHA.
      (2)   Construction of new critical facilities shall be permissible within
the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is available.
      (3)   Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated to or above the FPG at the site.
      (4)   Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that
toxic substances will not be displaced by or released into floodwaters.
      (5)   To the extent possible, access routes elevated to or above the FPG
shall be provided to all critical facilities.
   (E)   Standards for identified floodways.
      (1)   Located within SFHAs, established in §
152.267(B), are areas designated as floodways.
         (a)   The floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity
of floodwaters, which carry debris, potential projectiles, and has erosion
potential.
         (b)   If the site is in an identified floodway, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources, and apply for a permit for construction in a floodway.
         (c)   Under the provisions of IC 14-28-1, a permit for construction in
a floodway from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources is required prior
to the issuance of a local building permit for any excavation, deposit,
construction, or obstruction activity located in the floodway.
            1.   This includes land preparation activities, such as filling,
grading, clearing and paving, and the like, undertaken before the actual start
of construction of the structure.
            2.   However, it does exclude non-substantial additions/
improvements to existing (lawful) residences in a non-boundary river floodway.
(IC 14-28-1-26 allows construction of a non-substantial addition/ improvement
to a residence in a non-boundary river floodway without obtaining a permit for
construction in the floodway from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources.
Please note that, if fill is needed to elevate an addition above the existing
grade, prior approval for the fill is required from the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources.)
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until a
permit or letter of authorization (when applicable) has been issued by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources, granting approval for construction in
the floodway.
         (a)   Once a permit for construction in a floodway or letter of
authorization has been issued by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources,
the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit,
provided the provisions contained in §
152.269 of this subchapter have been met.
         (b)   The floodplain development permit cannot be less restrictive
than the permit for construction in a floodway issued by the Indiana Department
of Natural Resources. However, a community's more restrictive regulations (if
any) shall take precedence.
      (3)   No development shall be allowed that, acting alone or in
combination with existing or future development, will adversely affect the
efficiency of, or unduly restrict the capacity of, the floodway. This ADVERSE
AFFECT is defined as an increase in the elevation of the regulatory flood of at
least fifteen-hundredths (0.15) of a foot, as determined by comparing the
regulatory flood elevation under the project condition to that under the
natural or pre-floodway condition as proven with hydraulic analyses.
      (4)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill (including
levees), the city shall submit the data and request that the Federal Emergency
Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data per mapping standard
regulations found at 44 CFR § 65.12.
   (F)   Standards for identified fringe. If the site is located in an
identified fringe, then the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
floodplain development permit, provided the provisions contained in §
152.269 of this subchapter have been met. The key provision is that the top of
the lowest floor of any new or substantially improved structure shall be at or
above the FPG.
   (G)   Standards for SFHAs without established base flood elevation and/or
floodways/fringes.
      (1)   Drainage area upstream of the site is greater than one square mile:
         (a)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of
the floodway and fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage area
upstream of the site is greater than one square mile, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources for review and comment.
         (b)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
either a permit for construction in a floodway (including letters of
authorization) or a floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment, citing the one-
percent annual chance flood elevation and the recommended flood protection
grade, has been received from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources.
         (c)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper permit
for construction in a floodway (including letters of authorization), or
floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment approving the proposed development, a
floodplain development permit may be issued, provided the conditions of the
floodplain development permit are not less restrictive than the conditions
received from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources, and the provisions
contained in §
152.269 of this subchapter have been met.
      (2)   Drainage area upstream of the site is less than one square mile:
         (a)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of
the floodway and fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage area
upstream of the site is less than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator
shall require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis, showing the
limits of the floodplain and one-percent annual chance flood elevation for the
site.
         (b)   Upon receipt, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
floodplain development permit, provided the provisions contained in §
152.269 of this subchapter have been met.
      (3)   The total cumulative effect of the proposed development, when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase
the regulatory flood more than 0.14 of one foot and will not increase flood
damages or potential flood damages.
   (H)   Standards for flood-prone areas. All development in known flood-prone
areas not identified on FEMA maps, or where no FEMA-published map is available,
shall meet applicable standards as required per §
152.269.
(Ord. 2014-001, passed 3-18-14)
§ 152.270 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Designation of the Variance and Appeals Board. The Board of Zoning
Appeals shall hear and decide appeals and requests for variances from
requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   Duties of the Variance and Appeals Board.
      (1)   The Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged an error
in any requirement, decision, or determination is made by the Floodplain
Administrator in the enforcement or administration of this subchapter.
      (2)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Board may appeal that
decision to the Dearborn County Circuit Court.
   (C)   Variance procedures. In passing upon such applications, the Board
shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards
specified in other sections of this subchapter, and:
      (1)   The danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage.
      (2)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage, and the effect of that damage on the individual owner.
      (3)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community.
      (4)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable.
      (5)   The availability for the proposed use of alternative locations that
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage.
      (6)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development.
      (7)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area.
      (8)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles.
      (9)   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
transport of sediment of the floodwaters at the site.
      (10)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (D)   Conditions for variances.
      (1)   Variances shall only be issued when there is:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause.
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship.
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public,
or conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
      (2)   No variance for a residential use within a floodway subject to §
152.269(E) or (G)(1) of this subchapter may be granted.
      (3)   Any variance granted in a floodway subject to §
152.269(E) or (G)(1) of this subchapter will require a permit from the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources.
      (4)   Variances to the provisions for flood hazard reduction of §
152.269(B) may be granted only when a new structure is to be located on a lot
of one-half acre or less in size, contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the flood protection grade.
      (5)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (6)   Variances may be granted for the reconstruction or restoration of
any structure individually listed on the National Register of Historic Places
or the Indiana State Register of Historic Sites and Structures.
      (7)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice, specifying the difference between the flood protection grade and the
elevation to which the lowest floor is to be built, and stating that the cost
of the flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting
from the reduced lowest floor elevation (see §
152.270(E)).
      (8)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions and, upon request, report any variances to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency or the Indiana Department of Natural Resources (see §
152.270(E)).
   (E)   Variance notification.
      (1)   Any applicant granted a variance, which allows the lowest floor of
a structure to be built below the flood protection grade, shall be given
written notice, over the signature of a community official, that:
         (a)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the
flood protection grade will result in increased premium rates for flood
insurance up to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
         (b)   Such construction below the flood protection grade increases
risks to life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the
Floodplain Administrator in the Office of the County Recorder, and shall be
recorded in a manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected
parcel of land.
      (2)   The Floodplain Administrator will maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance.
   (F)   Historic structures. Variances may be issued for the repair or
rehabilitation of “historic structures”, upon a determination that the proposed
repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued
designation as an “historic structure”, and the variance is the minimum
necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
   (G)   Special conditions. Upon the consideration of the factors listed in §
152.270 , and the purposes of this subchapter, the Board of Zoning Appeals may
attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to
further the purposes of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2014-001, passed 3-18-14)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.295 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   No building or other structure may be erected, moved, added to. or
structurally altered, nor shall any building, structure, or land be established
or changed in use or character without a permit. The improvement location
permit, hereafter called a zoning permit shall be issued by the Planning
Director or his or her designee pursuant to plot plan review or site plan
review as set forth in this order. All zoning permits issued under plot plan
review or site plan review shall be issued only in conformity with the
provisions of this subchapter unless the Planning Director receives a written
order from the Board of Zoning Appeals deciding an appeal, conditional use,
variance, or special exception.
(Ord., passed - -79; Am. Ord. 2015-013, passed 12-28-15)
§ 152.296 REQUIREMENTS OF ZONING PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   The owner, or applicant seeking a permit shall obtain and complete an
application for a zoning permit on a form prescribed by the Plan Commission and
follow the criteria set forth under plot plan review and site plan review, as
applicable.
(Ord., passed - -79; Am. Ord. 2015-013, passed 12-28-15)
§ 152.297 FAILURE TO OBTAIN ZONING PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY.
   Failure to obtain a zoning permit and a certificate of occupancy shall be a
violation of this subchapter and will be punishable under the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord., passed - -79; Am. Ord. 2015-013, passed 12-28-15) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.298 CONSTRUCTION AND USE TO BE AS PROVIDED IN APPROVED ZONING PERMIT.
   Zoning permits are issued by the Department of Planning and Zoning, on the
basis of the application and plans that have been submitted, and approved, and
authorize only the use, arrangement, and construction that has been set forth
in the approved application and plans. Any other use, arrangement, or
construction, contrary to that authorization shall require a revised permit
that complies with all requirements or it will be considered a violation of
this subchapter and be punishable under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord., passed - -79; Am. Ord. 2015-013, passed 12-28-15)
§ 152.299 REMEDIES COMPLAINTS REGARDING VIOLATIONS.
   Whenever a violation of this subchapter occurs, or is alleged to have
occurred, any person may file a written complaint. Such complaint shall fully,
and accurately, state the causes and basis of the alleged violation, as well as
the specific location, and shall be filed with the Planning Director or his or
her designee. The Planning Director or designee shall investigate the complaint
in a timely manner and, if warranted, take action thereon as provided by this
subchapter.
(Ord., passed - -79; Am. Ord. 2015-013, passed 12-28-15)
§ 152.300 INSPECTION OF PROPERTY; RIGHT-OF-ENTRY.
   (A)   The Planning Director and/or his or her designee are authorized to
make inspections of all land that is located within the city in order to
enforce the zoning ordinance and land use regulations. The Planning Director
and/or his or her designee shall have the right to enter upon any premises at
any reasonable time for the purpose of carrying out the duties in the
enforcement of this subchapter, unless the owner or occupant of the premises
refuses to permit entry for these purposes. In the event of said refusal, the
Planning Director and/or his or her designee shall seek the appropriate legal
remedy to allow access to the property.
   (B)   Procedures and violations. If the Planning Director or designee
determines that a violation exists, a written notice shall be given to the
person(s) responsible for ownership of the property with the alleged violation,
by certified mail. The notice shall describe the details of the alleged
violation and the reasons believed that the violation exists. The notice shall
also contain corrective actions and a definitive timeline of compliance, as
required by the subchapter.
   (C)   Pending violations. If a violation is pending, the alleged violator
cannot obtain any other benefits of this ordinance on the property where the
violation is still pending. No permits will be issued to the alleged violator
until the resolution of the pending violation.
   (D)   Penalties for violations. Any person who violates any provisions of
this subchapter shall upon conviction be fined not less than $10 and not more
than $300 for each offense. Each day that the violation exists shall constitute
a separate offense. Violations of this subchapter that occur because a permit
was not applied for or issued shall result in a doubling of the permit fee.
   (E)   Compliance with regulations. 
      (1)   The regulations for each district set forth by this subchapter,
shall be the minimum regulations and shall apply uniformly to each class or
kind of structure or land, except as otherwise provided in this subchapter.
Further the following provisions apply:
         (a)   No building, structure, or land shall be used or occupied and no
building or structure or part thereof shall be erected, constructed,
reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered except in conformity with all of
the regulations herein specified for the district in which it is located.
         (b)   No building or other structure shall be erected or altered to:
            1.   Provide for greater height or area;
            2.   Accommodate or house a greater number of families; or
            3.   Have narrower or smaller, rear yards, front yards, side yards,
or other open spaces than is required, or in any other manner be contrary to
the provisions of this subchapter.
         (c)   No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this
subchapter shall be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum requirements
set forth herein. Yards or lots created after the effective date, of this
ordinance shall meet at least the minimum requirements set forth herein.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Plan Commission's Attorney to prosecute
such violations of this subchapter as may be brought to his attention and which
violation shall be considered worthy of prosecution in the opinion of such
Prosecutor.
      (3)   The Plan Commission, Board of Zoning Appeals, Planning Director, or
any concerned person of the City of Aurora, Indiana, may institute a suit for
injunction in any court having jurisdiction to restrain an individual or a
governmental unit from violating the provisions of this subchapter. The Plan
Commission, Board of Zoning Appeals, Planning Director, or any concerned person
of the city, may also institute a suit for a mandatory injunction in any court
having jurisdiction directing any person, persons or governmental unit to
remove a structure erected in violation of the provisions of this subchapter.
      (4)   The Plan Commission, Board of Zoning Appeals, Planning Director, or
any concerned person of the city, not withstanding the above provisions, shall
be permitted to otherwise enforce this subchapter by invoking any legal,
equitable, or special remedy provided by law.
   (F)   Schedule of fees, charges and expenses. This Plan Commission shall
establish a schedule of fees, charges, and expenses that are required and shall
be posted in the Department of Planning and Zoning. Until all applicable fees,
charges and expenses have been paid in full, no action shall be taken on any
application or appeal.
(Ord. 2015-013, passed 12-28-15)
§ 152.301 INTENT OF PLOT PLAN REVIEW FOR IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMITS.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide plot plan, regulations
that will enhance the improvement location permitting process under the
provisions of the preceding sections of this order. Plot plans are required for
single-family residential uses, additions, accessory uses, and any other
structure that requires an improvement location permit.
   (B)   Authority of plot plan review for improvement location permits.
      (1)   The purpose of plot plan review is to protect the public health,
safety and general welfare of the city. The provisions and requirements in this
chapter are written and shall be administered, to ensure orderly growth and
development of the city. No building shall be erected, expanded or improved, on
any lot, site, or parcel for uses where plot plan review is required except in
accordance with the regulations in this zoning ordinance and with the
requirements stated in this chapter. All such plot plans shall be reviewed by
the Department of Planning and Zoning and a determination either approving or
rejecting such plans shall be made in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter and other applicable, chapters of this order.
      (2)   The Department of Planning and Zoning shall not be permitted to
reject any plot plan, which is in full conformance with the requirements, terms
and conditions of this chapter and zoning ordinance. Nor can additional
regulations be imposed which are not included within this order. All approved
plot plans shall be binding upon the applicant, property owner, developer, or
their successors and shall limit the development or project to the construction
work as shown on the approved plot plan and to all conditions and limitations
for such plans agreed to by the applicants. Amendments or changes to the
approved plot plans shall be subject to the provisions of
Chapter 152.
   (C)   Procedure. Before submitting an application for Plot Plan Review each
applicant, property owner, or developer is encouraged to read the following
categories to determine which level the construction proposal matches. If a
determination cannot be ascertained the applicant is encouraged to have a pre-
application meeting with the City of Aurora Plan Commission staff.
      (1)   Minor plot plan. A plot plan that requires no significant exterior
utility construction (e.g., storm sewer, water, sanitary sewer, etc.), and no
status as a residential living unit. Typically this review pertains to the
construction of accessory uses, minor additions, swimming pools, ponds, etc.
      (2)   Major plot plan. A plot plan that involves significant exterior
utility construction (e.g., storm sewer, water, sanitary sewer, septic sites,
etc.), and buildings constructed as a residential living unit. Typically this
review pertains to the construction of a single family residence, mobile home,
and manufactured home. The Planning Director or Designee will determine the
allowable distance from flood zones A and B that are exempt from flood
certification.
   (D)   Application and approval.
      (1)   An applicant, property owner, or developer is required to file an
application with the City of Aurora Department of Planning and Zoning. Action
in the form of approval or denial of a minor plot plan or major plot plan by
the Plan Commission's staff shall occur within seven working days of when the
plan is officially submitted to the Department of Planning and Zoning's Office
in complete form. Any incomplete plot plan or application may result in delays.
      (2)   An appeal of the staff denial of a minor/major plot plan is
possible before the Board of Zoning Appeals at its next regularly scheduled
meeting after written notification is made by the applicant to the Planning
Director within 30 calendar days of the staff denial. The Board of Zoning
Appeals shall make final action for approval or denial on the appeal of a
minor/major plot plan. Reasons for denial of a minor/major plot plan by the
Board of Zoning Appeals shall be given to the applicant in written form.
   (E)   Plot plan requirements.
      (1)   All minor plot plans submitted to the City of Aurora Plan
Commission shall be in accordance with this chapter and shall contain the
following information:
         (a)   A complete and accurate application form;
         (b)   In order that all the required plot plan information be properly
documented and correctly designed, it is necessary that all plot plans be drawn
to a scale that allows all improvements and notes to be legible. Digital plans
are preferred. Paper copies of plans should be submitted on standard paper
sizes either 8 ½ x 11 or 11 x 17. All plans larger than 11 x 17 must be
submitted in an acceptable digital format (such as a .jpeg or .pdf file);
         (c)   A graphic scale shall be noted on the plot plan along with the
date and north arrow;
         (d)   Property boundaries/location reference(s);
         (e)   Location of all public and private streets and/or private lanes,
as well as the location and width of proposed driveway entrances on the subject
property;
         (f)   Label and locate all existing and proposed structures;
         (g)   Approximate location of all known utilities and associated
easements (e.g., sewer lines, water lines, septic tanks, electric lines, gas
lines, and so on). All applicants are advised to call 811, “Call-Before-You-
Dig.”
         (h)   Distances from the corners of the proposed structure(s) to the
appropriate property lines-sufficient to determine that all required setbacks,
including those from easements and the identified floodplain, have been met.
Setbacks/distances from the proposed improvement(s) to any septic field or tank
area within 50 feet must be identified/shown on the plot plan provided to the
Department of Planning and Zoning as a part of this process, to illustrate
conformance with
Chapter 152 of the zoning ordinance.
      (2)   All major plot plans submitted to the City of Aurora Plan
Commission in accordance with this chapter shall contain the following
information:
         (a)   A complete and accurate application form;
         (b)   In order that all the required plot plan information be properly
documented and correctly designed, it is necessary that all plot plans be drawn
to a scale that allows all improvements and notes to be legible. Digital plans
are preferred. Paper copies of plan should be submitted on standard paper
sizes-either 8 ½ x 11 or 11 x 17. All plans larger than 11x17 must be submitted
in an acceptable digital format (such as a .jpeg or .pdf file). In situations
where the scaled lot is larger than the preferred paper size a large scale plot
plan with a close up view of the major features is acceptable;
         (c)   A graphic scale shall be noted on the plot plan along with the
date and north arrow;
         (d)   Property boundaries/location reference(s);
         (e)   Location of all public and private streets and/or private lanes,
as well as the location and width of proposed driveway entrances on the subject
property;
         (f)   Recorded easements identified;
         (g)   Label and locate all existing and proposed structures;
         (h)   Exterior dimensions of structure (including decks or porches and
overhang measurements);
         (i)   Elevation of the ground floor noted on plan (i.e. the distance
of the floor of the improved area to the soil grade). For structures within an
identified flood-prone area, additional elevations will be required in
accordance with §§
152.265 through
152.277;
         (j)   Distances from the corners of the proposed structure(s) to the
appropriate property lines-sufficient to determine that all required setbacks,
including those from easements and the identified floodplain, have been met;
         (k)   Location of structures on adjacent lots-only when trying to
acknowledge/establish a different building setback line exists other than the
current ordinances;
         (l)   Approximate location of all known utilities and associated
easements (e.g., sewer lines, water lines, septic tanks, electric lines, gas
lines, and so on). All applicants are advised to call 811, “Call-Before-You-
Dig.”
         (m)   Location of primary and secondary on-site sewage disposal system
areas, if applicable;
         (n)   A plot plan signed, dated, and approved by an appropriate health
department official, where an official health department permit release is not
immediately available;
         (o)   Approximate boundaries of the 100-year flood plain using the
flood insurance rate maps and floodway maps for the City of Aurora. Properties
located within the floodplain shall provide written documentation from the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources regarding the Flood Protection Grade
and location of the floodway (see
Chapter 8 of the City of Aurora Zoning Ordinance);
         (p)   A plot plan signed, dated, and approved by an appropriate
transportation department or official, where an official driveway permit
release is not immediately available (sight distance will be checked and
affirmed by the affected Transportation Department during the application
process).
   (F)   Expiration, extension, and completion of approval period. If the work
described in a zoning permit has not been initiated within one year from the
date it was issued, the permit shall expire. The permit shall also expire if
the described work has not been substantially completed within two years of the
date it was issued. If, for any reason, the zoning permit expires, all work
must be stopped immediately until the permit has been renewed or a new permit
has been obtained. The Planning Director or his or her designee may grant an
extension on a zoning permit, if the applicant can demonstrate a good cause for
such an extension, prior to the date of expiration.
   (G)   Changes or amendments. Any changes made to the approved plot plan
before the development of the site or building shall require the approval of
the Plan Commission staff. Any variations to an approved site plan that
occurred in the development of the site or building will require that an "as
built" site plan be submitted for review to the Department of Planning and
Zoning. Depending on the extent of the changes, a new application may be
required by the Planning Director of designee. If the “as-built” site plan does
not conform to the requirements in the subchapter or if a certificate of
occupancy is not granted, it will be handled as a violation of the subchapter
under
Chapter 152, §§
152.295 through
152.300.
(Ord. 2015-013, passed 12-28-15)
§ 152.302 INTENT OF SITE PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   The purpose of this portion of this chapter is to regulate multi-
family, commercial, office, industrial and other developments of structures and
sites in a manner which considers the impacts to adjacent properties and public
infrastructure. Single family residences are exempt from site plan review. Site
plan review will address specific issues such as parking, landscaping, internal
and external access, stormwater runoff and erosion, garbage collection areas
and outside storage. Further, this portion of this chapter is written for the
benefit of a property owner or developer because it provides the design
standards and requirements for developing property within the City of Aurora.
   (B)   Authority of site plan review. 
      (1)   The purpose of site plan review is to protect the public health,
safety and general welfare of the city. The provisions and requirements in the
forthcoming sections are written and shall be administered to ensure orderly
growth and development of the city. No building shall be erected or expanded,
nor shall any grading take place or other site improvements occur, on any lot,
site, or parcel for uses where site plan review is required except in
accordance with the regulations in the City Code of Ordinances and with the
requirements stated in the zoning ordinance. All such site plans shall be
reviewed by the Department of Planning and Zoning and a determination either
approving or rejecting such plans shall be made in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   The Department of Planning and Zoning shall not be permitted to
reject any site plan which is in full conformance with the requirements, terms
and conditions of the zoning ordinance or this order, nor can additional
regulations be imposed which are not included within the zoning ordinance or
this order. All approved site plans shall be binding upon the applicant,
property owner, developer, or their successors and shall limit the development
or project to the construction work as shown on the approved site plan and to
all conditions and limitations for such plans agreed to by the applicants.
Amendments or changes to the approved site plans shall be subject to the
provisions of division (H). Site plan review is required when specified by the
individual zoning district, when the proposal is beyond the scope of a zoning
permit as specified in §
152.301, or when the scope of the proposal is within the definition of a minor
site. Plan or major site plan as described in division (B).
   (C)   Site plan review procedure. Prior to submitting an application for
site plan review each applicant, property owner, or developer is encouraged to
have a pre-application meeting with the City of Aurora Plan Commission staff.
The purpose of the pre-application meeting is to advise each applicant,
property owner, or developer of the site plan review procedure and requirements
and discuss any initial concerns and omissions about the site plan that is
being previewed. In addition, the results of the meeting will also determine
whether the development proposed will follow the minor site plan review
procedure or the major site plan review procedure. Both types of procedures are
described below. Typically new developments on undeveloped land will require
major site plan review.
      (1)   Minor site plan. A site plan that involves no exterior utility
construction (e.g., storm sewer, water, sanitary sewer, etc.), either no
grading work or a minimal amount of grading work, no more than 12 parking
spaces, no more than a 1,000 square foot increase of the existing building
square footage of the primary use or structures, no additional access points or
curb cuts, and loading areas that are less than 10,000 square feet.
      (2)   Major site plan. A site plan that involves exterior utility
construction (storm sewer, water, sanitary sewer, etc.), grading work, more
than 12 parking spaces, more than a 1,000 square foot increase of the existing
building square footage of the primary use or structures, access points or curb
cuts, and a loading area in excess of 10,000 square feet. Major site plans may
be reviewed by the Project Review Committee and other outside agencies in
addition to the Plan Commissions staff.
   (D)   Site plan review application and approval. 
      (1)   An applicant, property owner, or developer is required to file an
application with the City of Aurora Department of Planning and Zoning. Action
in the form of approval or denial of a minor site plan by the Planning
Commission's staff shall occur within ten working days of when the plan is
officially submitted to the Department of Planning and Zoning's Office in
complete form.
      (2)   Action in the form of approval or denial of a major site plan is by
the Department of Planning and Zomng's Staff, in consultation with the
Technical Review Committee, and other agencies. Action on the application shall
occur within 30 calendar days of when the site plan is submitted to the City of
Aurora Department of Planning and Zoning's Office in complete form.
      (3)   An appeal of the staff denial of a minor/major site plan is
possible before the Board of Zoning Appeals at its next regularly scheduled
meeting after written notification is made by the applicant to the Planning
Director within 30 calendar days of the staff denial. Final action for approval
or denial on the appeal of a minor/major site plan shall be made by the Board
of Zoning Appeals. Reasons for denial of a minor site plan and major site plan
by the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be given to the applicant in written form.
      (4)   A waiver of any site plan requirement can be requested as part of
the application for the development. In addition, extensions of the time
requirements specified by this chapter can be requested with the application
for site plan review. All waivers and time extensions shall be reviewed by
Planning Director and issued only if such waiver/extension is necessary due to
unusual or extreme circumstances inherent in the project site and if the
requested waiver/extension does not adversely affect the site plan requirements
of this chapter.
   (E)   Site plan requirements.
      (1)   All minor site plans submitted to the City of Aurora Department of
Planning and Zoning shall be in accordance with this chapter and shall contain
the following information:
         (a)   Dimensions of the site or lot;
         (b)   Location and width of all public and private streets driveways,
and other vehicular circulation areas;
         (c)   Location of all existing and proposed structures;
         (d)   The proposed use at the site;
         (e)   Square footage and height of proposed building or addition;
         (f)   Location of all existing water, sanitary sewer, storm sewer,
electric and cable television lines, easements and poles;
         (g)   Location of any proposed parking spaces and dimensions and
access points;
         (h)   Statement declaring that “no storm water detention, grading, or
utility construction necessary for construction of building addition or site
work.”
      (2)   All major site plans submitted to the City of Aurora Department of
Planning and Zoning in accordance with this chapter shall contain the following
information:
         (a)   Project name, date, north arrow, location map (a map which
clearly shows the location of the property in respect to existing road and
landmark);
         (b)   A scale not smaller than one inch equals 100 feet or as approved
by the Planning Director or designee;
         (c)   A stamp or seal of an Indiana registered professional engineer,
architect, landscape architect or land surveyor (the scope of work performed by
such professionals in conjunction with a site plan submission is limited to
that permitted by their respective licensing authorities). If grading and/or
storm sewer construction work are being proposed, an Indiana registered
professional engineer or surveyor shall be required to submit grading
information and design the appropriate stormwater system. A stamp or seal of a
Indiana registered professional engineer or surveyor is required for grading
and stormwater construction work;
         (d)   The present zoning of the subject property and all adjacent
properties;
         (e)   All existing and proposed public and private right-of-ways and
streets;
         (f)   All abandoned streets;
         (g)   Existing and proposed finished topography of the subject
property shown by contours with intervals not to exceed five feet. If
necessary, the City of Aurora Plan Commission may request a geo-technical
report of a specific site;
         (h)   Location and height of existing and proposed structures on the
property with each existing and proposed use noted;
         (i)   Dimensions of each lot or property boundaries;
         (j)   Proposed housing units proposed on the property depicting
location, arrangements, number or units in each building, and where applicable,
location and dimensions of all lots;
         (k)   Location and arrangement of all common open space areas and
recreational facilities;
         (l)   Location, size, and type of all landscaping features;
         (m)   Location, orientation, lighting, materials, size, type, and
height of signs;
         (n)   Floodplain and/or floodway zone certification and base flood
elevation if applicable;
         (o)   Location of all existing and proposed utility lines and
easements (each line should be labeled existing or proposed). This information
shall also be accompanied by a written statement from each service provider
that addresses capacity issues as well as affirms the applicant's ability to
connect or tap into these services:
            1.   Water distribution systems, including line. size, width of
easements, type of pipe, location of hydrants and valves, and other
appurtenances;
            2.   Sanitary sewer system, including pipe sizes, width of
easements, gradients, types of pipes, invert elevations, location and type of
manholes, the location, type, size of all lift or pumping stations, capacity,
and process of any necessary treatment facilities, and other appurtenances. A
project within the territory of the City of Aurora requires written
acknowledgement/approval by the city in addition to acknowledgements/approvals
of other service providers (where interlocal agreements may exist or be
required), where applicable;
            3.   Storm sewer and natural drainage system, including pipe and
culvert sizes, gradients, location of open drainage courses, width of
easements, location and size of inlets and catch basins, location and size of
detention or retention and/or sedimentation basins, and data indicating the
quantity of stormwater entering the subject property naturally from areas
outside the property, the quantity of flow at each pickup point (inlet), the
quantity of stormwater generated by development of the subject area, and the
quantity of stormwater to be discharged at various points to areas outside the
subject property. Show location of all detention/retention ponds;
            4.   Other applicable utilities (e.g., electric, telephone, etc.)
including the type of service and the width of easements, if information is
available; and/or
            5.   Statement located on the plan regarding who will maintain the
drainage system.
         (p)   Location of all off-street parking, loading and/or unloading and
driveway areas:
            1.   The type of surfacing;
            2.   Width, and depth of parking stalls, including disabled stalls;
            3.   Driveway width;
            4.   Traffic flow areas for one way traffic;
            5.   Angle of parking used; and/or
            6.   Number of parking spaces and loading spaces.
         (q)   Circulation system details that include the following:
            1.   Pedestrian walkways, including alignment, grades, type of
surfacing, and width;
            2.   Streets and driveways including alignment, grades, type of
surfacing, width of pavement, and right-of-way and whether public or private;
and
            3.   Provisions for access management, which may include, but are
not limited to:
               a.   A frontage road (public or private);
               b.   Coordination of curb cuts;
               c.   Curb cut connections accessible to adjoining properties;
               d.   Internal and external traffic control measures and traffic
circulation patterns;
               e.   Location of all above ground and underground storage tanks;
               f.   Location of dumpsters; and
               g.   Location of outdoor storage areas.
         (r)   Construction or installation details for the following:
            1.   Paving, curbing, and sidewalk sections;
            2.   Wheelchair ramps and/or curbs;
            3.   On-site traffic/vehicular regulatory signs, including disabled
parking stall signage;
            4.   Curbcuts;
            5.   Garbage storage area enclosure or screening; and/or
            6.   Site lighting fixtures.
         (s)   Provisions for control of erosion, hillside slippage, and
sedimentation, indicating the temporary and permanent control practices and
measures which will be implemented during all phases of clearing, grading, and
construction. Show all affected or disturbed areas during construction on or
within close proximity of the site (i.e., excavation, fill or storage);
         (t)   If the proposed site was part of a zone change request, submit a
copy of the approved concept development plan or show the relationship of the
location of the proposed structure(s) to the approved zone change request;
         (u)   Each applicant shall be required to submit traffic information
estimating at minimum peak hour traffic entering and exiting the site under
review. This information shall be used by the Plan Commission in determining
the location of curb cuts or any additional traffic management controls on each
site. When appropriate, a traffic impact assessment may be required to be
submitted for review by the Plan Commission;
         (v)   Architectural information including the location of main doors
and overhead doors shown on the site plan and the height of all structures
noted on the site plan. Architectural elevations and renderings which
illustrate the overall external building design, and materials and colors to be
used in the building design, shall be provided for sites that are subject to
other design review requirements, such as conditions of zone change, the
Historic Preservation District's approval, etc.;
         (w)   Location of existing recorded or unrecorded cemeteries,
buildings listed on the National Register or archaeological sites;
         (x)   Location of parking lot and driveway lights and their
illumination areas on the project site and adjoining properties; and
         (y)   Any development which requires that a public: improvement be
made as part of the development may require a financial surety to cover the
cost of the public improvements. The Planning Director shall determine if a
surety is needed.
      (3)   The aforementioned information required may be combined in any
suitable and convenient manner so long as the data required is clearly
indicated. For property to be developed in sections or phases, detailed site
plans containing the above information need not be submitted for the entire
property. Plans conforming to these criteria should be submitted for the
section or phase to be developed along with conceptual or schematic plans for
the entire property in order to show the relationship of the relevant section
to the entire development plan.
   (F)   Expiration and extension of approval period. The approval of a site
plan shall be for a period not to exceed two years. If no grading work or
building construction has begun within two years after approval is granted, the
approved site plan will be void. Only a single one year extension of an
approved site plan may be granted upon request to the Department of Planning
and Zoning prior to the two year expiration date.
   (G)   Completion of site plan construction work and requirements. All
requirements of the approved site plan must be completed within six months of
building occupancy unless an extension is granted by the Planning Director upon
request. The Department of Planning and Zoning staff will conduct a post-
development site inspection after the period specified above or occupancy of
the use has begun. The purpose of the site inspection is to verify compliance
with the approved site plan. Any deviation from the approved site plan may
require a new application or record drawings. The Technical Review Committee
shall make this decision. If no building construction is being proposed, all
site construction work, if begun, is to be completed one year from the approval
date by the Plan Commission. A copy of the approved site plan shall be retained
on the job site until all site improvements have been completed and have been
accepted by the City of Aurora Plan Commission.
   (H)   Changes or amendments. Any changes made to the approved site plan
prior to the development of the site or building shall require the approval of
the Technical Review Committee. Depending on the extent of the changes, a new
application may be required. Any variations to an approved site plan that
occurred in the development of the site or building will require that “record
drawings” be submitted for review to the Committee. In the event that any
person holding an approved site plan permit pursuant to this ordinance has
violated the terms of the permit or has implemented site development in such a
manner as to materially adversely affect the health, welfare, or safety of
persons residing or working in the neighborhood or development site so as to be
materially detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to property or
improvements in the neighborhood, the Building Commissioner or Planning
Director, or their respective designees, may suspend or revoke an approved
improvement plan permit and may recommend that the project be addressed further
as a violation in consideration of §§
152.295 through
152.300.
(Ord. 2015-013, passed 12-28-15)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any building erected, raised or converted, or land or premises used in
violation of any provision of this chapter is hereby declared to be a common
nuisance and the owner of such building, land or premises shall be liable for
maintaining a common nuisance. Any person, firm or corporation violating any
provisions of this chapter or any amendment of supplement thereto shall be
fined not less than $10 nor more than $300. Each and every day during which
such violation is permitted to be maintained may be deemed a separate offense.
   (B)   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located,
extended, converted or altered without full compliance with the terms of §§
152.265 et seq. and other applicable regulations. Any person who violates this
chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall be fined not more
than $1,000 for each violation and in addition shall pay all cost and expenses
involved in the case. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city from
taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any
violation.
(Ord., passed - -79; Am. Ord. 2017-015, passed 12-4-17)
CHAPTER 153: HILLSIDE EROSION CONTROL
Section
General
   
153.01   Statement of intent
   
153.02   Definitions
Purpose; Scope and Enforcement
   
153.10   Title
   
153.11   Statutory authorization
   
153.12   Purpose; scope
   
153.13   Disclaimer of liability
   
153.14   Severability
   
153.15   Enforcement
Permits and Exemptions
   
153.20   Permit required; exempted work
   
153.21   Permit limitations
   
153.22   Issuance of building permit
Plans and Specifications
   
153.30   Requirements
   
153.31   Waiver or modification of submission of plans and specifications
   
153.32   Setbacks of tops and toes of slopes
Protection and Relocation of Sanitary Sewers
   
153.40   Approval
Bond; Fees
   
153.50   Bonds
   
153.51   Schedule of fees
Protection of Land and Hazardous Conditions
   
153.60   Notification by permit holder
   
153.61   Field construction monitoring by qualified geotechnical engineer
   
153.62   Protection against erosion and sedimentation
   
153.63   Correction of hazardous conditions
   
153.64   Suspension of operations
   
153.65   Liability of the enforcing official
Appeals; Violations
   
153.70   Right of appeal
   
153.71   Violations
 
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL
§ 153.01 STATEMENT OF INTENT.
   The following regulations and procedures have been enacted specifically to
help eliminate, or at least minimize creation of new or aggravation of existing
sensitive land areas and formations within the City of Aurora, Indiana either
known or not known, through control of earth disturbing activities which have
an effect on the stability of hillsides and slopes and which may cause soil
erosion due to surface water run-off, sedimentation and associated problems.
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 3-21-05; Am. Ord. 2006-01, passed 3-20-06)
§ 153.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (B)   Words used in the present tense include the future tense and the
singular includes the plural, unless the context clearly indicates the
contrary.
   (C)   The term "shall" is always mandatory and not discretionary; the word
"may" is permissive. The term "should" is permissive, but indicates strong
suggestion to comply, complete or cooperate.
   (D)   The word or term not interpreted or defined by this article shall be
construed according to the rules of grammar and common usage so as to give
these regulations their most reasonable application.
   (E)   For the purpose of these regulations, the words and phrases defined
below shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them, unless a different
meaning is clearly indicated by the context.
      AFFECTED EXISTING TERRAIN.  That area of existing land surrounding a work
area which may be influenced or impacted by the earthwork operations in the
work area; may be located on the same site as the work area and/or on adjacent
site(s).
      AGRICULTURE.  The science, art and business of cultivating soils,
producing crops and raising livestock, as defined in City of Aurora, Indiana,
Zoning Code §
152.004.
      BOND.  Surety bond issued by a corporate surety authorized to do business
in the State of Indiana which bond shall be executed by the owner and the
surety; may also include a cash deposit with the City of Aurora, Indiana, an
irrevocable letter of credit in favor of the City of Aurora, Indiana and issued
by a bank, or direct obligations of the United States of America deposited with
the City of Aurora, Indiana.
      BORROW MATERIAL.  Earth material for grading purposes acquired from an
offsite location.
      CHANNEL.  A natural stream that conveys water; a ditch or channel
excavated for the flow of water.
      COMPACTION.  The densification of earth materials when creating a fill by
mechanical or other approved means.
      CONTINUING OPERATION.
         (a)   A project executed progressively from start to finish without
interruption; or
         (b)   A series of small isolated grading operations done concurrently
or intermittently involving the movement of earth material within the same
site.
      DESIGNER.  An architect or professional engineer, registered to practice
in the State of Indiana, and as specifically defined in these regulations.
      DEVELOPMENT AREA.  Any contiguous (abutting) area owned by one person or
operated as one development unit and used or being developed for commercial,
industrial, residential or other purposes upon which earth-disturbing
activities are planned or underway.
      DISTRICT.  A soil and water conservation district, organized under the
laws of the State of Indiana.
      DITCH.  An excavation either dug or natural for the purpose of drainage
or irrigation with intermittent flow.
      DRAINAGE COURSE. A system of well defined natural or man-made facilities
(such as one or more contiguous swales, valleys, streams, pipes or conduits) to
continuously or intermittently convey runoff.
      DRAINAGEWAY.  An area of concentrated water flow other than a river,
stream, ditch or grassed waterway.
      DUMPING.  Grading, pushing, piling, throwing, unloading or placing of
earth materials.
      EARTHWORK.  Operations involving the excavating or filling of land using
earth materials.
      EARTH-DISTURBING ACTIVITY.  Any grading, excavating, filling, clear-
cutting of trees/vegetation, or other alteration of the earth's surface where
natural or man-made ground cover is destroyed and which will have an effect on
the stability of hillsides and slopes and contribute to erosion and sediment
pollution.
      EARTH MATERIAL.  Soil sediment, rock, sand, gravel and organic material
or residue associated with or attached to the soil; any non-deleterious rock,
natural soil or combination thereof.
      ENFORCING OFFICIAL.  That person and designated representatives charged
by the City of Aurora with administration and enforcement of these regulations
(§
153.15).
      ENGINEERING GEOLOGIST.  An individual trained and having local experience
in the application of the principles and methods of geology to civil
engineering works, and who meets the requirements for full Member status in the
Association of Engineering Geologists (AEG).
      EROSION. The wearing away of earth materials, either surface or
subsurface, by the actions of water, wind, ice, gravity or a combination
thereof.
      EXCAVATION.  Any mechanical act by which earth materials are removed,
displaced or relocated, including the conditions resulting therefrom.
      EXISTING TERRAIN. The condition prior to any proposed land disturbance.
      EXPLORATORY EXCAVATION. Temporary excavation for gathering of technical
data, which is not made in connection with any permanent construction.
      FILL. The deposit of earth materials by mechanical means, including the
conditions resulting therefrom; includes both uncontrolled and engineered
fills, but does not include building backfill.
      GRADING.  Any excavating, filling or combination thereof.
      GRASSED WATERWAY. A broad or shallow natural course or constructed
channel covered with erosion-resistant grasses or similar vegetative cover and
used to conduct surface water.
      HAZARD.  Any earth condition of considerable consequence to any property,
or to public health and safety, which has been established through experience
to be of certain or probable consequence, or which can be determined to be, or
which is obviously a threat to property or public health and safety, including
but not limited to conditions which cause inadequate drainage, erosion,
sedimentation, disruption of the sewer system, slope stability problems or
imposition of unsafe loads on structures or slopes.
      INSTABILITY. A state of disturbed slope equilibrium, identified through
observation, measurement, analysis, or experience, which is of probable
immediate or long-term consequence.
      LANDSLIDE.  The rapid downward and outward movement of large rock
material and/or soil mass under the influence of gravity in which the movement
of the soil mass occurs along an interior surface of sliding.
      MONITORING.  Site inspections during performance of construction work and
upon completion, to determine compliance of the grading with the geotechnical
design and permit requirements or in the case of a complaint registered with
the Enforcing Official.
      OWNER. The person or persons shown in the Dearborn County Recorder's
records as owner of the property, any agent of the owner or any person in
current control of the property.
      PERSON.  Any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, agency,
unincorporated association, municipal corporation, county or state agency, the
federal government or any combination thereof.
      PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.  The contract documents describing the minimum
acceptable criteria for the work, which is to be performed.
      PUBLIC WATERS.  Water within rivers, streams, ditches and lakes, except
private ponds and lakes wholly within single properties or waters leaving
property on which surface water originates.
      QUALIFIED GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEER. A registered Indiana Professional
Engineer experienced in the application of the principles of Geotechnical
Engineering (Soil Mechanics) in the investigation, evaluation and design of
civil works involving the use of earth materials and the inspection and testing
of the construction thereof.
      REGISTERED ARCHITECT.  An individual licensed in the State of Indiana to
practice in the field of architecture pursuant to IC 25-4-1 et seq.
      REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER.  An individual licensed in the State of
Indiana to practice in the field of engineering pursuant to IC 25-31-1 et seq.
      REGISTERED SURVEYOR.  An individual licensed in the State of Indiana to
practice in the field of surveying pursuant to IC 25-21.5-1 et seq.
      RUNOFF.  Water which moves over the ground surface.
      SEDIMENT.  Solid material both mineral and organic, that is in
suspension, is being transported or has been moved from its site of origin by
wind, water, gravity or ice, and has come to rest on the earth's surface above
or below sea level.
      SEDIMENT BASIN. A barrier, dam or other suitable detention facility built
across an area of waterflow to settle and retain sediment carried by the runoff
waters.
      SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN. Existing regulation, acceptable to the approving
agency, of methods for controlling sediment pollution from accelerated erosion
on a disturbed area of one or more contiguous acres or from erosion caused by
accelerated runoff from a disturbed area of one or more contiguous acres.
      SEDIMENT POLLUTION. Failure to use management or conservation practices
to abate the degradation of the waters of the state by soil sediment in
conjunction with land grading, excavating, filling or other solid disturbing
activities on land used for farming or being developed for commercial,
industrial, residential or other purposes.
      SEDIMENTATION.  The process of accumulation of earth materials resulting
from erosion.
      SENSITIVE LAND AREAS AND FORMATIONS.  Areas in which the ground surface
is moving downhill (sliding or creeping), areas adjacent to ground surface
movement, relatively steep land or areas that are underlain by land sliding
susceptible geologic formations such as the Kope Formation.
      SITE.  Any lot or parcel of land, or contiguous combination thereof,
under the same ownership, where grading is performed or permitted.
      SLOPE. An inclined ground surface, the inclination of which is expressed
as a ratio of horizontal distance to vertical distance.  SLOPE may also be
expressed in percent, degrees or both from the horizontal.
      SLOUGHING.  A slip or downward movement of an extended layer of soil
resulting from the undermining action of water or the earth disturbing activity
of man.
      SOIL LOSS.  Soil relocated on or removed from a given site by the force
of erosion and the redeposit of the soil at another site on land or in a body
of water.
      STABILITY.  A state of slope equilibrium, identified through observation,
measurement, analysis, or experience which affords an adequate margin of safety
against immediate or long-term development of instability.
      STORM FREQUENCY.  The average period of time within which a storm of a
given duration and intensity can be expected to be equaled or exceeded.
      STREAM.  A body of water running or flowing on the earth's surface or
channel in which such flow occurs. Flow may be seasonally intermittent.
      SURFACE PROTECTION.  Application of natural or mechanical measures which
control erosion while allowing surface water to flow.
      TEMPORARY.  An impermanent condition during the progress of work utilized
for the shortest period of time practicable immediately prior to bringing the
work into full compliance with these regulations.
      TOPSOIL.  Surface and upper surface soils which presumably are darker
colored, fertile soil materials, ordinarily rich in organic matter or humus
debris.
      VEGETATIVE ESTABLISHMENT.  The planting and growth of selected grasses,
ground cover, trees and shrubs as necessary to control erosion.
      WORK AREA.  A specifically indicated area of land on which earthwork
operations are under permit; may be a portion of a site or the entire site,
depending on the topography.
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 3-21-05; Am. Ord. 2006-01, passed 3-20-06)
PURPOSE; SCOPE AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.10 TITLE.
   This chapter and regulations shall be cited as the Earth Movement and
Property Clearing Ordinance and Regulations for the City of Aurora, Indiana and
shall commonly be known as "the Hillside Ordinance" and may also hereinafter be
referred to as "these regulations."
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 3-21-05; Am. Ord. 2006-01, passed 3-20-06)
§ 153.11 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   This chapter and regulations of the City of Aurora, Indiana are adopted in
accordance with and pursuant to the legal grant of authority of IC 36-7 et seq.
and IC 36-1-6 et seq., to adopt rules to abate soil erosion due to surface
water run-off, water pollution by soil sedimentation and other associated
problems (i.e. landslides).
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 3-21-05; Am. Ord. 2006-01, passed 3-20-06)
§ 153.12 PURPOSE; SCOPE.
   (A)   The City Council adopts these regulations to reduce a hazard,
safeguard life, limb, property and the public welfare, to preserve the natural
environment of the city as it relates to the stability of hillsides and slopes,
and to control erosion and sedimentation by the regulation of earth-disturbing
activities, excavating and filling of land, by means including but not limited
to:
      (1)   Permitting development while keeping downstream flooding, erosion
and sedimentation at existing levels;
      (2)   Reducing damage to receiving streams which may be caused by
increases in quantity and/or rate of water discharged and impairment of their
capacity which may be caused by sedimentation; and
      (3)   Protecting the stability of sensitive slopes.
   (B)   These regulations shall apply to all earth-disturbing activities
performed by any person, firm, corporation or other entity within the city,
except public highways, transportation and drainage improvements or maintenance
thereof undertaken by a government agency or political subdivision provided
that its standard sediment control policies have been approved by the City of
Aurora and the applicable sediment control policies are no less restrictive
than these regulations. It is expressly understood that the conduct of routine
farming operations which are performed in accordance with guidelines and
recommendations of the soil conservation service shall not be within the scope
of earth-disturbing activities within the scope of this chapter.
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 3-21-05; Am. Ord. 2006-01, passed 3-20-06)
§ 153.13 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   Neither submission of a plan under provisions of these regulations nor
compliance with provisions of these regulations shall relieve any person from
responsibility for damage to any person or property otherwise imposed by law;
nor shall it create an obligation by the city to those impacted by soil
sediment pollution.
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 3-21-05; Am. Ord. 2006-01, passed 3-20-06)
§ 153.14 SEVERABILITY.
   If any clause, section or provision of these regulations is declared invalid
or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, validity of the
remainder shall not be affected thereby.
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 3-21-05; Am. Ord. 2006-01, passed 3-20-06)
§ 153.15 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   These regulations shall be enforced by the city through its enforcing
officials. These enforcing officials shall have no authority for enforcement
where these or similar regulations are enacted pursuant to §
153.12 of these regulations. Enforcement in such cases shall be by the adopting
agency or its designated representative.
   (B)   The enforcing officials are charged with the administration of these
regulations, as follows:
      (1)   Administration of plan examination, including the same, performed
under contract by private geotechnical firms;
      (2)   Intake and processing of all permit applications, including plan
examination and issuance of the proper permits located at the office of the
city;
      (3)   Field inspection of the work under permit to ensure continual
compliance with approved documents;
      (4)   All enforcement activities and procedures to ensure proper
completion of the work as documented and approved.
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 3-21-05; Am. Ord. 2006-01, passed 3-20-06)
PERMITS AND EXEMPTIONS
§ 153.20 PERMIT REQUIRED; EXEMPTED WORK.
   (A)   No property owner shall cause or allow any earth-disturbing activity,
excavating, or filling, which does not conform with these regulations. A permit
is required for all such work.
   (B)   Exempted work. The following do not require a permit:
      (1)   Any excavation for a basement of a building, or other structure,
either privately or publicly owned, authorized by a valid building permit,
provided:
         (a)   The excavation does not exceed:
            1.   Twelve feet in vertical depth at its deepest point; or
            2.   One cubic yard per each 11 square feet of work area; and
         (b)   The excavation is made within an area with a slope not greater
than five horizontal to one vertical; and
      (2)   The subsequent filling of this excavated material on the same site,
provided:
         (a)   The fill, excluding building backfill material, does not exceed:
            1.   Five feet in vertical depth at its deepest point; or
            2.   One cubic yard per each 11 square feet of work area; and
         (b)   The fill is placed on site area with a slope not greater than
five horizontal to one vertical; and
         (c)   The fill does not result in a finished slope steeper than three
horizontal to one vertical (3:1).
      (3)   Temporary excavations for underground utility lines, wells,
tunnels, tanks, vaults or sign foundations.
      (4)   Public work performed by or under control of any governmental
agency, work with street right-of-way or easements, except for ancillary
excavating or filling for the project which is performed outside the project
limits. Provided such operations do not cause instability of any adjacent or
contiguous property and applicable sediment control policies are no less
restrictive than these regulations.
      (5)   Exploratory excavations under the direction of a qualified
geotechnical engineer, engineering geologist, contractor or builder. All such
excavations shall be promptly backfilled and restored to the existing terrain.
      (6)   Normal cemetery operations involving opening or closing of graves.
      (7)   Operations involving refuse disposal, mining, quarrying, processing
and stockpiling of soils or rock materials where controlled by other
regulations, provided such operations do not cause instability of any adjacent
or contiguous property.
      (8)   Any other excavation or fill that:
         (a)   Does not exceed:
            1.   Five feet in vertical depth; or
            2.   One cubic yard per each 14 square feet of work area; and
         (b)   Is made within an area with a slope not steeper than five
horizontal to one vertical; and
         (c)   Does not result in a finished slope steeper than four horizontal
to one vertical; and
         (d)   Does not necessitate any adjustment, relocation, addition or
other modification to any existing storm sewer system.
      (9)   Any activities in the operation of a farm which involves any of the
following:
         (a)   Work performed in accordance with (written) plans or
recommendations of the Natural Resource Conservation Service or Purdue
University Extension Service;
         (b)   Usual and customary farming practices or operations of farming
activities;
         (c)   Excavation and construction to repair any soil disturbance which
may occur as a result of an act of God and the natural forces of nature;
   (C)   A permit shall be required in all cases where grading is proposed on
existing terrain showing visible evidence of active or dormant landsliding.
   (D)   Any excavating or filling performed pursuant to the exemptions in
division (B) hereof, which creates a hazard (as defined in §
153.02) shall be pursued subject to the provisions of these regulations as they
relate to the specific hazard.
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 3-21-05; Am. Ord. 2006-01, passed 3-20-06)
Penalty, see § 153.99
§ 153.21 PERMIT LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Earthwork permits shall be valid for one year from the date of
issuance. However, two renewals, which shall be valid for one-year periods, may
be granted upon written application made prior to the expiration of the permit.
   (B)   Work stopped or abandoned by the owner in an incomplete manner for a
period of one year after the renewal periods provided herein shall cause the
permit to become invalid. The enforcing official shall require of the owner all
necessary precautions to ensure that the incomplete work does not become a
hazard or nuisance.
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 3-21-05; Am. Ord. 2006-01, passed 3-20-06)
§ 153.22 ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMIT.
   No building permit shall be issued within the work area until the
development earthwork regulation permit holder has complied with the applicable
provisions of these regulations including §
153.50.
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 3-21-05; Am. Ord. 2006-01, passed 3-20-06)
PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS
§ 153.30 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The owner shall submit, with the application for permit, plans and
specifications for the proposed work.
      (1)   (a)   The plans and specifications shall be prepared by a
registered professional designer. The basis for such plans shall be a field
topographic survey by a registered surveyor.
         (b)   The designer is responsible for the compliance of the project
with these regulations. Documentation indicating compliance with all applicable
sections of these regulations may be combined with other compliance
documentation for other regulations, such as the building code, provided that
the requirements of each regulation are met.
         (c)   The development plan, as produced by a designer, shall be
accepted as a professional document. The responsibility for proper and correct
designs and document preparation lies with the designer.
         (d)   The Designer is responsible for selecting and developing the
appropriate earthwork principles, techniques, methods, operations and work
sequences to meet the objectives, guidelines and requirements of these
regulations as they apply to the project under consideration.
         (e)   Responsibility for the content and accuracy of the documents,
both preliminary and final, lies with the designer.
      (2)   The designer, in developing the design and documents, shall take
into consideration general guidelines and standards, including but not limited
to:
         (a)   Identify, in the preliminary phase, on-site and off-site areas
vulnerable to erosion and sediment damage.
         (b)   Show on preliminary engineering documents temporary and
permanent methods, features and facilities to control runoff as required under
existing regulation.
         (c)   At the commencement of earth movement, prepare and install
erosion control measures and features, as indicated on the approved drawings,
to prevent the effect of erosion on the project site and surrounding properties
during the project.
         (d)   Limit earth disturbing operations to only those area involved in
the construction activities.
         (e)   Retain and utilize as much existing vegetation as possible to
slow water runoff.
         (f)   Preservation of existing trees, shrubs and other plant life is
strongly encouraged.
         (g)   Protect trees around the perimeter of the construction to
prevent root, trunk and branch injury or dismemberment.
         (h)   The smallest practical area of land shall be exposed or denuded
at any one time, consistent with the construction operation.
         (i)   Control runoff originating upgrade from the construction site to
minimize flow over the construction site as required under existing regulation.
         (j)   The installation of the erosion and sediment control system
shall be done progressively as the project is constructed. Where slow growing
or dormant seasons occur, utilized alternate or temporary solutions as required
under existing regulations.
         (k)   Construct earth-berm type siltation traps around the downhill
slope perimeter of the project site as required under existing regulations.
         (l)   Contractor shall inspect all erosion control devices after every
erodible rain and make necessary repairs or clean up material to maintain
effectiveness of control devices within a reasonable period of time.
         (m)   Stabilization of graded areas shall be done as soon as possible
after construction. Temporary seeding and mulching shall be provided where and
when stabilization is designated on the plan.
         (n)   Remove erosion control devices upon stabilization of all
disturbed areas or upon completion of the project, whichever comes first.
         (o)   Methods of erosion, sediment and storm water runoff control,
other than those required under existing regulation, will be considered on
individual merit, but must be submitted for approval prior to use/installation.
The same holds true for revisions in the control plan, changes in the
operations or construction or other unforeseen conditions.
         (p)   No required control shall be removed during the permit period
without approval of the designer and the Enforcing Official.
      (3)   Review of the documents by the Enforcing Official shall utilize the
same guides and standards, but shall be limited to ensuring compliance with
these regulations, the reference standards and the procedures of the city.
Comments developed during the review will be limited to discrepancies,
inaccuracies, lack of information, questions of scope, items of noncompliance,
and the like; there will be no recalculation or redesign of any portion of the
project by the reviewer.
      (4)   The Enforcing Official shall issue a permit for earthwork
operations solely on the basis of those plans and specifications approved by
the Enforcing Official. The Enforcing Official shall be satisfied that the
proposed excavation and/or fill or other operations will not cause a hazard,
before a permit authorizing the excavation and/or fill shall be issued.
      (5)   The approved plan shall be enforced by the enforcing agency, and
all work noted on said plan in the specifications or required to accomplish
such plan/design shall be required and performed in accord with approved plan.
All discrepancies shall be considered violations of these regulations and
processed as such by the enforcing agency.
      (6)   The plans and specifications submitted with the permit application
shall contain:
         (a)   The earthwork regulation permit applicant's name and address;
         (b)   A plan, drawn to scale, showing location and limits of the
proposed work area(s), property lines, and all easements; with adequate
details;
         (c)   Existing and proposed elevations of the work area by contours at
five-foot maximum intervals;
         (d)   Location and extent of visibly evident excavations or fills,
slope instability, erosion and water seepage or wet conditions;
         (e)   The location of any existing and proposed streets;
         (f)   The location of any existing buildings or structures on and
within 15 feet of the site;
         (g)   The location and depth of any existing drainage and sewer
systems on or serving the site, and the location and approximate depth of all
utilities and other buried facilities;
         (h)   Existing and proposed drainage structures, walls, cribbing and
surface protection, and any necessary temporary earth-restraining or erosion
and sediment control installation as required under existing regulations;
         (i)   Provisions for temporary and permanent drainage of the property,
including any new or altered sewer systems;
         (j)   A description of the proposed temporary and/or permanent methods
of the protection of the soils from erosion as required under existing
regulation.
      (7)   The plans and specifications may be required to contain additional
information when requested by the Enforcing Official, including but not limited
to:
         (a)   A report from a qualified geotechnical engineer showing the
results of surface and subsurface exploration, conditions of the land,
procedures for performing the grading operations, maximum slope to satisfy
stability, and other geotechnical design requirements;
         (b)   All drainage provisions which shall be of such design to
adequately accommodate the surface runoff, together with a map showing the
drainage area of all land tributary to the site, and estimated runoff (cubic
feet per second) of the area served by any drainage course computed according
to current acceptable standards as required under existing storm system design
regulation;
         (c)   A description of the borrow material, its source, the
construction methods to be used and the specified minimum degree of compaction;
         (d)   The preparation of existing ground surface to receive fill;
         (e)   Subsurface drainage where necessary for stability;
         (f)   An estimated schedule indicating the anticipated starting and
completion times of the development sequence, including clearing land grubbing,
stripping, rough grading and construction, final grading and vegetative
establishment, and maintenance, and the time of exposure of each area prior to
the completion of approved erosion and sediment control measures.
      (8)   For all proposed excavations, the owner is responsible for
notifying the Underground Utilities Protection Service of the location of the
excavation site, per IC 8-1-26 et seq.
   (B)   Waivers or modifications can be made pursuant to §
153.31 herein.
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 3-21-05; Am. Ord. 2006-01, passed 3-20-06)
Penalty, see 153.99
§ 153.31 WAIVER OR MODIFICATION OF SUBMISSION OF PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   The Enforcing Official may waive or modify the requirements of §§
153.30,
153.32 and
153.61 hereof if the application for a permit includes a written statement
prepared by a qualified geotechnical engineer expressing the opinion that the
proposed excavating or filling:
   (A)   Will not cause a hazard; or
   (B)   Is in an isolated, self-contained area and that there will be no
adverse affect on adjacent public or private property.
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 3-21-05; Am. Ord. 2006-01, passed 3-20-06)
§ 153.32 SETBACKS OF TOPS AND TOES OF SLOPES.
   (A)   The design and placement of tops and toes of all slopes shall not
cause any adverse affect on adjacent property.
   (B)   All excavation and fill work shall be designed to be totally contained
on the property being developed unless included in an easement or written
agreement with an adjacent property owner. The tops and toes of all slopes
shall be set back from property boundaries or structures, as far as necessary
for:
      (1)   Stability of adjacent and contiguous property;
      (2)   Adequacy of foundation support;
      (3)   Protection of adjacent property against damage from runoff.
   (C)   The excavation and fill work shall be designed with proper regard for
any existing or proposed buildings, and include a complete system for proper
drainage of the site. Such drainage system shall also be fully contained within
the property being developed, except where runoff flows into sewers, drainage
courses or recorded drainage easements on adjacent property.
   (D)   The Enforcing Official reserves the right to require geotechnical or
other engineering data and designs, where the tops or toes of slopes and/or the
drainage system creates or appears to create a severe hazard.
   (E)   Waivers or modifications shall be made pursuant to §
153.31 herein.
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 3-21-05; Am. Ord. 2006-01, passed 3-20-06)
PROTECTION AND RELOCATION OF SANITARY SEWERS
§ 153.40 APPROVAL.
   (A)   For the purpose of protecting the existing sanitary sewer system, in
the work area, no permit shall be issued until the Enforcing Official receives
approvals from the appropriate department head(s) for any necessary adjustment,
relocation, addition or other modification to the existing sanitary sewer
system.
   (B)   For the purpose of protecting the existing sanitary sewer systems, no
permit shall be issued until the Enforcing Official receives approvals from the
appropriate department head(s) for additional overburden loading.
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 3-21-05; Am. Ord. 2006-01, passed 3-20-06)
BOND; FEES
§ 153.50 BOND.
   (A)   The earthwork regulation permit holder may elect to record the
subdivision record plat prior to the completion of the work required under the
plan and permit.
   (B)   A bond shall be required and posted by the earthwork regulation permit
holder, for the benefit of the city, for the purpose of assuring that the work
shall be completed in accordance with the approved plans and specifications of
this permit.
   (C)   The permit holder shall provide an estimated cost of completion
established by the designer. The Enforcing Official shall establish a bond
amount equal to 110% of the designer's estimated cost of completion of the
portion of the project subject to this chapter, if said estimate is deemed
reasonable by the Enforcing Official, said estimate being based on standard
construction costs within the industry. In the alternative, the Enforcing
Official can request an irrevocable letter of credit from a reputable financial
institution for 110% of the designer's estimated cost of completion of the
portion of the project subject to this chapter.
   (D)   The Enforcing Official shall release the permit holder's bond when all
work under the plan and permit has been satisfactorily completed and upon
receiving a written summary report or letter from the designer that all work
under the permit is completed in accordance with the specifications.
   (E)   In the event the earthwork regulation permit holder is also under a
building permit, all requirements under the site plans and permit shall be
certified as complete by designer prior to the issuance of a permanent
Certificate of Occupancy. The bonding of uncompleted work in this situation
will not be permitted.
   (F)   Where earthwork is left abandoned and/or a hazard is created, and no
bond is in effect, the Enforcing Official shall proceed to mitigate the
situation as provided in §
153.63(C).
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 3-21-05; Am. Ord. 2006-01, passed 3-20-06)
§ 153.51 SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   (A)   Development plan review - $750.
   (B)   Development permit - $300.
   (C)   Building permit - $300 (one-time permit fee - no additional permit fee
required beyond standard building permit).
   (D)   Earthmoving permit - $300.
   (E)   Inspection - $100.
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 3-21-05; Am. Ord. 2006-01, passed 3-20-06; Am. Ord. 2013-
005, passed 6-17-13)
PROTECTION OF LAND AND HAZARDOUS AREAS
§ 153.60 NOTIFICATION BY PERMIT HOLDER.
   The person to whom a permit is issued shall notify the Enforcing Official:
   (A)   Prior to commencement of operations, of locations of any borrow or
disposal sites;
   (B)   Of commencement of operations under such permit, at least 48 hours in
advance;
   (C)   When operation is completed or temporarily or permanently suspended;
   (D)   Of any deviation from the originally approved plans.
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 3-21-05; Am. Ord. 2006-01, passed 3-20-06)
§ 153.61 FIELD CONSTRUCTION MONITORING BY QUALIFIED GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEER.
   (A)   Excavating and filling operations covered by the permit shall be
monitored by or under the direction of the permit holder and a qualified
geotechnical engineer. The qualified geotechnical engineer shall certify to the
Enforcing Official, the completion of the requirements under the plan and
permit.
   (B)   Waivers or modifications shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of §
153.31.
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 3-21-05; Am. Ord. 2006-01, passed 3-20-06)
§ 153.62 PROTECTION AGAINST EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION.
   Temporary and/or permanent erosion and sediment control features and devices
shall be designed and constructed in accordance with appropriate existing
regulations enforced by Indiana Department of Environmental Management, State
of Indiana Code and Regulations, and also applicable provisions of the Indiana
Storm Water Quality Manual and/or other appropriate handbooks of the U.S. Soil
Conservation Service.
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 3-21-05; Am. Ord. 2006-01, passed 3-20-06)
§ 153.63 CORRECTION OF HAZARDOUS CONDITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever the Enforcing Official determines that any existing
excavation, fill, hillside, slope or other earth condition (including exempted
work) has become a hazard, the Enforcing Official shall order the owner of the
property on which such condition exists to correct the condition. Upon receipt
of the order from the Enforcing Official, the owner shall, within 30 calendar
days, apply for and obtain a permit and proceed as directed to correct the
conditions (creating such hazard) according to the provisions of these
regulations.
      (2)   Where such hazard is created by erosion and/or sedimentation, the
Enforcing Official shall issue an order(s) with a shorter time limit, but in no
case shall the order provide the owner with less than ten days in which to
bring the property into compliance, except as hereinafter set forth, so as to
provide the necessary protection as required to alleviate or remove the hazard.
   (B)   In emergency situations, where the Enforcing Official determines that
the hazardous condition creates a risk of actual or immediate failure or
collapse:
      (1)   The Enforcing Official shall issue orders to the owner to
immediately have such work done as may be necessary to render the condition
safe. Within three working days after the emergency work is done, the owner
shall file the necessary documentation and permit application for that work.
      (2)   If the Enforcing Official cannot promptly resolve the condition
with the owner involved to do such emergency work, he or she shall employ such
labor and use or purchase materials as may be necessary to accomplish the same,
as expeditiously as possible and notify the Clerk-Treasurer of the city of his
or her intention to do so. In attempting to make the condition safe, the
Enforcing Official may close off the property, any adjacent property affected,
and sidewalks, streets and other public ways and areas, and prohibit the use of
the same. Costs incurred by the Enforcing Official in executing such emergency
work shall be paid from public monies, upon his or her certification. The
Enforcing Official shall immediately notify the Code Enforcement Attorney in
writing of such expenditures and request such action as appropriate for the
recovery of such costs, plus the cost of the recovery, from the property owner,
payable to the City Treasurer.
   (C)   Where the Enforcing Official has to perform work in order to correct a
hazard, the party responsible for creating said hazard, whether owner, permit
holder, agent of the owner or person having control of any property, will
either:
      (1)   Not be granted any further earthwork permits for future work on
property he/she controls until the following conditions have been satisfied:
         (a)   The party responsible completes all work on the property
necessary to abate any remaining hazard; and
         (b)   The party responsible reimburses the City Treasurer for that
work which the Enforcing Official performed, or has caused to be performed, in
abating the hazard; or
      (2)   The Enforcing Official may place a lien or otherwise assess or
encumber the property (in the amount required to complete or correct the
unfinished work) pursuant to IC 36-1-6-1 et seq.
   (D)   Where earthwork operations are terminated because the project is
abandoned, the work area, site and affected existing terrain shall be inspected
by the Enforcing Official. Such locations shall be left in a condition
satisfactory to the Enforcing Official.
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 3-21-05; Am. Ord. 2006-01, passed 3-20-06)
§ 153.64 SUSPENSION OF OPERATIONS.
   (A)   The Enforcing Official shall order operations suspended whenever:
      (1)   Work requiring a permit is being done without a permit;
      (2)   Work is under a permit, but current operations are causing a
hazard; or
      (3)   Work under permit is being done in a manner contrary to the terms
and conditions of the permit.
   (B)   Such suspensions shall remain in effect until:
      (1)   The permit is issued;
      (2)   The hazardous condition is remedied to the satisfaction of the
Enforcing Official; or
      (3)   The faulty work is remedied and executed in full accordance with
the permit and these regulations.
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 3-21-05; Am. Ord. 2006-01, passed 3-20-06)
§ 153.65 LIABILITY OF THE ENFORCING OFFICIAL.
   Issuance of a permit or any action by the Enforcing Official under these
regulations shall not create in the city nor the State of Indiana, its
officers, agents or employees, any liability or responsibility for injury to
persons or property caused by operations or conditions created pursuant to such
permits. Nothing in these regulations shall be construed to relieve the owner
or person in control of the property from liability for injury to persons or
property.
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 3-21-05; Am. Ord. 2006-01, passed 3-20-06)
APPEALS; VIOLATIONS
§ 153.70 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Enforcing Official in the
administration of the provisions of these regulations, shall have 15 calendar
days from the date of receipt of such written decision in which to file written
appeal to the Aurora City Hearing Officer who shall act as hearing officer. The
appeal shall be based upon one or both of the following grounds, to wit:
      (1)   That the action of the Enforcing Official was erroneous or
constituted an erroneous application of the provisions of these regulations,
related laws and ordinances, or was otherwise contrary to law;
      (2)   That the action of the Enforcing Official imposes an undue hardship
on the complainant, and a modified application or alternative arrangement is
available and feasible, whereby the hardship can be relieved without defeating
the purpose and intent of the provisions of these regulations.
   (B)   The complainant shall set forth in his/her petition on appeal the
interpretation, ruling or order appealed and the provisions of these
regulations and related laws and ordinances involved and shall state wherein
the interpretation, ruling or order is erroneous. If the appeal is based on the
grounds of hardship, the petition shall show the nature of the hardship and
point out what kind of modified application or alternative arrangement can be
put into effect which will relieve the hardship, without defeating the purposes
and intent of the provisions of these regulations.
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 3-21-05; Am. Ord. 2006-01, passed 3-20-06; Am. Ord. 2013-
003, passed 4-1-13)
§ 153.71 VIOLATIONS.
   In addition to the technical monitoring required in §
153.61 of these regulations, the Enforcing Official shall inspect the site, and
the work under permit to determine overall compliance with these regulations.
Where it is determined that a violation of these regulations exists, the
responsible party and the owner shall be notified of such deficiencies or non-
compliance. After a reasonable time for voluntary remedial action and
compliance, the Enforcing Official shall reinspect the work in question. If the
noncompliance still exists, an order to comply shall be issued by certified
mail or hand-delivery or other such means of service recognized under Indiana
law, to all parties of interest, including the design professional. Such order
shall describe the problem(s), the specific date by which compliance must be
achieved, and the procedure for resolution of the problem.
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 3-21-05; Am. Ord. 2006-01, passed 3-20-06)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, whether owner, permit holder, agent of the owner, or
person having control of any property, who violates any of the provisions of
these regulations, or fails to conform to any of the provisions thereof, or
fails to obey any order covered by this permit and issued by the Enforcing
Official, shall be subject to a fine in accordance with IC 36-1-6-2 as follows:
      (1)   Ten thousand dollars for real property that:
         (a)   Contains one or more occupied or unoccupied single- or double-
family dwellings or the appurtenances or additions to those dwellings; or
         (b)   Is unimproved; or
      (2)   Twenty thousand dollars for all other real property not described
in division (B)(1).
   (B)   Imposition of a monetary fine shall not preclude the city from
pursuing such other remedies as prescribed by law, including injunctive relief.
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 3-21-05; Am. Ord. 2006-01, passed 3-20-06)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Table
   
I.   ANNEXATIONS
   
II.   VACATION OF PUBLIC WAYS
   
III.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
   
IV.   AGREEMENTS
TABLE I. ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
3        2-2-76      Annexing a part of Section 21, Township 5 North, Range 1
                     West.
29       2-22-82     Annexing all of the fractional Section 27 and part of
                     fractional Section 28, in Township 5 North, Range 1 West.
                     Annexing beginning at the southwest corner of said Section
                     20, said point also being the southwest corner of James M.
                     Pope, et al. (Deed Book 169, Page 282), beginning and
85-1     3-28-85     containing 180.573 acres of which 5.678 acres is in
                     Section 21 and 174.895 is in Section 20, excepting 17.753
                     acres which has been included in this total area but has
                     been previously incorporated.
                     Annexing a part of the Southeast Quarter of Section 19,
85-10    12-30-85    Township 5 North, Range 1 West, located in Center
                     Township.
                     Annexing a part of the Southeast Quarter of Section 6,
2001-05  10-3-01     Township 4 North, Range 1 West, located partly in
                     Washington Township and partly in Center Township.
                     Annexing a part of the Southeast Quarter Section of
2004-9   12-6-04     Section 19, Township 5 North, Range 1 West in Center
                     Township.
2005-11  9-12-05     Annexing a part of the Southeast Quarter of Section 19,
                     Township 5 North, Range 1 West, in Center Township.
                     Annexing certain territory contiguous to the city commonly
2007-04  10-15-07    known as vacant land adjacent to Trailside Meadows
                     Subdivision Phase II and Hill and Dale Subdivision.
                     Annexing territory commonly known as vacant land owned by
2008-08  3-15-10     TKEL, LLC adjacent to S.R. 148, Woodlawn Avenue and Dinah
                     Drive.
                     Annexing territory contiguous to the city commonly known
2010-001 5-17-10     as the Dearborn Country Club, formally owned by Dearborn
                     Realty Company of Aurora, Inc.
                     Annexing property contiguous to the city commonly known as
2010-002 5-17-10     part of the Reid Farm adjacent to Park Avenue and
                     currently owned by the City of Aurora.
 
TABLE II. VACATION OF PUBLIC WAYS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
13       4-19-82     Vacating the alley lying between Lots 310 and 311, as
                     designated upon the recorded plat of the city.
1983-3   7-25-83     Vacating part of Morrison Street and part of North Water
                     Street (formerly Front Street).
                   Vacating part of Johnson Street and a certain alley.
                   Vacating part of North Water Street (formerly Front
                     Street).
86-1     1-14-86     Vacating an alleyway, 16 foot wide, between Lots 14 and 15
                     of John Langley's addition to the city.
                     Vacating a portion of Short Street, lying between Lots
1992-15  10-5-92     220, 221 and 222 on the north side and Lots 233, 232 and
                     231 on the south side.
1993-2   1-4-93      Vacating the northwest one-half of Inlot 254 and Inlot
                     253.
                     Vacating a public alley situated north of Market Street
1993-8   7-12-93     and adjacent to the north side of real estate owned by
                     petitioner, Lots 298 and 299.
1993-10  7-12-93     Vacating a public alley lying between Inlot 241 and Inlot
                     242.
1993-11  7-12-93     Vacating a reserved parcel of real estate lying between
                     Lots 15 and 16 in Rahe Heights Subdivision.
1994-8   8-1-94      Vacating a certain portion of a public alleyway which is
                     situated between Inlot Number 4 and Inlot Number 5.
                     Vacating a right-of-way 15' x 100' running southwest to
1994-9   8-1-94      northeast between Lots 100 and 101 of Henry Walker's Third
                     Addition to the city.
                     Vacating that portion of the public alley lying between
                     Inlots 6 and 7 of the recorded plat or plan of Dobel's
1996-4   5-6-96      First Addition to the former Town of Cochran; however the
                     vacation is subject to the continued use thereof by the
                     city municipal utilities for the location, operation and
                     maintenance of all municipal utilities currently existing.
1999-18  12-28-99    Vacating a public alley situated west of Lots 16, 17 and
                     18 of Sarah Criswell's Subdivision of Lots.
                     Vacating a part of Square Street from the intersection of
2001-01  1-10-01     Johnson Street and Square Street to the line of Morrison
                     Street.
                     Vacating a portion of Cochran Street lying south of the
2001-06  7-1-01      intersection of Cochran Street and South Railroad Avenue
                     and terminating at the U.S. Highway 50.
                     Vacating two tracts of land located on Short Street within
2007-09  11-19-07    the city, between 121 Franklin Street and 127 Franklin
                     Street.
2012-004 7-16-12     Vacating a portion of Moore Street, Morrison Street and
                     Bridge Street.
2013-008 10-21-13    Vacating a tract of land located on Short Street.
2017-005 8-7-17      Vacating Parkwoods Subdivision, including the Parkwoods
                     Drive right-of-way.
2019-017 11-12-19    Vacating a portion of Fourth Street.
2022-009 9-12-22     Correcting the partial vacation of Square Street.
                    
 
TABLE III. ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1979-29  11-19-79    Real estate within the limits of the subdivision known as
                     Rahe Heights reclassified from an R-1 to an R-3 District.
                     Reclassifying the district presently zoned R-3 on the city
84-3     5-7-84      Zoning Ordinance Plat which includes Fifth Street to an R-
                     2 District.
                     Real estate commonly known as the James R. Welch Property
86-2     3-17-86     located at 439 Park Avenue reclassified from an R-2 to an
                     R-3 District.
1992-1   1-6-92      Rezoning part of Outlots 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76 and 77
                     from R-2 Two-Family to R-3 Multi-Family.
1993-7   6-7-93      Rezoning Inlots 31 and 13 from R-2, Two-Family to R-3,
                     Multi-Family, located at 240 John Street.
                     Designating the Olcott House, 305 Sunnyside Avenue, as the
1997-14  12-1-97     Olcott House Single Site Historic District, subject to the
                     provisions of the historic preservation standards of the
                     city.
                     Rezoning property located at 305 Sunnyside Avenue,
1997-16  12-1-97     commonly known as the Olcott House, from R-2 Two-Family
                     Residential to B-1 Neighborhood Business.
                     Deleting all zoning map references to HS-Highway Service
1999-3   2-1-99      District and substituting in such zones the zoning
                     classification of B-2 Community Business District.
                     Rezoning real estate located along U.S. 50 between
1999-4   2-1-99      Harrison Street and Moore Street from R-2 Two-Family
                     Residential to B-1 Neighborhood Business.
                     Rezoning real estate located along U.S. 50 from Sunnyside
2002-8   7-11-02     Avenue to the northern corporation limits from B-
                     2 Community Business District to B-3 Community Business
                     and Retail Shopping District.
2004-02  10-4-04     Designating certain real property as R-1 Single-Family
                     Residential upon its annexation into the city.
2004-08  10-4-04     Designating certain real property as R-1 Single-Family
                     Residential upon its annexation into the city.
                     Rezoning real estate described as Lots 54 and 55 from R-
2004-11  12-6-04     1 Single-Family Residential District to R-3 Multi-Family
                     Residential District.
                     Rezoning real estate located on SR 56 from R-2 One and
2005-07  7-18-05     Two-Family Residence District to R-3 Multi-Family
                     Residence District with an R-3 Overlay.
                     Rezoning certain property from R-3, Multi-family Residence
2018-002 2-12-18     District is hereafter within and a part of that district
                     known as the R-1, Single Family Residence District.
                     Rezoning certain real estate located at 404 Green
2020-003 8-10-20     Boulevard from B-1, Neighborhood Business District to B-2,
                     Community Business District.
                    
 
TABLE IV. AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.      Date Passed Description
                          Entering into an Interlocal Cooperation Agreement
Res. 8        7-22-96     submitted by Rising Sun, Indiana and Ohio County,
                          Indiana regarding sharing of riverboat revenues.
                          Authorizing execution of an agreement with CSX
Res. 1997-1   2-3-97      Transportation, Inc. regarding pipeline crossing to
                          facilitate construction of the improvements to the
                          city water facility.
                          Authorizing execution of an agreement with CSX
Res. 1997-8   9-8-97      Transportation, Inc. regarding pipeline crossing to
                          facilitate construction of the improvements to the
                          city gas facility.
                          Authorizing entering into the Designated Endowment
                          Fund Agreement between the Community Foundation of
1997-10       9-8-97      Madison and Jefferson County, Inc. and the city to
                          create a charitable designated endowment from gaming
                          revenues generated by interlocal sharing agreements.
                          Entering into an agreement for the city to pay a
1999-5        3-1-99      portion of its received riverboat revenue to the
                          Dearborn Community Foundation, Inc.
                          Authorizing an agreement for services with the
2001-13       11-14-01    Indiana Association of Cities and Towns Foundation,
                          Inc. (IACT) to provide comprehensive downtown
                          advisory assistance to the city.
                          Authorizing a lease between the Aurora Redevelopment
2002-05       3-13-02     Commission and the Aurora Redevelopment Authority to
                          be paid in part by riverboat revenues.
2005-16       10-3-05     Authorizing loan from the city to Aurora Municipal
                          Waterworks to fund improvements.
                          Interlocal agreement between the Dearborn County
Res. 1-2007   2-15-07     Regional Sewer District and the City of Aurora to
                          construct sewer infrastructure for Stewart Street and
                          Cole Lane.
                          Approving an interlocal agreement between the city
2007-01       2-19-07     and the Dearborn County Regional Sewer District for
                          sanitary sewage services to Cole Lane and Stewart
                          Street.
                          Approving an interlocal agreement between the City of
2008-06       4-21-08     Aurora and the Town of West Harrison, Indiana to
                          provide services for ordinance enforcement and
                          penalties for violations.
                          Approving an interlocal agreement between the City of
2011-3        11-21-11    Aurora and the Dearborn County Regional Sewer
                          District for sanitary sewage services to Hueseman
                          Road in the City of Aurora.
                          Approving an interlocal agreement between the City of
Res 2012-007  11-14-12    Lawrenceburg and the City of Aurora for a sewer
                          improvement project grant awarded from Lawrenceburg
                          to Aurora.
                          Approving the entry into an interlocal agreement for
Res. 2015-004 6-15-15     Dearborn County Planning and Zoning Department
                          services and the City of Aurora Code Enforcement.
                         
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to 1974 Code of Ordinances
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
IC Section Code Section
IC Section            Code Section
1-1-4-5               30.05
3-5-2-17              152.235
3-11-1.5              30.05
4-21.5-3-7            150.16
4-21.5-5              32.74
4-33-1 et seq.        98.01
5-3-1                 37.10,
                      151.25
5-4-1-18              31.01
5-7-2                 32.114
5-10.1-3-1 et seq.    31.02
5-11-1-27             37.45
5-11-9-2              32.111
5-11-10-1.6           36.11
5-13                  37.25
5-14-1.5              151.25
5-14-3             37.70
5-14-3-3(a)(2)        37.70
5-14-3-3(b)           37.70
5-14-3-6(c)           36.03,
                      37.70
5-14-3-8(d)           36.03,
                      37.70
5-14-3-8(f)           36.03,
                      37.70
5-14-3-8(j)           36.03,
                      37.70
5-22                  32.85
6-2.5-5-26            112.01
6-2.5-8.1             112.01
8-1-26 et seq.        153.30
8-6-4-1               95.35
8-10-5-1 et seq.      35.01
8-22-2-1 et seq.      32.50
9-13-2 et seq.        72.14
9-13-2-49.3           77.01
9-13-2-104            77.01
9-13-2-108            77.01
9-13-2-109            77.01
9-13-2-123            77.01
9-13-2-150            77.01
9-13-2-188            77.01
9-17-2-1              90.03
9-17-2-12             70.34
9-18-12               90.04
9-22-1                90.08
9-22-1-1 - 9-22-1-32  90.01
9-22-1-3              90.02
9-22-1-21.5           90.09
9-22-1-25             90.09
9-22-1-30             90.09,
                      90.12
9-24-16               77.02
9-24-16.5             77.02
9-26-2 et seq.        70.32
                      151.17,
14-21-1 et seq.       151.21,
                      151.23
14-21-1-19            32.79
14-28-1               152.269
14-28-1-26            152.269
18-5-5                150.51
22-9-1-4              97.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.      97.01
22-9.5-2-2            97.02
22-9.5-2-3            97.02
22-9.5-2-4            97.02
22-9.5-2-8            97.02
22-9.5-2-9            97.02
22-9.5-2-10           97.02
22-9.5-2-10(b)        97.02
22-9.5-2-10(c)        97.02
22-9.5-2-11           97.02
22-9.5-2-13           97.02
22-9.5-3 et seq.      97.03,
                      97.10
22-9.5-4-8            97.11
22-9.5-5              97.02
22-9.5-5-1            97.03
22-9.5-6              97.02,
                      97.11
22-12-1-3             150.50
22-13-2-7             150.16
22-15-4               150.03
25-4-1 et seq.        153.02
25-6.1                112.01
25-21.5-1 et seq.     153.02
25-31-1 et seq.       153.02
31-7-5-1              32.110,
                      32.111
31-11-4               32.112
31-11-6 et seq.       32.112
32-25 et seq.         151.16
33-16-27              32.114
33-37-4-2(e)          70.39
34-28-5               70.38
34-28-5-1             70.39
35-47-2-10            33.02
36-1-3-1 et seq.      36.08
36-1-3-8(6)           32.112
36-1-3-11             152.142
36-1-5-4              30.05,
                      31.08
36-1-6 et seq.        153.11
36-1-6-1 et seq.      153.63
36-1-6-2              50.99,
                      153.99
36-1-8-3              36.08
36-1-20-4.1(c)        99.05
36-1-20-6             99.99
36-1-20.2             31.08
36-1-21               31.08
36-1-27-1             150.20
36-1-27-4             150.20
36-4-6-11             31.08
36-5-6-6(2)           32.111
36-5-6-6(3)           32.111
36-5-6-6(10)          32.114
36-7 et seq.          153.11
36-7-3-10             151.24
36-7-3-12             151.25
36-7-4                152.265
36-7-4-500 et seq.    151.01
36-7-4-700 et seq.    151.15
36-7-4-701            151.01
36-7-4-706(2)         151.16
36-7-4-706(3)         151.16
36-7-4-902            152.235
36-7-4-919            152.127
36-7-4-1016           151.24
36-7-4-1109(b)        150.20
36-7-9                100.03,
                      150.50
36-7-9-1 et seq.      99.05
36-7-9-1 - 36-7-9-28  150.50
36-7-9-2 - 36-7-9-28  150.50
36-7-9-2              50.99,
                      150.50
36-7-9-4              150.50
36-7-9-7              150.50
36-7-9-9              150.50
36-7-9-9 - 36-7-9-13  150.50
36-7-9-10             150.50
36-7-9-14             150.50
36-7-9-16             99.05
36-7-9-17 - 36-7-9-22 150.50
36-7-9-20             150.50
36-7-9-25             99.05,
                      150.50
36-7-10.1             93.01 -
                      93.07
36-7-10.1-4           93.07
36-7-11               32.79
36-7-14               32.90
36-7-14.5             32.95
36-7-25               32.90
36-8-4-4              33.03
36-8-12-13            34.26
36-8-12-16            34.26
36-9-15.5-2           36.01
36-9-15.5-6           36.01
36-9-16               36.12
36-10-3               32.10,
                      32.14
                      
 
REFERENCES TO 1974 CODE OF ORDINANCES
1974 Code 1991 Code
1974 Code 1991 Code
1-6       10.99,
          95.99
1-7       30.05
1-8       30.05
1-9       30.05
2-1       30.04
2-2       31.02
2-3       31.02
2-4       31.02
2-5       33.01
2-9       31.01
2-10      31.15
2-11      30.02
2-12      30.03
2-20      94.01
2-21      32.25
2-22      32.26
2-23      32.27
2-24      32.40
2-25      32.41
3-1       91.01
3-2       91.10
4-9       150.37
4-10      150.38
4-12      150.36
4-16      150.40
4-17      150.61
4-18      150.60
5-3       53.01
5-4       34.08
5-5       34.01
5-6       34.02
5-7       34.03
5-8       34.03
5-9       34.03
5-11      34.20 -
          34.25
5-13      34.06,
          37.25
5-14      34.07
7-5       111.01
7-7       112.02
7-8       112.03
7-9       112.04
7-10      112.05
7-11      112.06
7-12      112.07,
          112.08
7-13      112.09
7-14      112.10
7-15      90.24
7-16      90.24
7-17      90.25
7-18      90.20
7-19      90.21
7-20      90.22
7-21      90.23
9-4       130.03
9-5       130.02
9-6       94.10
9-7       94.12
9-8       94.11
9-9       95.05
9-10      95.05
9-11      130.04
10-2      95.35
11-1      95.01
11-6      50.02
11-7      50.03
11-9      50.04
11-10     50.05
11-12     93.10
11-13     93.11
11-14     93.12
11-15     93.99
12-1      52.01
12-2      52.02
12-3      52.05
12-4      52.06
12-5(a)   52.98
12-5(b)   52.99
12-5(c)   52.98
12-6      52.75
12-7      52.76
12-8      52.77
12-9      52.78
12-10     52.78
12-12     52.78
12-13     52.79
12-14     52.04,
          52.80
12-15     52.35
12-16     52.36
12-17     52.37
12-18     52.38
12-19     52.39
12-20     52.41
12-21     52.40
12-22     52.42
12-23     52.43
12-24     52.44
12-25     52.45
12-26     52.03
12-27     52.55
12-28     52.56
12-29     52.57
12-30     52.58
12-31     52.59
12-32     52.60
12-33     52.61
12-34     52.61
12-35     52.62
12-36     52.07
12-37     52.20
12-38     52.21
12-39     52.22
12-40     52.23
12-41     52.25
12-42     52.25
12-43     52.24
13-1      95.04
13-2      95.02
13-3      95.03
13-4      95.06
13-5      95.07
13-6      95.08
13-7      95.08
13-8      95.08
13-9      95.09
13-10     95.10
13-11     95.11
13-12     95.20
13-13     95.21
13-14     95.22
13-15     95.23
14-1      151.01
14-2      151.02
14-3      151.15
14-7      151.38
14-9      151.30
14-10     151.31
14-11     151.32
14-12     151.33
14-13     151.34
14-14     151.35
14-15     151.36
14-16     151.37
14-18     151.39
14-19     151.40
14-20     151.41
14-21     151.42
14-22     151.43
14-23     151.55
14-24     151.56
14-25     151.57
14-26     151.58
14-27     151.59
14-28     151.60
14-29     151.61
14-30     151.62
14-31     151.63
14-32     151.64
14-33     151.65
14-34     151.66
14-35     151.67
14-36     151.68
15-1      113.01
15-2      113.02
15-3      113.03 -
          113.05
15-4      113.21
15-5      113.22
15-6      113.20
15-7      113.24
15-8      113.23
15-9      113.06
15-10     113.07
16-1      53.16
16-3      53.02
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
91-4     5-6-91      51.11
1993-4   7-12-93     50.20
1994-7   9-6-94      31.04
1995-2   4-3-95      31.04
1996-8   7-22-96     T.S.O. IV
1997-1   2-3-97      T.S.O. IV
1997-8   9-8-97      T.S.O. IV
1-2007   2-15-07     T.S.O. IV
2012-002 6-18-12     31.08
2012-007 11-14-12    T.S.O. IV
2012-009 12-31-12    37.55,
                     37.56
2015-004 6-15-15     T.S.O. IV
2022-006 4-18-22     36.12
2022-007 4-18-22     36.01
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.  Date Passed Code Section
51        - -         34.08
                      91.01,
57        - -         95.01,
                      95.06
67-5      - -         53.02
67-8      - -         34.06
68-21     - -         32.40,
                      32.41
69-1      - -         30.05
                      52.07,
73-30     - -         52.44,
                      52.45
74-3      - -         91.10
74-38     - -         113.07
85        - -         31.01
95        - -         31.15
130       - -         95.35
170       - -         31.01
                      112.02,
175       - -         112.07,
                      112.08
177       - -         111.01
200       - -         90.24,
                      90.25
332       - -         95.05
346       - -         33.01
398       - -         31.01
                      52.75,
452       - -         52.77,
                      52.78
474       - -         2.78,
                      53.16
                      34.01 -
                      34.03,
554       - -         34.07,
                      34.24,
                      34.25
568       - -         32.25 -
                      32.27
596       - -         130.02
63-1      - -63       30.04
63-2      - -63       30.05
                      112.02 -
63-12     - -63       112.06,
                      112.08 -
                      112.10
64-7      - -64       95.02
64-8      - -64       34.25
64-10     - -64       94.01
65-1      - -65       30.03
                      151.01,
                      151.02, 151.30 -
-         11-25-67    151.43,
                      151.55 -
                      151.68
68-2      - -68       34.25
68-6      - -68       31.02
69-1      - -69       30.05
71-8      - -71       90.20 -
                      90.23
71-26     - -71       90.22
72-1      - -72       52.76
72-21     - -72       52.79
                      113.01 -
72-24     - -72       113.05,
                      113.20 -
                      113.24
73-1      - -73       150.36 -
                      150.38
73-3      - -73       50.02 -
                      50.05
                      52.01 -
                      52.06,
                      52.20 -
                      52.26,
73-30     - -73       52.35 -
                      52.43,
                      52.55 -
                      52.62,
                      52.98,
                      52.99
73-31     - -73       150.61
74-38     - -74       113.06
                      93.10 -
75-28     - -75       93.12,
                      93.99
3         2-2-76      T.S.O. I
5         3-15-76     T.S.O. I
77-4      4-18-77     32.50
77-3      5-5-77      52.80
                      70.01 -
                      70.06,
                      70.15 -
                      70.21,
                      70.30 -
                      70.33,
                      70.35 -
                      70.38,
                      70.99,
                      71.01 -
                      71.13,
                      72.01 -
-         11-20-78    72.07,
                      72.09-
                      71.13,
                      72.01 -
                      72.13,
                      72.40 -
                      72.48,
                      72.60 -
                      72.64,
                      72.99,
                      73.01 -
                      73.06,
                      73.99
                      152.001 -
                      152.006,
                      152.015 -
                      152.020,
                      152.030 -
                      152.040,
                      152.050 -
                      152.056,
                      152.070 -
                      152.075,
                      152.077,
                      152.090 -
                      152.092,
                      152.105 -
                      152.112,
                      152.155,
-         - -79       152.156,
                      152.165 -
                      152.168,
                      152.180 -
                      152.182,
                      152.195 -
                      152.197,
                      152.210 -
                      152.215,
                      152.225,
                      152.226,
                      152.235 -
                      152.244,
                      152.255,
                      152.256,
                      152.295 -
                      152.299,
                      152.999
1979-1    1-22-79     150.62
                      151.15,
1979-2    1-22-79     151.57,
                      151.61
1979      5-7-79      72.99
1979-6    5-7-79      72.25 -
                      72.29
1979-29   11-19-79    T.S.O. III
1980-4    5-5-80      52.76,
                      52.79
                      152.005,
                      152.035,
                      152.038,
                      152.051,
                      152.054,
                      152.070 -
                      152.067,
                      152.091,
1980-5    7-7-80      152.092,
                      152.105,
                      152.109,
                      152.141,
                      152.181,
                      152.182,
                      152.195,
                      152.235,
                      152.240
1981-6    4-20-81     34.07
1981-7    4-20-81     130.05
1981-8    5-4-81      31.16
81-10     7-6-81      53.15
1981-19   11-2-81     70.32
1981-21   12-7-81     70.32
29        2-22-82     T.S.O. I
1982-9    4-5-82      30.05
13        4-19-82     T.S.O. II
1982-17   7-6-82      32.01
1983-3    7-25-83     T.S.O. II
1983-9    11-7-83     33.02
84-3      5-7-84      T.S.O. III
85-1      3-28-85     T.S.O. I
85-3      5-28-85     53.15
85-10     12-30-85    T.S.O. I
86-3      - -86       72.40
86-1      1-14-86     T.S.O. II
86-2      3-17-86     T.S.O. III
86-       8-25-86     34.25
                      51.01 -
87-3      3-16-87     51.08,
                      51.10,
                      51.11
1987-5    4-20-87     34.04
87-13     10-19-87    32.10 -
                      32.15
88-2      3-7-88      32.11
1988-5    7-11-88     70.34
1989-1    1-16-89     31.16
1989-3    2-6-89      32.16
89-11     12-11-89    52.76
91-3      5-6-91      90.01 -
                      90.12
91-4      5-6-91      130.01
91-6      5-28-91     150.01 - 150.20,
                      150.99
91-11     7-1-91      152.004
91-11     7-1-91      152.125 -
                      152.128
91-12     8-5-91      31.03
1992-1    1-6-92      T.S.O. III
1992-5    3-16-92     97.01
92-12     8-3-92      96.01,
                      96.99
1992-14   - -         30.05
1992-15   10-5-92     T.S.O. II
1992-17   11-2-92     74.10
1992-18   1-4-93      74.06,
                      74.07
93-1      2-1-93      36.01
1993-2    1-4-93      T.S.O. II
1993-3    5-3-93      152.106
1993-4    6-4-93      Adopting Ordinance
1993-6    6-7-93      33.04
1993-7    6-7-93      T.S.O. III
1993-8    7-12-93     T.S.O. II
1993-9    6-7-93      33.03
1993-10   7-12-93     T.S.O. II
1993-11   7-12-93     T.S.O. II
1993-12   7-12-93     52.79
1993-16   12-6-93     98.01
1993-18   12-6-93     32.60 -
                      32.79
1994-8    8-1-94      T.S.O. II
1994-9    8-1-94      T.S.O. II
1994-10   11-7-94     150.50
1995-2    4-3-95      150.50
1995-4    5-9-95      52.75,
                      52.79
                      97.01 -
1995-5    5-23-95     97.08,
                      97.10,
                      97.11
1995-6    7-10-95     33.03
1995-8    7-10-95     33.04,
                      33.05
1995-9    7-10-95     36.02
1995-10   7-10-95     130.06
1996-1    2-5-96      36.02
1996-3    5-6-96      53.15 -
                      53.18
1996-4    5-6-96      T.S.O. II
1996-5    5-6-96      Adopting Ordinance
1996-6    7-2-96      33.03
1996-8    7-2-96      33.03,
                      33.04
1996-12   11-4-96     36.03
1996-13   11-4-96     74.06
1997-1    1-6-97      36.04
1997-2    2-3-97      74.10
1997-5    7-7-97      33.03
1997-6    7-7-97      33.04,
                      33.05
1997-7    9-8-97      74.06
1997-8    9-8-97      51.01 -
                      51.09
1997-10   9-8-97      T.S.O. IV
1997-11   9-8-97      150.50(I)(1)(e)
1997-13   11-3-97     32.62(G)
1997-14   12-1-97     T.S.O. III
1997-15   11-3-97     74.06
1997-16   12-1-97     T.S.O. III
1998-3    4-6-98      Adopting Ordinance
1998-4    6-6-98      32.85
1998-6    6-22-98     37.01 -
                      37.12
1998-7    7-28-98     33.04,
                      33.05
1998-8    7-28-98     33.03
1998-10   9-1-98      36.06
1998-12   9-1-98      152.070,
                      152.170 - 152.173
1998-14   12-7-98     36.05
                      152.004,
1999-1    1-1-99      152.070,
                      152.075
                      152.004,
1999-2    2-1-99      152.074 -
                      152.077
1999-3    2-1-99      T.S.O. III
1999-4    2-1-99      T.S.O. III
1999-5    3-1-99      T.S.O. IV
1999-6    6-7-99      150.01 - 150.20
1999-8    7-12-99     150.01 - 152.20
1999-9    7-12-99     74.06
1999-11   8-9-99      33.03
1999-12   8-9-99      33.04
                      52.01,
                      52.55,
1999-13   8-2-99      52.65 -
                      52.67,
                      52.98,
                      52.99
1999-16   12-20-99    33.04
1999-18   12-28-99    T.S.O. II
2000-4    8-14-00     33.04,
                      33.05
2000-5    8-14-00     33.03
                      93.20 -
2000-6    9-13-00     93.23,
                      93.99
                      92.01 -
2000-7    10-11-00    92.03,
                      92.05,
                      92.07
2000-8    12-13-00    33.04,
                      33.05
                      34.01 -
2000-9    12-13-00    34.08,
                      34.20 -
                      34.26
2001-01   1-10-01     T.S.O. II
2001-02   3-14-01     32.95
2001-05   10-3-01     T.S.O. I
2001-06   7-1-01      T.S.O. II
2001-08   8-8-01      32.96
2001-09   9-10-01     33.04
2001-13   11-14-01    T.S.O. IV
2002-01              115.01 -
                      115.27
2002-02   3-13-02     72.14
2002-03              152.072
2002-05   3-13-02     T.S.O. IV
2002-08   7-11-02     T.S.O. III
                      152.004,
2002-09   7-11-02     152.076,
                      152.170 -
                      152.172
                      114.01 -
2002-10   7-17-02     114.19,
                      114.99
2002-11   8-7-02      31.06
2002-15   11-6-02     30.05
2002-16   12-4-02     36.07
2004-01   2-16-04     Ch. 75, Sch. I
2004-02   10-4-04     T.S.O. III
2004-08   10-4-04     T.S.O. III
2004-06   9-20-04     33.04,
                      33.05
2004-9    12-6-04     T.S.O. I
2004-11   12-6-04     T.S.O. III
                      73.05,
2005-1    1-17-05     73.06,
                      73.99
                      153.01,
                      153.02,
                      153.10 -
                      153.15,
                      153.20 -
                      153.22,
                      153.30 -
2005-2    3-21-05     153.32,
                      153.40,
                      153.50,
                      153.51,
                      153.60,
                      153.65,
                      153.70,
                      153.71,
                      153.99
2005-03   - -         33.04,
                      33.05
2005-04   4-4-05      33.04,
                      33.05
2005-05   - -         150.52,
                      150.53
2005-06   6-20-05     93.01 -
                      93.07
2005-07   7-18-05     T.S.O. III
2005-08   7-18-05     150.50
2005-09   7-18-05     113.21
2005-10   8-15-05     74.05
2005-11   9-12-05     T.S.O. I
2005-14   9-19-05     33.04,
                      33.05
2005-16   10-3-05     T.S.O. IV
2005-17   10-3-05     53.15
2005-18   12-19-05    112.01 -
                      112.10
2005-19   12-19-05    96.01,
                      96.99
                      153.01,
                      153.02,
                      153.10 -
                      153.15,
                      153.20 -
                      153.22,
                      153.30 -
2006-01   3-20-06     153.32,
                      153.40,
                      153.50,
                      153.51,
                      153.60,
                      153.65,
                      153.70,
                      153.71,
                      153.99
2006-02   3-20-06     91.11,
                      91.99
2006-03   3-20-06     91.12
2006-04   3-20-06     130.03
2006-06   3-20-06     93.30
2006-05   3-20-06     130.04
2006-08   3-20-06     93.22
                      70.01 -
                      70.06,
                      70.15 -
                      70.21,
                      70.30 -
                      70.39,
                      70.99,
                      71.01 -
                      71.18,
                      72.01 -
                      72.07,
                      72.09 -
                      72.15,
                      72.25 -
2006-09   4-17-06     72.29,
                      72.40 -
                      72.48,
                      72.60 -
                      72.64,
                      72.99,
                      73.01 -
                      73.06,
                      73.99,
                      74.01 -
                      74.10,
                      Ch. 75, Schs. I -
                      IV,
                      76.01 -
                      76.06
2006-10   4-17-06     150.19
2006-11   6-19-06     72.15
2006-12   5-31-06     52.76
2006-14   9-20-06     33.04,
                      33.05
2006-17   10-2-06     50.06,
                      50.30
2006-18   11-20-06    52.76
2007-01   2-19-07     T.S.O. IV
2007-04   10-15-07    T.S.O. I
2007-09   11-19-07    T.S.O. II
2008-03   1-1-08      33.04,
                      33.05
2008-05   4-21-08     31.06
2008-06   4-21-08     T.S.O. IV
2008-08   3-15-10     T.S.O. I
2008-09   9-22-08     33.04,
                      33.05
2008-009  9-21-09     33.04
2009-002  12-21-09    33.04
2009-003  12-21-09    50.06
2009-004  12-21-09    30.06
2009-005  12-21-09    37.13
2010-001  5-17-10     T.S.O. I
2010-002  5-17-10     T.S.O. I
2010-003  9-28-10     33.04
2010-005  11-18-10    34.25
2011-001  9-19-11     33.04
2011-03   11-21-11    T.S.O. IV
2012-002  4-16-12     71.06,
                      74.03
2012-004  7-16-12     T.S.O. II
2012-005  7-16-12     93.04
2012-006  9-17-12     33.04
2012-008  10-15-12    33.04
2012-009  10-15-12    31.07
2012-010  10-15-12    37.25
                      70.38,
                      70.39,
2012-011  12-17-12    70.99,
                      72.61,
                      72.99
2012-012  12-17-12    50.10
2012-014  12-17-12    30.05
2013-001  2-18-13     33.04
                      70.38,
                      93.01,
2013-003  4-1-13      93.05,
                      150.53,
                      153.70
2013-004  5-20-13     53.25
2013-005  6-17-13     153.51
2013-006  9-16-13     35.01 -
                      35.04
2013-008  10-21-13    T.S.O. II
2013-009  10-21-13    33.04
2013-010  11-18-13    31.06
                      152.053,
                      152.056,
2013-012  12-16-13    152.057,
                      152.109,
                      152.126, 152.272
2014-001  3-18-14     152.265 -
                      152.270
2014-005  5-5-14      31.05
2014-006  5-5-14      97.01 -
                      97.11
2014-007  6-16-14     130.06
                      50.02, -
2014-008  6-16-14     50.05 -
                      50.99
2014-011  6-16-14     35.01 -
                      35.04
2014-012  8-18-14     130.03
2014-014  11-3-14     33.04
2014-016  11-17-14    35.01 -
                      35.04
2014-017  11-17-14    50.06
2014-018  12-15-14    32.68
2014-019  12-15-14    90.09
                      90.03,
2015-001  2-2-15      90.04,
                      90.07
2015-005  6-1-15      93.01 -
                      93.07
                      150.07,
2015-008  9-3-15      150.36,
                      150.37
2015-012  12-7-15     50.10
2015-013  12-28-15    152.295 -
                      152.302
2016-001  3-7-16      32.110 -
                      32.114
                      90.20,
2016-003  5-2-16      152.041,
                      152.113
2016-006  6-6-16      74.03
2016-007  5-2-16      74.07
2016-008  5-2-16      37.35
2016-010  6-6-16      36.08
2016-011  - -16       37.45
2016-013  9-12-16     32.67
2016-014  - -16       36.03
2016-017  10-3-16     35.01 -
                      35.04
                      99.01 -
2017-001  5-1-17      99.05,
                      99.99
2017-002  6-5-17      50.10
2017-003  6-5-17      31.07
2017-004  9-11-17     95.12
2017-005  8-7-17      T.S.O. II
2017-006  9-11-17     93.07
2017-009  11-6-17     93.22
2017-010  11-6-17     33.04
2017-012  12-4-17     32.11
2017-13   12-4-17     152.140 -
                      152.151
2017-14   12-4-17     152.004
2017-015  12-4-17     152.999
2017-016  12-4-17     50.10
2017-017  12-4-17     152.235
2018-002  2-12-18     T.S.O. III
2018-003  4-9-18      36.03
2018-004  3-9-18      37.70
2018-006  6-11-18     93.07
2018-007  6-11-18     51.02
2018-008  6-11-18     51.02
2018-009  7-9-18      52.76
2018-012  9-10-18     33.04
2018-014  10-8-18     152.149
2018-015  10-8-18     152.151
2018-016  11-12-18    33.04
2018-017  11-12-18    33.04
2018-018  11-12-18    72.16
2019-001  1-14-19     37.25
                      100.01 -
2019-002  3-11-19     100.08,
                      100.99
2019-004  5-13-19     36.09
2019-005  5-13-19     36.10
                      151.01 -
2019-008  5-13-19     151.03,
                      151.15 -
                      151.28
2019-009  5-13-19     151.35
2019-010  5-13-19     152.114 -
                      152.117
2019-011  6-10-19     33.04
2019-014  10-15-19    150.20
2019-017  11-12-19    T.S.O. II
2020-001  2-10-20     35.02
2020-003  8-10-20     T.S.O. III
                      77.01 -
2020-007  10-13-20    77.06,
                      77.99
2020-011  12-14-20    37.20
2020-012  12-14-20    37.30
2021-001  4-13-21     52.76
2021-002  4-13-21     53.15
2021-003A 4-12-21     36.11
2021-004  6-14-21     92.01 -
                      92.07
2021-005  6-28-21     150.50 -
                      150.53
                      93.01,
2021-06   10-12-21    93.10 -
                      93.12
2021-010  12-13-21    95.01
2022-05   4-11-22     72.08
                      50.01 -
                      50.03,
2022-008  6-13-22     50.06 -
                      50.10,
                      50.99
2022-009  9-12-22     T.S.O. II
2022-010  12-19-22    51.01,
                      51.10
2022-011  12-19-22    52.76
2022-016  12-19-22    50.10
                     
 
