BOONE COUNTY, INDIANA
VOLUME 1
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-15 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 2023-10, passed 2-2-2024; and
State legislation current through 2024 Indiana Legislative Service, Pamphlet
No. 3
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE 2008-07
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR BOONE COUNTY, INDIANA, REVISING,
AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH
CODE OF ORDINANCES AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the political
subdivision are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in
form and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of
its affairs; and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Indiana empower and
authorize the political subdivision to revise, amend, restate, codify and
compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book
form; and
   WHEREAS, the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision has
authorized a general compilation, revision and codification of ordinances of
the Political Subdivision of a general and permanent nature and publication of
such ordinance in book form; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF BOONE COUNTY, INDIANA:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the Political Subdivision as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances of Boone County, Indiana.
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
BOONE COUNTY, INDIANA
VOLUME 1, CODE OF ORDINANCES
TABLE OF CONTENTS
   Chapter
   TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
            10.   Rules of Construction; General Penalty
   TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
            30.   General County Policies
            31.   County Organizations
            32.   Purchasing Procedures
            33.   Emergency Management
            34.   Funds, Fees, Taxes and the Like
   TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
            50.   Solid Waste
            51.   Sewers
            52.   Wells, Pumps and Geothermal Heat Pump Systems
   TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
            70.   General Provisions
            71.   Traffic Schedules
            72.   Parking Schedules
   TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
            90.   Litter Control
            91.   Weights and Measures
            92.   Noise
            93.   Miscellaneous Regulations
   TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
            110.   General Provisions
            111.   Food Establishments
            112.   Massage Parlors, Bath Houses and the like
   TITLE XIII: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   [Reserved]
   TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
            I.   Agreements; Franchise and Interlocal
            II.   Property; Disposal and the like
   PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Ordinances
   INDEX
BOONE COUNTY, INDIANA
VOLUME 2, LAND USAGE
TABLE OF CONTENTS
   Chapter
   TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
            150.   General Provisions
            151.   Building Regulations; Codes
            152.   Flood Hazard Areas
            153.   Storm Drainage, Erosion and Sediment Control
            154.   Streets and Roads
            155.   Housing Provisions
            156.   Subdivisions
            157.   Zoning
   TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
            I.   Annexations
            II.   Developments
            III.   Streets; Vacations, Closings, Usage and the Like
            IV.   Zoning Map Changes; Rezonings
   PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Ordinances
   INDEX
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, issuance of bonds or borrowing of money,
authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property, granting or
accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use, vacating or
setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall such repeal
affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to
subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the Political
Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of
Ordinances in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision
on this 16th day of June, 2008.
                                                                           
Marc Applegate, Commissioner
                                                                           
Harold Lewis, Commissioner
                                                                           
Charles Eaton, Commissioner
ATTEST:
                                                                    
Gretchen Smith, Boone County Auditor
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the county, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Boone County
Code,” for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified ordinances” or
“code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the County Board of
Commissioners.
      COUNTY COUNCIL. The County Council of Boone County, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
non-severability provision, each division or part of every section is
severable. If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a statute stating that the provisions of an act are
severable as provided in division (B) does not affect the operation of division
(B) with respect to that act.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Board
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; or at the time of the effective date of that ordinance or
subsequent thereto, the rights, powers, duties, or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Am. Ord. 20, passed
1-1-1980; Am. Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL COUNTY POLICIES
      
31.   COUNTY ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   PURCHASING PROCEDURES
      
33.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
34.   FUNDS, FEES, TAXES AND THE LIKE
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL COUNTY POLICIES
Section
   
30.01   Additional appropriation ordinance; number of votes needed
   
30.02   Enhanced emergency telephone system
   
30.03   Deadly weapons, alcoholic beverages in Courthouse and county-owned
buildings
   
30.04   Retainment of standard service weapons upon retirement
   
30.05   Membership in organizations
   
30.06   Auction of property by County Sheriff
   
30.07   Election or campaign materials in/on Courthouse
   
30.08   Internal control standards
   
30.09   Entry to Courthouse
   
30.10   Live streaming and archiving policy
§ 30.01 ADDITIONAL APPROPRIATION ORDINANCE; NUMBER OF VOTES NEEDED.
   An ordinance requesting additional appropriations from the County Council
under I.C. 36-2-5-12 may be passed only after receiving an affirmative vote
from at least 2/3 of all elected members of the County Council.
(Ord. 2002-07, passed 5-14-2002)
§ 30.02 ENHANCED EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM.
   (A)   Generally. Under the authority of and subject to the provisions of
Indiana law, an emergency telephone system fee is hereby established for the
funding of the installation and operation of the enhanced emergency telephone
system in Boone County, Indiana. The fee shall be collected from the telephone
service users of Boone County, Indiana, and administered in accordance with the
Indiana Code and the following terms set forth in this section.
   (B)   Definitions.
      ENHANCED EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM. A telephone system that uses the
three-digit “911” number to send automatic number identification and automatic
location identification for reporting police, fire, medical or other emergency
situations.
      EXCHANGE ACCESS FACILITY.
         (a)   The access from a particular service users premises to a
telephone system, which shall include:
            1.   An access line;
            2.   A private branch exchange (PBX) trunk;
            3.   A centrex line trunk equivalent, all of which are provided by
the service supplier; and
            4.   A mobile telephone system access trunk, whether the trunk is
provided by a telephone company or a radio common carrier.
         (b)   The term does not include:
            1.   A service supplier owned and operated telephone pay station
line;
            2.   A wide area telecommunication service (WATS);
            3.   A foreign exchange (FX) line; or
            4.   An incoming only line.
      SERVICE SUPPLIER. A person who provides exchange telephone service to a
service user.
      SERVICE USER. A person to whom exchange telephone service is provided.
   (C)   Monthly fee. A monthly fee of $1.96 per month per telephone access
line or other exchange access facility shall be collected by the service
supplier for each month or part of a month an exchange access facility is in
service as a part of its normal billing process.
   (D)   Service supplier fee. Each service supplier that collects the enhanced
emergency telephone system fee on behalf of Boone County shall be entitled to a
3% administrative fee as compensation for collecting the monthly fee.
   (E)   Remittal of fee. Each service supplier shall remit all monthly fees
collected, except for the 3% administrative fee, to the Treasurer of Boone
County, State of Indiana, within ten days of the last day of each calendar-year
quarter. At the same time the fees are remitted, the service supplier shall
provide a fee collection report to the Auditor of Boone County, State of
Indiana, on a form approved or provided by the Auditor.
   (F)   Establishment of Fund.
      (1)   The Treasurer of Boone County, State of Indiana, shall establish a
separate fund for the deposit of collected enhanced emergency telephone system
fees.
      (2)   The fund shall be known as The Boone County Enhanced Emergency
Telephone System Fund. All fees remitted by the service supplier shall be
deposited in said fund. The Boone County Treasurer may invest the money in the
Fund in the same manner that other money of Boone County may be invested. The
fees imposed in the Boone County Enhanced Emergency Telephone System Fund shall
be used only for the payment of the following:
         (a)   The lease, purchase or maintenance of enhanced emergency
telephone equipment, including necessary computer hardware, software and data
base provisioning;
         (b)   The rates associated with the service suppliers’ enhanced
emergency telephone system network services; and
         (c)   The personnel expenses of the emergency telephone system.
      (3)   The County Council of Boone County may appropriate money in the
Fund only for the expenditures.
   (G)   Delinquent fee report. During January of each year, each service
supplier that collects the enhanced emergency telephone system fee for Boone
County shall provide a delinquent fee report to the Boone County Treasurer. The
report shall list the name, address and amount due from each service user who
is two or more months delinquent in paying the fee. The service supplier shall
also indicate the amount of delinquent fees for which each person included on
the list is liable.
   (H)   Commencement of fee collection. Each service supplier shall commence
collection of the enhanced emergency telephone system fee as soon as it is
administratively practicable after the effective date of this section.
   (I)   Effective date. This section shall be in full force and effect on the
first day of the second month after its passage by the Boone County Council as
provided by Indiana law.
   (J)   Indiana Code controlling. This ordinance shall be applied, construed
and administered in accordance with Indiana law, and any amendment thereto. In
the event that Indiana Code provisions shall be amended by the State of Indiana
in such a manner as to become inconsistent, or cause a conflict with the
provisions of this section, then, and in that event, this section shall be
amended to include and adopt those provisions of the Indiana Code, as if the
same were fully set forth and incorporated herein.
(Ord. 94-6, passed 4-19-1994)
§ 30.03 DEADLY WEAPONS, ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN COURTHOUSE AND COUNTY-OWNED
BUILDINGS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DEADLY WEAPONS.
         (a)   A loaded or unloaded firearm; or
         (b)   A weapon, device, taser or electronic stun gun, equipment,
chemical substance or other material that in the manner it is used, could
ordinarily be used or is intended to be used, is readily capable of causing
serious bodily injury.
      FIREARM. Any weapon which is capable of, designed to or that may be
readily converted to expel a projectile by means of an explosion.
      SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes serious permanent disfigurement, unconsciousness, extreme
pain, or permanent or protracted loss or impairment of the function of a bodily
member or organ.
   (B)    Except as provided in division (C) below, a person shall not possess
on or about his person within the Boone County Courthouse any deadly weapon or
alcoholic beverage. Any person in violation of this section shall be subject to
a fine of up to $2,500 per violation and the Boone County Attorney is hereby
authorized to enforce this section through the Boone County Courts system.
   (C)   (1)   Division (B) above does not apply to the following persons,
while on duty, or while appearing in Court to testify in an official capacity:
law enforcement officers, Indiana Department of Corrections Officers,
Conservation Officers, Community Corrections personnel, Court personnel or
employees of the United States duly authorized to carry deadly weapons and
county employees in the capacity of their office.
      (2)   The persons described in the foregoing paragraph as being exempt
from the provisions of this section shall not be exempt if they, or any of
them, or any member of the family of one of them, is a party to any proceeding
taking place in court. Officers not on regular duty, but who may be in the
Courthouse on special assignment, or on business not associated with their
official duties, shall also be exempt from the provisions of this section
unless they, or any one of them, come within the provision of the first
sentence of this division.
   (D)   Any person of whom a court security officer, or any law enforcement
officer on duty in an official capacity, has probable cause to believe, may
have on or about his or her person a deadly weapon, is or has consumed an
alcoholic beverage on county property in violation of this section, may be
searched for the deadly weapon and any such weapon or illegal contraband found
on or about the person shall be seized and held for disposition according to
law, and the person may be subject to prosecution for any offenses committed
beyond the violation of this section.
   (E)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage and upon publication as may be required by law.
   (F)   Upon passage, the Boone County Commissioners shall cause prominent
notices of this section to be posted at each entry to the Boone County
Courthouse and all other county owned facilities informing the general public
of the possible penalties for violation of this section.
(Ord. 1995-5, passed 10-16-1995; Am. Ord. 2011-07, passed 10-3-2011)
Cross-reference:
   Entry to Courthouse, see §
30.09
§ 30.04 RETAINMENT OF STANDARD SERVICE WEAPONS UPON RETIREMENT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section shall be to authorize the Sheriff
of Boone County to permit eligible merit police employees to retain his or her
standard service weapon upon retirement. The purpose of this section is to show
appreciation to merit police employees of Boone County, Indiana, who retire
after at least 20 years of service.
   (B)   Specification. When an eligible merit police employee, as determined
by the Sheriff, of the Boone County Sheriff’s Department retires after at least
20 years of service, he or she is authorized to retain his or her standard
service weapon (handgun) and receive a retired badge in recognition of his or
her service to the Department and the public. Upon his or her retirement, the
Department shall issue to him or her an identification card that gives his or
her name and rank, signifies that he or she is retired, and notes his or her
authority to retain his or her service weapon.
   (C)   Effective date. This section shall be in full force and effect
immediately upon adoption by the Boone County Board of Commissioners for those
officers retiring after enactment of this section.
(Ord. 98-24, passed 12-31-1998)
§ 30.05 MEMBERSHIP IN ORGANIZATIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners of Boone County is authorized to budget and
the County Council is authorized to appropriate funds from the general fund or
from other funds to provide membership for the county and for the elected and
appointed officials and members of the county’s boards, council, departments
and/or agencies in local, regional, state and national associations of a civic,
educational or governmental nature, which have as their purpose the betterment
and improvement of county governmental operations.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners of Boone County is further authorized to
budget and the County Board is further authorized to appropriate funds to pay
the expenses of duly organizes representatives to attend the meetings and
functions of organizations to which the county belongs.
(Ord. 82-11, passed 10-12-1982)
§ 30.06 AUCTION OF PROPERTY BY COUNTY SHERIFF.
   (A)   The Boone County Sheriff be, and he or she is, hereby authorized to
dispose of, at sale or auction, any personal property seized and retained as
evidence by the Boone County Sheriff’s Department, provided that the personal
property and evidence to be auctioned or sold shall no longer be needed or
required as evidence in any pending cases.
   (B)   The Boone County Sheriff shall determine the time and place of the
auction or sale, the same to be conducted as often as the Sheriff deems it
necessary to dispose of evidence no longer needed to be held and retained by
the Sheriff’s Department for any purpose.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the Boone County Sheriff to check
with the Boone County Prosecuting Attorney’s Office, or the Prosecuting
Attorney’s Office from any other judicial circuit in which the Boone County
Sheriff’s Department has seized and holds evidence in pending cases, to make
the determination that the personal property to be sold at sale or auction is
no longer required or needed as evidence.
   (D)   The Boone County Sheriff shall assume sole and complete responsibility
for the appropriate and legally authorize transfer of any handguns or other
firearms as the result of the auction or sale and shall determine whatever
policies or procedures may be necessary so to not violate any federal or state
laws as a result of the auction or sale of these firearms.
   (E)   Any and all net proceeds as the result of the auction or sale shall be
placed in Boone County’s general fund although nothing in this provision shall
prohibit the Sheriff, in his or her discretion, to retain the services of an
auctioneer or seller to facilitate liquidation of the property.
(Ord. 80-4, passed 10-6-1980)
§ 30.07 ELECTION OR CAMPAIGN MATERIALS IN/ON COURTHOUSE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, group, or entity to place,
distribute, or display any placard, flyer, poster, or other materials which
display a message advocating for or against a person or persons seeking an
elected office in a primary or general election in or on Courthouse property,
including the lawn surrounding the Courthouse, except the day of an election,
subject to Indiana law.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, group, or entity to place,
distribute or display any placard, flyer, poster, or other materials which
display a message advocating for or against a particular position on a public
question during a primary or general election in or on Courthouse property,
including the lawn surrounding the Courthouse, except the day of an election,
subject to Indiana law.
(Ord. 2012-03, passed 3-19-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 30.08 INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Policy. The purpose of this policy is to communicate Boone County
Board of Commissioners' and the Boone County Auditor's internal control
objectives to all employees and elected officials of Boone County ("county")
and to firmly commit the county to the 17 key principles of internal controls
as established by the Indiana State Board of Accounts.
   (B)   Component one: control environment.
      (1)   (a)   Principle 1. the oversight body and management demonstrate a
commitment to integrity and ethical values. The county has the responsibility
to establish and maintain an adequate system of internal control and to furnish
to the Boone County Commissioners ("Commissioners"), Boone County Council
("Council"), various boards and commissions, governmental agencies, creditors
and others reliable financial information on a timely basis. An adequate system
of internal control is necessary for the county to discharge these
responsibilities.
         (b)   Controls help ensure that assets are not exposed to unauthorized
access and use, transactions are properly recorded in the financial records,
and the resultant financial information is reliable. External organizations and
stakeholders of the county rely on financial information to make decisions
toward appropriations, loans and other debt, grants, and other contractual
relationships. County resources are dependent upon the system of internal
control. Auditors are required annually to report upon the adequacy of the
county's systems for control over financial reporting and compliance per I.C.
5-11-1-27(e). The safeguarding of county assets and the reliability which the
county and others can place upon its financial records is dependent upon the
effectiveness of the internal control process.
         (c)   The Commissioners and Council expect the county administration
to implement an internal control environment with policies and procedures
necessary to provide reasonable assurance that practices cause effective and
efficient operations, reliable financial reporting, and compliance with
applicable laws and regulations.
         (d)   The system of internal control is meant to keep the county on
course toward its mission and to minimize surprises. The system promotes
efficiency, minimizes risks of asset loss, helps ensure the reliability of
financial information, and compliance with applicable laws, rules, and
regulations.
         (e)   Internal control is a process; a means to an end, and not an end
unto itself. The control environment is the foundation upon which all
components of internal control are based. It sets the tone for county
operations. Internal control is about people, operations, communications, and
the work environment. It is not about policies and forms though it takes shape
through the implementation of relevant policies, procedures, and practices.
Internal control can provide reasonable assurance, but no system of control can
provide absolute assurance to the Commissioners, Council and other users of
financial information.
         (f)   The Auditor of Boone County ("Auditor") shall be charged with:
            1.   Conveying periodic messages of the county's internal control
philosophy and expectations to all employees;
            2.   Evaluating the county's internal control system for weaknesses
on a periodic (but no less frequently than annual) basis, providing solutions
to any discovered weaknesses, and inform employees of necessary changes in
procedures;
            3.   Working with the county offices and departments to establish a
confidential reporting system for individuals to report suspected fraud and
abuse of internal control policies; and
            4.   Working with the county offices and departments to institute
procedures to address violations of policies and consequences for violations.
      (2)   Principle 2: the oversight body oversees the entity's internal
control system. The Commissioners are responsible for setting the institutional
expectations for internal control, ensuring elected officials ("Office-
Holders"), department heads and management are aware of the those expectations,
requiring the upward communications channels are open through all levels of
management, and evaluating management's effectiveness toward monitoring the
control environment and implementing sound control policies and procedures. The
auditor will be the Commissioners' chief agent in implementing and managing the
internal control policies and procedures.
      (3)   (a)   Principle 3: management establishes an organizational
structure, assigns responsibility, and delegates authority to achieve the
entity's objectives.
         (b)   Individuals with statutorily assigned or delegated approval
authority, (e.g. office-holders and department heads) are responsible for
establishing, maintaining, and supporting a system of internal controls within
their areas of responsibility and for creating the control environment that
encourages compliance with county policies and procedures.
         (c)   Adequate supervision is necessary to monitor that internal
controls are operating as intended, and to help ensure the reliability of
accounting and operational controls by pointing out errors, omissions,
exceptions, and inconsistencies in procedures. Staff in leadership roles are
responsible for the application of this policy and the design, development,
implementation, and maintenance of systems of internal controls focusing on the
effectiveness of operations and the safeguarding of assets within their
respective areas of responsibility. All levels of management and supervision
are responsible for strengthening internal controls when weaknesses are
detected. Office-holders and department managers should periodically review
departmental procedures to ensure that the general principles of internal
control are being followed.
         (d)   The auditor's office has the primary responsibility for internal
control over financial reporting and compliance with applicable laws, rules,
and regulations. The auditor is the county's chief source for information and
assistance to staff, office-holders, and department heads on this topic and
will make resources available to assist in administering this policy.
         (e)   The auditor's office is responsible for internal controls over
employee recruitment, hiring, separation, promotion, job classification,
employee rights, and salary administration. The auditor's office and the
county's employee handbook and supporting policies and procedures for each
office or department are the sources for information and assistance on this
topic and will make resources available to assist in administering this policy.
         (f)   All levels of internal control are subject to examination by
external auditors who are required to report on the adequacy of internal
controls over finance and compliance.
         (g)   Office holders and department heads are responsible for prompt
corrective action on all internal control findings and recommendations made by
internal and external auditors. The audit process is completed only after
office-holders and department heads receive the audit results and take action
to correct internal control weaknesses, improve systems, or demonstrate that
management action is not warranted. Office-holders and department heads have
the responsibility to ensure that those who report to them have adequate
knowledge, skills, and abilities to function within, and contribute to, an
effective internal control environment. This includes providing access to
appropriate training on topics relevant to their job responsibilities.
      (4)   (a)   Principle 4: management demonstrates a commitment to recruit,
develop, and retain competent individuals.
         (b)   The county employee handbook provides a roadmap for recruiting
and maintaining quality employees. Prior to employment individuals may be
subject to pre-employment background screening and/or a credit history check.
While employed, county employees are entitled to a benefits package including
health and disability Insurance and certain other employment benefits. The
county will continue to assess the best recruitment pools and tools for the
different skill sets of skills necessary to adequately implement and maintain
quality internal controls.
         (c)   Job descriptions will be updated where necessary to reflect
internal control responsibilities and duties. Employees will be regularly
trained in internal control methods and all training will be documented in
employees' personnel files. Employees will be regularly evaluated by their
supervisors on internal control duties and receive feedback on possible
improvements.
      (5)   Principle 5: management evaluates performance and holds individuals
accountable for their internal control responsibilities. Individuals are held
accountable for their internal control responsibilities through a recognized
structure which includes relevant job descriptions, operating procedures,
periodic reviews, regular feedback, and a progressive disciplinary policy.
Additionally, county administration seeks to address issues in specific offices
and departments and positions through regular one-on-one meetings with office-
holders and department heads.
   (C)   Component two: risk assessment.
      (1)   (a)   Principle 6: management defines objectives clearly to enable
the identification of risks and risk tolerances. Through the creation of
standard operating procedures and accurate organizational reporting charts
management conveys and identifies objectives, missions, policies, and risk
tolerances to employees. The auditor's office will lead a risk analysis of
three major areas:
            1.   The effectiveness and efficiency of operations.
            2.   The reliability of reporting for internal and external use.
            3.   Compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
         (b)   For each category, the auditor's office will define objectives
in specific measurable terms in order to enable the design of internal control
for related risk, increase understanding at all levels, assess performance,
identify what is to be achieved, who is to achieve it, how it will be achieved,
when it will be achieved and incorporate external requirements.
      (2)   (a)   Principle 7: management identifies, analyzes, and responds to
risks related to achieving the defined objectives. The auditor's office will
identify, analyze and respond to the risks identified in Principle 6 by
determining:
            1.   How likely is the risk to occur?
            2.   How will it impact the objective?
            3.   Is the risk based on complex or unusual transactions?
            4.   Is the risk based on fraud?
         (b)   Once each risk has been identified and analyzed, the auditor's
office will work with office-holders and department heads to determine how to
respond to each risk with a specific solution and action.
      (3)   Principle 8: management considers the potential for fraud when
identifying, analyzing, and responding to risks. Management is committed to
fraud prevention by utilizing a "trust but verify" approach. The potential for
fraud, misappropriation, and outright theft are contemplated as controls are
designed for various county divisions. Fraud responses will include statutorily
required responses to fraud, including, but not limited to I.C. § 5-11-1-27(1)
relating to the report of misappropriation of funds to State Board of Accounts
and prosecuting attorney and I.C. § 5-1 l-l-27(j) relating to the report of
material variances, losses, shortages or thefts to the State Board of Accounts.
The county shall utilize a materiality threshold of $500.
      (4)   Principle 9: management identifies, analyzes, and responds to
significant changes that could impact the internal control system. The
auditor's office, in coordination with office-holders and department heads,
will regularly evaluate and adjust internal control policies in order to
accommodate for the impact of future changes, including but not limited to,
personnel changes, newly elected officials, new programs, new technology, new
laws and regulations, and financial fluctuations.
   (D)   Component three: control activities.
      (1)   (a)   Principle 10: management designs control activities to
achieve objectives and respond to risks.
         (b)   The auditor's office will establish and maintain a system of
internal controls that satisfies the county's objectives in the following
categories:
            1.   Risks are identified and effectively managed;
            2.   Safeguarding of county assets;
            3.   Reliability and integrity of financial information;
            4.   Compliance with county policy, plans, procedures, laws and
regulations;
            5.   Economical and efficient use of county resources; and
            6.   Meeting established objectives and goals for county operations
and programs.
         (c)   General internal control principles for offices and departments
are:
            1.   Separation of duties.
               A.   Duties are separated so that one person's work routinely
serves as a check on another's work.
               B.   No one person has complete control over more than one key
function or activity (e.g., authorizing, approving, certifying, disbursing,
receiving, or reconciling).
            2.   Authorization and approval.
               A.   Proposed transactions are authorized when proper and
consistent with county policy and the office or department's plans.
               B.   Transactions are approved by the person who has delegated
approval authority, which is usually delegated on the basis of special
competency or knowledge.
            3.   Custodial and security arrangements.
               A.   Responsibility for physical security/custody of county
assets is separated from record keeping/accounting for those assets.
               B.   Unauthorized access to county assets and institutional data
is prevented.
            4.   Timely and accurate review and reconciliation.
               A.   Departmental and office accounting records and documents
are examined by employees who have sufficient understanding of the county
accounting and financial systems to verify that recorded transactions actually
took place and were made in accordance with county policies and procedures.
               B.   Departmental and office accounting records and
documentation are compared with county accounting system reports and financial
statements to verify their reasonableness, accuracy, and completeness.
            5.   The general internal control principles should be applied to
all office and departmental operations, especially accounting records and
reports, payroll, purchasing/receiving/disbursement approval, equipment and
supply inventories, cash receipts, petty cash and change funds, billing and
accounts receivable.
         (d)   All county systems, processes, operations, functions, and
activities are subject to evaluations of internal control systems. The results
of these evaluations provide information regarding the county's overall system
of control.
         (e)   Information and communication. Information must be timely and
communicated in a manner that enables people to carry out their
responsibilities.
            1.   All covered employees must be trained on internal controls
according to I.C. § 5-11-1-27(g). All personnel must receive a clear message
from the county's administration that control responsibilities are to be taken
seriously. Failure to comply with established practices will subject
individuals to the terms of disciplinary action or dismissal.
            2.   Employees must understand their own roles in the internal
control system, as well as how individual activities relate to the work of
others. To this end, whenever a new budgetary unit, financial activity, etc. is
set up, the auditor will provide notification to the appropriate parties of the
responsibilities incumbent on them for good business practices and sound
financial management, including reference to the principles within this policy.
            3.   Employees must have a means of communicating significant
information to the county's administration.
            4.   The county must communicate effectively with external parties,
such as auditors, creditors, contractors, suppliers, regulators and other
stakeholders.
         (f)   Internal control is meant to keep the county focused on
achieving its mission while avoiding surprises. There is a balance between
effective controls and mission accomplishment. Costs associated with internal
controls should not exceed their benefit, nor should controls be allowed to
stifle mission effectiveness and timely action. All levels of management must
assess the costs, benefits, and risks when designing controls to develop a
positive control environment and compensate for the risks of non-compliance,
loss of assets, or unreliable reporting while accomplishing the county mission.
         (g)   The following specific internal control policies are adopted for
use by county offices and departments:
            1.   Payroll activities.
               A.   Salaries and wage rates are verified by the office-holder
or department head and auditor's office.
               B.   The responsibilities for hiring, terminating, and approving
promotions are segregated from those preparing payroll transactions or
inputting data.
               C.   The responsibilities for approving time sheets are
segregated from those for preparing payroll transactions or inputting data.
               D.   Payroll adjustment reports are submitted by someone outside
of the payroll process.
               E.   Employees' time and attendance records are approved by
their supervisors.
               F.   Corrections to recorded time and attendance records are
approved by the employee and employee's supervisor.
               G.   Procedures are in place to ensure that changes in
employment status are promptly reported to the auditor's office.
               H.   Payroll disbursements are reviewed and approved by an
authorized individual prior to payment.
               I.   Access to payroll applications is appropriately controlled
by user logins and passwords.
               J.   Changes to a payroll disbursement are approved by an
individual other than the ones authorized to process the changes.
               K.   Payroll checks (to the extent utilized) are accounted for
in numerical order and reconciled to the payroll check register.
               L.   Access to the signature stamp used to sign payroll checks
is adequately controlled.
               M.   Payroll checks for full-time employees are electronically
deposited (EFT) in the employee's bank account. Unless authorized by the
office-holder/department head and requested by the employee, written payroll
checks are only utilized for seasonal or part-time employees and are mailed or
distributed by someone outside the normal payroll distribution function.
               N.   Unclaimed payroll checks are returned to the auditor's
office by the office-holder or department head.
               O.   Employees are cross-trained on the payroll process; those
assigned to payroll take regular vacations.
            2.   Disbursement activities.
               A.   The responsibility for approving claims is segregated from
those preparing the claims.
               B.   Checks are written by an individual other than the one
approving the claim.
               C.   Checks are signed by an individual other than the one
preparing them.
               D.   Claims for payment are reviewed and approved by the
Commissioners prior to payment (except for those claims authorized as "pre-pay"
by virtue of an ordinance).
               E.   A reconciliation is completed between the claims for
payment approved by the Commissioners and the actual disbursements posted to
the ledger.
               F.   The responsibility for acknowledging the receipt of goods
or services is segregated from those preparing claims and writing checks.
               G.   Vendor checks are accounted for in numerical order and
reconciled to the disbursement ledger.
               H.   Invoices or other receipts are attached to each claim to
support the disbursement.
               I.   A review is completed by an individual outside the
disbursement process in which the claim amount is compared to the supporting
documentation attached to the claim and the amount of the check.
               J.   Access to disbursement applications is appropriately
controlled by user logins and passwords.
            3.   Receipting activities.
               A.   The responsibility for collecting money and issuing
receipts is segregated from those preparing the bank deposit.
               B.   The responsibility for making bank deposits is segregated
from those preparing the monthly bank reconcilement.
               C.   Pre-numbered receipts are issued for all money collected
and the receipt is retained with supporting documentation.
               D.   Receipts are reconciled to the cash receipts ledger by an
individual other than the one collecting money and issuing receipts.
               E.   Posting of receipts to the ledger is completed by an
individual other than the one who collects money and makes the deposit.
               F.   Receipts indicate the type of payment received (cash,
check, etc.) and this is reconciled to the make-up of the bank deposit.
               G.   Accounts receivable records are maintained by an individual
other than the one(s) involved in the billing process.
            4.   Cash activities.
               A.   A reconciliation between the recorded cash balance and the
bank balance is completed monthly by an individual separate from the receipting
and disbursing processes.
               B.   A reconciliation between the receipts ledger and the
credits to the bank account is completed periodically by an individual separate
from the receipting process.
               C.   A reconciliation between the disbursement ledger and the
debits to the bank account is completed periodically by an individual separate
of the disbursement process.
               D.   The monthly reconciliation between the cash balance and the
bank balance is thoroughly reviewed and approved by the auditor or appropriate
office.
               E.   Disbursements from and reimbursements to petty cash funds
are periodically reviewed by an individual other than the one responsible for
maintaining the petty cash fund.
            5.   Credit cards transactions.
               A.   A designated official or employee oversees the issuance and
use of the credit cards.
               B.   An ordinance or resolution specifically states the purposes
for which the credit card may be used.
               C.   A designated person separate from disbursement process
reviews transactions listed on the credit card statements for sufficient
documentation and inclusion in claims to the Commissioners.
      (2)   Principle 11: management designs the political subdivision's
information system and related control activities to achieve objectives and
respond to risks. The auditor's office, office-holders and department heads
will work with the Information Technology Department (or designated IT
contractor) to ensure that information technology is used as an integral part
of the internal control system. This may include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   Setting permission such that only certain users may perform
certain tasks;
         (b)   Using technology to accomplish segregation of duties by forcing
duties to be completed by different users;
         (c)   Automating certain processes and calculations;
         (d)   Limiting the authority to access different components of various
software to employees with duties specifically related to that component;
         (e)   Prohibiting user ID and password sharing among employees;
         (f)   Restricting the authority to correct or make adjustments to
records to key employees; and
         (g)   Requiring the use of prescribed forms or the approval of
alternative forms
      (3)   Principle 12: management implements control activities through
policies. The county has an employee handbook that is periodically updated to
communicate policies to employees. Additionally, certain offices and
departments (e.g. sheriff’s office) have SOG's, policies and procedures for
their individual employees. The auditor's office regularly works with offices,
departments and employees who handle financial transactions to recommend and
ensure best practices. All procedures are in writing and communicated
frequently to all relevant employees.
   (E)   Component four: information and communication.
      (1)   Principle 13: management uses quality information to achieve the
political subdivision's objectives. The county strives to lead in the areas of
financial transparency and accountability. By adopting standards and investing
in systems that exceed state mandated minimums, county management provides
employees and stakeholders with high quality information and informatics
systems. The auditor's office attends training and industry seminars to stay
abreast of changes and developments in requirements and communicate that
information effectively to impacted employees.
      (2)   Principle 14: management internally communicates the necessary
quality information to achieve the political subdivision's objectives. Internal
communications on internal controls are communicated through adoption of formal
policies by relevant boards and commissions and/or the legislative body or
documented through memos from the auditor's office or relevant office-holder or
department head. Internal memos and reports are maintained to document
communication.
      (3)   Principle 15: management externally communicates the necessary
quality information to achieve the entity's objectives. Communications with the
State Board of Accounts, other state agencies, grantor agencies, and regulatory
agencies are documented by email, memos, letters, and other forms of written
correspondence. All documents are maintained in accordance with the county and
state's record retention policies. Reports and policies are cross checked for
accuracy, relevancy, and timeliness of information.
   (F)   Component five: monitoring activities.
      (1)   (a)   Principle 16: management establishes and operates monitoring
activities to monitor the internal control system and evaluate the results.
County administration monitors and evaluates compliance with internal control
policies via multiple vectors. Separation of duties, redundancy polices,
layered approval systems, monthly reports, and physical controls such as video
monitoring allow management to both review and evaluate control systems.
         (b)   The auditor's office shall implement a system of monitoring that
includes:
            1.   Periodic checks to determine if controls are in place and
working effectively;
            2.   Reviewing control activities to determine if the actual
activities are in compliance with established procedures; and
            3.   Documenting deficiencies in the internal control processes and
remediating them quickly.
         (c)   Monitoring activities will be documented by signatures,
initials, or other appropriate methods.
      (2)   Principle 17: management remediates identified internal control
deficiencies on a timely basis. Breaches of internal controls are subject to
significant levels of internal scrutiny. If informed of a material breach of
internal controls, the Commissioners or auditor's office will actively
investigate and address the alleged breach and adjust policies and procedures
to prevent such occurrences in the future, if a material breach is
substantiated. Once breaches are identified and investigated, a formal or
informal corrective action plan will be developed.
(Ord. 2016-03, passed 6-20-2016)
§ 30.09 ENTRY TO COURTHOUSE.
   Entry to the Boone County Courthouse shall be restricted in accordance with
the Boone County Courthouse Security Plan and recommendations of the Boone
County Sheriff beginning June 1, 2017, such that:
   (A)   During normal business hours, any individual, including employees, may
enter or exit the Courthouse only through the south entrance (Main Street
entrance). During nonbusiness hours, employees with keys to exterior doors may
enter and exit any entrance.
   (B)   All county employees shall be issued photo identification badges
(“IDs”). An employee may show his/her ID to the Courthouse deputies upon
entering the Courthouse and will not have to pass through the screening
process. Any bags or packages earned by the employee may be subject to search
or scanning by the Courthouse deputies.
   (C)   All members of the public or employees without an ID shall be subject
to screening upon entering the Courthouse. Screening may include metal
detection or physical search (pat-down of exterior clothing) depending upon the
circumstances, and at the discretion of the Courthouse Deputies. All purses,
packages or briefcases shall be screened by passing through an X-Ray machine
(or similar equipment). Attorneys with ID cards are exempt from screening,
including their briefcases, purses and court materials.
   (D)   No person shall be permitted to enter the Courthouse carrying or
possessing a firearm, knife, weapon or explosive device. All such weapons or
materials shall be confiscated by the Courthouse deputies and disposed of in
accordance with state law.
   (E)   Law enforcement personnel that are appearing at the Courthouse in the
normal course of business may be allowed to retain their firearm while in the
Courthouse. Off-duty law enforcement officers who are in the Courthouse
appearing for a hearing in a civil matter in which they, or a family member,
are an interested party, witness or litigant will not be allowed to enter the
Courthouse with a firearm (does not include when the Officer is appearing as a
witness in a criminal matter, regardless of whether he/she is on or off duty).
   (F)   Attorneys (members of the Indiana bar in good standing) that are
members of the Boone County Bar Association, or other attorneys that conduct
business frequently at the Courthouse, may be issued ID cards in the Sheriff’s
discretion. Employees of local attorneys may be issued ID cards if they consent
to a background (criminal history) check through the Sheriff’s Office. Any
attorneys that have their license to practice suspended or revoked shall have
their ID revoked/confiscated.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
Cross-reference:
   Deadly weapons in Courthouse, see §
30.03
§ 30.10 LIVE STREAMING AND ARCHIVING POLICY.
   (A)   There is hereby established a procedure and process to be known as the
Live Streaming and Archiving of Meetings for the County Commissioners
(executive and legislative bodies) and the County Council (fiscal body), public
meetings which are normally held in the Connie Lamar Room in the County Annex
building at 116 West Washington Street in Lebanon as provided by the county’s
IT Department.
   (B)   The streaming of meetings will comply with I.C. 5-14-1.5-2.9.
   (C)   Copies of the streamed meetings will be posted to YouTube on the
internet and will remain there for at least 90 days after the meeting per I.C.
5-14-1.5-2.9. Copies of the streamed meetings if requested, will also be made
available during normal business hours at a cost of $30 per copy.
   (D)   The Commissioners reserve the right to delete or remove any posted
meetings that have been altered or amended by a third party. Additionally, the
Commissioners may remove any posts or materials deemed in their discretion to
be offensive or inflammatory.
(Ord. 2023-07, passed 10-2-2023)
CHAPTER 31: COUNTY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
31.01   Tourism Council
   
31.02   Plan Commission
   
31.03   Weed Control Board
   
31.04   Police Reserves
   
31.05   Community Corrections Advisory Board
§ 31.01 TOURISM COUNCIL.
   (A)   The Boone County Tourism Commission, established pursuant to Ord. 98-
16, shall be known as the Boone County Tourism Council (Council).
   (B)   (1)   The Council shall be comprised of seven members. All terms of
office for members shall begin January 1 and all initial terms shall begin
January 1, 2003. The initial term for each appointment shall be staggered as
follows: two persons for three years; three persons for two years; and two
persons for one year each. Thereafter, each term shall be for a two-year
period. Those whose terms expire may be reappointed.
      (2)   A simple majority of the members shall be engaged in the
convention, visitor or tourism business, or shall be involved in or promoting
conventions, visitors or tourism.
      (3)   At least two of the members must be engaged in the business of
renting or furnishing rooms, lodging, or accommodations, if they are available
and willing to serve. No more than one of these members may be affiliated with
the same business entity.
      (4)   No more than a simple majority of the members may be affiliated
with the same political party.
   (C)   The appointments specified for the Council shall be made by the County
Commissioners and the Mayor of the City of Lebanon in the ratio specified by
I.C. 6-9-18-5.
   (D)   All other actions associated with the Council shall be in conformance
with I.C. 6-9-18-5 and applicable state, federal and local law.
   (E)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after the date
of its passage and the publication as is required by law.
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 31.02 PLAN COMMISSION.
   (A)   Membership.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) below, the Boone County Area
Plan Commission (APC) shall consist of seven members, as follows:
         (a)   One citizen member appointed by the Town Council of Advance who
is a resident of the Town of Advance;
         (b)   Two citizen members, who are residents of the unincorporated
area of the county, appointed by the Boone County Board of Commissioners;
         (c)   One citizen member who is a resident of the unincorporated area
of the county, appointed by the Boone County Council;
         (d)   The Boone County Surveyor;
         (e)   The Boone County Agriculture Extension Educator;
         (f)   One representative appointed by the School Board of Zionsville,
Lebanon and Western Boone, on a rotating basis, as provided for in the APC
Rules of Procedure.
      (2)   If after the effective date of this section any additional town
council or councils (other than the councils serving Whitestown and Advance) in
the county pass an ordinance adopting the Area Planning Law and agreeing to the
representation set forth in this section, then the membership of the APC shall
be changed as follows.
         (a)   The members listed in divisions (A)(1)(a) through (A)(1)(f)
shall continue in office with no change in their terms or appointing
authorities.
         (b)   One additional citizen member shall be appointed by the Town
Council of each additional town participating in the Area Planning Department,
which appointee shall be a resident of the town.
         (c)   If the number of additional towns participating in the Area
Planning Department is an odd number, then the Boone County Surveyor shall no
longer serve as a member of the APC.
         (d)   If the number of additional towns participating in the Area
Planning Department is an even number, then the Boone County Surveyor shall
serve as a member of the APC.
      (3)   Each citizen member appointed under this division (A) must have the
qualifications set forth in §216 of the Area Planning Law, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and must maintain the qualifications throughout
their term of office or a vacancy shall be deemed to have occurred per division
(C)(1) below.
   (B)   Term of citizen members.
      (1)   This section does not affect the term of service of any current
member of the APC. All terms of service for any new appointments by
participating units shall be for a period of four years.
      (2)   When a current term of office of a citizen member expires, each
subsequent appointment of a citizen member shall be for a term of four years.
Except as otherwise herein provided, all citizen member appointments shall be
for a four-year term.
      (3)   With respect to the citizen member position of the APC which is to
be appointed by the Town Council of Advance, that citizen member shall
initially be appointed for a term expiring on December 31, 2002.
      (4)   With respect to any other citizen member position on the APC which
may in the future be appointed by the Town Council of an additional town
pursuant to division (A)(2)(b) above, that citizen member shall initially be
appointed for a term expiring on December 31, 2001 (or December 31 of every
fourth year thereafter, as the case may be).
   (C)   Vacancies; alternate members.
      (1)   If a vacancy occurs among the APC members who are appointed, then
the appointing authority shall appoint a member for the unexpired term of the
vacating member.
      (2)   The appointing authority may appoint an alternate member to
participate on the APC in a hearing or decision if any regular member that it
has appointed is unavailable. An alternate member must satisfy the same
qualifications as required of the regular member and shall have all of the
powers and duties of a regular member while participating on the APC.
   (D)   Application to Boards of Zoning Appeals. This section does not affect
the membership of the Boone County Area Board of Zoning Appeals under § 902 of
the Area Planning Law, or the Whitestown Board of Zoning Appeals under §901 of
the Area Planning Law.
   (E)   Effective date. This section takes effect on January 1, 1999, or
immediately upon its adoption by the legislative bodies of all units that are
participating in the Area Planning Department, as described in § 211 of the
Area Planning Law, whichever is later.
(Ord. 99-1, passed 2-1-1999; Am. Ord. 2011-03, passed 2-7-2011)
§ 31.03 WEED CONTROL BOARD.
   (A)   A weed control board is now established pursuant to I.C. 15-3-4.6-
1 and shall be known as the Boone County Weed Control Board.
   (B)   Those members of the Boone County Weed Control Board shall have all of
the powers and duties as contained in I.C. 15-3-4.6, including those powers
specifically contained in I.C. 15-3-4.6-4.
   (C)   Any person who fails to begin a program recommended by the Weed
Control Board to control and contain noxious weeds within the time period
prescribed in I.C. 15-3-4.6-6 is guilty of a Class C infraction.
   (D)   All provisions of I.C. 15-3-4.6 shall be adopted hereby and
incorporated herein.
(Ord. 82-9, passed 4-19-1982)
Editor’s note:
   Two copies of the provisions adopted by reference in this section are
available for public inspection at the office of the Clerk-Treasurer during
regular business hours.
§ 31.04 POLICE RESERVES.
   (A)   Enactment of this section shall create, pursuant to I.C. 36-8-3-20,
the Boone County Police Reserves, which shall be known hereinafter as the Boone
County Sheriff’s Reserve Unit.
   (B)   The maximum number of members of the Reserve Unit shall be authorized
and established by the Boone County Sheriff to fit the Department’s manpower
and staffing needs.
   (C)   Members of the Boone County Sheriff’s Reserve Unit shall not be
members of the regular Police Department, but shall have all of the same police
powers as regular members, except as may be limited by the rules of the Boone
County Sheriff’s Department.
(Ord. 82-10, passed 10-4-1982)
§ 31.05 COMMUNITY CORRECTIONS ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   The Board of County Commissioners do hereby establish a Community
Corrections Advisory Board (“Board”), consisting of such members as mandated in
I.C. 11-12-2-2(a), for such terms as mandated in I.C. 11-12-2-2(b), and
authorizing the use of such powers by the Board as provided for under Indiana
law.
   (B)   The Board of County Commissioners do further authorize and empower the
Board to participate in the Juvenile Detention Alternative Initiative (“JDAI”),
and to receive funding, allocate and expend funds, and perform such acts as
necessary in furtherance of the JDAI, as provided for in Indiana law.
(Res. 2007-02, passed 7-16-2007; Am. Ord. 2014-01, passed 3-3-2014)
CHAPTER 32: PURCHASING PROCEDURES
Section
   
32.01   Purchasing Agent
   
32.02   Rules for purchase
   
32.03   Policy for the use and issuance of credit cards
§ 32.01 PURCHASING AGENT.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners of Boone County hereby determines that it
is the purchasing agency for the county.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners of Boone County, Indiana, hereby designates
the following persons to serve as purchasing agents for the county:
      (1)   Each elected county official;
      (2)   Each Circuit, Superior and County Court Judge;
      (3)   The county’s Highway Superintendent; and
      (4)   County employees as are designated from time to time, in writing.
   (C)   This section is effective upon passage and signing by the presiding
officer.
(Ord. 98-13, passed 6-15-1998)
§ 32.02 RULES FOR PURCHASE.
   The following are the purchasing rules for Boone County, Indiana.
   (A)   Protection of offers; status of documents as public records.
      (1)   Protection of offers prior to opening. The purchasing agent(s)
shall retain all offers received in a secure location prior to the date and
time at which offers will be opened in order to prevent disclosure of the
contents prior to the opening of the offers.
      (2)   Unobstructed evaluation of offers. After offers have been opened,
the purchasing agent(s) shall be responsible for maintaining the offers in such
a manner as to permit evaluation of the offers by the persons responsible for
evaluating the offers.
      (3)   Public records status of bids. Bids submitted in response to an
invitation for bids must be available for public inspection and copying after
the time of the bid opening.
      (4)   Register of proposals. The purchasing agent(s) shall prepare a
register of proposals for each request for proposals issued which shall contain
information concerning the proposals which are available for public inspection
and copying, as outlined by the Indiana State Purchasing Law in I.C. 5-22-9-5.
Disclosure of proposals may be performed only under the guidelines of the same
statute or as the same is amended, from time to time. Proposals may not be
disclosed.
   (B)   Discussions with offerors responding to a request for proposals. The
purchasing agent(s) may conduct discussions with, and best and final offers may
be obtained from responsible offerors who submit proposals determined to be
reasonably susceptible of being selected for a contract award.
   (C)   Delay of opening of offers.
      (1)   When the Board of Commissioners makes a written determination that
its in the county’s best interests, offers may be opened after the time stated
in the solicitation.
      (2)   The date, time and place of the rescheduled opening must be
announced at the time and place of the originally scheduled opening.
   (D)   Evidence of financial responsibility.
      (1)   Purchases less than $25,000. The purchasing agent(s) may not
require evidence of financial responsibility when the estimated cost of a
purchase is less than $25,000.
      (2)   Purchases between $25,000 and $100,000. The solicitation may
include a requirement that an offeror provide evidence of financial
responsibility. If evidence of financial responsibility is required, the
solicitation must indicate the kind of evidence that will be acceptable. If a
bond or certified check is required, it may not exceed 10% of the estimated
cost of the purchase.
      (3)   Purchases over $100,000. The solicitation shall include a
requirement that an offeror provide evidence of financial responsibility and
must indicate the kind of evidence that will be acceptable. If a bond or
certified check is required, it may not exceed 10% of the estimated cost of the
purchase.
      (4)   Small business set-asides. The purchasing agent(s) may determine
that no evidence of financial responsibility shall be required for a small
business set-aside purchase.
   (E)   Use of RFP for purchases of designated types of supplies. The county
determines that:
      (1)   When it is either not practicable or advantageous for purchasing
agents to purchase certain types of supplies by sealed competitive bidding; and
      (2)   Receiving of proposals is the preferred method for purchasing
supplies, then purchasing agent should request assistance or permission from
the Commissioners before doing so. In essence, the position of the county is to
request competitive bids, proposals or quotes, unless otherwise decided in
writing.
   (F)   General rules applicable to Boone County, Indiana. The Boone County
Commissioners, to permit those purchasing agents designated by County Ord. 98-
13, to procure day-to-day supplies necessary for operation of county government
for county government offices without having to seek extra input for such
purposes from the County Commissioners, as the designating body for purchasing
agents, (i.e. pencils, paper, notebooks, data processing supplies and the like
and, in the case of the County Highway Department, those purchases or leases
necessary for repair and maintenance of County Highways). It is the policy of
Boone County, in conjunction with the Boone County Council, that those parties
designated as purchasing agents may pursue the office supplies, as necessary,
subject to the availability of funds in their annually-approved operating
budget as approved for that particular office of county government.
   (G)   Modification and termination of contracts.
      (1)   Price adjustments. The purchasing agent(s) may include provisions
to permit price adjustments in a purchase contract. The following provisions
for price adjustments may be included.
         (a)   Price adjustments must be computed by agreement on a fixed price
adjustment before the beginning of the pertinent performance or as soon after
the beginning of performance as possible.
         (b)   Price adjustments must be computed by unit prices specified in
the contract or subsequently agreed upon.
         (c)   Price adjustments must be computed by costs attributable to the
events or situations under the clauses with adjustment of profit or fee, all as
specified in the contract or subsequently agreed upon.
         (d)   Price adjustments must be computed in such other manner as the
contracting parties may be mutually agreed upon.
         (e)   In the absence of agreement by the parties, price adjustments
must be computed by a unilateral determination by the governmental body of the
costs attributable to the events or situations under the clauses with
adjustment of profit or fee, all as computed by the governmental body in
accordance with applicable rules adopted by the governmental body.
      (2)   Adjustments in time of performance. The purchasing agent(s) may
include provisions in a purchase contract concerning adjustments for time of
performance under the contract.
      (3)   Unilateral rights of county. The purchasing agent(s) may include in
a purchase contract provisions dealing with the unilateral right of the county
to order changes in the work within the scope of the contract or to order
temporary work stoppage or delays in time of performance.
      (4)   Quantity variations. The purchasing agent(s) may include in a
purchase contract provisions dealing with variations between the estimated
quantities of work in a contract and the actual quantity delivered.
   (H)   Purchase of services.
      (1)   The county determines that each county agency, department and
office and elected county official may purchase services in whatever manner the
purchaser determines to be reasonable.
      (2)   The county purchasing agency may not require any county agency,
department or office, or any county elected official, to purchase services in
any particular manner.
   (I)   Purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States. Supplies
manufactured in the united states shall be specified for all county purchases
and shall be purchased unless the county determines that:
      (1)   The supplies are not manufactured in the United States in
reasonably available quantities;
      (2)   The prices of the supplies manufactured in the United States
exceeds by an unreasonable amount the price of available and comparable
supplies manufactured elsewhere;
      (3)   The quality of the supplies manufactured in the United States is
substantially less than the quality of comparably priced available supplies
manufactured elsewhere; or
      (4)   The purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States is not
in the public interest.
(Ord. 98-14, passed 9-8-1998)
§ 32.03 POLICY FOR THE USE AND ISSUANCE OF CREDIT CARDS.
   The use and issuance of credit cards by various offices and departments of
the county is hereby authorized as follows:
   (A)   The elected official or department head (“department head”) may
negotiate on such terms as he/she deems advisable, with banks, suppliers, or
service providers to the applicable department to obtain credit cards or
accounts of credit (collectively “credit cards”) for the use and benefit of the
department to operate efficiently. The department head is further authorized
and empowered to apply for and execute on behalf of the county credit
applications and other documentation required to obtain credit cards for his/
her department.
   (B)   The department head is hereby authorized as the responsible person to
hold and authorize the use of the credit card.
   (C)   Unless a higher limit is authorized in advance by the County Board of
Commissioners, the credit limit for each credit card shall not exceed $5,000.
The Commissioners may approve credit limits for specific credit cards in excess
of $5,000.
   (D)   The department head may authorize certain employees within the
department to use the credit card solely for the purposes set out herein but
should retain the custody of the credit card at all other times.
   (E)   Departmental credit cards may be used only for lawful charges of
expenses related to and necessary for the effective operation of that
department. Such uses include but are not limited to:
      (1)   Purchasing of supplies and equipment for the use and benefit of the
department;
      (2)   Travel and lodging expenses of departmental personnel while
traveling on approved business;
      (3)   Meal expenses of departmental personnel while traveling on approved
business, provided that any such expense may not exceed any authorized per diem
for meal. Reasonable tips or gratuities are allowed as meal expenses if service
is provided as part of the meal;
      (4)   Approved training and education costs for departmental personnel;
and
      (5)   Any other use required for the efficient operation of the
department when use of vouchers, checks, or other means of credit are not
possible, provided that the use had been approved by the department head.
   (F)   Within seven days of use of a credit card, the employee using the
credit card shall deliver to the department head the following documents:
      (1)   A claim form for the charges made signed by the employee;
      (2)   Original receipts and/or invoices for the charges; and
      (3)   Any other documentation requested by the department which supports
the claim.
      (4)   If the employee loses the original receipt and/or invoice, the
employee shall provide a duplicate receipt and/or invoice or an affidavit of
lost receipt.
   (G)   Each department head shall maintain a file which includes the
following:
      (1)   The name of the person using the credit card;
      (2)   The amount of the charge;
      (3)   The fund or account number to be charged;
      (4)   The date the credit card was used; and
      (5)   The dates the credit card was in the possession of the persons
other than the department head or official.
   (H)   The department head shall ensure no charges are placed on the credit
card for an amount which would cause any budgeted appropriation of the
department to be overdrawn.
   (I)   The department head shall pay the credit card company through the
standard claim procedure of the county. The underlying invoice or receipt for
travel and/or supplies under the credit card shall be attached to the claim.
   (J)   The county office may pay interest and annual fees on the credit card.
However, any interest accruing because of delays in the billing by the office
shall be paid by that office.
   (K)   A list of all credit cards issued for which the department head has
been issued shall be maintained in the Commissioners’ office. The list shall
include the credit limit and authorized users.
   (L)   The County Auditor shall be listed on the account as authorized to
access the credit card records.
   (M)   Commissioners are to be authorized to cancel any card at any time, or
to remove any authorized user at any time, with a simple majority vote.
   (N)   Any authorized user leaving employment is to be removed from the card
at the time of resignation/dismissal/termination.
   (O)   Any unauthorized use of the card is to be considered grounds for
dismissal by the department head and/or the County Commissioners.
   (P)   On-time payment of credit cards is the responsibility of the
department head; recurring late charges are to be considered unauthorized use
of the account.
(Ord. 2010-02, passed 3-1-2010)
CHAPTER 33: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Applicability
   
33.02   Definitions
   
33.03   General scope and intent; liberal construction of powers
   
33.04   Limitations: nonsupersession of emergency powers of County Sheriff
   
33.05   Limitations: nonsupersession of emergency powers of incorporated
municipalities; conformance of municipal regulations with county regulations
Organization and Administration
   
33.15   Boone County Emergency Management Advisory Council established:
appointment and terms of members; election of officers duties of Council
   
33.16   Emergency Management Agency established: organization and constituency
of the agency
   
33.17   Director of Emergency Management Agency: appointment, qualification and
tenure
   
33.18   Director of Emergency Management Agency: general powers and duties
   
33.19   Deputy Director: general powers and duties
   
33.20   Board of Commissioners: general administrative powers and duties; tests
of emergency plans
   
33.21   Qualifications and appointment of emergency management volunteers
   
33.22   Department personnel administration; status of paid employee;
establishment of merit system if Federal funding is used
   
33.23   Departmental budgeting and finance
   
33.24   Emergency operations plan: formulation, content, and adoption of plan
   
33.25   Countywide jurisdiction of emergency management agency; emergency
operations plan; and related official powers
Emergency Powers Regulations, and Procedures
   
33.40   Applicability
   
33.41   Pre-disaster responsibilities of Emergency Management Agency
   
33.42   Special emergency powers and duties of Chief Executive Officer:
declaration of local disaster emergency
   
33.43   Special emergency powers and duties of Chief Executive Officer:
convention of emergency meeting of Board of Commissioners; special meeting
procedures
   
33.44   Special emergency powers and duties of Chief Executive Officer:
plenipotentiary powers in absence of Board quorum
   
33.45   Special emergency powers and duties of Board of Commissioners
   
33.46   Special emergency powers and duties of Director of Emergency Management
Agency; recommendations to Commissioners on special emergency actions
   
33.47   Special emergency powers and duties of Director of Emergency Management
Agency; power to implement emergency plans during presumptive state of
emergency; rendering of assistance by Emergency Management Agency
   
33.48   General duties of county officers and employees during emergency state
   
33.49   Priority of emergency orders, rules and regulations
   
33.50   Noncompliance with emergency orders, rules and regulations; obstruction
impersonation of emergency management authorities; penalties and enforcement
   
33.51   Limitation of liability during state of emergency or emergency
management tests or exercises
   
33.52   Reimbursement for use of property commandeered during emergency
   
33.53   Snow emergency procedures
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this subchapter, unless otherwise indicated also apply to,
govern, and refer to §§
33.15 et seq. and §§
33.40 et seq.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 33.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER.  CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER of the county as referred
to in I.C. 10-4-1-23(a) for purpose of declaring a local disaster emergency and
as referred to hereinafter means the presiding officer of the Board of
Commissioners. The presiding officer shall be considered as the regularly
designated President of the Board of Commissioners; except if he or she is
absent or incapacitated and the Board has a regularly designated President Pro
Tem, then the President Pro Tem shall be considered as the CHIEF EXECUTIVE
OFFICER. If the president is absent of incapacitated and there is no designated
President Pro Tem, then the remaining two Commissioners shall select among
themselves one to be presiding officer in the same manner as when an ordinary
business meeting needs to be conducted in the absence of the President. If both
the President and another Commissioner are absent or incapacitated, then the
remaining Commissioner shall be considered presiding officer.
   COUNCIL. Unless clearly referring to the County Council, means the Boone
County Emergency Management Agency Council as established under §
33.15.
   DIRECTOR. Refers to the County Director of Emergency Management Agency as
established and appointed pursuant to §
33.17.
   EMERGENCY. A condition resulting from natural disaster, technological
emergency, or local, state, or national incident which cannot be handled by
normal operation personnel or facilities.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The mitigation of, preparation for, response to, and
recovery from all emergency functions pursuant to I.C. 10-4-1-3(l), other than
functions for which military forces or other federal agencies are primarily
responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage resulting from
disasters. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services,
police services, medical and health services, rescue, engineering, warning
services, communications, radiological, chemical and other special weapons
defense, evacuation of persons from stricken areas, emergency welfare services,
emergency transportation, plan protection, temporary restoration of public
utility service, and other functions related to civilian protection, together
with all other activities necessary or incidental to the preparation for and
coordination of the foregoing functions.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT VOLUNTEER. Any person who serves without compensation
in the Emergency Management Agency including persons and private agencies or
government units offering services to the county during emergency situations or
mutual aid to other emergency services who request assistance.
   LOCAL, STATE, or NATIONAL SECURITY INCIDENT. Any condition such as terrorist
attacks, riots, strikes, insurrection or other civilian disturbances.
   NATURAL DISASTER. Any condition affecting or threatening public health,
welfare, or security as a result of flood, tornado, blizzard, or other natural
cause.
   PARTICIPATING EMERGENCY SERVICE.
      (1)   Any county department or agency designated by the Commissioners
pursuant to §
33.16(B)(4); and
      (2)   Any department or agency of the state, another county, a
municipality or other municipal corporation, or a volunteer organization
designated to participate in the county’s emergency management programs and
activities pursuant to I.C. 10-4-1-9 and §
33.18(A)(5).
   PERSONNEL. County officers and employees and emergency management volunteers
unless otherwise indicated.
   TECHNOLOGICAL EMERGENCY. Incidents such as, but not limited to, severe fire,
explosions, hazardous material releases, radiological problems, communication
failure, and energy or power failures.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 33.03 GENERAL SCOPE AND INTENT: LIBERAL CONSTRUCTION OF POWERS.
   The general intent of this chapter is to provide for all necessary and
dispensable powers and procedures reasonably needed to prevent, cope with or
make more tolerable emergency conditions. For this and all powers, both
ministerial and discretionary, as conferred herein shall be liberally construed
and shall be construed as intending to supplement and augment, and not to
limit, any powers or reasonable exercise of discretion which may ordinarily
pertain to county officers, employees, departments, and agencies.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 33.04 LIMITATIONS; NONSUPERSESSION OF EMERGENCY POWERS OF COUNTY SHERIFF.
   Nothing in this chapter is intended to supersede or delimit any statutory
powers of the County Sheriff to determine, respond to, and provide for the
control of public disasters and other emergency situations under the provisions
of I.C. 10-2-4-6 and 10-2-4-7.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 33.05 LIMITATIONS: NONSUPERSESSION OF EMERGENCY POWERS OF INCORPORATED
MUNICIPALITIES; CONFORMANCE OF MUNICIPAL REGULATIONS WITH COUNTY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter is intended to supercede or delimit the powers
of any incorporated municipality under I.C. 10-4-1-10 to adopt and implement
emergency plans and promulgate and enforce special emergency regulations and
procedures in the advent of an actual emergency affecting the municipality.
   (B)   However, pursuant to I.C. 10-4-1-15, the regulations and procedures as
promulgated by the municipal authorities may not be inconsistent with the
county emergency management program and emergency operations plan.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
ORGANIZATION AND ADMINISTRATION
§ 33.15 BOONE COUNTY EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ADVISORY COUNCIL ESTABLISHED;
APPOINTMENT AND TERMS OF MEMBERS; ELECTION OF OFFICERS; DUTIES OF COUNCIL.
   In accordance with I.C. 10-4-1-10, there is established a Boone County
Emergency Management Advisory Council.
   (A)   The Boone County Emergency Management Advisory Council shall consist
of the following individuals or their designees:
      (1)   The president of the county executive;
      (2)   The president of the county fiscal body;
      (3)   The mayor of each city located in the county.
      (4)   An individual representing the legislative bodies of all towns
located within the county.
      (5)   The Sheriff of Boone County.
      (6)   A representative of law enforcement, a representative of fire
services, a representative of emergency medical services, a representative of
general industry, and a representative of general media and representatives of
such private and public agencies or organizations which can be of assistance to
emergency management as the organizing group considers appropriate, or as may
be added later by the County Emergency Management Advisory Council.
   (B)   The Advisory Council shall have a chair who shall be the President of
the County Executive, a vice-chair, recording secretary, and a vice-recording
secretary.
   (C)   With the exception of the President of the County Commissioners,
member shall be appointed to two-year terms.
   (D)   The County Emergency Advisory Management Council shall exercise
general supervision and control over the emergency management and disaster
program of the county and shall select or cause to be selected a County
Director of Emergency Management Agency who shall have direct responsibility
for the organization, administration, and operation of the emergency management
program in the county; shall be responsible to the Chair of the Emergency
Management Advisory Council; and shall not hold any other local or state
government office.
   (E)   The Advisory Council shall meet at least once quarterly.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 33.16 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY ESTABLISHED; ORGANIZATION AND CONSTITUENCY
OF THE AGENCY.
   (A)   There is hereby established an Emergency Management Agency within the
executive branch of the county government for the purpose of utilizing to the
fullest extend possible the personnel and facilities of existing county
departments and agencies to mitigate, prepare, respond and recover from any
emergency a defined in §
33.02. The County Commissioners and the Director of Emergency Management Agency
shall be responsible for the Agency’s organization, administration and
operation.
   (B)   They shall consist of the following:
      (1)   An executive head of the Emergency Management Agency who shall be
known as the Director of Emergency Management Agency appointed in accordance
with §
33.17.
      (2)   A Deputy Director who shall be appointed by the Director with
approval of the Emergency Management Advisory Council.
      (3)   Emergency management volunteers, as deemed necessary and appointed
by the Director in accordance with §
33.21.
      (4)   The employees, equipment and facilities of all county departments
and agencies suitable for, or adaptable to, emergency management and designated
by the County Commissioners to participate in the emergency management
activity.
      (5)   Staff officers with responsibility for warning, communications,
radiological, health, emergency care, police, fire, light rescue, public
education and information, and transportation who may be appointed by the
Director but which positions shall be, as far as possible, additional duty
assignments to existing personnel.
      (6)   Such assistants, clerical help, and other employees as deemed
necessary to the proper functioning of the Agency who may be appointed by the
Director.
   (C)   However, notwithstanding any other provision of this section, no
compensated position may be established within the Emergency Management Agency
nor any person appointed to such position without the authorization of the
County Council pursuant to I.C. 36-2-5-3(a) and the making of sufficient
appropriations to pay the compensation. This provision does not give the County
Council any power of approval over particular candidates for any position but
refers only to their general statutory powers to determine the number of
officers, deputies, and employees of county departments; classify positions;
and adopt schedules of compensation. In addition, it is also the intent of this
section that emergency management and disaster assignments shall be as nearly
consistent with normal duty assignments as possible.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 33.17 DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT: APPOINTMENT, QUALIFICATIONS AND
TENURE.
   The Director of Emergency Management Agency shall be selected by the County
Emergency Management Advisory Council and appointed by the Board of
Commissioners. Qualifications for Director will be determined by the Emergency
Management Advisory Council with input from County Commissioners, provided that
pursuant to I.C. 10-4-1-10(f), the Director may hold no other local, state, for
federal office. The appointment of Director shall be permanent unless the
County Commissioners determine the Director to be inadequate to fulfill his or
her responsibilities which shall include deliberate disregard of the directives
of superior county or state authorities or physical or mental incapacity to
perform his or her duties.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 33.18 DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY: GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Director, subject to the direction and control of the County
Commissioners, shall be executive head of the Emergency Management Agency and
shall have responsibility for the organization, administration, and operation
of the emergency management organization, including the following powers and
duties:
      (1)   The Director shall be responsible for public relations,
information, and education regarding all phases of emergency management.
      (2)   The Director shall be responsible for the development of a county
emergency operations plan, and upon adoption, shall be responsible for the
implementation and revision of the plan as to maintain it in a current state of
readiness at all times. Ths plan shall include all major cities and towns
within the county.
      (3)   The Director shall coordinate within Boone County all activities
for emergency management and shall maintain liaison and coordinate with all
other affected agencies, public and private.
      (4)   The Director shall coordinate the recruitment and training of
volunteer personnel and agencies to augment the personnel and facilities of the
county for emergency management purposes.
      (5)   The Director may seek, negotiate, and enter into (with approval or
ratification of the Commissioners and to the extent consistent with the State
Emergency Operations Plan and program) mutual-aid arrangements with other
public and private agencies for emergency management purposes and take all
steps in accordance with the arrangement to comply with or take advantage
thereof in the event of an actual emergency affecting the parties.
      (6)   The Director may, when the offer has been approved by the Governor,
accept an offer of the Federal Government to provide for the use of the county
any services, equipment, supplies, materials, or funds for emergency management
purposes by way of gift, grant or loan.
      (7)   The Director may seek and accept from any person, firm, or
corporation any gratuitous offers to provide services, equipment, supplies,
materials, funds, or licenses, or other privileges to use real estate or other
premises to the county for emergency management purposes.
      (8)   The Director may issue proper insignia and papers to emergency
management workers and other people directly concerned with emergency
management.
   (B)   The Director, in addition to the powers and duties expressly provided
above, shall be construed to have all powers and duties of a director of a
local emergency management agency under I.C. 10-4-1. In particular, by not by
limitation, the Director, through the Emergency Management Agency, may perform
or cause to be performed with respect to the county, any function parallel or
analogous to those performed on a statewide basis by the Indiana State
Emergency Management Agency under I.C. 10-4-1-5.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 33.19 DEPUTY DIRECTOR: GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   If a Deputy Director has been appointed pursuant to §
33.16(B)(2), he or she shall during normal times assist the Director in the
performance of his or her duties. During an emergency, the Deputy Director
shall assist the Director and fulfill the duties of the Director in the absence
or inability of the Director to serve.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 33.20 BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS: GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POWERS AND DUTIES; TESTS
OF EMERGENCY PLANS.
   The powers and duties of the County Commissioners pertaining to emergency
management in time of normal county operation are to:
   (A)   Maintain general supervision over the planning and administration for
the Emergency Management Agency.
   (B)   Adopt the emergency management and disaster plans.
   (C)   As related to county forces, coordinate the emergency management
activities and make assignments of emergency management duties in order to meet
situations not covered in the normal duties and powers of such agencies. In
addition, the County Commissioners may take all necessary action to conduct
testes of the emergency management plans. Emergency management tests may be
conducted at any time with or without prior notification. All emergency tests
conducted within the boundaries of Boone County shall be coordinated with the
Emergency Management Agency and the Boone County Sheriff’s Department.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 33.21 QUALIFICATIONS AND APPOINTMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT VOLUNTEERS.
   (A)   The Director shall make sure that each volunteer personnel meets the
following qualifications before he or she is sworn in as a member:
      (1)   Be at least 18 years of age.
      (2)   Not be convicted of a felony.
      (3)   Complete and have on file an application form.
      (4)   Possess a high school diploma or General Equivalency Diploma (GED).
      (5)   Complete any assigned training or education.
   (B)   Upon satisfaction of the above requirements, with the approval of the
Director of the Emergency Management Agency, and following the oath as
described in I.C. 10-4-1-20(b) the applicant is officially a member of the
Boone County Emergency Management Agency.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 33.22 DEPARTMENT OF PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION; STATUS OF PAID EMPLOYEES;
ESTABLISHMENT OF MERIT SYSTEM IF FEDERAL FUNDING IS USED.
   In general, any paid employees of the Emergency Management Agency shall have
the same employment status and shall be governed by the same uniform personnel
policies, rules, and procedures that apply to other county employees. However,
in the event that during such time as the county emergency management program
may hereafter be directly supported by federal funding, the Board of
Commissioners shall adopt and implement a merit system applicable only to paid
employees of the Agency other than the Director. The merit system shall conform
to the standards and comply with other requirements set forth in CPA1–3:
Federal Assistance Handbook: Emergency Management Direction and Control
Programs (January 1984) or subsequent editions thereof as may be in effect at
the time.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 33.23 DEPARTMENTAL BUDGETING AND FINANCE.
   The Advisory Council shall advise the Director in preparation of the budget.
The County Council shall appropriate such funds as it may deem necessary for
the purpose of emergency management. All funds appropriated or otherwise
available to the Emergency Management Agency shall be administered by the
Director subject to the approval of the County Commissioners in the same manner
as provided by law or ordinance for other county funds except as otherwise
provided under §
33.45(B)(9) through (11).
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 33.24 EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN: FORMULATION, CONTENT, AND ADOPTION OF PLAN.
   (A)   A Boone County operations plan shall be adopted by resolution of the
Boone County Commissioners. In the preparation of this plan, as it pertains to
county organization, it is the intent that the services, equipment, facilities,
and personnel of all existing departments and agencies shall be utilized to the
fullest extent possible.
   (B)   The following content shall be adopted:
      (1)   Basic plan. To include:
         (a)   Purpose.
         (b)   Situation/assumption.
         (c)   Concept of operations.
         (d)   Assignment of responsibilities.
         (e)   Direction and control.
         (f)   Continuity of government.
         (g)   Administrative and logistics.
         (h)   Execution.
      (2)   Annexes. The following annexes will be required:
         (a)   Direction and control (warning and communications.)
         (b)   Radiological protection.
         (c)   Law enforcement.
         (d)   Fire and rescue.
         (e)   Health and medical.
         (f)   Welfare.
         (g)   Shelter.
         (h)   Evacuation.
         (i)   Public works.
         (j)   Resource and supply.
   (C)   In addition, all participating emergency services who develop internal
plans shall coordinate those plans with the Emergency Management Agency in
order to include those plans within the county comprehensive plan. When
approved, it shall be the duty of a county departments and agencies to perform
the functions and duties assigned by the plan and to maintain their portion of
the plan in a current state of readiness at all times.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 33.25 COUNTYWIDE JURISDICTION OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY; COUNTY
EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN; AND RELATED OFFICIAL POWERS.
   Except as provided by §§
33.04 and
33.05, the jurisdiction of the County Emergency Management Agency and the
jurisdiction and applicability of the county’s comprehensive emergency
management and disaster plan as adopted pursuant to §
33.24, and the exercise of any powers of the chief executive officer of the
county and the County Commissioners under §
33.41, shall be comprehensive and inclusive countywide and effective in both
the incorporated and unincorporated areas of the county.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
EMERGENCY POWERS, REGULATIONS, AND PROCEDURES
§ 33.40 APPLICABILITY.
   Sections
33.40 et seq. apply whenever:
   (A)   A state of emergency affecting all or part of the county has been
declared by the Governor pursuant to I.C. 10-4-1-7.
   (B)   A state of emergency affecting all or part of the county has been
declared by the chief executive officer of the county pursuant to I.C. 10-4-1-
23(a) and §§
33.15 et seq.
   (C)   A presumptive state of emergency is deemed to exist affecting all or
part of the county causing the Director to invoke and implement emergency plans
and procedures in accordance with §
33.47.
   (D)   When the Board of Commissioners has implemented a test of the county’s
emergency plans and procedures in accordance with §
33.20 to the extent necessary or dispensable to the test.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 33.41 PRE-DISASTER RESPONSIBILITIES OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY.
   The Emergency Management Agency’s primary pr-disaster responsibility shall
be the warning function as prescribed in the warning plan and emergency
communications prescribed in the communications plan for the entire county
including all cities and towns.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 33.42 SPECIAL EMERGENCY POWERS AND DUTIES OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER:
DECLARATION OF LOCAL DISASTER EMERGENCY.
   In the event of actual or threatened natural disaster, technological
emergency or local, state, or national security incident affecting the county,
the chief executive officer of the county may declare a local disaster
emergency pursuant to I.C. 10-4-1-23(a) for any period not to exceed seven
days. The declaration shall be in writing and indicate the nature of the
disaster, the conditions which have brought it about, and the area or areas
threatened and to which the state of emergency applies (which may include the
entire county or only designated parts thereof.) The declaration shall be filed
in the offices of the County Clerk and the clerk of any incorporated
municipality included in the declared disaster area and shall be announced or
disseminated to the general public by the best means available. However, the
declaration is not invalidated nor ineffective if any of the filing and
dissemination requirements cannot be complied with due to the prevailing
adverse circumstances. Such a declaration is not necessary if the Governor,
pursuant to I.C. 10-4-1-7, has already proclaimed a statewide or area wide
state of emergency including the county.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 33.43 SPECIAL EMERGENCY POWERS AND DUTIES OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER:
CONVENTION OF EMERGENCY MEETING OF BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS; SPECIAL MEETING
PROCEDURES.
   As soon possible after a disaster emergency affecting the county is declared
either by the Governor or by the chief executive officer of the county, the
chief executive of the county shall convene a meeting of the County
Commissioners to perform their legislative and administrative functions as the
situation may demand. If the chief executive officer fails or is unable to
perform the above duty, the meeting shall be convened by some other member of
the Board of Commissioners, or by the auditor, or the successively empowered
county officer in accordance with I.C. 36-2-2-8(a). Any such meeting of the
Commissioners shall automatically be deemed an emergency meeting subject to
only such procedural provisions of law as govern emergency meetings of the
County Commissioners including relaxation of any applicable notice requirements
pursuant to I.C. 5-14-1.5-5(d) and may be held in any convenient and available
place. The meeting shall continue without adjournment for the duration of the
disaster emergency but may be recessed for reasonable periods of time as
necessary and permitted by the circumstances.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 33.44 SPECIAL EMERGENCY POWERS AND DUTIES OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER:
PLENIPOTENTIARY POWERS IN ABSENCE OF BOARD QUORUM.
   In the event that a quorum of the Board of Commissioners cannot be assembled
for purposes of the meeting required under §
33.43, the chief executive officer of the county shall be considered a
plenipotentiary representative of the Board and shall have all powers and may
take all actions of the full Board under §
33.45(B)(2) through (13) until the assemblage of a quorum is possible.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 33.45 SPECIAL EMERGENCY POWERS AND DUTIES OF BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   At the meeting convened under §
33.43, the Commissioners with the consultation of the Director, may exercise
any of their normal and executive legislative powers to the extent related to
the emergency and necessary to deal therewith.
   (B)   In addition, however, they may also exercise any of the following
special and extraordinary powers:
      (1)    The Commissioners may extend the period of a state of emergency
declared by the chief executive officer pursuant to §
33.42 to last more than seven days if necessary.
      (2)   The Commissioners may terminate the state of emergency except for a
state of emergency proclaimed by the Governor.
      (3)   The Commissioners may order the activation and implementation of
the county’s comprehensive emergency management and disaster control plan that
has been adopted pursuant to §
33.24 or such several component parts thereof as may be relevant to the
emergency.
      (4)   The Commissioners may assemble and utilize emergency management
forces including personnel of the Emergency Management Agency, participating
emergency services, and any other forces at the disposal of the Commissioners
hereunder for emergency management purposes.
      (5)   The Commissioners may order volunteer forces to the aid of the
county, state, or political subdivisions thereof as soon as practicable. Those
volunteer forces will be under the direction of the Emergency Management
Agency.
      (6)   The Commissioners may, to the extent permitted by I.C. 10-4-1-25
and subject to its provisions, command service from and/or requisition the use
of equipment, facilities, supplies, or other property belonging to other
organizations, corporations, or private persons as necessary to control the
emergency and protect and provide for the public safety and welfare.
      (7)   The Commissioners may order the evacuation of all or part of the
population from stricken areas of the county and prescribe routes modes of
transportation, and destination for such evacuation.
      (8)   The Commissioners may make provision for availability and use of
temporary emergency housing, which housing need not necessarily comply with any
minimum housing standards, building or zoning regulations, etc., which would
govern the use and location of premises for housing purposes during normal
times.
      (9)   The Commissioners may suspend for the duration of the state of
emergency (or for a lesser period as they determine) any provisions of or
procedures prescribed by ordinances of the county if they would be
impracticable during the emergency, would interfere with the implementation and
carrying out of emergency plans, or would be inimical to actions necessary to
protect the public safety and welfare; provided, however, that except in
accordance with division (10), below the Commissioners may no suspend any
provisions of ordinances or procedures which are mandated by statute.
      (10)   In the event of a natural disaster, technological emergency, or
local, state, or national security incident effecting the county or when a
state of emergency has been proclaimed by the Governor, the Commissioners may
also in accordance with I.C. 10-4-1-10(l)(5) waive any procedures or
requirements of statute or of county ordinances reflecting statutory
requirements and mandates and pertaining to the appropriation and expenditure
of public funds, the incurrence of obligations, the performance of public
works, the entering into of contracts, the employment of permanent or temporary
workers or utilization of volunteer workers, the rental of equipment, or the
purchase and distribution of supplies, material, and facilities.
      (11)   The Commissioners may assign special emergency duties and
functions to any county offices, departments, and agencies irrespective of
their usual duties and functions and any unexpected and unencumbered monies
budgeted and appropriated for the operation of such offices, departments, and
agencies and not otherwise dedicated by law to different and specified purposes
may, within the scope of each major budget and appropriation category (major
object classification), be utilized and expended for the purpose of carrying
out such special emergency duties and functions.
      (12)   The Commissioners may make and promulgate such emergency
regulations as may be deemed necessary to protect life and property, preserve
order, conserve critical resources, or implement and carry out the provisions
of the county’s or state’s disaster plans including but not limited to the
power to order the roads closed, establish curfews, close businesses, or any
action that they dem necessary to save lives and recover from a declared
emergency. This power also includes the power to supplement, modify, or suspend
any general contingency regulations which may have been incorporated as part of
the county’s previously adopted emergency operations plan. Any emergency
regulations adopted under this division (B)(12) shall not be effective until
promulgated, which promulgation shall be by written filing in the office of the
County Clerk as required by I.C. 10-4-1-15(b) provided, however, that should
such filing be impossible because of the emergency situation such regulations
shall be effective and enforceable notwithstanding. Such regulation shall have
the full force of law and shall be enforceable by any police officer in
accordance with I.C. 10-4-1-17.
      (13)   The Commissioners may request the state or the United States or
their agencies and political subdivisions to send aid (including financial
assistance) if the situation is beyond the control of the regular and emergency
county forces and resources.
   (C)   All actions and regulations under this section may be by executive
order and need not be made or adopted by ordinance or resolution but shall be
consistent with and subordinate to any actions, orders, or regulations made by
the Governor or state agency implementing State Emergency Operations Plan.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 33.46 SPECIAL EMERGENCY POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
AGENCY; RECOMMENDATIONS TO COMMISSIONERS ON SPECIAL EMERGENCY ACTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the Director of Emergency Management Agency to make
recommendations and advise the Board of Commissioners of the chief executive
officer on any actions which it would be necessary or desirable to take under §
33.45 in the event of an emergency.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 33.47 SPECIAL EMERGENCY POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
AGENCY; POWER TO IMPLEMENT EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN DURING PRESUMPTIVE SATE OF
EMERGENCY; RENDERING ASSISTANCE BY EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY.
   In the event that an emergency clearly exists or is imminent within the
county and a state of emergency has not been declared by the Governor nor is
any person having the powers of the chief executive officer of the county
present to declare such an emergency pursuant to §
33.47, the Director may temporarily presume the existence of a state of
emergency even though not officially declared and may, as his or her own
judgement dictates, invoke, implement, and carry out such provisions of the
county’s adopted comprehensive emergency management and disaster plan as are
necessary to cope with the emergency and protect the public safety and welfare
and shall be construed to have all powers necessary and dispensable to doing so
to the extent not specifically limited by statute or specifically limited
herein until such time as a chief executive officer becomes available. This
section also applies to the Deputy Director to the extent that the Deputy
Director is required to assume the duties of the Director as provided by §
33.19 in the latter’s absence or incapacitation during the emergency.
Assistance from the Emergency Management Agency may be rendered without a
declaration of an emergency in order to assist local emergency services in time
of need.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 33.48 GENERAL DUTIES OF COUNTY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES DURING EMERGENCY STATE.
   All officers and employees of the county shall cooperate with and give
active support to the County Commissioners and the County Director of Emergency
Management Agency in all emergency management operations and shall comply with
all orders of the Commissioners and County Director of Emergency Management
Agency issued pursuant to §§
33.40. et seq.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 33.49 PRIORITY OF EMERGENCY ORDERS, RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   At all times when the orders, rules, and regulations made and promulgated
pursuant to §§
33.40 et seq. shall be in effect, they supercede all existing ordinances,
orders, rules and regulations insofar as this latter may be inconsistent
therewith.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 33.50 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH EMERGENCY ORDERS, RULES, AND REGULATIONS:
OBSTRUCTION OR IMPERSONATION OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AUTHORITIES; PENALTIES AND
ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever §§
33.40 et seq. apply as provided in §
33.40, it shall be unlawful and a penal ordinance violation for any person to:
      (1)   Willfully obstruct, hinder, or delay the Commissioners, the
Director of Emergency Management Agency, participating emergency services,
authorized emergency management staff of volunteers, or other authorities from
implementing, carrying out, and enforcing emergency plans and procedures;
      (2)   Fail to observe, abide by, or comply with any emergency management
duties, orders, regulations, and procedures as made applicable to such person
by the appropriate authorities; or
      (3)   Falsely wear or carry identification as a member of the County
Emergency Management Agency or to otherwise falsely identify or purport himself
or herself to be a county emergency management authority.
   (B)   Any regular or reserve police officer of the State of Indiana or any
of its political subdivisions or any member of the County Emergency Management
Agency or a participating emergency service is hereby empowered to issue and
serve a civil citation against any person found to be committing an offense
described above. Any person who commits an offense as described above shall be
liable to a fine of $2,500, such fine subject, however, to the discretion of
the court of jurisdiction.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 33.51 LIMITATION OF LIABILITY DURING STATE OF EMERGENCY OR EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT TESTS OR EXERCISES.
   The county, its assigned personnel, and participating emergency services
shall be held blameless and without responsibility for the loss of life or
injury to persons or the destruction of any property during an emergency as
performed under the direction of the Director of Emergency Management Agency.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 33.52 REIMBURSEMENT FOR USE OF PROPERTY COMMANDEERED DURING EMERGENCY.
   Owners of property commandeered for the use in any emergency by any county
official shall be reimbursed for its use by the county in a manner approved by
the County Council.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 33.53 SNOW EMERGENCY PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-29, the President of the Board of
Commissioners of Boone County may declare a local disaster emergency if the
President determines that snow or ice conditions require that vehicles should
not travel on county roads. The declaration may be extended beyond seven days
only with the approval of the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   The Director of Emergency Management, in consultation with the local
street and highway departments, may issue a declaration following the
standardized local conditions as follows:
      (1)   Caution (White). A condition may develop that limits or hinders
travel or activities in isolated areas. No travel restrictions have been placed
in effect by county officials, but citizens should be alert to changing
conditions.
      (2)   Advisory (Yellow). Routine travel or activities may be restricted
in areas because of a hazardous situation. Citizens should use caution or avoid
these areas. Schools and businesses may begin to implement their emergency
actions plans.
      (3)   Watch (Orange). Conditions are threatening to the safety of the
public. Only essential travel is recommended (i.e. to and from work, emergency
situations, and the like). Emergency action plans have been, or should be,
implemented by businesses, schools, government agencies and other
organizations.
   (C)   The President of the Commissioners may issue a declaration following
the standardized local conditions as follows:
      (1)   Warning (Red). Travel shall be restricted to emergency personnel
only. Citizens are directed to refrain from all travel, comply with necessary
emergency measures, cooperate with public officials and disaster services
forces in executing emergency operations plans, and comply with the directions
of properly identified officers. Further and more specific restrictions may be
included in the disaster declaration.
   (D)   The operator of a vehicle found to be in violation of division (C)
above may be fined in an amount not to exceed $50.
   (E)   Towing of vehicles in violation.
      (1)   Any vehicle found on a county road in violation of division (C)
above may be:
         (a)   Forcefully moved out of the way; and
         (b)   Towed by order of a law enforcement officer.
      (2)   Boone County is not responsible for any damages to the vehicle. The
owner shall pay the cost of the tow and, if required, storage.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 1-22-2013)
CHAPTER 34: FUNDS, FEES, TAXES AND THE LIKE
Section
Funds
   
34.01   County funds to be disbursed by disbursing officer
   
34.02   Non-Reverting County Corrections Fund
   
34.03   Arc Rehab Services Fund
   
34.04   Litter Ordinance Enforcement Fund
   
34.05   Electronic Map Generation Fund
   
34.06   Boone County Enhanced Emergency Telephone System Fund
   
34.07   County Sex and Violent Offender Administration Fund
   
34.08   Convention, Recreation and Visitor Promotion Fund
   
34.09   Cumulative Capital Development Fund
   
34.10   Boone County Highway Department Fund
   
34.11   Bridge 41 Fund
   
34.12   Jail Building Fund
   
34.13   Public Safety Emergency Fund
   
34.14   Bridge 154 Fund
   
34.15   Bridge Inspection and Inventory Fund
   
34.16   Animal Control Fund
   
34.17   Bridge 192 Fund
   
34.18   Railroad Grade Crossing Grant Fund
   
34.19   Veterans Affairs Non-Reverting Fund
   
34.19.1   Bridge 202 Fund
   
34.19.2   Bridge Inspection Fund
   
34.19.3   100S/400E Roundabout Fund
   
34.19.4   American Rescue Plan 2021 Grant Fund
   
34.19.5   Engineering Plan/Permit Review Fund
   
34.19.6   BCHD/Zionsville Project Fund
   
34.19.7   CASE Task Force Fund
   
34.19.8   VSET Grant Fund (Fund No. 4012)
Fees
   
34.20   Enhanced emergency telephone system and related fees
   
34.21   Inmate medical co-payment at Boone County jail
   
34.22   Recording of documents
   
34.23   Copying fee
   
34.24   Electronic maps/GIS data fees
   
34.25   Plat book maintenance fee
   
34.26   County Surveyor fee
   
34.27   Special economic development charge
   
34.28   Health Department fees
   
34.29   County Sheriff Department firing range fee
   
34.30   Annual sex or violent offender registration and address change fees
   
34.31   Returned checks fees
   
34.32   Real property endorsement fee
   
34.33   Sheriff’s sale program and service fee
   
34.34   Gun class fees
   
34.35   Bulk form copies and fees
   
34.36   Reimbursement for plan review fees for Highway Department
Taxes
   
34.45   Innkeeper’s tax
   
34.46   Delinquency of personal property taxes
FUNDS
§ 34.01 COUNTY FUNDS TO BE DISBURSED BY DISBURSING OFFICER.
   (A)   A system allowing the lawful county disbursing officer to pre-pay the
following bills prior to a regularly scheduled Commissioners’ meeting shall be
adopted:
      (1)   Utility bills;
      (2)   Bond payments;
      (3)   Jail lease payments;
      (4)   Gas payments;
      (5)   Refunds;
      (6)   Juvenile grants;
      (7)   Postage;
      (8)   Approved lodging expense for county employees for attendance at
state-called meetings;
      (9)   Payments to election workers; and
      (10)   Payments for emergency repairs and repairs reimbursed by
insurance;
      (11)   Payments to Motorola for radio equipment;
      (12)   Payment for recording fees;
      (13)   Payment for copier leasing expenses;
      (14)   Payment of Community Corrections’ lease expenses;
      (15)   Payment for witness fees and witness mileage for the Boone County
Prosecutor’s office;
      (16)   Drainage ditch assessments;
      (17)   Contractual payments for the cost of insurance;
      (18)   Payment of conference fees;
      (19)   Payment of INDOT invoices for LPA matching funds for federal aid
construction projects;
      (20)   Payment of credit card invoices as authorized by Ordinance No.
2010-02;
      (21)   Time sensitive payments to contractors to qualify for grant
reimbursement;
      (22)   Pay invoices for installment payments on contracts previously
approved by the Commissioners;
      (23)   Payments for the acquisition of rights-of-way for road and bridge
projects previously approved by the Commissioners;
      (24)   Payments for motor vehicle fleet maintenance on vehicles owned by
the County to vendors previously approved by the Commissioners;
      (25)   Payments to Boone County employees as part of the normal approved
bi-weekly payroll cycle; and
      (26)   Payments to hospitals or medical laboratories for toxicology or
other testing services requested by Boone County officials.
   (B)   The Commissioners, having jurisdiction over the allowance of the
claim, shall review and allow the claim at their next regular or special
meeting following the pre-approved payment of the expense.
(Ord. 2004-13, passed 9-20-2004; Am. Ord. 2006-03, passed - -2006; Am. Ord.
2006-08, passed - -2006; Am. Ord. 2006-18, passed - -2006; Am. Ord. 2007-7,
passed 3-5-2007; Am. Ord. 2007-13, passed 7-2-2007; Am. Ord. 2007-25, passed
12-17-2007; Am. Ord. 2008-02, passed 1-7-2008; Am. Ord. 2008-09, passed 8-8-
2008; Am. Ord. 2008-11, passed 9-9-2008; Am. Ord. 2009-01, passed 1-5-2009; Am.
Ord. 2009-05, passed 9-21-2009; Am. Ord. 2009-08, passed 11-2-2009; Am. Ord.
2010-03, passed 4-5-2010; Am. Ord. 2010-10, passed 11-15-2010; Am. Ord. 2012-
07, passed 10-15-2012; Am. Ord. 2014-02, passed 3-24-2014; Am. Ord. 2015-06,
passed 11-2-2015; Am. Ord. 2018-05, passed 6-4-2018; Am. Ord. 2020-08, passed
9-8-2020)
§ 34.02 NON-REVERTING COUNTY CORRECTIONS FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a special Non-Reverting County Corrections
Fund for jail purposes with the County Sheriff being responsible for the day-
to-day operation of the account and being strictly accountable to County
Council, who shall remain responsible for the ultimate administration of the
Non- Reverting County Corrections Fund and shall have final authority over
distribution and application of any funds deposited in the Fund. The funds
shall consist of deposits received for the Department of Correction in excess
of those actual expenses incurred by the keeping of the Department of
Correction’s prisoners, and such other funds as are permissible by state law.
   (B)   The Non-Reverting County Corrections Fund may be used only for funding
the operation of the county jail, county jail programs, and other local
correctional facilities. Any money remaining in the County Corrections Fund at
the end of the year shall not revert to any other fund of the county but shall
remain in the County Corrections Fund.
   (C)   The county receives the amount of $35 per day per prisoner from the
state for those individuals incarcerated on behalf of the state as
reimbursement for this service. In addition, the state pays medical costs for
those individuals. Of this per diem amount, $20 shall be allocated to the Non-
Reverting County Corrections Fund and $15 shall be allocated to the County
General Fund.
(Ord. 92-6, passed 6-8-1992; Am. Ord. 93-2, passed 2-16-1993)
§ 34.03 ARC REHAB SERVICES FUND.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 12-29-1-1, the Board of Commissioners does hereby
authorize the continued furnishing of financial assistance to Arc Rehab
Services to operate a community mental retardation and other developmental
disabilities center in the county.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners does hereby conclude there is a continued
need for the services Arc provides in the county and that the funding for Arc
should significantly increase as no growth factor has been applied thereto for
many years and the county's present funding level does not represent a fair
share of Arc's budget.
   (C)   The Board of Commissioners, having reviewed the funding options
available for a community mental retardation and developmental disabilities
center, does hereby request the County Council, as the county's fiscal body, to
implement and approve an annual levy equivalent to $110,000 to provide
financial assistance to Arc for its operation of a community mental retardation
and developmental disabilities center, per I.C. 12-29-1-1(c), which amount
equals approximately 10% of Arc's present budget, and that the levy amount, per
I.C. 6-1.1-18.5-10, be excluded from the ad valorem property tax limit
otherwise imposed on the county.
   (D)   The Board of Commissioners does hereby further request that the
foregoing levy, once enacted, be reviewed annually and adjusted consistent with
the growth factor and the objective of providing financial assistance
equivalent to 10% of Arc's annual budget, provided Arc continues to furnish a
community mental retardation and other developmental disabilities center to
meet the need of the county's citizens for these services.
(Ord. 2007-10, passed - -2007)
§ 34.04 LITTER ORDINANCE ENFORCEMENT FUND.
   (A)   Purpose. To provide funding for the enforcement of the Litter
Ordinance.
   (B)   Creation.
      (1)   There is hereby created a special fund to be designated as the
“Litter Ordinance Enforcement Fund of Boone County, Indiana.”
      (2)   This Fund shall be a continuing fund, with all balances remaining
therein at the end of each fiscal year, and no balances shall lapse into the
county general funds or ever be diverted, directly or indirectly, in any
manner, to any other uses than for the purpose of enforcement and
administration in connection with the litter control ordinance.
      (3)   The Fund shall be comprised of revenue derived from the collection
of fines and penalties levied pursuant to the litter ordinance.
      (4)   Moneys from this Fund shall be appropriated in accordance with
procedures for expenditures of public funds.
      (5)   The Fund shall be administered by the County Auditor.
(Ord. 2002-4, passed 4-8-2002)
§ 34.05 ELECTRONIC MAP GENERATION FUND.
   There is hereby established a specific Electronic Map Generation Fund. The
Fund consists of those fees collected for providing an electronic map pursuant
to I.C. 5-14-3-8 and/or I.C. 5-14-3-8.5 which are collected under §
34.24. This Fund shall be a dedicated fund for the purposes of maintenance,
upgrading and enhancement of the electronic map, and, the reimbursement of
expenses incurred by a public agency in supplying an electronic map in the form
requested by a purchaser.
(Ord. 99-2, passed 2-9-1999)
§ 34.06 BOONE COUNTY ENHANCED EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM FUND.
   (A)   The County Treasurer shall establish a separate fund for the deposit
of collected enhanced emergency telephone system fees.
   (B)   The Fund shall be known as the “Boone County Enhanced Emergency
Telephone System Fund”. All fees remitted by the service supplier shall be
deposited in the Fund. The County Treasurer may invest the money in the Fund in
the same manner that other money of the county may be invested. The fees
imposed in the County Enhanced Emergency Telephone System Fund shall be used
only for the payment of the following:
      (1)   The lease, purchase, or maintenance of enhanced emergency telephone
equipment, including necessary computer hardware, software, and data base
provisioning;
      (2)   The rates associated with the service suppliers' enhanced emergency
telephone system network services; and
      (3)   The personnel expenses of the emergency telephone system.
   (C)   The County Council may appropriate money in the Fund only for such
expenditures.
(Ord. 94-6, passed 4-19-1994)
§ 34.07 COUNTY SEX AND VIOLENT OFFENDER ADMINISTRATION FUND.
   The county establishes a County Sex and Violent Offender Administration Fund
and the County Sheriff's Department shall deposit all funds collected for sex
or violent offender registration fees and address change fees for sex or
violent offenders into this account. The County Auditor shall monthly transfer
10% of any fees collected to the State Treasurer for deposit in the state sex
and violent offender administration fund under I.C. 11-8-8-21.
(Ord. 2007-16, passed 8-13-2007)
§ 34.08 CONVENTION, RECREATION AND VISITOR PROMOTION FUND.
   The County Treasurer shall forthwith establish a Convention, Recreation, and
Visitor Promotion Fund. The Treasurer shall deposit in this Fund all amounts
received under this section. Money in this Fund, including but not limited to
tax receipts in §
34.45(A) and any accumulated income therefrom, may be expended only to promote
and encourage industrial development within the county and the respective
municipalities located therein. Expenditures of funds so collected shall be as
set forth in a budget to be submitted annually to the County Council for its
review and subject to its approval, and no expenditure may be made using such
funds unless in accordance with an appropriation made by the County Council in
the manner provided by law.
(Ord. 93-13, passed 10-19-1993)
§ 34.09 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   Cumulative Capital Development Fund re-establishment.  The County
Commissioners hereby re-establish the Cumulative Capital Development Fund
pursuant to I.C. 6-1.1-41, to be used for the purposes allowed and set forth in
I.C. 36-9-14.5.
   (B)   Increase in tax rate.  The County Commissioners hereby levy a property
tax to provide funds to the Cumulative Capital Development Fund. The property
tax levy will not exceed $0.0333 on each $100 of assessed valuation. This tax
rate will be levied beginning with taxes assessed for 2020 and payable in 2021.
   (C)   DLGF approval.  The County Commissioners direct that proofs of
publication of the notice to affected taxpayers of the County Commissioners’
public hearing held on April 6, 2020, a certified copy of Ordinance No. 2020-
03, and proofs of publication of the notice of adoption, be timely submitted to
the Indiana Department of Local Government Finance, as provided by IC 6-1.1-41-
4, as the county’s proposal for re-establishing the Cumulative Capital
Development Fund and imposing the tax levy to be approved by the Department of
Local Government Finance.
(Ord. 2014-03. passed 6-24-2014; Am. Ord. 2017-08, passed 6-19-2017; Am. Ord.
2020-03, passed 4-6-2020)
§ 34.10 BOONE COUNTY HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT FUND.
   (A)   There is established a non-reverting fund to be utilized by the Boone
County Highway Department (“BCHD”) to be designated as the “BCHD Non-Reverting
Fund” (“Fund”). The county and BCHD may deposit in the fund such property or
monies received from permit fees, donations, fines, reimbursement of insurance
proceeds to damaged road infrastructure, reimbursements from the sale and/or
disposal of surplus BCHD property, and miscellaneous receipts.
   (B)   The fund may receive and deposit such funds and they shall not revert
to the county general fund, but shall be maintained in the fund from year to
year.
   (C)   The funds captured may only be used for the purposes of operations of
the BCHD. This includes payment for routine expenses such as (but not limited
to) the purchase of equipment, payment of services, employee awards or
incentives, and any expense or cost reasonably associated with the operations
of BCHD.
   (D)   Claims may be made from this fund by the County Engineer or Operations
Manager of the BCHD.
(Ord. 2018-01, passed 3-5-2018)
§ 34.11 BRIDGE 41 FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a fund to be known as the Bridge #41 Fund
to be maintained separate and apart from all other funds of the county. Should
the Bridge #41 Fund discontinue and all qualifying debts have been paid, the
remaining monies within the fund will revert as prescribed by FHWA and INDOT.
   (B)   The fund shall consist of monies received from FHWA by and through
INDOT.
   (C)   Money shall be disbursed by submission of a claim signed by the County
Engineer or his or her designee and approved by the Commissioners. Monies in
the fund shall not revert to the county general fund at the end of each
calendar year, but shall be held over from year to year, for the purposes
established by this section.
(Ord. 2018-06, passed 6-4-2018)
§ 34.12 JAIL BUILDING FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a fund to be known as the Jail Building
Fund to be maintained separate and apart from all other funds of the county.
   (B)   The fund shall consist of monies received from the State of Indiana
through the PSLIT distribution. The initial deposit into the Jail Building Fund
shall be $250,000, and thereafter as the Council may determine and budget.
   (C)   Money shall be disbursed by submission of a claim signed by the Boone
County Sheriff or his or her designee and approved by the Commissioners. Monies
in the fund shall not revert to the PSLIT or county general fund at the end of
each calendar year, but shall be held over from year to year, for the purposes
established by this section.
(Ord. 2018-07, passed 6-18-2018)
§ 34.13 PUBLIC SAFETY EMERGENCY FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a fund to be known as the Public Safety
Emergency Fund to be maintained separate and apart from all other funds of the
county.
   (B)   The fund shall consist of monies received from the State of Indiana
through the PSLIT distribution. The initial deposit into the Public Safety
Emergency Fund shall be $100,000, and thereafter as the Council may determine
and budget.
   (C)   Money shall be disbursed upon a determination or declaration of a
Public Safety Emergency by the Commissioners, EMA Director, or Boone County
Sheriff, or as otherwise directed by the Commissioners, and then by submission
of a claim signed by the Boone County Sheriff or his or her designee and
approved by the Commissioners. Monies in the fund shall not revert to the PSLIT
or county general fund at the end of each calendar year, but shall be held over
from year to year, for the purposes established by this section.
(Ord. 2018-08, passed 6-18-2018)
§ 34.14 BRIDGE 154 FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a fund to be known as the Bridge #154 Fund
to be maintained separate and apart from all other funds of the county. Should
the Bridge #154 Fund discontinue and all qualifying debts have been paid, the
remaining monies within the fund will revert as prescribed by FHWA and INDOT.
   (B)   The fund shall consist of monies received from FHWA by and through
INDOT.
   (C)   Money shall be disbursed by submission of a claim signed by the County
Engineer or his or her designee and approved by the Commissioners. Monies in
the fund shall not revert to the county general fund at the end of each
calendar year, but shall be held over from year to year, for the purposes
established by this section.
(Ord. 2018-09, passed 7-16-2018)
§ 34.15 BRIDGE INSPECTION AND INVENTORY FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a fund to be known as the Bridge
Inspection and Inventory Fund to be maintained separate and apart from all
other funds of the county. Should the Bridge Inspection and Inventory Fund
discontinue and all qualifying debts have been paid, the remaining monies
within the fund will revert as prescribed by FHWA and INDOT.
   (B)   The fund shall consist of monies received from FHWA by and through
INDOT as reimbursement for qualifying expenses for county owned bridge
inspections and inventory.
   (C)   Money shall be disbursed by submission of a claim signed by the County
Engineer or his or her designee and approved by the Commissioners. Monies in
the fund shall not revert to the county general fund at the end of each
calendar year, but shall be held over from year to year, for the purposes
established by this section.
(Ord. 2018-10, passed 8-6-2018)
§ 34.16 ANIMAL CONTROL FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a fund to be known as the Animal Control
Fund to be maintained separate and apart from all other funds of the county.
   (B)   The fund shall consist of monies received from the imposition of
fines, fees, penalties, donations and payments from participating
municipalities related to the animal control ordinance.
   (C)   Money shall be disbursed by submission of a claim signed by the Boone
County Sheriff or his or her designee and approved by the Commissioners. Monies
in the fund shall not revert to the county general fund at the end of each
calendar year, but shall be held over from year to year, for the purposes
established by this section.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 10-25-2018)
§ 34.17 BRIDGE 192 FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a fund to be known as the Bridge 192 Fund
to be maintained separate and apart from all other funds of the county. Should
the Bridge 192 Fund discontinue and all qualifying debts have been paid, the
remaining monies within the fund will revert as prescribed by the FHWA and
INDOT.
   (B)   The fund shall consist of monies received from FHWA by and through
INDOT.
   (C)   Money shall be disbursed by submission of a claim signed by the County
Engineer or his designee and approved by the Commissioners. Monies in the fund
shall not revert to the county general fund at the end of each calendar year,
but shall be held over from year to year, for the purposes established by this
section.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 6-3-2019)
§ 34.18 RAILROAD GRADE CROSSING GRANT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a fund to be known as the Railroad Grade
Crossing Grant Fund to be maintained separate and apart from all other funds of
the county. Should the fund discontinue and all qualifying debts have been
paid, the remaining monies within the fund will revert as prescribed by INDOT.
   (B)   The fund shall consist of monies received from INDOT.
   (C)   Money shall be disbursed by submission of a claim signed by the County
Engineer or his designee and approved by the Commissioners. Monies in the fund
shall not revert to the county general fund at the end of each calendar year,
but shall be held over from year to year, for the purposes established by this
section.
(Ord. 2019-11, passed 10-21-2019)
§ 34.19 VETERANS AFFAIRS NON-REVERTING FUND.
   (A)   There is established a non-reverting fund to be utilized by the
Veterans Affairs Department ("Veterans Affairs") to be designated as the
Veterans Affairs Non-Reverting Fund. The county and Veterans Affairs may
deposit in the fund such property or monies received from donations or proceeds
from fund raising or other sources and miscellaneous receipts.
   (B)   The fund may receive and deposit such funds and they shall not revert
to the county general fund but shall be maintained in the fund from year to
year.
   (C)   The funds captured may only be used for the purposes of operations of
the Veterans Affairs. This includes payment for routine expenses such as (but
not limited to) the purchase of equipment, payment of services, awards, flags,
burials or ceremonies and any expense or cost reasonably associated with the
operations of Veterans Affairs.
(Ord. 2019-13, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 34.19.1 BRIDGE 202 FUND.
   (A)   There is established a fund to be known as the Bridge #202 Fund to be
maintained separate and apart from all other funds of the county. Should the
Bridge #202 Fund discontinue and all qualifying debts have been paid, the
remaining monies within the fund will revert as prescribed by FHWA and INDOT.
   (B)   The Fund shall consist of monies received from FHWA by and through
INDOT.
   (C)   Money shall be disbursed by submission of a claim signed by the County
Engineer or his designee and approved by the Commissioners. Monies in the Fund
shall not revert to the County General Fund at the end of each calendar year,
but shall be held over from year to year, for the purposes established by this
section.
(Ord. 2020-01, passed 2-3-2020)
§ 34.19.2 BRIDGE INSPECTION FUND.
   (A)   There is established a fund to be known as the Bridge Inspection Fund
to be maintained separate and apart from all other funds of the county. Should
the Bridge Inspection Fund discontinue and all qualifying debts have been paid,
the remaining monies within the fund will revert as prescribed by FHWA and
INDOT.
   (B)   The Fund shall consist of monies received from FWHA by and through
INDOT.
   (C)   Money shall be disbursed by submission of a claim signed by the County
Director of Highways or County Engineer or their designee and approved by the
Commissioners. Monies in the Fund shall not revert to the County General Fund
at the end of each calendar year, but shall be held over from year to year, for
the purposes established by this section.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 4-5-2021)
§ 34.19.3 100S/400E ROUNDABOUT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a fund to be known as the 100S/400E
Roundabout Fund to be maintained separate and apart from all other funds of the
county. Should the 100S/400E Roundabout Fund discontinue and all qualifying
debts have been paid, the remaining monies within the Fund will revert as
prescribed by FHWA and INDOT.
   (B)   The Fund shall consist of monies received from FHWA by and through
INDOT.
   (C)   Money shall be disbursed by submission of a claim signed by the County
Director of Highways or County Engineer or their designee and approved by the
Commissioners. Monies in the Fund shall not revert to the County General Fund
at the end of each calendar year, but shall be held over from year to year, for
the purposes established by this section.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 4-5-2021)
§ 34.19.4 AMERICAN RESCUE PLAN 2021 GRANT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Fund to be known, as the American Rescue
Plan 2021 Grant Fund, and the Auditor shall issue a Fund Number of 8590 (the
“Fund”) with respect to these funds and such funds shall be non-reverting.
   (B)   The source of funding includes monies allocated to Boone County from
the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 and distributed to the county in 2021 and
2022.
   (C)   The county shall only appropriate and use the funds to cover costs
incurred by the county by December 31, 2024 for the following:
      (1)   To respond to the public health emergency with respect to the
Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) or its negative economic impacts, including
assistance to household, small business, and nonprofits, or aid to impacted
industries such as tourism, travel and hospitality;
      (2)   To respond to workers performing essential work during the COVID-19
public health emergency by providing premium pay to eligible workers of the
county that are performing such essential work or by providing grants to
eligible employers that eligible workers who perform essential work;
      (3)   For the provision of government services to the extent of the
reduction in revenue of the county due to COVID-19 public health emergency
relative to revenues collected in the most recent full fiscal year of the
county prior to the emergency that being 2019; or
      (4)   To make necessary investments in water, sewer or broadband
infrastructure as approved by the U.S. Treasury.
   (D)   The Boone County Commissioners shall adopt a plan which provides
details for the use of funds.
   (E)   This section may be amended from time to time if additional guidance
is received from any federal or state agency.
   (F)   All expenditure of funds shall be approved by the Board of
Commissioners with any and all claims to be paid from the county’s fund.
   (G)   The Fund shall exist and any unused funds shall be returned to the
U.S. Treasury and said funds may not be transferred to another fund in the
county.
   (H)   The Auditor shall keep accurate and complete financial records of the
receipt and expenditure of any and all funds deposited and paid from the Fund
and Auditor records must be kept for an independent audit of the fund.
   (I)   No money received into the fund shall be used for any type of deposit
into any pension fund.
(Ord. 2021-05, passed 6-7-2021; Am. Ord. 2021-07, passed 11-1-2021)
§ 34.19.5 ENGINEERING PLAN/PERMIT REVIEW FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a fund to be known as the Engineering
Plan/Permit Review Fund to be maintained separate and apart from all other
funds of the county. Should the Engineering Plan/Permit Review Fund
discontinue, the remaining monies within the Fund will revert as prescribed by
state law.
   (B)   The Fund shall consist of monies received from fees charged for plan/
permit review and map fees.
   (C)   Money shall be disbursed by submission of a claim signed by the County
Surveyor or their designee and approved by the Commissioners. Monies in the
Fund shall not revert to the County General Fund at the end of each calendar
year, but shall be held over from year to year, for the purposes established by
this section.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 34.19.6 BCHD/ZIONSVILLE PROJECT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a fund to be known as the BCHD/Zionsville
Project Fund to be maintained separate and apart from all other funds of the
county. Should the BCHD/Zionsville Project Fund discontinue and all qualifying
debts have been paid, the remaining monies within be disbursed on a pro rata
basis based upon the parties relative contribution to the applicable projects,
or as otherwise prescribed by state law.
   (B)   The Fund shall consist of monies received from Zionsville for projects
to be designed, directed and completed by the Boone County Highway Department.
The Town of Zionsville shall designate selected road/bridge improvement
projects for contribution.
   (C)   Money shall be disbursed by submission of a claim signed by the County
Director of Highways or County Engineer or their designee and approved by the
Commissioners. Monies in the Fund shall not revert to the County General Fund
at the end of each calendar year, but shall be held over from year to year, for
the purposes established by this section.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 9-19-2022)
§ 34.19.7 CASE TASK FORCE FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a fund to be known as the CASE Task Force
Fund to be maintained separate and apart from all other funds of the county.
Should the CASE Task Force Fund discontinue and all qualifying debts have been
paid, the remaining monies within the Fund will revert as prescribed by state
law.
   (B)   The Fund shall consist of monies received from municipalities, law
enforcement agencies or other donations from individuals for the continued
operation of the CASE Task Force.
   (C)   Money shall be disbursed by submission of a claim signed by the County
Prosecutor or their designee and approved by the Commissioners. Monies in the
Fund shall not revert to the County General Fund at the end of each calendar
year, but shall be held over from year to year, for the purposes established by
this section.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 1-3-2023)
§ 34.19.8 VSET GRANT FUND (FUND NO. 4012).
   (A)   There is hereby established a fund to be known as the VSET Grant Fund
(Fund No. 4012) to be maintained separate and apart from all other funds of the
county. Should the VSET Grant Fund discontinue and all qualifying debts have
been paid, the remaining monies within the Fund will revert as prescribed by
state law.
   (B)   The Fund shall consist of monies received from the Indiana Criminal
Justice Institute as distributions from the CHIPS/VSET Grant to pay or
reimburse for salaries of sheriffs’ deputies participating in the VSET program
operations.
   (C)   Money shall be disbursed by submission of a claim signed by the County
Sheriff or their designee and approved by the Commissioners. Monies in the Fund
shall not revert to the County General Fund at the end of each calendar year,
but shall be held over from year to year, for the purposes established by this
section.
(Ord. 2023-04, passed 4-17-2023)
FEES
§ 34.20 ENHANCED EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM AND RELATED FEES.
   (A)   Establishment. Under the authority of and subject to the provisions of
Indiana law, an emergency telephone system fee is hereby established for the
funding of the installation and operation of the enhanced emergency telephone
system in the county. The fee shall be collected from the telephone service
users of the county and administered in accordance with the Indiana Code and
the following terms set forth in this section.
   (B)   Definitions.
      ENHANCED EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM.  A telephone system that uses the
three-digit “911" number to send automatic number identification and automatic
location identification for reporting police, fire, medical or other emergency
situations.
      EXCHANGE ACCESS FACILITY. The access from a particular service users
premises to a telephone system, which shall include an access line; a private
branch exchange (PBX) trunk; a centrex line trunk equivalent, all of which are
provided by the service supplier; and a mobile telephone system access trunk,
whether the trunk is provided by a telephone company or a radio common carrier.
The term does not include a service supplier owned and operated telephone pay
station line; a wide area telecommunication service (WATS); a foreign exchange
(FX) line; or an incoming only line.
      SERVICE SUPPLIER. A person who provides exchange telephone service to a
service user.
      SERVICE USER. A person to whom exchange telephone service is provided.
   (C)   Monthly fee. A monthly fee of $.69 per month per telephone access line
or other exchange access facility shall be collected by the service supplier
for each month or part of a month an exchange access facility is in service as
a part of its normal billing process.
   (D)   Service supplier fee. Each service supplier that collects the enhanced
emergency telephone system fee on behalf of the county shall be entitled to a
3% administrative fee as compensation for collecting the monthly fee.
   (E)   Remittal of fee. Each service supplier shall remit all monthly fees
collected, except for the 3% administrative fee, to the County Treasurer within
10 days of the last day of each calendar year quarter. At the same time the
fees are remitted, the service supplier shall provide a fee collection report
to the County Auditor on a form approved or provided by the Auditor.
   (F)   Delinquent fee report. During January of each year, each service
supplier that collects the enhanced emergency telephone system fee for the
county shall provide a delinquent fee report to the County Treasurer. The
report shall list the name, address, and amount due from each service user who
is two or more months delinquent in paying the fee. The service supplier shall
also indicate the amount of delinquent fees for which each person included on
the list is liable.
   (G)   Commencement of fee collection. Each service supplier shall commence
collection of the enhanced emergency telephone system fee as soon as it is
administratively practicable after the effective date of this section.
   (H)   Effective date. This section shall be in full force and effect on the
first day of the second month after its passage by the County Council as
provided by Indiana law.
   (I)   Indiana Code controlling. This section shall be applied, construed and
administered in accordance with Indiana law and any amendment thereto. In the
event that Indiana Code provisions shall be amended by the state in such a
manner as to become inconsistent, or cause a conflict with the provisions of
this section, then, and in that event, this section shall be amended to include
and adopt those provisions of the Indiana Code, as if the same were fully set
forth and incorporated herein.
(Ord. 94-6, passed 4-19-1994)
§ 34.21 INMATE MEDICAL CO-PAYMENT ATT BOONE COUNTY JAIL.
   (A)   The provisions of state law pertaining to the implementation of a
Medical Co-Payment Program for county jail inmates, and the rules adopted in
conjunction therewith, as proposed and explained by the County Sheriff, are
hereby adopted as outlined in H.E.A. 1059, as passed by the 1994 Indiana State
Legislature.
   (B)   The County Sheriff shall incorporate the changes and rules necessary
to implement this program into the County Jail Inmate Handbook and provide
appropriate notice to inmates of the established co-payment charge as set forth
as part of the implementation of the Inmate Medical Co-Payment Program allowed
by state law.
   (C)   The intent of this section shall follow that of the state legislation
which is to encourage inmates to assume some financial responsibility for their
health care needs when in need of medical treatment. Medical services will be
provided to inmates regardless of their ability to pay.
   (D)   The County Commissioners adopt the maximum co-payment currently
permitted under state law in the amount of $10. This amount shall apply to a
doctors visit, dentist visit, optometrist visit or any other medical related
service at the county jail.
   (E)   Any reimbursements received from the Indiana Department of Corrections
for inmate housing shall be deposited into the non-reverting Corrections Fund.
Any reimbursements received from the Indiana Department of Corrections for
inmate medical care shall be deposited into the Public Safety LIT medical line.
(Ord. 94-10, passed 9-12-1994; Am. Ord. 2017-11, passed 8-21-2017)
§ 34.22 RECORDING OF DOCUMENTS.
   (A)   The provisions of H.E.A. 1297, as passed by the 1995 Indiana State
Legislature, pertaining to the implementation of a supplemental fee for
recording documents, and which has been presented and explained to the County
Commissioners by the County Recorder are hereby adopted by the Commissioners
acting as the legislative body of the county.
   (B)   The County Recorder shall incorporate the changes necessary to
implement this program into the County Recorders office and advise the general
public and patrons of the office of the establishment of this supplemental fee
by prominent posting in the office that the fee schedule is readily available
to the general public.
   (C)   The County Commissioners adopt the fee amount of $3 for recording a
single document.
   (D)   All revenues derived from the supplemental recording fee pursuant to
this section shall be deposited in the County Records Perpetuation Fund.
(Ord. 95-4, passed 6-19-1995)
§ 34.23 COPYING FEE.
   (A)   All offices of the county (not otherwise covered by statute or
ordinance) shall henceforth charge a uniform fee of $.10 per page for each
photographic/xerographic reproduction and $1 for each facsimile machine
transmission of county public records provided pursuant to any oral or written
request made of an office maintaining the public record being sought. These
fees shall apply to standard size documents of 8½ x 11 or 8½ x 14 in size.
Other documents in excess of these standard sizes shall be reproduced at their
actual cost. The procedure for requesting and the receipt of such copies is
outlined in this section.
   (B)   Those requests for copies from an office subject to this section
received through the United States mail shall be charged postage for the return
of those items requested at the prevailing rate per ounce established by the
United States Postal Service for first class postage. If the requestor provides
the appropriate amount of postage in advance with the copy request, then no
postage shall be assessed upon the request for copies.
   (C)   The fees established by this section shall not apply, nor do they
supersede, the schedules set by state law for copy or facsimile charges for
those county offices or records governed by state statute or court order as
outlined in I.C. 5-14-3-8(f). (For example, but not limited to, recording copy
fees/Clerk's certification and/or copy fees).
   (D)   Persons requesting xerographic or facsimile copies from a county
office subject to this section, other than the Recorder or Clerk, shall
complete a written request on a form provided for such service by the county
office, which specifies with reasonable particularity the record being
requested. The completion of the written request will permit the calculation of
service fees and postage where applicable, to be accurately determined and
invoiced for providing the copy/facsimile service. Payment of the specified fee
shall be made to the county office prior to receipt of the copies requested.
Form requests for copies may be submitted at any time during the normal hours
in which the county office/agency is open for the transaction of the public's
business. (A copy of request form is attached to Ordinance 97-16 and
incorporated by reference).
   (E)   (1)   The county office/agency from which the request for copies is
made shall have a reasonable opportunity to provide the requested information,
and, shall make a reasonable effort to do so taking into consideration the
following factors: ( for example, and not limited to) available staffing,
equipment, and the volume of information requested. Compilation and copying of
public documents may not unreasonably interfere with the business of the public
agency.
      (2)   The office may not exceed 24 hours within which to provide the
requested documents pursuant to such written request as made in person. If the
request is made by United States mail, the requested copies shall be provided
within one week of the date of the receipt of the request in the office where
the records sought are kept.
      (3)   In the event an individual makes an oral request for copies, the
same may be denied orally pursuant to state law. However, if a request
initially is made in writing, or through some form of enhanced access, as
defined by state law or local ordinance, or, if an oral request that has been
denied is later renewed in writing, the county office may deny the request if:
         (a)   The denial is in writing; and
         (b)   The denial includes:
            1.   A statement of the specific exemption or exemptions
authorizing the withholding of all or part of the county public record; and
            2.   The name and the title or position of the person responsible
for the denial.
      (4)   No request for records may be denied because the person making the
request refuses to state the purpose of the request, unless such condition is
required by an applicable state or federal statute.
   (F)   In the event any county department provides information in booklet or
pamphlet form, the booklet or pamphlet shall be provided to the public at the
actual unit price or for the printing of the booklet or pamphlet rounded to the
next even dollar.
   (G)   Copy and facsimile fees collected by county offices, as required by
this section, shall be deposited with the County Auditor no less than monthly.
Form 362, “Report of Collections”, as prescribed by the State Board of
Accounts, shall be used for reporting, posting and accounting purposes of the
county office making the collections.
   (H)   Per I.C. 5-14-3-3(e), only those persons duly authorized by the county
may reproduce, store, grant access, deliver, or sell any information obtained
from a county office or department to any other person, partnership or
corporation. Information obtained from the county's data base may not be used
for the purposes of advertising, selling or solicitation for the purchase of
goods and services or merchandise, or to sell, loan, give away, or otherwise
deliver information obtained by a copy request to any other person. A clearly
visible notice of this provision of state law shall be posted in each
department of the county and provided to the recipient requesting copies of
public information at no charge.
   (I)   A person who violates the provisions of this section shall be guilty
of an infraction as defined by state law and may be fined up to a maximum
amount of $2,500. Each violation of the provisions of this section shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 97-16, passed 10-14-1997)
Cross-reference:
   Bulk form copies and fees, see §
34.35
§ 34.24 ELECTRONIC MAPS/GIS DATA FEES.
   (A)   The county specifically incorporates into this section those
definitions contained in I.C. 5-14-3-2, for purposes of this section, as
pertain to electronic data as if set forth herein as the same are currently
enacted and as may be hereinafter amended by the State Legislature, as if
specifically set forth herein. These definitions include, but are not limited
to, for example: COPY, DIRECT COST, ELECTRONIC MAP, PERSON, and ENHANCED
ACCESS, as part of the definitions in place at the time of adoption of this
section.
   (B)   The County Auditor's office, the public office that maintains and is
the principal location of the County GIS System, shall henceforth charge fees
as noted on the attached schedule for each Electronic Map/GIS data request made
by those who submit requests for such information. Written requests for such
information shall be made of the County Auditor's office to assure proper
responses may be formulated. The procedure for requesting the public records,
as provided by Ordinance 97-16, shall be used for the request. That portion of
Ordinance 97-16, establishing the procedure for submission of written requests
for county records (herein referring and applying to electronic map(s) and /or
GIS data public records) is specifically incorporated herein as if specifically
set forth herein.
   (C)   (1)   Persons requesting copies of county electronic map(s), or other
GIS records, shall complete a written request, on a form provided for such
service by the Auditor's office, which specifies with reasonable particularity,
the record being requested. The completion of the written request will assist
the provider in calculating service fees to be accurately determined and
invoiced for providing the electronic map(s)/data information sought. The
written request will also permit conformance with the provisions of I.C. 5-14-
3-4 pertaining to those public records excepted from disclosure requirements,
if applicable.
      (2)   Payment of the specified fee(s) must be made to the County Auditor
prior to receipt of the electronic map(s)/GIS data as requested in writing by
the applicant.
      (3)   Form requests for electronic map(s)/GIS data may be submitted at
any time during the normal hours in which the County Auditor or other county
office with GIS data access and reproduction capability, is open for the
transaction of the public's business. (A copy is attached to Ordinance 98-12
and incorporated by reference.)
   (D)   (1)   The County Auditor's office, where the County GIS System is
physically located, (or other county offices capable of providing electronic
map(s) or GIS data access, subsequent to the adoption of this section), or,
where the request for electronic information should be made, shall make
reasonable efforts to provide the requested information as soon as possible to
the party requesting the same, taking into consideration the following factors:
for example, and not limited to, available staffing, equipment status, and the
volume of information requested.
      (2)   The office should not exceed 24 hours within which to provide the
requested electronic map(s)/GIS data and information, pursuant to such written
request as made in person, or, one week, in the event of a request made by
United States mail. Those requests for records obtained through the United
States mail shall be charged appropriate postage or express delivery charges,
at the prevailing rate per ounce established by the postal service or express
service carrier, as may be made by the request or of the data, if not otherwise
provided to the county in advance.
      (3)   In the event a person makes an oral request for electronic map(s)/
GIS data, the same may be denied orally pursuant to state law. However, if a
request initially is made in writing, or through some form of enhanced access,
as defined by state law or local ordinance, or, if an oral request that has
been denied, is renewed in writing, the county office may deny the request if:
         (a)   The denial is in writing; and
         (b)   The denial includes:
            1.   Aa statement of the specific exemption or exemptions
authorizing the withholding of all or part of the county public record; and
            2.   The name and the title or position of the person responsible
for the denial.
      (4)   No request for records may be denied because the person making such
request refuses to state the purpose of the request, unless such condition is
required by an applicable state or federal statute.
   (E)   The County Auditor's office (or other county offices capable of
providing electronic map(s) or GIS data access, subsequent to the adoption of
this section) may contract with an independent service provider capable of
providing the information requested as authorized under I.C. 5-14-3-3.5, as an
additional method of providing enhanced access to public records.
   (F)   Per I.C. 5-14-3-3(e), only those persons duly authorized by the fiscal
body of the county, per local ordinance, may reproduce, store, grant access,
deliver, or sell, any information obtained from the county electronic map(s)/
GIS data, from any department or subdivision of the county to any other person.
Information obtained from the county data base of electronic map(s) and/or GIS
data shall not be used for the purposes of advertising, selling or solicitation
for the purchase of goods and services or merchandise, or to sell, loan, give
away, or otherwise deliver information obtained by a request for electronic map
(s)/GIS data to any other person. A clearly visible notice of this provision of
state law and this section shall be posted in the County Auditor's office and
shall be provided to the recipient requesting the electronic map(s)/GIS data at
no charge.
   (G)   (1)   A person who violates the provisions of this section by using
electronic data contrary to the provisions of this section may be prohibited
from obtaining additional electronic data under the provisions of this section.
      (2)   In addition, a person who violates the provisions of this section
shall be guilty of an infraction as defined by state law and may be fined up to
a maximum amount of $2,500. Each violation of the provisions of this section
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (H)   Fees collected for electronic maps or GIS data, as required by this
section, shall be deposited with the County Auditor no less than monthly. Form
362, “Report of Collections” as prescribed by the State Board of Accounts shall
be used for reporting, posting and accounting purposes.
Electronic Maps)/GIS Data Fee Schedule
GIS layer reproduction charges Cost is per layer/acre       $.058
Media charges                  Cost is per visit (4mm tape) $ 9.00
                               (3.5 disk )                  $1.50
Reproduction labor/equipment   Charge per occurrence        $15.00
                               Cost per 17" x 17"           $ 1.90
Hardcopy plots                 Cost per 8½" x 11"          $.95
                               Cost per 24" x 36"           $3.00
                               Cost per 36" x 48"           $4.00
 
(Ord. 98-12, passed 5-12-1998; Am. Ord. 99-2, passed 2-9-1999)
§ 34.25 PLAT BOOK MAINTENANCE FEE.
   (A)   There is hereby established a fee in the amount of $5 for each real
property endorsement that the County Auditor makes pursuant to state law. This
fee, as outlined in I.C. 36-2-9-18(d), is in addition to any other fee provided
by state law. The County Auditor shall place the revenue received under this
collection authorization in a dedicated fund for use in maintaining the county
plat books.
   (B)   When available, the County Auditor will accept digitized plats or
surveys prepared with the use of Computer Aided Design (CAD) software programs
which are compatible with the computer hardware and software utilized by the
County Auditor's office. When available, the Auditor may request, but may not
require, a survey, if available, to assist the Auditor's office in entering
deeds and property transfers into the digitized records of property transfers
in the county.
    (C)    Any revisions to plats resulting from changes in measurement to the
original digitized plat book sheet, which are not attributable to county
personnel but rather to errors and/or omissions by the developer, engineer, or
individual submitting the original plat for recording and subsequent digitizing
in the county plat books, shall be borne by the individual or organization
submitting the new plat which corrects the original plat first approved for
recording purposes.
(Ord. 93-3, passed 2-16-1993; Am. Ord. 94-11, passed 9-12-1994; Am. Ord. 2003-
24, passed 12-22-2003)
§ 34.26 COUNTY SURVEYOR FEE.
   The fee schedule for application and inspection fees for the office of
County Surveyor are as follows:
Subdivision
Minor subdivision
   Primary and secondary                  $250
Major subdivision
   Primary                                $500 + $15 per lot
   Secondary                              $500 + $10 per lot
Revision – (change to an approved plat not $250
recorded)
Amendment – (change to recorded plat)      $250
Re-plat – (vacation of a recorded plat)    $250
Shopping Center
Preliminary Development Plan                 $1000 + $15/lot
Final Development Plan                       $1000 + $10/acre
Amendment to approved Final Development Plan $1000 + $10/acre
Planned Unit Development
Preliminary Development Plan                 $500 + $15/lot
Final Development Plan                       $500 + $10/lot
Amendment to an approved Planned Unit        $500 + $10/lot
Development
Development Plan Review
Preliminary Development Plan                 $500 + $15/lot
Final Development Plan                       $500 + $10/acre
Amendment to Development Plan                $500 + $10/acre
Commercial/Industrial
Application and review                       $1,000 + $10/acre
Individual Residence
Regulated drain outlet                       $100/outlet
Regulated drain crossing permit              $150/crossing
Regulated drain encroachment permit          $150/encroachment
(Note: All fees in this section of the table can be waived or modified by the
County Surveyor and/or the County Drainage Board)
Utilities
Regulated drain crossing permit              $250/crossing
Regulated drain encroachment permit          $.25/foot (minimum $250)
(Note: All fees in this section of the table can be waived or modified by the
County Surveyor and/or the County Drainage Board. All fees will be waived if
the permit is for work within a new subdivision. A new subdivision refers to a
development granted final approval by the County Area Plan Commission within
the last 24 months.)
Other
Removal of obstruction application           $25
Variance of regulated drainage easement      $150
(Note: All fees in this section of the table can be waived or modified by the
County Surveyor and/or the County Drainage Board.)
Engineering Review Fees
All engineering projects will require a review fee above and beyond the
application fees. The review fee shall equate to the contract rate of the
reviewing engineer, not to exceed $110/hour. This fee shall be paid to the
office of the County Surveyor and shall be paid in full before any project
approval is given.
Residential
Single-family dwelling                       $200
Two-family dwelling                          $250
Additions                                    $50
Accessory structures                         $50
Detached garage                              $50
Swimming pools                               $50
Relocation                                   $50
Stop Work Orders
Permit re-instatement fee                    Minimum $500 or two times the
                                             filing fee, whichever is greater
Continued construction after stop work order $1,000 first day and up to $500
                                             for each additional day
Miscellaneous Fees
Copy of County Drainage Ordinance            $25
Mylar aerial                                 $1
GIS aerial                                   $2
Blueprint copies – 24" x 36" and less      $1.50
Blueprint copies – 36" x 48" and larger    $3
Returned check fee                           $30
All fees are non-refundable (unless so permitted by the County Drainage Board)
 
(Ord. 2005-02, passed 2-14-2005)
§ 34.27 SPECIAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CHARGE.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the county to promote and
enhance the quality of the life of the residents of the county by furthering
the development of the economic resources of the county through the attraction,
retention, and creation of suitable business investment with an emphasis on
commercial and industrial concerns that have minimal environmental impact. In
connection with this effort, it is the policy of the county to take steps to
improve the opportunities for job creation, to foster job retention, to lessen
the burden of government and to broaden the tax base through the development of
the commercial, business, and industrial potential of the county.
   (B)   It is the intent of the municipalities in the county to support
economic development and the goals set forth above by assisting the county in
the collection of charges relative to multi-family, commercial, or industrial
development within their respective jurisdictions.
   (C)   In connection therewith, the county deems it appropriate and in the
public welfare to provide for the payment of increased services from the BCEDC.
   (D)   (1)   In addition to and not as a substitution for financial
assistance and support afforded the BCEDC from the general funds of the
respective municipalities who are signatories to this section and interlocal
agreement, there is hereby established and created as a means to pay for the
services provided by the BCEDC a special “Boone County Economic Development
Service Fund” (EDS Fund) which shall serve as a depository for economic
development charges collected pursuant to this section and interlocal
agreement. The EDS Fund shall be collected by the County Auditor for plats
recorded in the Auditor's office and by the respective municipal entities on
behalf of the county via interlocal agreement for residential, commercial and
industrial development which may occur within their respective boundaries but
without the necessity of platting in the County Auditor's office. The
respective collectors of the charges, to-wit: the County Auditor and the
respective municipal entities (the EDS Funds collected by the County Auditor in
the case of plats recorded in the County Auditor's office, and by the
appropriate municipal entities in cases where building permits are obtained
without the necessity of platting) shall be administered/coordinated by the
County Auditor and paid directly to the BCEDC for the use, benefit, services
and mission of the BCEDC on a semi-annual basis. The respective municipal
entities shall set up their own mechanisms/funds for the purpose of collection
and receipting of the charges for delivery to and administration by the County
Auditor.
      (2)   The special economic development charge, designated as a
contribution in aid of economic development within the county and the
aforementioned municipalities, shall be and is hereby established as follows
for any commercial, industrial, office or retail development within the county:
 
Square Foot Building Charge
0 - 19,999           $100
20,000 - 49,999      $250
50,000 - 149,999     $500
150,000 - 249,999    $1,000
250,000 and above    $2,000
 
      (3)   In addition, the special economic development charge designated as
a contribution in aid of economic development within the county shall be and is
hereby established for residential development in the sum of:
         (a)   $75 per residential single-family lot. Only platted residential
developments consisting of five or more residential lots are subject to the
economic development charge.
         (b)   For residential multi-family development, such as, apartments,
condominiums and town houses, in the sum of $50 per residential living unit.
      (4)   Residential subdivisions which require platting shall have their
charges collected by the County Auditor and that commercial, industrial,
office, retail and multi-family residential development which does not
necessarily require platting shall have its economic development charge
collected on behalf of the county by the appropriate municipal entities of the
aforementioned municipalities.
   (E)   (1)   All of the aforementioned shall require the payment of the
charge either at the time of:
         (a)   Recording the plats; or
         (b)   At the time of the issuance of building permits
      (2)   The County Auditor or appropriate municipal entity of the
respective municipalities shall provide receipt evidencing payment of the
economic development charge as established under this section. All revenues
collected under this section as an economic development charge shall be
deposited into the aforementioned EDS fund, administered and coordinated by the
County Auditor, and paid directly to the BCEDC on a semi-annual basis for the
use, benefit, services and mission of the BCEDC. Until the monies are remitted
to the BCEDC, they may be invested in accordance with the laws of the state as
applicable to county and municipal governments. Any interest or other return
earned upon the investment of the funds may be utilized by the municipalities
as a means to offset any administrative expenses incurred as a result of the
collection of charges.
      (3)   Following the effective date of this section, on the first business
day on or after April 1 and October 1, the Auditor shall transmit all funds
collected by the aforementioned municipalities and the county to the BCEDC for
the purpose of providing increased services and benefits described in this
section and interlocal agreement.
   (F)   The amount of the economic development charge may be altered or
modified only by amendment of the section. Any one of the signatories hereupon
may request a formal review and evaluation of this section and interlocal
agreement by the County Commissioners by filing the request at any time. At the
time of adoption, it is the intent of the interlocal signatories hereupon that
this agreement shall remain in full force and effect for an initial term of one
year and shall be renewed annually thereafter. Should any municipality
aforementioned wish to withdraw at the end of the initial one year term or any
subsequent term, written notice of the intent shall be delivered to the office
of BCEDC at least 90 days prior to the end of the current term. A withdrawal by
one municipality shall not affect the validity of this section and interlocal
agreement as to the remaining participants and the ordinance shall continue in
full force and effect for those remaining signatories hereupon. This section
and the interlocal agreement shall automatically be renewed for subsequent one
year terms unless the County Commissioners or any of the other signatories,
after formal review and evaluation, determine that this section and interlocal
agreement should be modified or not be renewed and provide written notice of
such intent to the EDC at least 90 days prior to the end of then current term.
(Ord. 2005-23, passed 12-5-2005)
§ 34.28 HEALTH DEPARTMENT FEES.
   (A)   Generally. The County Board of Health is empowered to establish and
collect fees in accord with the definitions and provisions of this section.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE. An agent in principal of the Board and Health
Officer as provided in I.C. 16-1-4-21.
   BOARD. The Boone County Board of Health as provided for in the state
statutes.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The County Health Officer as provided for in I.C. 16-1-5-2.
   (C)   Fees for services. The Board of Health having jurisdiction may charge
a service fee not in excess of the cost for providing to any person the
following services:
      (1)   Home health care as prescribed within the meaning of Section 1881
(o) of the Social Security Act for a Home Health Agency and as authorized by
the State Board of Health (I.C. 16-1-3-28).
      (2)   For any personal health service provided through the County Health
Department including, but not limited to the Chest Clinic as authorized by I.C.
16-1-4-24.
      (3)   For services provided by the County Health Department in providing
a copy of a certificate of birth and death (I.C. 16-1-4-24).
      (4)   For services provided in the inspection of public eating and
drinking establishments, retail markets, itinerant food stands, and semi-public
food service establishments to obtain a permit for license for food markets and
eating and drinking establishments as required by the Ordinance 1976-3 as
authorized by I.C. 18-1-1-5-7 and 17-2-22-2.
      (5)   For supervision and inspection of sanitary installations as
required by the Ordinance 1975-2 and HSE 25 as authorized by I.C. 17-2-22-3.
   (D)   Collection accounting and disposition.
      (1)   Collection of fees. The Board shall collect such fees established
as part of this section in accord with the schedules designated which is
attached hereto and made a part hereof.
      (2)   Accounting for fees. All fees collected by the Board shall be
accounted for in detail for each program service area.
      (3)   Disposition of fees. All fees collected by the Board shall be
transferred to the County Health Fund, the exception of those fees designated
by the Board of Health to be placed in the Gift Fund. The monies collected in
accord with the provisions of this section shall be used only for the
maintenance or future expansion of the specific program services from which
they are derived.
      (4)   Health services; fees; other county health jurisdictions. Fees
collected for health services provided individuals in other county health
jurisdictions and involving payment from county tax revenue shall be collected
in accord with an agreement pursuant to I.C. 16-1-4-22, as amended by P.L. 53,
Acts of 1974.
Permit and Service Fees - Environmental Health Division
Boone County Health Department
Permit and Service Fees - Environmental Health Division
Boone County Health Department
Onsite Sewage System Permits (410 IAC 6-8.2)                     
   Residential                                                
      New installation application fee                    $150
      Permit fee                                          $100
   Commercial                                                 
      Application fee (if local review)                   $150
      Permit fee                                          $200
   Septic installer registration fee                         $25
Well permits                                                     
   Well and well pump                                        $60
   Well only                                                 $30
   Well pump only                                            $30
Well driller's/pump license - first license                     $25
   Each additional driller/pump license                      $5
Public and semi-public swimming pools permits                    
   Year round                                                $150
   Seasonal                                                  $150
   Additional                                                $100
   Plan review                                               $100
Food Protection Program Permits                                  
   New plan review                                           $150
   Bed and Breakfast (B&B)                                   $100
   Food Establishment
   (As defined in Title 410 IAC 7-24 as amended from time to  
time)
      Menu Type 1                                         $175
      Menu Type 2                                         $225
      Menu Type 3                                         $275
      Menu Type 4                                         $325
      Menu Type 5                                         $400
   Temporary Food Establishment                              $70 per event
   Multi-Event Temporary                                     $210
   Commissary                                                $100
   Mobile Food Establishment                                  
      Mobile food establishment plan review fee           $50
      Prepackaged foods retailed only                     $50
      Prepares/serves ready to eat foods                  $140
   Farmer’s Market                                         $70 for the
                                                                season
                                                                $70 one market
   Farmer’s Market Food Establishment                      $140 multiple
                                                                markets
   Tattoo, Piercing and Body Modification                     
      New plan review                                     $100
      Establishment                                       $300
      Artist                                              $75 per artist
      Temporary event                                     $75 per artist
*Late fees for tattoo, piercing and body modification establishment, food
establishment and B&B permits will be $100 if the permit is renewed after
January 1 (excluding new establishments). All other permits, the late fee will
be double the amount of the permit fee.
 
Record and Service Fees - Nursing and Vital Records Division
Boone County Health Department
Record and Service Fees - Nursing and Vital Records Division
Boone County Health Department
Certified death certificate          $15 each
Certified birth certificate          $15 each
Amendment/correction by notification $10 each
Home birth registration              $35
Paternity affidavit                  $25
Paternity affidavit upon marriage
Genealogy services                    
   Uncertified death record       $15 each
   Uncertified birth record       $15 each
Notary fee                           $5 per document
Tuberculosis skin test (PPD)         Our cost plus injection fee of $20
VFC Vaccine                          ONLY injection fee of $20
Private purchased vaccine            Our cost plus injection fee of $20
Injection fee                        $20 per injection/maximum $40
Educational instructor fee           up to $30 per one-half hour per instructor
 
(Ord. 81-1, passed 2-2-1981; Am. Ord. 93-8, passed 6-7-1993; Am. Ord. 2003-13,
passed 7-7-2003; Am. Ord. 2005-12, passed 5-9-2005; Am. Ord. 2007-18, passed 8-
20-2007; Am. Ord. 2009-03, passed 3-20-2009; Am. Ord. 2011-02, passed 1-18-
2011; Am. Ord. 2011-04, passed 4-4-2011; Am. Ord. 2011-9, passed 12-15-2011;
Am. Ord. 2011-10, passed 12-5-2011; Am. Ord. 2012-08, passed 11-19- 2012; Am.
Ord. 2013-03, passed 10-7-2013; Am. Ord. 2016-04, passed 10-17-2016; Am. Ord.
2022-05, passed 12-5-2022)
§ 34.29 COUNTY SHERIFF DEPARTMENT FIRING RANGE FEE.
   The County Sheriff may charge a daily fee of $50 for the use of the County
Sheriff Department’s firing range. Any fees collected shall be deposited in the
commissary account for the Sheriff.
(Ord. 2007-17, passed 8-13-2007; Am. Ord. 2010-09, passed 11-1-2010)
§ 34.30 ANNUAL SEX OR VIOLENT OFFENDER REGISTRATION AND ADDRESS CHANGE FEES.
   (A)   The County Sheriff's Department is hereby authorized to charge the sum
of $50 per year for the registration of sex or violent offenders and $5 for
each time a sex or violent offender registers an address change with the County
Sheriff's Department.
   (B)   The County Council may appropriate money from the County Sex and
Violent Offender Administration Fund to defray the expense of administering or
ensuring compliance with the laws concerning the Indiana sex and violent
offender registry.
(Ord. 2007-16, passed 8-13-2007)
§ 34.31 RETURNED CHECKS FEE.
   (A)   The County Clerk and any office or department of Boone County
Government is hereby authorized to charge the sum of $25 for each dishonored or
non-sufficient fund check received in payment for goods or services rendered by
the office or department.
   (B)   The County Prosecutor’s office may collect as a protest fee, service
fee and/or charge an amount not to exceed the greater of $27.50 or 5% but not
more than $250 of the amount due in all matters initiated by the County
Prosecutor’s office pursuant to state law. Any amount of money collected by the
County Prosecutor’s office than cannot be accepted by the payee of an unpaid
and dishonored check may then be deposited into the County Prosecutor’s special
fee fund (a/k/a the Boone County Prosecutor’s Office’s Bad Check Program Fund),
which is identified as line item 0537-287 in the County Budget.
(Ord. 82-12, passed 10-12-1982; Am. Ord. 97-23, passed 12-1-1997; Am. Ord. 04-
04, passed 2-17-2004; Am. Ord. 2006-04, passed - -2006; Am. Ord. 2006-14,
passed 9-18-2006; Am. Ord. 2017-01, passed 1-17-2017)
§ 34.32 REAL PROPERTY ENDORSEMENT FEE.
   (A)   The Auditor of Boone County, Indiana shall collect a fee of $10 for
each legal description of each parcel contained in the deed for which the
Auditor makes a real property endorsement.
   (B)   Such fee shall be in addition to any other fee provided by law and
shall be placed in a dedicated fund for use of maintaining plat books.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 1-4-2011; Am. Ord. 2019-08, passed 7-1-2019)
§ 34.33 SHERIFF’S SALE SERVICE AND PROGRAM FEE.
   (A)   The Sheriff sale services contract shall provide for the delivery of
such services by a contractor (the "Contractor") in compliance with all
applicable statutory provisions for the conduct of foreclosure
sale proceedings and the Sheriff’s sale program. The Sheriff sale services
contract shall also provide for the payment of a fee not to exceed $100 per
cause number, for each cause number in the Sheriff’s sale program, to the
contractor for such services.
   (B)   The Sheriff is hereby authorized to charge an additional fee of $100
per cause number (for a total fee of $200, notwithstanding any other statutory
cost or fee) in the Sheriff’s sale program for which the contractor provides
services (the "Foreclosure Costs Fee") and to deposit such foreclosure costs
fee collected by the Sheriff as costs in the foreclosure proceeding in the
appropriate fund or funds.
   (C)   The foreclosure costs fee shall be payable from the proceeds of the
Sheriff’s sale in addition to other statutory costs and fees.
   (D)   The Sheriff’s sale program contract shall provide for a complete and
accurate accounting of all sale proceeds and compliance with any reporting or
record requirements as set forth by the Indiana State Board of Accounts.
(Ord. 2015-02, passed 5-18-2015)
§ 34.34 GUN CLASS FEES.
   (A)   The Boone County Sheriff shall charge a fee of $200 per student for
the citizen gun class.
   (B)   If there are more than 11 paying students in the gun class, the Boone
County Sheriff’s office may offer enrollment in the gun class to full-time
county employees at no charge, and immediate family members of local police
officers of Boone County for $100.
   (C)   Any fees collected shall be deposited into the Firearms Training Fund
account for the Sheriff’s office.
   (D)   The Boone County Sheriff shall pay the rangemaster $1,250 per gun
class and the safety officers $750 per gun class. This payment shall be made
from the payroll line of the Firearms Training Fund account for the Sheriff’s
office.
   (E)   If any provision of this section is adjudicated by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be illegal or unenforceable, all other provisions of
the section shall remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 8-3-2015; Am. Ord. 2023-03, passed 3-6-2023)
§ 34.35 BULK FORM COPIES AND FEES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BULK FORM COPY. An aggregation of:
         (a)   Copies of all recorded documents received by the county recorder
for recording in a calendar day, week, month, or year;
         (b)   The indices for finding, retrieving, and viewing all recorded
documents received by the county recorder for recording in a calendar day,
week, month, or year; or
         (c)   Both clauses (a) and (b).
      BULK USER. An individual, a corporation, a partnership, a limited
liability company, or an unincorporated association that receives bulk form
copies under a contract with the county recorder.
      COPY. A reproduction, including an image of a recorded document or
indices created by:
         (a)   Duplicating electronically stored data onto a disk, tape, drum,
or any other medium of electronic data storage; or
         (b)   reproducing on microfilm.
      INDICES. All of the indexing information used by the county recorder for
finding, retrieving, and viewing a recorded document.
      RECORDED DOCUMENT. A writing, a paper, a document, a plat, a map, a
survey, or anything else received at any time for recording or filing in the
public records maintained by the county recorder or the county recorder’s
designee.
   (B)   Manner and form of production. It is hereby established that the Boone
County Recorder (“County Recorder”) shall provide bulk form copies to a bulk
user only by electronically transmitting the copies using an electronic
transfer process.
   (C)   Procedure for requesting bulk form copies. A bulk user must submit a
written request to the County Recorder that identifies the requested bulk form
copies with reasonable particularity. Unless the request is refused under
division (F) of this section, upon receipt of a valid written request the
County Recorder or the County Recorder’s designee shall provide the bulk form
copies to the bulk user by the method or methods established by ordinance. The
bulk form copies shall be provided within a reasonable time after the later of
the following events:
      (1)   The Recorder’s archival process is completed and bulk form copies
become available in the County Recorder’s Office.
      (2)   The bulk form user executes a contract that meets the requirements
of division (E) of this section with:
         (a)   The County Recorder; and
         (b)   If the County Recorder uses a third party to provide bulk copy
services, the County Recorder’s designee.
      (3)   The County Recorder or the County Recorder’s designee shall work
with reasonable diligence to ensure that bulk form copies are timely produce to
the bulk user.
   (D)   Fees charged for bulk form copies.
      (1)   Based on a cost study dated September 12, 2016 and performed by
Maximus for the Indiana Recorder’s Association (which is incorporated herein by
reference), the Board finds and determines that the costs incurred by the Boone
County Recorder of producing bulk form copies (including applying a watermark
or other protective feature) substantially exceed both the standard fee of ten
cents ($0.10) per page or per recorded document fixed by IC 36-2-7-10.1(d), and
the fee hereafter fixed. Accordingly, the following fee schedule is hereby
adopted:
         (a)   Fifteen cents ($0.15) per page for a copy of a recorded
document, including the instrument’s book and page, if applicable.
         (b)   Fifteen cents ($0.15) per recorded document for a copy of the
indices used by the County Recorder for finding, retrieving, and viewing a
recorded document.
      (2)   The fees charged by the County Recorder are subject to the
following requirements:
         (a)   The County Recorder shall pay the fees into the County Treasury
at the end of each calendar month.
         (b)   The fees prescribed and collected under this section supersede
all other fees or bulk form copies required by law to be charged for services
rendered by the County Recorder to bulk users.
         (c)   All revenue generated by the County Recorder under this section
shall be deposited in the County Recorder’s records perpetuation fund and used
by the Recorder in accordance with IC 36-27-7-10(f).
         (d)   The Recorder shall periodically update and verify the cost study
referred to in division (D)(1) of this section.
   (E)   Bulk user contract - termination.
      (1)   A bulk user must enter into a contract with the County Recorder and
if the County Recorder uses a third party to provide bulk copy services, the
County Recorder’s designee, in order to receive bulk form copies. The contract
must be in writing and must require that the bulk user agree not to do any of
the following:
         (a)   Except as provided in division (F) of this section, provide,
transfer, or allow the transfer of any copy of a recorded document obtained by
the bulk user under this section to a third party.
         (b)   Engage in unauthorized access to recorded documents.
         (c)   Engage in unauthorized alteration of recorded documents.
      (2)   A contract required under this subsection may not include any
restrictions on a bulk form user’s use of the bulk form copies other than those
contained in this section.
      (3)   If a bulk user does not comply with a contract, the County Recorder
may terminate the contract, immediately stop providing bulk form copies to the
bulk user, and refuse to provide the bulk form copies required by the bulk user
if all termination provisions and procedures in the contract have been met by
the County Recorder. The County Recorder may refuse subsequent requests from a
bulk user for bulk form copies in the following circumstances:
         (a)   The bulk user is a person that has had a previous bulk form copy
contract terminated by the County Recorder because the Recorder determined that
the bulk user failed to comply with the contract.
         (b)   The bulk user is a corporation or limited liability company in
which a person has a majority or controlling interest and:
            1.   The person requested bulk form copies under a previous
contract with the County Recorder; and
            2.   The contract was terminated by the County Recorder because the
County Recorder determined that the person failed to comply with the contract.
   (F)   Resale of bulk form copies by bulk user.
      (1)   A bulk user that is licensed under IC 27-1-15.6-6(d) or holds a
certificate of authority under IC 27-7-3-6 may provide bulk form copies related
to the specific order for a title search (as defined in IC 27-7-3-2) when
operating as:
         (a)   A title plant for the issuance of title insurance (as defined in
IC 27-7-3-2); or
         (b)   Title company (as defined in IC 27-7-3-2).
      (2)   A bulk user that meets the requirements of this subsection may
charge its customers a fee for using the bulk form copies obtained by the bulk
user that may not exceed the costs incurred by the bulk user for obtaining the
bulk form copies. A bulk user that meets the requirements of this subsection
may not resell, provide, transfer, or allow the transfer of any copy of a
recorded document, whether in bulk form or as individual copies or images, to
any other bulk user or title plant.
      (3)   A bulk user that does not meet the requirements of division (F)(1)
of this section is prohibited from selling, offering for sale, advertising for
sale, soliciting a purchase of, loaning, giving away, allowing subscription
service to, or otherwise transferring, provide, or allowing the transfer of
bulk form copies for commercial purposes to a third party, whether the copies
are in bulk form or individual copies or images.
   (G)   Enhanced access not affected. This section does not apply to enhanced
access authorized under IC 5-14-3-3 and any Boone County Ordinances promulgated
thereunder.
(Ord. 2017-10, passed 7-17-2017)
Cross-reference:
   Copying fee, see §
34.23
§ 34.36 REIMBURSEMENT FOR PLAN REVIEW FEES FOR HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Fee amount. As a condition of the submittal and review of projects by
the Boone County Highway Department, the owner and developer agree to pay the
Highway Department the applicable fee, as set by the Highway Department with
respect to review of all projects, including but not limited to driveway
submittals, preliminary plans, final plans, re-zonings, variances and
development plan reviews along with accompanying information and data.
   (B)   Time of payment. After the meeting at which the Boone County Highway
Department is scheduled to consider acceptance of the applicant’s final
development plan, the Boone County Highway Department will furnish a written
statement to the applicant specifying the total amount due the Boone County
Highway Department in connection with the review of the applicant’s submittals,
plans and accompanying information and data, including the amount required to
be paid by applicant for plan review and any anticipated inspection fees (“fee
statement”). Owner/developer shall pay to the Boone County Highway Department
the amount reflected in the fee statement within 30 days of receipt. The Boone
County Highway Department may issue the fee statement upon receipt of invoicing
from the professional, and such payment is due by owner/developer/applicant
upon receipt of said billing statement regardless of whether the project is
advanced to the final acceptance stage. The Boone County Highway Department
shall have the right to reject the development plans or may withhold the
requested approvals or permits for any project for which the applicable fees
have not been paid.
   (C)   Method of payment.
      (1)   Fees shall be paid by one of the following methods:
         (a)   Certified check.
         (b)   EFT or electronic payment.
         (c)   Cashier’s check.
         (d)   Money order.
         (e)   Credit card (Mastercard or Visa).
      (2)   All checks shall be made payable to the:
         Boone County Highway Department
         1955 Indianapolis Avenue
         Lebanon, IN 46052
      (3)   Fees are refundable only if the Boone County Highway Department
determines that compliance by the development to this section is not necessary.
(Ord. 2022-02, passed 6-20-2022)
TAXES
§ 34.45 INNKEEPER’S TAX.
   (A)   (1)   A tax is hereby levied on every hotel, motel, or inn engaged in
the business of renting or furnishing, for periods of less than 30 days, any
room or rooms, lodgings or accommodations located in the county.
      (2)   The tax does not apply to gross income received in a transaction in
which:
         (a)   A person rents a room, lodgings or accommodations for a period
of 30 days or more; or
         (b)   A person rents an apartment or residence on a tenancy of less
than a month-to-month basis.
      (3)   The tax shall be levied at the rate of 5% on the gross retail
income derived from lodging income only and is in addition to the state gross
retail tax imposed under I.C. 6-2.5.
      (4)   The tax shall be reported on forms approved by the County Treasurer
and shall be paid monthly to the County Treasurer not more than 20 days after
the end of the month in which the tax is collected.
   (B)   All of the provisions of I.C. 6-2.5 relating to rights, duties,
liabilities, procedures, penalties, definitions, and administration are
applicable to the imposition and administration of the tax imposed under this
section except to the extent those provisions are in conflict or inconsistent
with the specific provisions of this section or the requirements of the County
Treasurer.
   (C)   Any entity, person, corporation, or other business described in
division (A) of this section shall begin collection of the tax imposed by this
section on December 1, 1993.
   (D)   Any entity, person, corporation or other business combination who
receives a transfer of money collected under this section and knowingly uses
that money for any purpose not permitted under this section commits a Class D
felony.
(Ord. 93-13, passed 10-19-1993)
§ 34.46 DELINQUENCY OF PERSONAL PROPERTY TAXES.
   The County Treasurer shall be directed to provide written notification of
delinquencies of personal property taxes, both by regular mail and through
publication in local newspapers serving the county to those individuals and
entities that are delinquent in the payment of personal property taxes by at
least three installments as of the previous year's November installment or
earlier installments in the payment of the personal property taxes.
(Ord. 97-24, passed 12-1-1997)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE
      
51.   SEWERS
      
52.   WELLS, PUMPS AND GEOTHERMAL HEAT PUMP SYSTEMS
      
53.   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Solid Waste Management District
Solid Waste, Hazardous Waste
   
50.20   Short title
   
50.21   Definitions
   
50.22   Listing of hazardous waste
   
50.23   Transport permit and transport vehicle license requirements
   
50.24   Hazardous waste facility standards
   
50.25   Solid waste landfill standards
   
50.26   Facility permits
   
50.27   Public notice, comment and hearing
   
50.28   Inspection and investigation
   
50.29   Enforcement
   
50.30   Transportation and Facility Special Fund
   
50.31   Delegation of functions and duties
   
50.32   Incorporation by reference
   
50.33   Transporter registration and licensing
   
50.34   Transporter responsibilities
   
50.35   Bonding requirement
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT DISTRICT.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners of Boone County, pursuant to the provisions
of House Enrolled Act 1240 of the 106th General Assembly of the State of
Indiana designated as I.C. 13, do now form a solid waste management district to
be known as the Boone County Solid Waste Management District, organized in
compliance with the provisions of the law, and to perform all of the functions
authorized and directed by the law, as it is now promulgated or as same may
hereafter be modified by judicial decision or legislative amendment.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners is hereby authorized to enter into the
operation of the District which may from time to time be amended as needed and
which agreement shall guide the District in the performance of the
responsibilities imposed by the laws of the State of Indiana and the United
States of America as they are from time to time deemed necessary by the
governing board of the District to be composed in accordance with House
Enrolled Act 1240 of the 106th General Assembly of 1990 of the State of Indiana
and I.C. 13 and all other laws applicable.
(Ord. 91-3, passed 7-1-1991)
SOLID WASTE, HAZARDOUS WASTE
§ 50.20 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter may be cited as the Waste Transportation and Facility
Ordinance of Boone County, Indiana.
(Ord. 81-3, passed 3-1-1982)
§ 50.21 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      APPLICANT. Any person who makes application for a permit or license under
this subchapter.
      BOARD. The Board of County Commissioners of Boone County, Indiana.
      BOONE COUNTY SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT DISTRICT or DISTRICT. The
governmental agency established to carry out the purposes and responsibilities
prescribed by I.C. 13-21 within all of the incorporated and unincorporated
territory of the County of Boone, State of Indiana.
      DISPOSAL. The discharge, injection, spilling, leaking or placing of any
waste into or on any land or water so that such waste or any constituent
thereof may enter the environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into
any waters, including ground waters.
      DISTRICT SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT FEES. The fees established by the
district’s Board of Directors pursuant to I.C. 13-21-14 that are imposed on
persons generating solid waste from residential properties or other facilities
located within Boone County who are benefitted by solid waste collection and
other solid waste management activities and facilities. These fees may be
revised by the district’s Board of Directors, from time to time, in accordance
with I.C. 13-21-14.
      FACILITY. All contiguous land and structures, other appurtenances and
improvements on the land, used for treating, storing or disposing of waste.
      FREE LIQUIDS. Liquids which readily separate from the solid portion of a
waste under ambient temperature and pressure.
      GROUND WATER. Water below the land surface in a zone of saturation.
      HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any waste on the listing of hazardous wastes compiled
and maintained by the Health Department in accordance with § 50.22.
      HAZARDOUS WASTE FACILITY. Any facility within the boundaries of Boone
County, Indiana, that treats, stores or disposes of more than 1,000 kilograms
of hazardous waste in any 30 consecutive day period.
      HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Board of Health of Boone County, Indiana.
      LANDFILL. A facility or part of a facility where waste is intentionally
placed into or on any land.
      LANDFILL CELL. A discrete volume of a landfill which uses a liner or
other methods to provide isolation of wastes from adjacent cells or wastes.
Examples of LANDFILL CELLS are trenches and pits.
      LEACHATE. Any liquid, including any suspended components in the liquid,
that has percolated through or drained from waste.
      LINER. A continuous layer of natural or man-made materials, beneath or on
the sides of a landfill or landfill cell, which restricts the downward or
lateral escape of waste, waste constituents or leachate.
      ON-SITE. The same or geographically contiguous property which may be
divided by public or private right-of-way, provided the entrance and exit
between the properties is at a cross-roads intersection, and access is by
crossing as opposed to going along, the right-of-way. Non-contiguous properties
owned by the same person, but connected by a right-of-way which he or she
controls and to which the public does not have access, is also considered on-
site property.
      OPERATOR. The person responsible for the overall operation of a facility.
      OWNER. The person who owns a facility or part of a facility.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, municipal
corporation, city, school city, town, school town, school district, school
corporation, county, any consolidated unit of government, political
subdivision, state agency or any other legal entity.
      RUN-OFF. Any rainwater, leachate or other liquid that drains over land
from any part of a facility.
      SATURATED ZONE or ZONE OF SATURATION. That part of the earth’s crust in
which all voids are filled with water.
      SLUDGE. Any septic tank pumpings or any solid, semi-solid or liquid waste
generated from a municipal, commercial or industrial wastewater treatment
plant, water supply treatment plant or air pollution control facility exclusive
of the treated effluent from a wastewater treatment plant.
      SOLID WASTE TRANSPORTER or TRANSPORTER. A business entity, including, but
not limited to, a corporation, limited liability company, partnership, or sole
proprietorship, or a municipality who owns or operates one or more vehicles in
which solid waste is collected and transported from residents or persons owning
or operating commercial, industrial, governmental or other buildings,
facilities or establishments located in Boone County to a solid waste transfer
station, solid waste processing facility, solid waste disposal facility or
other solid waste management facility. The term SOLID WASTE TRANSPORTER shall
exclude an entity who solely owns or operates a vehicle or vehicles to collect
only:
         (a)   Clean fill;
         (b)   Vegetative matter and other types of organic matter; or
         (c)   Recyclable materials, including, but not limited to, scrap or
waste paper, cardboard or newsprint, glass items, plastic items, or scrap metal
for transport to a recycling facility.
      TRANSPORT VEHICLE. A motor vehicle or rail car used for the
transportation of cargo by any mode. Each cargo-carrying body (trailer,
railroad freight car and the like) is a separate transport vehicle.
      TRANSPORTATION. The movement of waste by air, rail, highway or water.
      TRANSPORTER. A person engaged in the off-site transportation of waste by
air, rail, highway or water.
      WASTE. Solid waste or hazardous waste or any combination of solid waste
and hazardous waste.
   (B)   Other terms not defined in this section shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in state law, or if not defined there, then the meaning
ascribed by common usage.
   (C)   In this subchapter, the present tense includes the past and future
tenses and the future tense the present unless otherwise provided. The singular
includes the plural and the plural the singular.
   (D)   Definitions of the following terms shall be incorporated herein by
reference from the indicated sources as if specifically set forth herein: CLEAN
FILL, Resolution 11-2 of the Board of Directors of the District; RECYCLING,
Resolution 11-2 of the Board of Directors of the District; RECYCLING FACILITY
or SITE, Resolution 11-2 of the Board of Directors of the District; SOLID
WASTE, I.C. 13-11-2-205(a) and I.C. 13-11-2-205(b); SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL
FACILITY, I.C. 13-11-2-206; SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT, I.C. 13-11-2-209; SOLID
WASTE PROCESSING FACILITY, 329 I.A.C. 11-2-43; and TRANSFER STATION or SOLID
WASTE TRANSFER STATION, 329 I.A.C. 11-2-47. All other terms shall have their
common, ordinary meaning or the meaning established under Indiana statute.
(Ord. 81-3, passed 3-1-1982; Am. Ord. 2013-04, passed 10-21-2013)
§ 50.22 LISTING OF HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   (A)   Hazardous waste determination. The Health Department shall find a
waste to be hazardous if the waste:
      (1)   Presents an immediate or persistent hazard to man or wildlife;
      (2)   Is resistant to natural degradation or detoxification; or
      (3)   Is bioconcentrative, flammable, reactive, toxic, corrosive or
infectious in addition to any other harmful characteristic.
   (B)   Designated hazardous waste. The Health Department shall designate as
hazardous waste the following:
      (1)   Any waste which when submitted to the extraction procedure set
forth in 40 C.F.R. part 261, Appendix II, produces an extract that contains a
substance at a concentration that is ten times higher than the concentration of
that substance permitted in drinking water used for human consumption by
federal regulation (40 C.F.R. part 141, subpart B) or state regulation.
      (2)   Any waste which:
         (a)   Is generated at a municipal sewage treatment plant that does not
have in place a pretreatment program in accordance with 40 C.F.R. part 403;
         (b)   Contains polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) on a dry-weight basis
at a concentration of ten mg/kg (parts-per-million or ppm) or higher;
         (c)   Contains on a dry-weight basis more than:
            1.   Five hundred ppm lead;
            2.   Five hundred ppm chromium (total); or
            3.   One hundred ppm cadmium.
         (d)   Contains less than 30% solids; or
         (e)   Poses a risk to the public health because of the pathogens
present in the waste.
      (3)   Any leachate from a facility if hazardous waste is treated, stored
or disposed of in the facility.
   (C)   Hazardous waste list. The Health Department, no later than 30 days
after the effective date of this subchapter, shall compile and maintain and
thereafter semi-annually update a listing of wastes which have been determined
to be hazardous:
      (1)   As provided for in divisions (A) and (B) above;
      (2)   By regulation of the United States Environmental Protection Agency;
or
      (3)   By regulation of the Indiana Environmental Management Board.
(Ord. 81-3, passed 3-1-1982)
§ 50.23 TRANSPORT PERMIT AND TRANSPORT VEHICLE LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Transport permit requirement. It shall be unlawful within the
boundaries of Boone County, Indiana, for any person to:
      (1)   Transport more than 50 cubic yards of solid waste in any seven-
consecutive day period to a hazardous waste facility without holding a valid
transport permit issued by the Board;
      (2)   Transport any hazardous waste to a hazardous waste facility without
holding a valid transport permit issued by the Board; and
      (3)   Accept waste from a transporter if the transporter is not in
compliance with the requirements of divisions (A)(1) and (2) above.
   (B)   Transport vehicle license requirement.
      (1)   (a)   Each transport vehicle operated by a person subject to the
requirements of division (A) above shall hold a transport vehicle license from
the Board.
         (b)   There shall be displayed on both side of any such transport
vehicle the following placard:
“Boone County, Indiana, licensed transport vehicle No.                (year).”
      (2)   The numbers and letters used in such a placard shall not be less
than two inches high.
   (C)   Application for transport permit. All persons shall make application
for a transport permit 90 days in advance of the proposed start of operation
unless a shorter time is approved by the Board. An application for renewal of a
permit shall be made 60 days prior to the expiration date of the permit.
   (D)   Application for transport vehicle license. Applications for transport
vehicle license for new transport vehicles or replacement of existing transport
vehicles shall be submitted to the Board 30 days before the intended use of the
transport vehicle unless a shorter time is approved by the Board.
   (E)   Permit and license issuance.
      (1)   Transport permit. The Board shall not issue a permit unless it
finds that:
         (a)   The transport vehicles, other transportation equipment and
transporting procedures of the applicant are such that transportation of waste
to a hazardous waste facility within Boone County, Indiana, will not pose an
unreasonable risk to the public health or public safety; and
         (b)   The applicant has committed in writing to maintain for each
transport vehicle insurance against liability for damages sustained by a person
other than an employee of the applicant within the following minimum coverage:
$1,000,000 for the injury or death of any person as a result of an accident and
$250,000 for property damage. Any insurance policy shall be written by a
company authorized to do business in the State of Indiana.
      (2)   Transport vehicle license. A license for a transport vehicle shall
be issued if the applicant operates the transport vehicle and holds a valid
transport permit issued by the Board.
      (3)   Permit conditions and denial. A permit issued under this section
shall contain such terms and conditions as are deemed necessary by the Board to
protect the public health and the environment. In the event a permit
application is denied, the Board shall send written notice by certified mail,
return receipt requested, to the applicant and shall set forth the reasons for
the action.
   (F)   Recording and reporting.
      (1)   Any person whose transportation of waste is subject to the
provisions of this section shall keep records of all transportation and
disposal of such wastes within Boone County, Indiana. These records shall
include the date, source of waste, quantity, type and the point and method of
disposal. These reports shall be submitted to the Board once per month and
shall be submitted prior to the fifteenth day of the following month.
      (2)   The permittee shall be required to retain for a minimum of three
years any records of transport activities subject to the provisions of this
section.
      (3)   With respect to wastes subject to the provisions of this section,
the permittee shall submit to the Board any manifest or other report required
by 40 C.F.R. part 263 or by state law by the fifteenth day of the month
following that month in which the manifest or other report was first prepared.
   (G)   Duration. A permit or license under this section shall be issued for a
period not to exceed one year.
   (H)   Non-transferability. No permit or vehicle license granted under this
section shall be valid in case of transfer.
   (I)   Fees.
      (1)   A fee of $200 will be charged and collected by the Board for each
permit when application is made under this section, the fee to include the
charge for issuance of a transport permit and one vehicle transport license. A
fee of $50 will be charged for each additional transport vehicle license issued
to a permittee. There shall be no refund of any application fee if a permit
should be denied.
      (2)   A fee of $.10 shall be charged for each cubic yard of waste
transported in Boone County, Indiana, which is subject to the requirements of
this section. This fee shall be collected by the operator of the hazardous
waste facility upon receiving waste subject to the requirements of this section
and remitted at the end of each month to the Board together with the reports
required hereby.
      (3)   The fee herein shall not be charged for any waste transported to
any state, county or municipally owned and operated landfill in Boone County,
Indiana.
(Ord. 81-3, passed 3-1-1982)
§ 50.24 HAZARDOUS WASTE FACILITY STANDARDS.
   (A)   Federal, state or local approvals and permits for a hazardous waste
landfill notwithstanding, within the boundaries of Boone County, Indiana, there
shall be no disposal of hazardous waste within:
      (1)   Three hundred yards of any stream, creek or other surface water;
      (2)   Five hundred yards of any well which is used to provide water for
human consumption;
      (3)   Five hundred yards of any church or school grounds; or
      (4)   Two hundred yards of any dwelling without the written consent of
the occupant and owner of the dwelling.
   (B)   A hazardous waste landfill shall comply with all requirements hereof.
   (C)   (1)   An owner or operator of a hazardous waste facility shall furnish
prior to treatment or disposal of a waste at the facility sufficient analyses
for each such waste to enable the Board to determine:
         (a)   At what level any priority pollutant designated as toxic in §
307(a) of the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a), is present in
the hazardous waste;
         (b)   If the waste is reactive, corrosive or ignitable; or
         (c)   If the waste is infectious.
      (2)   The Board may order an owner or operator to provide additional
analysis for this waste or to provide samples of the waste for analysis.
   (D)   Solid waste and hazardous waste shall not be disposed of in the same
landfill cell without the prior written consent of the Board. In the event that
the Board determines that hazardous waste must be segregated, the same shall be
placed in a landfill cell which uses a liner to provide isolation of wastes
from adjacent cells or wastes. The design of the landfill liner shall reflect a
consideration of:
      (1)   The physical and chemical characteristics of the wastes in the
landfill;
      (2)   The pressure head of leachate on the liner;
      (3)   Climatic conditions in the area;
      (4)   The permeability of the liner material, including compaction
density and moisture content where earthen materials are present;
      (5)   The physical and chemical properties of the soil underlying the
landfill that supports any emplaced liner; and
      (6)   The potential for damage to the liner system that could occur
during installation of any emplaced liner.
   (E)   A hazardous waste facility shall not operate without a leachate and
run-off control system which reduces to the extent technically feasible any air
and water pollution. The design of such a leachate and run-off control system
shall reflect a consideration of:
      (1)   The physical and chemical characteristics of the waste in the
facility;
      (2)   Climatic conditions in the area;
      (3)   The volume of leachate or contaminated run-off that could be
produced at the facility; and
      (4)   The available options for controlling any leachate or contaminated
run-off that is collected at the facility.
(Ord. 81-3, passed 3-1-1982)
§ 50.25 SOLID WASTE LANDFILL STANDARDS.
   (A)   General. The standards set forth in this section are for use in
determining whether a solid waste landfill poses a reasonable probability of
adverse effects on the public health or the environment. A landfill failing to
satisfy these standards poses a reasonable probability of adverse effects on
the public health and the environment and is to be considered an open dump. No
permit shall be issued by the Board to an open dump.
   (B)   Floodplains.
      (1)   A landfill shall not restrict the flow of the base flood, reduce
the temporary water storage capacity of the floodplain or result in washout of
solid waste, so as to pose a hazard to human life, wildlife or land or water
resources.
      (2)   As used in division (B)(1) above:
         BASE FLOOD. A flood that has a 1% or greater chance of recurring in
any year or a flood of a magnitude equaled or exceeded once in 100 years on the
average over a significantly long period.
         FLOODPLAIN. The lowland and relatively flat areas adjoining surface
waters which are inundated by the base flood.
         WASHOUT. The carrying of solid waste by waters of the base flood.
   (C)   Species depletion.
      (1)   A landfill shall not cause or contribute to the taking, injury or
unreasonable depleting of plants, fish or wildlife.
      (2)   The operation of a landfill shall not result in the destruction or
adverse modification of the habitat of species.
      (3)   As used in this section, DESTRUCTION OR ADVERSE MODIFICATION means
a direct or indirect alteration of critical habitat which appreciably
diminishes the likelihood of the survival and recovery of species using this
habitat.
   (D)   Surface water. With respect to streams, creeks and other surface
waters wholly or partially within the boundaries of Boone County, Indiana, a
landfill shall not:
      (1)   Cause a discharge of pollutants into those waters;
      (2)   Cause a non-point source discharge of pollutants into those waters;
and
      (3)   As used in this section, POLLUTANT means any concentration of a
substance that is 100 times higher than:
         (a)   Any water quality criterion established for that substance by
the United States Environmental Protection Agency (§ 304 of the Clean Water
Act, 33 U.S.C. § 1314); or
         (b)   Any water quality standard established by the State of Indiana.
   (E)   Ground water.
      (1)   A landfill shall not contaminate ground water beyond the boundary
specified herein.
      (2)   Unless otherwise specified, the outermost perimeter of the ground
water boundary for a landfill shall be defined by existing monitoring wells at
the landfill. The Board may, upon request, extend the boundary to the outermost
perimeter of the solid waste as it would exist at completion of the disposal
activity if the owner and operator of the landfill agree to relocate the ground
water monitoring wells to that location.
      (3)   CONTAMINATE, as used in this section, means introducing a substance
that would cause the concentration of that substance in the ground water to
exceed any drinking water standard established by the State of Indiana or any
National Interim Primary Drinking Water Standard (40 C.F.R. part 141, subpart
B) and National Secondary Drinking Water Standard (40 C.F.R. part 143)
established by the United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   (F)   Disease.
      (1)   The landfill shall minimize the on-site population of rodents,
flies and mosquitoes capable of transmitting disease to humans through periodic
application of cover materials or other techniques as determined by the Board
to be appropriate to protect the public health.
      (2)   A landfill shall not receive sludge from a municipal sewage
treatment plant unless that sludge:
         (a)   Is treated by a process determined by the Board to reduce the
pathogens significantly prior to disposal; and
         (b)   Is placed in a trench or other natural or man-made depression
and covered with soil or other suitable material at the end of each operating
day so that the wastes do not migrate to the surface.
      (3)   Upon request, the Board may issue a variance, not to exceed one
year, from the requirements hereof if it is demonstrated that; because of
quantity, quality and other characteristics of the sludge, disposal would not
pose any unreasonable public health risk.
   (G)   Air. The landfill shall not engage in open burning of waste.
   (H)   Safety. A landfill shall not:
      (1)   Pose a hazard to the safety of persons or property from fire;
      (2)   Pose a bird hazard to aircraft; or
      (3)   Allow uncontrolled public access so as to expose the public to
potential health and safety hazards at the disposal site.
   (I)   Operating times. A landfill shall only operate from 6:00 a.m. to 8:00
p.m. It shall not receive any waste on Sunday. Upon request, the Board may
issue a variance, not to exceed one year, from these operating time limitations
if it is established that the variance would not pose any unreasonable health
risk.
   (J)   Special requirements for liquid waste.
      (1)   Bulk or non-containerized liquid waste or waste containing free
liquids must not be placed in a landfill unless:
         (a)   The landfill has a liner which is chemically and physically
resistant to the added liquid, and a functioning leachate collection and
removal system with a capacity sufficient to remove all leachate produced; and
         (b)   Before disposal, the liquid waste or waste containing free
liquids is treated or stabilized, chemically or physically, so that free
liquids are no longer present.
      (2)   A container holding liquid waste or waste containing free liquids
must not be placed in a landfill unless:
         (a)   The container is designed to hold liquids or free liquids for a
use other than storage, such as a battery or capacitor; or
         (b)   The container is very small, such as an ampule.
(Ord. 81-3, passed 3-1-1982)
§ 50.26 FACILITY PERMITS.
   (A)   Facility permit required. No person shall cause or allow the operation
of a landfill or hazardous waste facility within the boundaries of Boone
County, Indiana, without first obtaining a permit from the Board. Provided,
however, that any person who operates any such facility on the effective date
of this subchapter may continue to operate that facility if he or she submits
an application to the Board within 30 days from the effective date of this
subchapter.
   (B)   Permit application.
      (1)   Within 30 days after receiving an application for a permit, the
Board shall determine whether the application is complete and, if incomplete,
request the additional information needed to complete the application. The
applicant shall then complete the application within 30 days of the Board’s
request for additional information and, if the application is not completed as
requested, the permit shall be deemed denied. Completed applications shall be
considered pursuant to the provisions hereof.
      (2)   Each completed application to the Board must include:
         (a)   The applicant’s name and address;
         (b)   A brief description of the affected facility and the treatment,
storage or disposal activities at the facility;
         (c)   A complete copy of each application for a permit or license for
the facility filed with federal, state or local authorities in the five years
prior to the date of application hereunder;
         (d)   A copy of all permits issued to the facility by federal, state
or local authorities in the five years prior to the date of application
hereunder;
         (e)   The data, information and any representations of the owner and
operator required to demonstrate that the applicant’s facility complies with
all applicable standards under this subchapter;
         (f)   Any other data or information requested by the Board in
reviewing the permit application; and
         (g)   The following statement signed by the owner and operator of the
facility or his, her or its authorized representative:
“We certify under penalty of law that we have personally examined and are
familiar with the information submitted in this demonstration and all attached
documents, and that, based on inquiry of those individuals immediately
responsible for obtaining this information, we believe that the submitted
information is true, accurate and complete. We further acknowledge and
recognize responsibility for the operation of the facility in accordance with
the plans, specifications and descriptions of the project filed as support for
the issuance of any permit or license for the facility.”
   (C)   Other information. Any data and other information required under this
subchapter may be filed in the form used to obtain other necessary permits and
certificates so as to minimize duplication in the development and presentation
of the documentation.
   (D)   Issuance of permit.
      (1)   All permit applications shall be reviewed pursuant to the notice
comment and hearing procedures set forth herein.
      (2)   A permit for a hazardous waste facility shall be issued to an
applicant upon presentation of evidence of:
         (a)   Compliance with the provisions hereof;
         (b)   Compliance with all applicable federal and state laws and
regulations concerning hazardous waste; and
         (c)   Construction of the facility in accordance with all applicable
federal and state construction permits.
      (3)   A permit for a solid waste landfill shall be issued to an applicant
upon presentation of evidence of:
         (a)   Compliance with the provisions hereof;
         (b)   Compliance with all applicable federal and state laws and
regulations concerning solid waste; and
         (c)   Construction of the landfill in accordance with all applicable
federal and state construction permits.
      (4)   A permit issued under this section shall contain such terms and
conditions as are deemed necessary by the Board to protect the public health
and the environment. In issuing permits under this section, the Board may
require a solid waste landfill or hazardous waste facility to install and
operate leachate and run-off control systems or pollution control devices or
systems in accordance with a schedule of compliance set forth in the permit, or
to take such other action as the Board shall deem necessary to protect the
public health and environment in accordance with a schedule of compliance;
provided, however, that the failure or refusal of a permittee to comply with
the provisions of such a schedule of compliance shall be deemed a violation of
the permit and shall subject the permit to revocation and provided, further,
that any schedule of compliance set forth in any permit shall specify the
shortest reasonable time for completing the actions set forth in the schedule
of compliance.
   (E)   Denial of permit. In the event a permit application is denied, the
Board shall send written notice by certified mail, return receipt requested, to
the applicant and shall set forth in the notice the reasons for the action.
   (F)   Amendment, modification, revocation or suspension of a permit.
      (1)   The Board may amend, modify, revoke or suspend any issued permit
for cause, including, but not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Violation of any condition or provision of said permit or
failure to comply with any final order of the Board;
         (b)   Failure to comply with any applicable provision of this
subchapter;
         (c)   Obtaining a permit by misrepresentation or failure to disclose
fully all relevant facts; or
         (d)   Where the permitted facility poses a threat to the public health
or the environment.
      (2)   In the event of amendment, modification, revocation or suspension
of any permit, the Board shall serve written notice by certified mail, return
receipt requested, on the permit holder and shall set forth in such notice the
reasons for the actions.
   (G)   Transfer of permit. No person shall cause or allow any change in the
ownership, including partial changes in ownership, or operational control of
any permitted facility without obtaining the approval of the Board. An
application for transfer shall be submitted to the Board jointly by the
existing owner(s) and operator(s) and the prospective owner(s) and operator(s),
and the application shall be signed by all parties. The existing permittee
shall be subject to these rules and conditions of the permit until the Board
approves the transfer. For the purposes of this section, the Board may effect
the transfer by nullifying the existing permit and issuing a new permit.
   (H)   Duration of and reissuance of permit. Permits issued by the Board
pursuant to this section shall be effective for a fixed term not to exceed two
years. Application for re-issuance of the permit shall be submitted to the
Board no later than 120 days prior to the expiration date specified in the
permit.
   (I)   Recording and reporting.
      (1)   Any person treating, storing or disposing of waste at a hazardous
waste facility shall make a record of the following information as it becomes
available:
         (a)   A description and the quantity of each hazardous waste received,
and the method and date of its treatment, storage or disposal at the facility;
and
         (b)   The location of each hazardous waste within the facility and the
quantity at each location.
      (2)   This information shall be submitted in the form of reports to the
Board once per month and shall be submitted prior to the fifteenth day of the
following month and shall be furnished to the Board upon request.
   (J)   Fees.
      (1)   A fee of $2,500 will be charged in connection with each permit
application for a hazardous waste facility. A fee of $1,000 will be charged in
connection with each permit application for a solid waste landfill. No
application fee shall be refunded if a permit application is denied. A fee of
$500 and $250 shall be charged for each permit issued to a hazardous waste
facility and solid waste landfill, respectively.
      (2)   A fee of $0.10 shall be charged for each cubic yard of waste
treated, stored or disposed of at a hazardous waste facility. This fee shall be
collected by the operator of the hazardous waste facility upon receiving the
waste and remitted at the end of each month to the Board together with the
reports required hereby. The fees assessed in this section are in addition to
any other fees assessed under this subchapter.
      (3)   Agencies or instrumentalities of federal, state or local
governments will not be required to pay any fee in connection with a facility
permit, and the fee in division (J)(2) above shall not be charged for any waste
disposed of at any state, county or municipally owned and operated facility in
Boone County, Indiana.
(Ord. 81-3, passed 3-1-1982)
§ 50.27 PUBLIC NOTICE, COMMENT AND HEARING.
   (A)   Public notice. The Board shall give public notice of every completed
permit application within 30 days after the application is complete. Public
notice shall be circulated in a manner designed to inform interested and
potentially interested persons of the application by at least the following
means:
      (1)   Notice shall be circulated within the geographical area of the
affected facility by publishing in local newspapers and periodicals, or, if
appropriate, in a daily newspaper of general circulation; except that in all
cases public notice of hearings shall be published in at least one newspaper of
general circulation within the geographical area of any affected facility; and
      (2)   Notice shall be mailed to the applicant, all property owners within
1/4 mile of any affected facility and any person or group upon request. For
purposes of giving notice to property owners, the most recent records of the
township assessors shall be deemed to disclose those entitled to receive
notice.
   (B)   Public notice contents. The contents of public notice of an
application shall include at least the following:
      (1)   Name, address and phone number of Board office;
      (2)   Name and address of each applicant;
      (3)   Brief description of each applicant’s activities or operations;
      (4)   Name of waterways near any affected facility;
      (5)   A brief description of the procedures for the formulation of final
determinations, including the 30-day comment period required hereby and any
other means by which interested persons may influence or comment upon those
determinations; and
      (6)   Address and phone number of premises at which interested persons
may obtain further information.
   (C)   Public comment. After notice is given of a completed application for a
permit, the Board shall provide a period of not less than 30 days following the
date of the public notice during which time interested persons may submit their
written views concerning the application or request that a hearing be held. All
written comments submitted during the 30-day comment period shall be retained
by the Board and considered in the formulation of a final determination with
respect to the application. Extensions of time for the receipt of comment
following the end of the comment period may be granted by the Board when the
public interest warrants.
   (D)   Public hearings.
      (1)   The Board shall provide an opportunity for the applicant or any
interested agency, person or group of persons to request or petition for a
public hearing with respect to permit applications. Any such request or
petition for public hearing shall be filed within a 30-day period, following
issuance of public notice in accordance with this subchapter, and shall
indicate the interest of the party filing the request and the reasons why a
hearing is warranted. The Board shall hold a hearing with respect to any permit
application for a hazardous waste facility, and for any other permit
application if there is a significant public interest (including the filing of
requests or petitions for the hearing) in holding such a hearing. Instances of
doubt will be resolved in favor of holding the hearing.
      (2)   A hearing shall be scheduled not less than five, nor more than
eight, weeks after the agency determines the necessity of the hearing, and
shall be noticed at least 30 days prior to the hearing in the same manner as
the public notice on an application.
   (E)   Contents of notice of public hearing. The contents of public notice of
any hearing shall include at least the following:
      (1)   Name, address and phone number of the Board;
      (2)   Name and address of each applicant whose application will be
considered at the hearing;
      (3)   Names of waterways near the affected facility;
      (4)   A brief reference to the public notice issued for each application,
including the date of issuance;
      (5)   Information regarding the time and location for the hearing;
      (6)   The purpose of the hearing;
      (7)   A concise statement of the issues raised by the persons requesting
the hearing;
      (8)   Address and phone number of premises at which interested persons
may obtain further information, request when applicable a copy of each draft
permit, and inspect and copy forms and related documents; and
      (9)   A brief description of the nature of the hearing, including the
rules and procedures to be followed.
   (F)   Combined notice. The Board may include in any notice of application
for a permit hereunder a notice of hearing in accordance herewith whether or
not any request for the hearing shall have been submitted to it.
(Ord. 81-3, passed 3-1-1982)
§ 50.28 INSPECTION AND INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Right of entry. The Board or its authorized representative, upon
presentation of credentials, or by directive of the Board, shall have a right
to enter upon, to or through premises, public or private, subject to this
subchapter, or premises whereon violation of this subchapter is reasonably
believed to be occurring or is reasonably believed to be about to occur, to
investigate, take samples, copy all records related to waste, and inspect for
compliance with the requirements imposed under this subchapter, or to determine
whether such a violation or threatened violation exists, in accordance with the
following purposes:
      (1)   For the purposes of determining whether any person is subject to
the requirements of this subchapter, or whether any person subject to the
requirements of this subchapter is in compliance with this subchapter;
      (2)   For the purpose of investigating conditions relating to waste
management practices where the Board is in possession of information sufficient
to form a reasonable belief that a violation of this subchapter is occurring or
is about to occur; or
      (3)   For the purpose of determining whether there has been a violation
of any of the provisions of this subchapter or any permit or order issued
pursuant to this subchapter.
   (B)   Conduct of inspection and sampling.
      (1)   Each such investigation or inspection shall be completed with
reasonable promptness.
      (2)   If the Board or its authorized representative obtains any sample
prior to leaving the premises, he or she shall give to the owner, operator or
agent in charge a receipt identifying the sample obtained and, if requested, a
portion of the sample equal in volume or weight to the portion retained. If any
analysis is made of the sample, a copy of the results of the analysis shall be
furnished promptly to the owner, operator or agent in charge.
(Ord. 81-3, passed 3-1-1982)
§ 50.29 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Board shall administer and enforce this subchapter. This
subchapter shall be enforced by injunction of the Circuit Court upon proof of
its violation by a mere preponderance of the evidence.
   (B)   The Board shall report any alleged violation of this subchapter to the
Prosecuting Attorney for Boone County, Indiana, who shall promptly cause
proceedings to be commenced against the alleged violator of this subchapter and
to prosecute the matter to final determination.
(Ord. 81-3, passed 3-1-1982)
§ 50.30 TRANSPORTATION AND FACILITY SPECIAL FUND.
   The fees collected hereunder shall be used to help defray the cost of
administering the regulatory provisions set forth in this subchapter. All such
fees shall be remitted by the officials collecting the same to the County
Treasurer, and credited to a special account of Boone County, Indiana, to be
created by the County Auditor and to be known as the Transportation and
Facility Special Fund.
(Ord. 81-3, passed 3-1-1982)
§ 50.31 DELEGATION OF FUNCTIONS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Delegation of functions. The Board may, by resolution, delegate the
performances of particular functions, such as the issuance of permits, to the
Health Department or an authorized representative thereof.
   (B)   Transfer of powers. The Board may, by resolution, transfer any powers
or duties vested in it under this subchapter to the Health Department or an
authorized representative thereof.
(Ord. 81-3, passed 3-1-1982)
§ 50.32 INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE.
   Any federal or state statute, regulation or document referenced or cited in
this subchapter is incorporated by reference as it existed on the effective
date of this subchapter. Two copies of all such materials are on file for
public inspection in the office of the Clerk of the Board.
(Ord. 81-3, passed 3-1-1982)
§ 50.33 TRANSPORTER REGISTRATION AND LICENSING.
   (A)   All transporters, as previously defined herein, shall register with
and obtain a license from Boone County while providing solid waste collection
and transportation services within Boone County. For purposes of registration,
a transporter shall provide the following information: transporter’s full name;
address; daytime telephone number; emergency phone number; and designated
responsible person to be in contact with concerning the transporter’s day-to-
day operations. Each transporter shall be required to register and obtain a
single license regardless of the number of vehicles used to haul waste.
   (B)   Each transporter providing solid waste collection and transportation
services within Boone County as of January 1, 2014, shall register with Boone
County within 30 days after the later of the effective date of this chapter or
January 1, 2014. A transporter that begins providing solid waste collection and
transportation services within Boone County after January 1, 2014, shall
register within 30 days after the effective date of this chapter or the date on
which the transporter commences provision of solid waste collection and
transportation services within Boone County. A transporter shall renew its
registration and license under this chapter by no later than January 31 of each
subsequent calendar year in which the transporter provides solid waste
collection and transportation services within Boone County.
   (C)   At the time of registration under this section, a transporter shall
pay to Boone County a mandatory fee to cover administrative expenses associated
with the registration and licensing. Said fee will be in the amount of $100 per
transporter per calendar year in which a transporter is registered under this
chapter. Upon payment of this fee and approval by the county of the
registration information, Boone County shall promptly issue a transporter a
license. Annual renewals of registration and licensing shall be required
subject to payment of the fee set in this division (C).
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 10-21-2013)
§ 50.34 TRANSPORTER RESPONSIBILITIES.
   It shall be the responsibility of each transporter to bill and collect from
each of its customers who generate solid waste from a residence or other
facility located in Boone County the applicable District Solid Waste Management
Fee. The transporter is to bill, collect, account for, and remit each month the
total amount of District Solid Waste Management Fees due the district from its
customers. As part of the transporter's normal billing process, the transporter
shall list the applicable District Solid Waste Management Fee as a separate
line item on each bill. Upon submission of the collected fees to the district
each month, the transporter shall be entitled to compensation for the
administrative expenses associated with these collection activities in the
amount of 10% of those funds collected and remitted to the district.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 10-21-2013; Am. Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-1-2019)
§ 50.35 BONDING REQUIREMENT.
   As a condition of registration and licensing under this chapter, a
transporter may be required, in the county’s discretion, to file a surety bond
in an amount equal to the monthly fee set forth herein times the normal average
number of customers served by the transporter in the previous year. The surety
shall be conditioned upon the keeping of accurate records and the making of
full and complete reports and payments of the fees collected hereunder. Should
the transporter registrant file such a surety bond, the bond must:
   (A)   Be with a surety company or financial institution approved by the
Indiana Department of State Revenue; and
   (B)   Name the transporter as the principal and the Boone County Solid Waste
Management District as the obligee.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 10-21-2013)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
50.20 et seq., or violates any determination or order of the Board, shall be
liable for a penalty not to exceed $2,500 per day of violation, which may be
recovered in a civil action commenced in any court of competent jurisdiction by
the Board.
      (2)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
50.20 et seq. shall be deemed to have committed a misdemeanor and, on
conviction thereof, shall be subject to a penalty of fine of not more than
$2,500 for each violation.
   (C)   (1)   Any individual, person, corporation, or entity found to be in
violation of the provisions of this chapter may be fined a sum not in excess of
$2,500 per violation.
      (2)   Should Boone County be required to seek injunctive relief from the
Courts of Boone County for violations of this chapter, other than non-payment
of fees required under §
50.33, they may seek an additional penalty of not less than $100 per day for
each day the violation remains in existence and to seek further penalties of
any sum up to a maximum of $500 per day for each day the violation continues to
exist after injunctive relief is granted or other court-ordered requirements
are imposed. The county shall be entitled to reimbursement of any reasonable
attorney fees and costs of prosecuting such action under this chapter.
(Ord. 81-3, passed 3-1-1982; Am. Ord. 2013-04, passed 10-21-2013)
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
Onsite Sewage Disposal
   
51.01   Title
   
51.02   Purpose
   
51.03   Authority
   
51.04   Adoption by reference
   
51.05   Definitions
   
51.06   General sewage disposal requirements
   
51.07   OSDS permit
   
51.08   Inspections
   
51.09   Permit denial, modification and revocation
   
51.10   Fees
   
51.11   Petition for review
   
51.12   Enforcement
   
51.13   Remedies
Certification and Registration of Onsite Sewage System Installers
   
51.20   Definitions
   
51.21   Installer registration
   
51.22   Installer examination
   
51.23   Installer certification
   
51.24   Enforcement
   
51.25   Fees
ONSITE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
§ 51.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto shall
be known as the Onsite Sewage Disposal Ordinance of Boone County and may be
cited as such and will be referred to herein as "this subchapter".
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 51.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide minimum standards for the
prevention and suppression of disease and health risks associated with the use
of OSDS and to otherwise promote public safety and welfare and protection of
the environment.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 51.03 AUTHORITY.
   The Health Officer, as hereinafter defined, is hereby authorized to issue
OSDS permits as prescribed in 410 IAC 6-8.2-52, issue installer certifications,
collect OSDS permit and incidental fees, perform inspections as prescribed in
410 IAC 6-8.2-52, order or otherwise compel correction of violations of this
subchapter as prescribed in 410 IAC 6-8.2-54 and 55, and is otherwise
authorized to perform all actions necessary for the administration and
enforcement of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 51.04 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   410 IAC 6-8.2, "Residential Onsite Disposal Systems" and 410 IAC 6-10,
"Commercial Onsite Wastewater Disposal" are hereby incorporated by reference in
this subchapter and shall include any later amendments as the same published in
the Indiana Register of the Indiana Administrative Code with effective dates as
fixed therein. Copies of 410 IAC 6-8.2 et. seq. and 410 IAC 6-10 are available
and on file in the office of the Boone County Department of Health.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 51.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Definitions contained in 410 IAC 6-8.2 et. seq. include the following:
      AASHTO
      ABS
      ANSI
      ASTM
      Bedroom
      Bedroom Equivalent
      Commissioner
      Construction permit
      Densic material
      Department
      Design daily flow
      Distribution box
      Drainageway
      Dwelling or residence
      Fill
      Foundation drain
      Health Officer
      INDOT
      Interceptor drain
      NEMA
      NRCS
      NSF
      Operating permit
      Owner
      Perimeter drain
      Person
      PVC
      Residential drain
      Residential onsite system
      Residential onsite sewage system failure
      Residential outbuilding
      Residential sewer
      Sanitary sewerage system
      SDR
      Seasonal high water table
      Segment drain
      Septic tank
      Sewage
      Soil absorption
      Soil absorption system
      Soil horizon
      Soil loading rates
      Soil profile analysis
      Soil scientist
      Start of construction
      Subsurface drainage system
      Technology new to Indiana (ITNI)
   (B)   Definitions of additional terms critical to the purpose, authority,
and application of this subchapter include the following:
      AGENT. An environmental health specialist with knowledge of environmental
health science employed by the Boone County Health Department, or other person
selected by the Health Officer to assist in the administration of this
subchapter.
      COMMERCIAL FACILITY. Any building or place not used exclusively as a
residence. COMMERCIAL FACILITIES include, but are not limited to, office
building, manufacturing facility, multi-family residence (apartment, multiplex,
townhouse, or condominium), motel, restaurant, school, church, child care
facility, long-term care facility, hospital, correctional facility, state
government facility, mobile home park, campground, and any grouping of
residences served by a cluster OSDS.
      INSTALLER. For purposes of this subchapter, INSTALLER shall mean any
person engaged in the construction of residential or commercial OSDS in Boone
County.
      LOCAL HEALTH BOARD. Local board of health of a local health department as
referred to in IC 16-20.
      LOCAL HEALTH DEPARTMENT. As defined in IC-16-18-2-211, a department
organized by a county or city executive with a board, a local health officer,
and an operational staff to provide health services to a county, city, or
multiple county unit.
      LOCAL HEALTH OFFICER. Local health officer of a local health department
as referred to in IC-16-20. For the purpose of this subchapter, HEALTH OFFICER
means the local health officer of Boone County.
      ONSITE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM (OSDS). All equipment and devices necessary
for proper conduction, collection, storage, treatment, and onsite disposal of
sewage from a residence or commercial facility. Included within, but not
limited to the scope of this definition, are pipes, septic tanks, treatment
devices, diverter devices, distribution boxes, dose tanks, effluent pumps,
controls, audiovisual alarms, valves, soil absorption fields, dispersal areas,
surface diversions, and OSDS subsurface drains. As used throughout this
subchapter, OSDS means onsite sewage disposal system or its plural onsite
sewage disposal systems. An OSDS is commonly referred to as a SEPTIC SYSTEM.
      OSDS, CLUSTER. An OSDS shared by two or more residences, or two or more
commercial facilities, or any combination thereof.
      OSDS, COMERCIAL FACILITY. OSDS for a commercial facility.
      OSDS FAILURE. An OSDS that exhibits one or more of the following has
failed:
         (a)   OSDS refuses to accept sewage at the rate of design application
thereby interfering with the normal use of plumbing fixtures.
         (b)   Effluent discharged to the OSDS exceeds the loading rate of the
soil, resulting in discharge of effluent to the ground surface or to surface
waters.
         (c)   Effluent discharged from the OSDS causes contamination of a
potable water supply, ground water, or surface water.
      OSDS REPAIR. The repair or replacement of any OSDS component other than
the replacement or expansion of a soil absorption field.
      OSDS REPLACEMENT. The replacement or expansion of a soil absorption
field.
      PPOTW. Publicly or privately owned wastewater treatment plant as defined
in IC 13-11-2-258.
      RESIDENCE. One- or two-family dwelling, built as a single structure, used
or intended to be used for permanent or seasonal human habitation for sleeping
one or two families.
      SANITARY VAULT PRIVY. A device, using a watertight vault, for the
collection of human excrement as defined in the Indiana State Department of
Health Bulletin S.E. 11, 1986 Edition.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 51.06 GENERAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The owner shall comply with 410 IAC 6-8.2 et seq., 410 IAC 6-10 et seq., and
all of the provisions of this subchapter for an OSDS. These documents and this
subchapter provide minimum requirements for OSDS. Although housing subdivisions
and other moderate to high-density land development may qualify for individual
OSDS, consideration should first be given to other sewage disposal methods.
Other methods for sewage disposal include cluster OSDS and sewerage systems.
   (A)   No person may cause or contribute to a health hazard or water
pollution by disposing of any organic or inorganic matter from an OSDS into
surface water, groundwater or onto the ground surface.
   (B)   The point source discharge of sewage, treated or untreated, from a
residence or commercial facility or their associated OSDS, to surface water,
groundwater, or the ground surface is prohibited.
   (C)   The owner or owner's agent shall comply with the following
installation requirements:
      (1)   Before the start of any construction at the site, the location of
the soil absorption field, dispersal area, set aside area, and area designated
for future expansion of the soil absorption field shall be staked out and
protected from compaction by vehicles and construction equipment.
      (2)   Soil absorption fields shall not be constructed during periods when
the soil is sufficiently wet, at the surface or at the depth of installation,
to exceed its plastic limit. The plastic limit of a soil is exceeded when the
soil can be rolled between the palms of the hands to produce threads one-eighth
inch in diameter that do not break apart or crumble. Sufficient samples shall
be taken to assure that the plastic limit of the soil is not exceeded
throughout the soil absorption field.
      (3)   Special caution shall be taken to prevent compaction by vehicles
and construction equipment at the site before, during, and after construction,
especially during wet weather. The site includes the area selected for
placement of the soil absorption field, dispersal area, set aside area (when
required) and areas designated for future expansion of the soil absorption
field. Alteration of soil structure by the movement of vehicles and
construction equipment may be grounds for rejection of the site.
   (D)   Connection to an existing soil absorption field may be permitted if
the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The connection will not exceed the design daily flow based on the
written site evaluation report and the sizing requirements of 410 IAC 6-8.2.
      (2)   The existing OSDS is not in failure or has not exhibited signs of
OSDS failure.
      (3)   The applicant has possession of a record of the OSDS permit that
shows all dimensions, and records of a final inspection conducted by the Boone
County Health Department documenting that the conditions of the OSDS permit
have been met.
      (4)   If the existing OSDS shall fail, there is sufficient space for an
appropriately sized and designed OSDS replacement, based on a written site
evaluation report and sizing requirements of 410 IAC 6-8.2.
   (E)   Should an OSDS fail, the failure shall be corrected by the owner of
the property served by such OSDS within the time limit set by the Health
Officer.
   (F)   Upon producing proper credentials and identification, an agent of the
Boone County Health Officer shall be permitted to enter upon all properties at
reasonable times to ensure compliance with this subchapter and 410 IAC 6-8.2 et
seq. and 410 IAC 6-10 et seq., to: inspect facilities, equipment or records;
investigate allegations; determine soil characteristics; conduct tests; and
collect samples.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 51.07 OSDS PERMIT.
   An owner shall comply with the requirements for obtaining a residential OSDS
permit contained in 410 IAC 6-8.2-52. If a sanitary sewer exists within 300
feet of the property for which the OSDS permit is requested, the Health Officer
may deny the application for an OSDS permit and require that the residence be
connected to the sanitary sewer.
   (A)   The owner or owner's agent shall obtain a written permit signed by the
Health Officer for the construction of an OSDS prior to the following:
      (1)   The start of construction, or the placement, of a residence that
will not be connected to a PPOTW at the time of initial occupancy.
      (2)   The start of any construction of a residential OSDS repair or
replacement.
      (3)   The start of construction of any replacement, reconstruction, or
expansion of a residence which may increase the number of bedrooms.
      (4)   The start of construction of any commercial facility which will not
be connected to a PPOTW at the time of initial occupancy.
      (5)   The start of construction of a commercial OSDS repair or
replacement.
   (B)   The owner or owner's agent shall provide an application, floor plan,
and plan submittal for an OSDS permit.
   (C)   The plan for a new residential OSDS shall be drawn up by a registered
engineer or land surveyor and shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Legal description of the property, scale, site location map, and
north arrow.
      (2)   Property owner or client's name and address.
      (3)   Property boundaries.
      (4)   Surveying benchmark.
      (5)   Footprint of all existing and proposed buildings, mobile homes,
etc.
      (6)   Location of all existing or proposed roads and driveways.
      (7)   Location of all existing rights-of-way, building setbacks, and
easements.
      (8)   Size and location of any legal county drain. No permanent structure
or installation may be built within 75 feet of a legal drain.
      (9)   Indicate the 100-year flood elevations as determined by the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources (IDNR).
      (10)   Utility services.
      (11)   Location of proposed or existing private well(s) with 50-foot
radius drawn (unless soil type requires additional distance under 410 IAC 6-
8.2-56).
      (12)   Location of all proposed or existing public water supply well(s)
within 100 feet of the OSDS.
      (13)   Location of all trees, and shrubs that may affect the construction
of the OSDS.
      (14)   Location of all soil borings.
      (15)   Location of all lakes, ponds, reservoirs, rivers, streams,
ditches, or swales.
      (16)   Location, design, size, and depth of proposed OSDS and subsurface
drainage.
      (17)   Description, location, size, and depth of proposed subsurface
drainage outlet.
      (18)   Contour lines, shown at one- or two-foot intervals.
      (19)   Finished first floor elevation of the structure.
      (20)   Invert elevations of all pipes as they enter and/or exit the
dwelling, septic tank, dosing tank (if present), and distribution box.
      (21)   Existing ground elevations, trench bottom elevations, and invert
elevations of both ends of all absorption fingers.
      (22)   Existing ground and invert elevations at the corners of the
subsurface drain.
      (23)   Invert elevation of the proposed subsurface drainage outlet if a
tile is to be utilized. If an open drain is to be used, a cross sectional
drawing showing elevation of bank top and ditch bottom should be provided along
with annual high water flow line.
      (24)   Specifications that the site must be protected from all
compacting, grading, and/or filling prior to installation or the site may be
rendered useless.
      (25)   Indications that the septic tank(s),dosing tank (if required), and
absorption fields may be constructed no closer than ten feet from a property
line, dwelling, water line, or structure, and no closer than 50 feet from any
private water supply, including any on neighboring properties.
      (26)   A minimum septic tank capacity of 1,250 gallons.
      (27)   Outlet filter diagram with manufacture's name, filter name, and
filter size as well as location to be installed.
      (28)   An access manhole at each end of the septic tank, with double
lids, with a risers extending to final grade, and fitted with a secured
gastight cover. At least one of the access manholes and its associated riser
shall be no less than eighteen inches in diameter.
      (29)   Adequate baffling, an elbow or a sanitary tee in the distribution
box, and at least five feet of solid piping from the distribution box to each
trench.
      (30)   Trench length and trench spacing of a minimum of ten feet on
centers if room permits; trenches installed parallel to existing ground
contours.
      (31)   A cross-sectional detail of an absorption trench. Indicate a
minimum of 12 inches of cover soil shall be placed over the trench after
construction.
      (32)   A cross-sectional detail of a typical subsurface drain trench.
      (33)   If the outlet of the perimeter drain is off the property, a
drainage easement must be obtained. A copy of the easement must be recorded
with the County Recorder and submitted with the plan.
      (34)   The size in gallons of the dosing tank, if one is required.
Provide a cross-section of the dosing tank, including elevations of the pump
intake, the on/off and alarm switches, and the tank inlet and outlet.
      (35)   An access hatch in the dosing tank of sufficient size to allow
removal of the pump for maintenance. Specify that the dosing tank hatch will be
at ground level.
      (36)   The pumping rate of the dosing pump and pump size. Include the
head discharge curve for the pump and the calculations for total dynamic head
for the system.
      (37)   The force main from the dosing tank, if required, and indicate
length and diameter.
      (38)   If an elevated sand mound is to be used as the disposal area, the
plot plan shall show:
         (a)   The dimensions of the basal area and aggregate bed of the mound.
         (b)   A cross-sectional detail of the aggregate bed in the mound.
         (c)   A depiction of the manifold and delivery laterals, including
lengths, diameters, and number of holes in the laterals.
         (d)   The calculations for total system head plus the discharge curve
for the pump chosen for the system, to demonstrate that the pump has sufficient
capacity.
   (D)   The plan for a repair or replacement residential OSDS shall be drawn
up by a Boone County certified and registered OSDS installer, registered
engineer, or land surveyor and shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Scale and north arrow.
      (2)   Property owner or client's name and address.
      (3)   Property boundaries.
      (4)   Surveying benchmark.
      (5)   Footprint of all existing and proposed buildings, mobile homes,
etc.
      (6)   Location of all existing or proposed roads and driveways.
      (7)   Size and location of any legal county drain. No permanent structure
or installation may be built within 75 feet of a legal drain.
      (8)   Indicate the 100-year flood elevations as determined by the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources (IDNR).
      (9)   Utility services.
      (10)   Location of proposed or existing private well(s) with 50-foot
radius drawn.
      (11)   Location of all proposed or existing public water supply well(s)
within 100 feet of the OSDS.
      (12)   Location of all trees, and shrubs that may affect the construction
of the OSDS.
      (13)   Location of all soil borings.
      (14)   Location of all lakes, ponds, reservoirs, rivers, streams,
ditches, or swales.
      (15)   Location, design, size, and depth of proposed OSDS and subsurface
drainage.
      (16)   Description, location, size, and depth of proposed subsurface
drainage outlet.
      (17)   Existing ground elevations, trench bottom elevations.
      (18)   Existing ground and invert elevations at the corners of the
subsurface drain.
      (19)   Invert elevation of the proposed subsurface drainage outlet if a
tile is to be utilized.
      (20)   Indications that the septic tank(s),dosing tank (if required), and
absorption fields may be constructed no closer than ten feet from a property
line, dwelling, water line, or structure, and no closer than 50 feet from any
private water supply, including any on neighboring properties.
      (21)   A minimum septic tank capacity of 1,250 gallons.
      (22)   An access manhole at each end of the septic tank, with double
lids, with a risers extending to final grade, and fitted with a secured
gastight cover. At least one of the access manholes and its associated riser
shall be no less than 18 inches in diameter.
      (23)   Outlet filter diagram with manufacture's name, filter name, and
filter size as well as location to be installed.
      (24)   Trench length and trench spacing of a minimum of ten feet on
centers if room permits; trenches installed parallel to existing ground
contours.
      (25)   If the outlet of the perimeter drain is off the property, a
drainage easement must be obtained. A copy of the easement must be recorded
with the County Recorder and submitted with the plan.
      (26)   The size in gallons of the dosing tank, if one is required.
      (27)   The force main from the dosing tank, if required, and indicate
length and diameter.
      (28)   If an elevated sand mound is to be used as the disposal area, the
plot plan shall show:
         (a)   The dimensions of the basal area and aggregate bed of the mound.
         (b)   A cross-sectional detail of the aggregate bed in the mound.
         (c)   A depiction of the manifold and delivery laterals, including
lengths, diameters, and number of holes in the laterals.
         (d)   The calculations for total system head plus the discharge curve
for the pump chosen for the system, to demonstrate that the pump has sufficient
capacity.
   (E)   If a subsurface system is to be used as the OSDS the following shall
be staked out on the lot:
      (1)   All absorption fingers at each end.
      (2)   Interceptor drain (if required).
      (3)   Perimeter drain at each corner (if required).
      (4)   Segment drain (if required).
   (F)   If an elevated sand mound is to be used as the OSDS the following
shall be staked out on the lot:
      (1)   Soil absorption field.
      (2)   Dispersal area.
      (3)   Interceptor drain (if required).
      (4)   Perimeter drain at each corner (if required).
      (5)   Segment drain (if required).
   (G)   The Health Officer or agent may require alternative OSDS to be staked
out on the lot.
   (H)   The Health Officer or agent must inspect and approve all proposed or
actual OSDS perimeter drain connections into any outlet. The owner or owner's
agent shall uncover necessary tiles showing proposed connections and outfall,
before the OSDS permit will be issued. The tile shall be left uncovered until
approved by the Health officer or agent, or a minimum of two working days has
elapsed after written notice has been received by the Boone County Health
Department. A working day is a calendar day exclusive of Saturday, Sunday, and
County recognized legal holidays.
   (I)   All lots requiring subsurface drainage will be connected into a
working drain, hereinafter called an outlet of the following type:
      (1)   Existing tile drain.
      (2)   Legal court drain.
      (3)   Natural watercourse.
      (4)   Storm sewers.
      (5)   Existing open ditch.
   (J)   The owner or owner's agent shall obtain a written approval from the
Indiana State Department of Health for the construction of a commercial
facility OSDS and an alternative technology OSDS for a residence, for which the
authority to issue a permit has not been delegated to the Health Officer. The
application to the Health Officer shall include a copy of the approval letter
issued by the Indiana State Department of Health that acts as an OSDS
construction permit and a copy of the plan submittal.
   (K)   The OSDS permit shall be available to regulatory authorities at the
residence or commercial facility where the OSDS is under construction.
   (L)   A residential OSDS permit or commercial OSDS permit shall expire upon
completion of OSDS construction or within one year after issuance, whichever
comes first. A residential OSDS permit may be renewed up to two times if the
owner or owner's agent applies for renewal not more than 30 days after
expiration. When an OSDS permit has expired, construction on the OSDS and the
residence or commercial facility it serves shall not commence or resume unless
a new application and fee have been submitted and a new OSDS permit has been
obtained. The owner or owner's agent shall comply with the conditions of the
new OSDS permit.
   (M)   An owner shall obtain a written permit signed by the Health Officer
for the use of a privy. Privies shall conform to Indiana State Department of
Health Bulletin S.E. 11, "The Sanitary Vault Privy," 1986 Edition; a copy is
filed in the office Boone County Health Department for public inspection.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 51.08 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The owner or owner's agent shall request a pre-installation meeting by
the Boone County Health Department at least two working days before the start
of any construction of a residential or commercial OSDS.
   (B)   The owner or owner's agent shall request an inspection by the Boone
County Health Department at least two working days before any portion of the
OSDS is covered, as required in 410 IAC 6-8.2-50(h).
   (C)   The OSDS construction shall comply with the requirements of 410 IAC 6-
8.2 et seq., all provisions of this subchapter, all other local ordinances, and
the OSDS permit.
   (D)   The Boone County Health Department may inspect all commercial OSDS
installations.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 51.09 PERMIT DENIAL, MODIFICATION AND REVOCATION.
   An OSDS permit may be denied, modified, or revoked in accordance with the
provisions of 410 IAC 6-8.2-52, 54, and 55.
   (A)   After review of an application and plan submittal, the Boone County
Health Department may deny a permit for an OSDS for which it has authority. The
reasons for denial include, but are not limited to, any of the following, or
combination thereof:
      (1)   The OSDS plan submittal does not address the demands and
limitations of the OSDS site.
      (2)   The owner failed to demonstrate that the proposed OSDS can be
designed, located, constructed, maintained, and operated in compliance with 410
IAC 6-8.2 et seq. and all of the provisions of this subchapter.
      (3)   False information was submitted in the application.
      (4)   Information submitted in the written site evaluation report, plot
plan or OSDS plan is found to be incomplete or erroneous.
      (5)   The owner failed to respond to a request for a revised plan
submittal or for additional information within 30 days.
   (B)   If an application is denied, the owner shall be advised, in writing,
of the basis for the denial, the right and procedure for appeal, the deadline
for appeal, and the opportunity for a fair hearing.
   (C)   The Boone County Health Department may modify or revoke a permit that
it has issued. The reasons for modification or revocation include, but are not
limited to, any of the following:
      (1)   The soil absorption field site has been disturbed or altered after
collection of information for the written site evaluation report. Disturbance
or alteration of the site includes, but is not limited to the following:
         (a)   The addition of fill.
         (b)   Cutting, scraping, or removal of soil.
         (c)   Compaction of the site.
      (2)   False information has been submitted to obtain the permit.
      (3)   Information submitted in the written site evaluation report, plot
plan, or OSDS plan is found to be erroneous, incomplete, or deficient.
      (4)   Errors or omissions are discovered after the permit has been
issued.
      (5)   The OSDS does not comply with 410 IAC 6-8.2 et seq., the provisions
of this subchapter, or the conditions of the OSDS permit.
      (6)   The owner or owner's agent failed to notify the Boone County Health
Department and the installer prior to construction of a commercial facility or
residential OSDS, in order to schedule a pre-installation conference at the
site.
      (7)   The owner or owner's agent failed to request an inspection by Boone
County Health Department at least two working days before any portion of the
OSDS was covered.
   (D)   If a permit is revoked or modified, the owner shall be advised, in
writing, of the basis for the modification or revocation, the right and
procedure for appeal, the deadline for appeal, and the opportunity for a fair
hearing.
   (E)   If a permit has been revoked, the following shall occur for a new
permit to be issued:
      (1)   The owner shall provide, as necessary, a revised site evaluation,
and a revised plot plan and OSDS plan.
      (2)   The proposed OSDS shall comply with the requirements of 410 IAC 6-
8.2 et. seq., and all of the provisions of this subchapter.
      (3)   If a permit is revoked, construction may not proceed on the OSDS,
or the residence or commercial facility it serves, until a new permit is
issued.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 4-2-21012)
§ 51.10 FEES.
   (A)   An application fee in the amount specified in the Boone County Fee
Ordinance for plan review shall be submitted with the application for permit.
   (B)   A fee in the amount specified in the Boone County Fee Ordinance for an
OSDS permit shall be submitted prior to issuance of the OSDS permit.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 51.11 PETITION FOR REVIEW.
   (A)   The Boone County Board of Health shall hear appeals incidental to the
issuance, modification, denial and revocation of OSDS permits if, within 15
days following the date of receipt of an issued OSDS permit, OSDS permit
modification, notice of OSDS permit denial or notice of OSDS permit revocation,
any person aggrieved by such action files a petition for review concerning such
action with the Board.
   (B)   The petition for review shall state:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number (if applicable) of the
person making the request;
      (2)   Identify the interests of the petitioner which is effected by the
OSDS permit issuance, denial, modification, or revocation;
      (3)   Identify any persons whom the petitioner represents;
      (4)   State with particularity the reasons for the request;
      (5)   State with particularity the issues proposed to be considered;
      (6)   Include proposed terms or conditions, which in the judgment of the
petitioner would be appropriate to carry out the requirements of law, 410 IAC
6-8.2 et seq., or this subchapter governing such OSDS permits.
   (C)   Upon receipt of a petition for review, the Health Officer or agent
shall arrange a time and place for a hearing before the Board of Health and
shall give the petitioner written notice thereof. Such hearing shall be held as
soon as practical after receipt of the petition.
   (D)   At such hearing, the petitioner shall be given an opportunity to show
evidence why the permit should not be modified, denied, or revoked. The Health
Officer or agent shall be given opportunity to show the reasons for the
modification, denial, or revocation. At the conclusion of the hearing, the
Boone County Board of Health shall sustain or overrule the Health Officer's
original ruling depending upon its findings as to compliance with the
provisions of 410 IAC 6-8.2 and this subchapter. All proceedings of such
hearing, including the findings and decision of the Board of Health, shall be
summarized, reduced to writing, and entered as a matter of public record in the
office of the Boone County Health Department.
   (E)   The procedures established in IC 4-21.5, the Administrative Procedure
and Orders Act, may apply to the conduct of the hearing.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 51.12 ENFORCEMENT.
   This subchapter is enforced in accordance with the provisions of 410 IAC 6-
8.2.
   (A)   Any person found to be in violation of any provision of this
Ordinance, 410 IAC 6-8.2 et seq., 410 IAC 6-10 et seq., or any conditions of an
OSDS permit, shall be served with a written order either in person or by
certified or registered mail by the Health Officer. This order shall state the
nature of the violation, and provide a reasonable time limit unless the Health
Officer deems an emergency exists, not to exceed 60 days, for the correction of
any violation of this subchapter.
   (B)   Whenever the Health Officer, his agent excluded, finds that an
emergency exists which requires immediate action to protect the public health,
the Health Officer may issue an order describing the existence of such an
emergency and require that such action be taken as he deems necessary to meet
the emergency. Such order shall be effective immediately.
   (C)   The Health Officer may issue an order to stop work when:
      (1)   Construction of an OSDS has begun without a permit.
      (2)   Construction of an OSDS is in violation of the permit issued.
      (3)   Any other conditions exist that may result in the revocation of a
permit, as listed in §
51.09.
   (D)   An owner or owner's agent, upon receipt of an order, shall comply with
the order and the provisions of 410 IAC 6-8.2 et seq., and all of the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (E)   Any person who shall continue any violation of this subchapter beyond
the time limit provided for correction of any violations of this subchapter or
who performs any act prohibited herein or shall fail to perform any duty
lawfully enjoined or who shall fail, neglect, or refuse to obey any lawful
order given by the Boone County Health Officer shall be punished for the first
offense by a fine of not more than $500 and for the second and each subsequent
offense of not more than $1,000. Each day a violation of this subchapter
continues shall constitute a separate offense for which a separate fine may be
levied.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 51.13 REMEDIES.
   (A)   The Health Officer may bring actions in the Boone County Circuit Court
or Superior Court of Boone County for mandatory and injunctive relief for the
enforcement of and to secure compliance with any order or orders made by the
Health Officer or to otherwise provide for the enforcement of this subchapter.
   (B)   Any such action for mandatory or injunctive relief may be joined with
an action to recover the penalties, costs and expenses provided in this
subchapter. In the event any legal action is necessary to enforce this
subchapter, the Health Officer may seek recovery of costs and expenses
reasonably incurred to enforce the provisions of this subchapter including, but
not limited to, reasonable attorney's fees.
   (C)   In addition to the specific enforcement mechanisms contained within
this subchapter, the Health Officer may furnish written evidence of any
violation of this subchapter to the Boone County Prosecutor and/or the Boone
County Attorney for appropriate action against the offending person.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 4-2-2012)
CERTIFICATION AND REGISTRATION OF ONSITE SEWAGE SYSTEM INSTALLERS
§ 51.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CERTIFIED INSTALLER. An installer who passes a written proficiency
examination conducted by the Department or an entity approved by the
Department, and maintains certification through retesting or obtaining the
proper continuing education units.
   DEPARTMENT. The Boone County Health Department.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The Health Officer for Boone County and/or his/her
authorized representative.
   REGISTERED INSTALLER. A certified installer who registers with the Boone
County Health Department.
(Ord. 2012-05, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 51.21 INSTALLER REGISTRATION.
   Effective 60 days after the adoption of this subchapter, no person shall
conduct, install, replace, alter or repair any part of any onsite sewage system
(OSS) in Boone County unless the person is registered with the Department.
   (A)   An installer shall file with the Department an application for
registration, on a form provided by the Department. Such application shall
include all of the information required on the form, including:
      (1)   Name
      (2)   Company and address.
      (3)   Phone number(s) and email address of the installer.
      (4)   Proof of current certification for gravity OSS and flood dose OSS.
   (B)   The installer may also include with the application proof of
certification for trench pressure OSS, sand mound OSS and technology new to
Indiana OSS for which an interim standard has been published by the Indiana
State Department of Health.
   (C)   The installer applying for registration must also provide the
information required in divisions (A) and (B) above for each certified
installer employed by the registered installer.
   (D)   Such registration shall be valid for a term of one year, beginning
January 1 and expiring December 31, of the same year and shall be renewed
annually. The registration shall bear the name and address, phone number(s) and
email address of the registered installer and the expiration date, and shall
not be transferable.
(Ord. 2012-05, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 51.22 INSTALLER EXAMINATION.
   Every installer engaged in the construction of OSS in Boone County shall be
knowledgeable of all laws, rules, technical specifications and ordinances of
both the State of Indiana and Boone County governing OSS.
   (A)   The applicant for certification shall demonstrate knowledge of the
applicable laws, rules, technical specifications and ordinances before becoming
certified by passing a written proficiency examination conducted by the
Department or an entity approved by the Department.
   (B)   The examination shall be in multiple parts. The Department or an
entity approved by the Department will develop examinations to test applicant
knowledge or laws, rules, regulations and ordinances of the State of Indiana
and Boone County in the following areas:
      (1)   Part A will cover gravity OSS and flood dose OSS.
      (2)   Part B will cover trench pressure distribution OSS and sand mound
OSS.
      (3)   Technology new to Indiana OSS for which an interim standard has
been published by the Indiana State Department of Health.
   (C)   Examinations shall be reviewed from time to time to determine their
applicability to current laws, rules, technical specifications and ordinances.
      (1)   A score fo 80% or higher on each part will be considered passing.
If the applicant fails to pass any part of the examination, the applicant may
re-apply for installer certification and re-examination no earlier than one
month following the examination date.
      (2)   When taking a written examination is not feasible due to language
or reading difficulties, oral examination will be allowed.
(Ord. 2012-05, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 51.23 INSTALLER CERTIFICATION.
   An applicant shall comply with the requirements for certification and may be
certified to install OSS for the following.
   (A)   Upon successful completion of the examination for Part A, the
applicant shall be issued certification to install gravity OSS and flood dose
OSS.
   (B)   Certification to install gravity OSS and flood dose OSS is required
prior to certification to install trench pressure OSS and sand mound OSS, or
certification to install technology new to Indiana OSS for which an interim
standard has been published by the Indiana State Department of Health.
   (C)   Upon successful completion of the examination for Part B, the
applicant shall be issued certification to install trench OSS and sand mound
OSS.
   (D)   Upon successful completion of an examination for technology new to
Indiana OSS for which an interim standard has been published by the Indiana
State Department of Health, the applicant shall be issued certification to
install an OSS for that technology new to Indiana.
   (E)   The certified installer shall possess a copy of the certification at
all times when installing OSS.
   (F)   A certified installer shall be on the site at all times during OSS
construction and shall be deemed responsible for the construction. A certified
installer may supervise other construction workers as necessary to assist in
the construction.
   (G)   Every certified installer shall be a registered installer or shall be
employed by a registered installer. If the certified installer is not also a
registered installer, they shall declare at the time of certification the
registered installer they work for and shall maintain employment with the
registered installer as a condition of their certification.
   (H)   A property owner wanting to install, repair, replace or otherwise work
on the OSS serving the property owner's dwelling shall be required to
demonstrate knowledge of applicable laws, rules and technical specifications
and local ordinances by passing the proficiency exam in §
51.22(B)(1) and (B)(2), if applicable, and (B)(3), if applicable, conducted by
the Department or an entity approved by the Department.
(Ord. 2012-05, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 51.24 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   If a registered or certified installer has repeated violations of any
provision of this subchapter or the applicable rules and requirements of the
Department, the Health Officer may revoke the appropriate registration and/or
certification. If registration or certification is revoked, the requirements
for becoming registered and/or certified, including testing and the payment of
the appropriate fee, shall apply prior to re-registration or re-certification.
An installer who has been re- registered or re-certified under these conditions
shall be on probationary status for a period of one year.
   (B)   If a registration or certification is revoked, the installer shall be
advised, in writing, for the basis of the revocation, the right and procedure
for the appeal, the deadline for appeal and the opportunity for a fair hearing.
   (C)   Any person (except a property owner who complies with the requirements
of §
51.23(H)) constructing, installing, repairing, replacing or altering any OSS
who is not registered in Boone County shall be deemed to be in violation of
this subchapter. A person who is in violation of this subchapter shall be fined
for the first offense no more than $2,500; for the second and any subsequent
offense no more than $7,500. Each violation of this subchapter shall constitute
a separate violation.
(Ord. 2012-05, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 51.25 FEES.
   (A)   A fee of $25 for installer registration shall be submitted prior to
the issuance or renewal of the registration.
   (B)   A property owner as described in §
51.23(H) is exempt from the installer registration fee.
(Ord. 2012-05, passed 4-2-2012)
CHAPTER 52: WELLS, PUMPS AND GEOTHERMAL HEAT PUMP SYSTEMS
Section
   
52.01   Adoption by reference
§ 52.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   Ordinance 94-12, regulating the installation, construction, and maintenance
of wells, pumps and geothermal heat pumps systems, copies of which are on file
in the office of the county board of commissioners, is adopted and incorporated
as part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 94-12, passed 9-19-1994)
CHAPTER 53: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
53.001   Authority and title
   
53.002   Applicability and exemptions
   
53.003   Background
   
53.004   Findings
   
53.005   Purpose
   
53.006   Abbreviations
   
53.007   Definitions
   
53.008   Responsibility for administration
   
53.009   Conflicting ordinances
   
53.010   Interpretation
   
53.011   Disclaimer of liability
Prohibited Discharges and Connections
   
53.020   Applicability and exemptions
   
53.021   Prohibited discharges and connections
   
53.022   Exempted discharges and connections
   
53.023   Storage of hazardous or toxic material
   
53.024   Private property maintenance duties
   
53.025   Spill reporting
   
53.026   Inspection and monitoring
Stormwater Quantity Management
   
53.035   Applicability and exemptions
   
53.036   Policy on stormwater quantity management
   
53.037   Calculations and design standards and specifications
   
53.038   Drainage easement requirements
   
53.039   Placement of utilities
   
53.040   Structures near county-regulated drains
   
53.041   Inspection, maintenance, record keeping, and reporting
Stormwater Pollution Prevention for Construction Sites
   
53.050   Applicability and exemptions
   
53.051   Policy on stormwater pollution prevention
   
53.052   Calculations and design standards and specifications
   
53.053   Inspection, maintenance, record keeping, and reporting
Stormwater Quality Management for Post-Construction
   
53.065   Applicability and exemptions
   
53.066   Policy on stormwater quality management
   
53.067   Calculations and design standards and specifications
   
53.068   Easement requirements
   
53.069   Inspection, maintenance, record keeping, and reporting
Permit Requirements and Procedures
   
53.080   Conceptual drainage plan review
   
53.081   Permit procedures
   
53.082   SWPPP review time limits
   
53.083   Information requirements
   
53.084   Review of individual lots within a permitted project
   
53.085   Changes to plans
   
53.086   Fee structure
   
53.087   Required assurances
   
53.088   Terms and conditions of permits
   
53.089   Certification of as-built plans
Enforcement
   
53.100   Compliance with this chapter
   
53.101   Stop work order
   
53.102   Failure to comply or complete
   
53.103   Suspension of access to the storm drain system
   
53.104   Corrective action
   
53.105   Appeals
 
   
53.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Permit approval process
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.001 AUTHORITY AND TITLE.
   (A)   This chapter is adopted in accordance with statutory authority granted
under I.C. 36-9-27.29, and further is required by Phase II of the National
Pollution Discharge Elimination System program (FR Doc. 99-29181) authorized by
the 1972 amendments to the Clean Water Act, the Indiana Department of
Environmental Management’s (IDEM) Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System (MS4)
General Permit (MS4 GP) and Construction Stormwater General Permit (CSGP).
Based on this authority and these requirements, this chapter regulates:
      (1)   Discharges of prohibited non-stormwater flows into the storm drain
system.
      (2)   Stormwater drainage improvements related to development of lands
located within Boone County.
      (3)   Drainage control systems installed during new construction and
grading of lots and other parcels of land.
      (4)   Erosion and sediment control systems installed during new
construction and grading of lots and other parcels of land.
      (5)   The design, construction, and maintenance of stormwater drainage
facilities and systems.
      (6)   The design, construction, and maintenance of stormwater quality
facilities and systems.
   (B)   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Boone County
Stormwater Management Ordinance.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-3-2023)
§ 53.002 APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter shall regulate all development and redevelopment
occurring within Boone County. No building permit shall be issued and no land
disturbance started for any construction in a development, as defined in §
53.007, until the plans required by this chapter for such construction have
been accepted in writing by the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County
Surveyor. With the exception of the requirements of §§
53.020 through
53.026 and §
53.083 of this chapter, single-family dwelling houses in accepted subdivisions,
new buildings (or building additions) with less than 500 square feet of area,
and land-disturbing activities affecting less than 10,000 square feet of area
shall be exempt from the requirements of this chapter. Also exempt from this
chapter shall be the agricultural land-disturbing activities.
   (B)   Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor projects
shall be exempt from obtaining permit, but are expected to meet all applicable
technical requirements of this chapter and the Boone County Stormwater
Technical Standards Manual.
   (C)   If a construction project has received final drainage approval from
the Boone County Drainage Board or the Boone County Surveyor within two years
from the effective date of this chapter, and construction has commenced on the
project, the prior ordinance and Technical Standards shall control the
development. If construction has not commenced within such two year period, the
applicant must re-apply for drainage plan approval and this chapter and the
accompanying Technical Standards will control the development.
   (D)   The Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor has the
authority to modify, grant exemptions, and/or waive any and all the
requirements of this chapter and its associated technical standards document. A
pre-submittal meeting with the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County
Surveyor may be requested by the applicant to discuss the applicability of
various provisions of the chapter and its associated technical standards
document with regards to unique or unusual circumstances relating to a project.
However, any initial determination of such applicability shall not be binding
on future determinations of the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County
Surveyor that may be based on the review of more detailed information and
plans.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-3-2023)
§ 53.003 BACKGROUND.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners of Boone County, State of Indiana, on April
21, 1997 adopted Ordinance No. 97-6 which established “Boone County Ordinance
#97-6: Storm Drainage, Erosion and Sediment Control”, commonly known as the
“Boone County Drainage Code”, in order to govern the control of runoff of
stormwater and to protect, conserve and promote the orderly development of the
land in Boone County and its water resources. This code was primarily targeted
at stormwater discharge quantity, and erosion and sediment control.
   (B)   On December 8, 1999, Phase II of the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) permit program was published in the Federal
Register. The NPDES program, as authorized by the 1972 amendments to the Clean
Water Act, controls water pollution by regulating point sources that discharge
pollutants into waters of the United States. Phase II of NPDES requires permit
coverage for stormwater discharges from regulated small municipal separate
storm sewer systems (MS4s) and for small construction activity that results in
the disturbance of equal to or greater than one acre. This federal regulation
went into effect on March 10, 2003. In response to Phase II of NPDES, the
Indiana Department of Environmental Management enacted Rule 13 (327 I.A.C. 15-
13) and revised Rule 5 (327 I.A.C. 15-5).
   (C)   Under these new state and federal regulations, Boone County Drainage
Board was required to establish a regulatory mechanism for regulating
stormwater quality management. Therefore, the “Boone County Drainage Board and/
or Boone County Surveyor Drainage Code” was replaced in 2003 with a document
that included new requirements for management of stormwater quality in addition
to quantity. The noted document was updated in 2007, 2008, and 2015.
   (D)   In December 2021, IDEM finalized two new permits, Municipal Separate
Storm Sewer System (MS4) General Permit (MS4 GP) and Construction Stormwater
General Permit (CSGP), which replaced the previous IDEM’s Rule 13 and Rule 5.
These new permits require the county to update its Stormwater Management
Ordinance to incorporate new requirements contained in the 2021 permits. The
2022 Comprehensive Stormwater Management Ordinance of Boone County and its
companion document, the 2022 Boone County Stormwater Technical Standards
Manual, incorporate the IDEM-required changes and other necessary periodic
updates.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-3-2023)
§ 53.004 FINDINGS.
   The Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor finds that:
   (A)   Water bodies, roadways, structures, and other property within, and
downstream of Boone County are at times subjected to flooding;
   (B)   Flooding is a danger to the lives and property of the public and is
also a danger to the natural resources of the region;
   (C)   Land development alters the hydrologic response of watersheds,
resulting in increased stormwater runoff rates and volumes, increased flooding,
increased stream channel erosion, and increased sediment transport and
deposition;
   (D)   Soil erosion resulting from land-disturbing activities causes a
significant amount of sediment and other pollutants to be transported off-site
and deposited in ditches, streams, wetlands, lakes, and reservoirs;
   (E)   Increased stormwater runoff rates and volumes, and the sediments and
pollutants associated with stormwater runoff from future development projects
within Boone County will, absent reasonable regulation and control, adversely
affect the Boone County’s water bodies and water resources;
   (F)   Pollutant contributions from illicit discharges within Boone County
will, absent reasonable regulation, monitoring, and enforcement, adversely
affect the Boone County’s water bodies and water resources;
   (G)   Stormwater runoff, soil erosion, non-point source pollution, and
illicit sources of pollution can be controlled and minimized by the regulation
of stormwater management;
   (H)   Adopting the standards, criteria, and procedures contained and
referenced in this chapter and implementing the same will address many of the
deleterious effects of stormwater runoff and illicit discharges;
   (I)   Adopting this chapter is necessary for the preservation of the public
health, safety, and welfare, for the conservation of our natural resources, and
for compliance with state and federal regulations.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-3-2023)
§ 53.005 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the health, safety, and
general welfare of the citizens of Boone County through the regulation of
stormwater and non-stormwater discharges to the storm drainage system and to
protect, conserve and promote the orderly development of land and water
resources within Boone County. This chapter establishes methods for managing
the quantity and quality of stormwater entering into the storm drain system in
order to comply with state and federal requirements. The objectives of this
chapter are:
   (A)   To reduce the hazard to public health and safety caused by excessive
stormwater runoff.
   (B)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the storm drain system
from construction site runoff.
   (C)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the storm drain system
from runoff from new development and re-development.
   (D)   To prohibit illicit discharges into the storm drain system.
   (E)   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection, monitoring,
and enforcement procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-3-2023)
§ 53.006 ABBREVIATIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following abbreviations shall apply.
   (A)   BMP. Best Management Practice.
   (B)   COE. United States Army Corps of Engineers.
   (C)   CWA. Clean Water Act.
   (D)   EPA. Environmental Protection Agency.
   (E)   GIS. Geographical Information System.
   (F)   IDEM. Indiana Department of Environmental Management.
   (G)   MS4. Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System.
   (H)   NRCS. USDA-Natural Resources Conservation Service.
   (I)   NPDES. National Pollution Discharge Elimination System.
   (J)   POTW. Publicly Owned Treatment Works.
   (K)   SWCD. Soil and Water Conservation District.
   (L)   SWPPP. Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan.
   (M)   USDA. United States Department of Agriculture.
   (N)   USFWS. United States Fish and Wildlife Service.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-3-2023)
§ 53.007 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Tillage, planting, cultivation, or
harvesting operations for the production of agricultural or nursery vegetative
crops. The term also includes pasture renovation and establishment, the
construction of agricultural conservation practices, and the installation and
maintenance of agricultural drainage tile. For purposes of this chapter, the
term does not include land disturbing activities for the construction of
agricultural related facilities, such as barns, buildings to house livestock,
roads associated with infrastructure, agricultural waste lagoons and
facilities, lakes and ponds, wetlands, and other infrastructure.
   BASE FLOW. Stream discharge derived from groundwater sources as
differentiated from surface runoff. Sometimes considered to include flows from
regulated lakes or reservoirs.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES. Design, construction, and maintenance practices
and criteria for stormwater facilities that minimize the impact of stormwater
runoff rates and volumes, prevent erosion, and capture pollutants.
   BUFFER STRIP. An existing, variable width strip of vegetated land intended
to protect water quality and habitat.
   CAPACITY (OF A STORM DRAINAGE FACILITY). The maximum flow that can be
conveyed or stored by a storm drainage facility without causing damage to
public or private property.
   CATCH BASIN. A chamber usually built at the curb line of a street for the
admission of surface water to a storm drain or subdrain, having at its base a
sediment sump designed to retain grit and detritus below the point of overflow.
   CHANNEL. A portion of a natural or artificial watercourse which periodically
or continuously contains moving water, or which forms a connecting link between
two bodies of water. It has a defined bed and banks which serve to confine the
water.
   COMPREHENSIVE STORMWATER MANAGEMENT. A comprehensive stormwater program for
effective management of stormwater quantity and quality throughout the
community.
   CONSTRUCTED WETLAND. A man-made shallow pool that creates growing conditions
suitable for wetland vegetation and is designed to maximize pollutant removal.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Land disturbing activities, and land disturbing
activities associated with the construction of infrastructure and structures.
This term does not include routine ditch or road maintenance or minor
landscaping projects.
   CONSTRUCTION SITE ACCESS. A stabilized stone surface at all points of
ingress or egress to a project site, for the purpose of capturing and detaining
sediment carried by tires of vehicles or other equipment entering or exiting
the project site.
   CONTIGUOUS. Adjoining or in actual contact with.
   CONTOUR. An imaginary line on the surface of the earth connecting points of
the same elevation.
   CONTOUR LINE. Line on a map which represents a contour or points of equal
elevation.
   CONTRACTOR OR SUBCONTRACTOR. An individual or company hired by the project
site or individual lot owner, their agent, or the individual lot operator to
perform services on the project site.
   CONVEYANCE. Any structural method for transferring stormwater between at
least two points. The term includes piping, ditches, swales, curbs, gutters,
catch basins, channels, storm drains, and roadways.
   CROSS SECTION. A graph or plot of ground elevation across a stream valley or
a portion of it, usually along a line perpendicular to the stream or direction
of flow.
   CULVERT. A closed conduit used for the conveyance of surface drainage water
under a roadway, railroad, canal or other impediment.
   DECHLORINATED SWIMMING POOL DISCHARGE. Chlorinated water that has either sat
idle for seven days following chlorination prior to discharge to the MS4
conveyance, or, by analysis, does not contain detectable concentrations (less
than 0.05 milligram per liter) of chlorinated residual.
   DESIGN STORM. A selected storm event, described in terms of the probability
of occurring once within a given number of years, for which drainage or flood
control improvements are designed and built.
   DETENTION. Managing stormwater runoff by temporary holding and controlled
release.
   DETENTION BASIN. A facility constructed or modified to restrict the flow of
stormwater to a prescribed maximum rate, and to detain concurrently the excess
waters that accumulate behind the outlet.
   DETENTION STORAGE. The temporary detaining or storage of stormwater in
storage facilities, on rooftops, in streets, parking lots, school yards, parks,
open spaces or other areas under predetermined and controlled conditions, with
the rate of release regulated by appropriately installed devices.
   DETENTION TIME. The theoretical time required to displace the contents of a
tank or unit at a given rate of discharge (volume divided by rate of
discharge).
   DETRITUS. Dead or decaying organic matter; generally contributed to
stormwater as fallen leaves and sticks or as dead aquatic organisms.
   DEVELOPER. Any person financially responsible for construction activity, or
an owner of property who sells or leases, or offers for sale or lease, any lots
in a subdivision.
   DISCHARGE. Usually the rate of water flow. A volume of fluid passing a point
per unit time commonly expressed as cubic feet per second, cubic meters per
second, gallons per minute, or millions of gallons per day.
   DISPOSAL. The discharge, deposit, injection, spilling, leaking, or placing
of any solid waste or hazardous waste into or on any land/or water so that the
solid waste or hazardous waste, or any constituent of the waste, may enter the
environment, be emitted into the air, or be discharged into any waters,
including ground waters.
   DITCH. A man-made, open watercourse in or into which excess surface water or
groundwater drained from land, stormwater runoff, or floodwaters flow either
continuously or intermittently.
   DRAIN. A buried slotted or perforated pipe or other conduit (subsurface
drain) or a ditch (open drain) for carrying off surplus groundwater or surface
water.
   DRAINAGE. The removal of excess surface water or groundwater from land by
means of ditches or subsurface drains. Also see NATURAL DRAINAGE.
   DRAINAGE AREA. The area draining into a stream at a given point. It may be
of different sizes for surface runoff, subsurface flow and base flow, but
generally the surface runoff area is considered as the drainage area.
   DRY WELL. A type of infiltration practice that allows stormwater runoff to
flow directly into the ground via a bored or otherwise excavated opening in the
ground surface.
   DURATION. The time period of a rainfall event.
   ENVIRONMENT. The sum total of all the external conditions that may act upon
a living organism or community to influence its development or existence.
   ERODIBILITY INDEX (EI). The soil erodibility index (EI) provides a numerical
expression of the potential for a soil to erode considering the physical and
chemical properties of the soil and the climatic conditions where it is
located. The higher the index, the greater the investment needed to maintain
the sustainability of the soil resource base if intensively cropped. It is
defined to be the maximum of (RxKxLS)/T (from the Universal Soil Loss Equation)
and (CxI)/T (from the Wind Erosion Equation), where R is a measure of rainfall
and runoff, K is a factor of the susceptibility of the soil to water erosion,
LS is a measure of the combined effects of slope length and steepness, C is a
climatic characterization of windspeed and surface soil moisture and I is a
measure of the susceptability of the soil to wind erosion. Erodibility index
scores equal to or greater than eight are considered highly erodible land.
   EROSION. The wearing away of the land surface by water, wind, ice, gravity,
or other geological agents. The following terms are used to describe different
types of water erosion:
      (1)   ACCELERATED EROSION. Erosion much more rapid than normal or
geologic erosion, primarily as a result of the activities of man.
      (2)   CHANNEL EROSION. An erosion process whereby the volume and velocity
of flow wears away the bed and/or banks of a well-defined channel.
      (3)   GULLY EROSION. An erosion process whereby runoff water accumulates
in narrow channels and, over relatively short periods, removes the soil to
considerable depths, ranging from one to two feet to as much as 75 to 100 feet.
      (4)   RILL EROSION. An erosion process in which numerous small channels
only several inches deep are formed; occurs mainly on recently disturbed and
exposed soils (see RILL).
      (5)   SPLASH EROSION. The spattering of small soil particles caused by
the impact of raindrops on wet soils; the loosened and spattered particles may
or may not be subsequently removed by surface runoff.
      (6)   SHEET EROSION. The gradual removal of a fairly uniform layer of
soil from the land surface by runoff water.
   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL. A practice, or a combination of practices, to
minimize sedimentation by first reducing or eliminating erosion at the source
and then as necessary, trapping sediment to prevent it from being discharged
from or within a project site.
   FILTER STRIP. Usually a long, relatively narrow area (usually, 20 to 75 feet
wide) of undisturbed or planted vegetation used near disturbed or impervious
surfaces to filter stormwater pollutants for the protection of watercourses,
reservoirs, or adjacent properties.
   FLOATABLE. Any solid waste that will float on the surface of the water.
   FLOOD (OR FLOOD WATERS). A general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual
and rapid accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining the channel which
have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory or 100-year flood. Any
normally dry land area that is susceptible to being inundated by water from any
natural source. The FLOODPLAIN includes both the floodway and the floodway
fringe districts.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. That portion of the flood plain lying outside the floodway,
which is inundated by the regulatory flood.
   FOOTING DRAIN. A drain pipe installed around the exterior of a basement wall
foundation to relieve water pressure caused by high groundwater elevation.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible animal solid, vegetable solid, and semisolid wastes
resulting from the processing, handling, preparation, cooking, serving, or
consumption of food or food materials.
   GASOLINE OUTLET. An operating gasoline or diesel fueling facility whose
primary function is the resale of fuels. The term applies to facilities that
create 5,000 or more square feet of impervious surfaces, or generate an average
daily traffic count of 100 vehicles per 1,000 square feet of land area.
   GEOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION SYSTEM. A computer system capable of assembling,
storing, manipulating, and displaying geographically referenced information.
This technology can be used for resource management and development planning.
   GRADE.
      (1)   The inclination or slope of a channel, canal, conduit, and the
like, or natural ground surface usually expressed in terms of the percentage
the vertical rise (or fall) bears to the corresponding horizontal distance.
      (2)   The finished surface of a canal bed, roadbed, top of embankment, or
bottom of excavation; any surface prepared to a design elevation for the
support of construction, such as paving or the laying of a conduit.
      (3)   To finish the surface of a canal bed, roadbed, top of embankment,
or bottom of excavation, or other land area to a smooth, even condition.
   GRADING. The cutting and filling of the land surface to a desired slope or
elevation.
   GRASS. A member of the botanical family Graminae, characterized by blade-
like leaves that originate as a sheath wrapped around the stem.
   GROUNDWATER. Accumulation of underground water, natural or artificial. The
term does not include man-made underground storage or conveyance structures.
   HABITAT. The environment in which the life needs of a plant or animal are
supplied.
   HIGHLY ERODIBLE LAND (HEL). Land that has an erodibility index of eight or
more.
   HYDROLOGIC UNIT CODE. A numeric United States Geologic Survey code that
corresponds to a watershed area. Each area also has a text description
associated with the numeric code.
   HYDROLOGY. The science of the behavior of water in the atmosphere, on the
surface of the earth, and underground. A typical hydrologic study is undertaken
to compute flow rates associated with specified flood events.
   ILLICIT DISCHARGE. Any discharge to a conveyance that is not composed
entirely of stormwater except naturally occurring floatables, such as leaves or
tree limbs.
   IMPAIRED WATERS. Waters that do not or are not expected to meet applicable
water quality standards, as included on IDEM's CWA Section 303(d) List of
Impaired Waters.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. Surfaces, such as pavement and rooftops, which prevent
the infiltration of stormwater into the soil.
   INDIVIDUAL BUILDING LOT. A single parcel of land within a multi-parcel
development.
   INDIVIDUAL LOT OPERATOR. A contractor or subcontractor working on an
individual lot.
   INDIVIDUAL LOT OWNER. A person who has financial control of construction
activities for an individual lot.
   INFILTRATION. Passage or movement of water into the soil. Infiltration
practices include any structural BMP designed to facilitate the percolation of
run-off through the soil to groundwater. Examples include infiltration basins
or trenches, dry wells, and porous pavement.
   INLET. An opening into a storm drain system for the entrance of surface
stormwater runoff, more completely described as a storm drain inlet.
   LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any man-made change of the land surface, including
removing vegetative cover that exposes the underlying soil, excavating,
filling, transporting and grading.
   LAND SURVEYOR. A person licensed under the laws of the State of Indiana to
practice land surveying.
   LARGER COMMON PLAN OF DEVELOPMENT OR SALE. A plan, undertaken by a single
project site owner or a group of project site owners acting in concert, to
offer lots for sale or lease; where such land is contiguous, or is known,
designated, purchased or advertised as a common unit or by a common name, such
land shall be presumed as being offered for sale or lease as part of a larger
common plan. The term also includes phased or other construction activity by a
single entity for its own use.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The elevation of the lowest grade adjacent to a
structure, where the soil meets the foundation around the outside of the
structure (including structural members such as basement walkout, patios,
decks, porches, support posts or piers, and rim of the window well).
   LOWEST FLOOR. Refers to the lowest of the following:
      (1)   The top of the basement floor;
      (2)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level of
the building;
      (3)   The top of the first floor of buildings constructed on a slab or of
buildings elevated on pilings or constructed on a crawl space with permanent
openings; or
      (4)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure below an elevated
building where the walls of the enclosure provide any resistance to the flow of
flood waters unless:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood waters,
by providing a minimum of two openings (in addition to doorways and windows)
having a total area of one square foot for every two square feet of enclosed
area subject to flooding. The bottom of all such openings shall be no higher
than one foot above grade.
         (b)   Such enclosed space shall be usable only for the parking of
vehicles or building access.
   MANHOLE. Storm drain structure through which a person may enter to gain
access to an underground storm drain or enclosed structure.
   MEASURABLE STORM EVENT. A precipitation event that results in a total
measured precipitation accumulation equal to, or greater than, 0.5 inch of
rainfall.
   MULCH. A natural or artificial layer of plant residue or other materials
covering the land surface which conserves moisture, holds soil in place, aids
in establishing plant cover, and minimizes temperature fluctuations.
   MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWERS. An MS4 meets all the following criteria:
      (1)   Is a conveyance or system of conveyances owned by the state,
county, city, town, or other public entity;
      (2)   Discharges to waters of the U.S.;
      (3)   Is designed or used for collecting or conveying stormwater;
      (4)   Is not a combined sewer; and
      (5)   Is not part of a publicly owned treatment works (POTW).
   NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM. A permit developed by the
U.S. EPA through the Clean Water Act. In Indiana, the permitting process has
been delegated to IDEM. This permit covers aspects of municipal stormwater
quality.
   NATURAL DRAINAGE. The flow patterns of stormwater runoff over the land in
its pre-development state.
   NUTRIENT(S).
      (1)   A substance necessary for the growth and reproduction of organisms.
      (2)   In water, those substances (chiefly nitrates and phosphates) that
promote growth of algae and bacteria.
   OPEN DRAIN. A natural watercourse or constructed open channel that conveys
drainage water.
   OPEN SPACE. Any land area devoid of any disturbed or impervious surfaces
created by industrial, commercial, residential, agricultural, or other man-made
activities.
   OUTFALL. The point, location, or structure where a pipe or open drain
discharges to a receiving body of water.
   OUTLET. The point of water disposal from a stream, river, lake, tidewater,
or artificial drain.
   PEAK DISCHARGE or PEAK FLOW. The maximum instantaneous flow from a given
storm condition at a specific location.
   PERCOLATION. The movement of water through soil.
   PERMANENT STABILIZATION. The establishment, at a uniform density of 70%
across the disturbed area, of vegetative cover or permanent non-erosive
material that will ensure the resistance of the soil to erosion, sliding, or
other movement.
   PERVIOUS. Allowing movement of water.
   POINT SOURCE. Any discernible, confined, and discrete conveyance including
but not limited to any pipe, ditch, channel, tunnel, conduit, well, discrete
fissure, or container from which pollutants are or maybe discharged (P.L. 92-
500, Section 502[14]).
   POROUS PAVEMENT. A type of infiltration practice to improve the quality and
reduce the quantity of stormwater runoff via the use of man-made, pervious
pavement which allows runoff to percolate through the pavement and into
underlying soils.
   PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. A person licensed under the laws of the State of
Indiana to practice professional engineering.
   PROJECT SITE. The entire area on which construction activity is to be
performed.
   PROJECT SITE OWNER. The person required to submit a stormwater permit
application, and required to comply with the terms of this chapter, including a
developer or a person who has financial and operational control of construction
activities, and project plans and specifications, including the ability to make
modifications to those plans and specifications.
   RAIN GARDEN. A vegetative practice used to alter impervious surfaces, such
as roofs, into pervious surfaces for absorption and treatment of rainfall.
   RECEIVING STREAM, RECEIVING CHANNEL, or RECEIVING WATER. The body of water
into which runoff or effluent is discharged. The term does not include private
drains, unnamed conveyances, retention and detention basins, or constructed
wetlands used as treatment.
   RECHARGE. Replenishment of groundwater reservoirs by infiltration and
transmission from the outcrop of an aquifer or from permeable soils.
   REDEVELOPMENT. Alterations of a property that change a site or building in
such a way that there is disturbance of one acre or more of land. The term does
not include such activities as exterior remodeling.
   REFUELING AREA. An operating gasoline or diesel fueling area whose primary
function is to provide fuel to equipment or vehicles.
   REGIONAL POND. A detention/retention basin sized to detain/retain the runoff
from the entire watershed, on-site and off-site, tributary to the pond's
outlet.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The discharge or elevation associated with the 100-year
flood as calculated by a method and procedure which is acceptable to and
approved by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known as the BASE
FLOOD.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. See FLOODWAY.
   RELEASE RATE. The amount of stormwater release from a stormwater control
facility per unit of time.
   RESERVOIR. A natural or artificially created pond, lake or other space used
for storage, regulation or control of water. May be either permanent or
temporary. The term is also used in the hydrologic modeling of storage
facilities.
   RETENTION. The storage of stormwater to prevent it from leaving the
development site. May be temporary or permanent.
   RETENTION BASIN. A type of storage practice, that has no positive outlet,
used to retain stormwater runoff for an indefinite amount of time. Runoff from
this type of basin is removed only by infiltration through a porous bottom or
by evaporation.
   RETURN PERIOD. The average interval of time within which a given rainfall
event will be equaled or exceeded once. A flood having a return period of 100
years has a 1% probability of being equaled or exceeded in any one year.
   RIPARIAN ZONE. Of, on, or pertaining to the banks of a stream, river, or
pond.
   RIPARIAN HABITAT. A land area adjacent to a water body that supports animal
and plant life associated with that water body.
   RUNOFF. That portion of precipitation that flows from a drainage area on the
land surface, in open channels, or in stormwater conveyance systems.
   RUNOFF COEFFICIENT. A decimal fraction relating the amount of rain which
appears as runoff and reaches the storm drain system to the total amount of
rain falling. A coefficient of 0.5 implies that 50% of the rain falling on a
given surface appears as stormwater runoff.
   SEDIMENT. Solid material (both mineral and/organic) that is in suspension,
is being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by air, water,
gravity, or ice and has come to rest on the earth's surface.
   SEDIMENTATION. The process that deposits soils, debris and other
unconsolidated materials either on the ground surfaces or in bodies of water or
watercourses.
   SENSITIVE WATER. A water body in need of priority protection or remediation
base on its:
      (1)   Providing habitat for threatened or endangered species;
      (2)   Usage as a public water supply intake;
      (3)   Relevant community value;
      (4)   Usage for full body contact recreation;
      (5)   Exceptional use classification as found in 327 I.A.C. 2-1-11(b);
and/or
      (6)   Outstanding state resource water classification as found in 327
I.A.C. 2-1-2(3) and 327 I.A.C. 2-1.5-19(b).
   SITE. The entire area included in the legal description of the land on which
land-disturbing activity is to be performed.
   SLOPE. Degree of deviation of a surface from the horizontal, measured as a
numerical ratio or percent. Expressed as a ratio, the first number is commonly
the horizontal distance (run) and the second is the vertical distance (rise),
such as 2:1. However, the preferred method for designation of slopes is to
clearly identify the horizontal (H) and vertical (V) components (length (L) and
Width (W) components for horizontal angles). Also note that according to
international standards (metric), the slopes are presented as the vertical or
width component shown on the numerator, such as 1V:2H. Slope expressions in
this chapter follow the common presentation of slopes, 2:1, with the metric
presentation shown in parenthesis, (1V:2H). Slopes can also be expressed in
"percents". Slopes given in percents are always expressed as (100*V/H); a 2:1
(1V:2H) slope is a 50% slope.
   SOIL. The unconsolidated mineral and/organic material on the immediate
surface of the earth that serves as a natural medium for the growth of land
plants.
   SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION DISTRICT. A public organization created under
state law as a special-purpose district to develop and carry out a program of
soil, water, and related resource conservation, use, and development within its
boundaries. A subdivision of state government with a local governing body,
established under I.C. 14-32.
   SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, debris, or other discarded material.
   SPILL. The unexpected, unintended, abnormal, or unapproved dumping, leakage,
drainage, seepage, discharge, or other loss of petroleum, hazardous substances,
extremely hazardous substances, or objectionable substances. The term does not
include releases to impervious surfaces when the substance does not migrate off
the surface or penetrate the surface and enter the soil.
   STORM DURATION. The length of time that water may be stored in any
stormwater control facility, computed from the time water first begins to be
stored.
   STORM EVENT. An estimate of the expected amount of precipitation within a
given period of time. For example, a ten-year frequency, 24-hour duration storm
event is a storm that has a 10% probability of occurring in any one year.
Precipitation is measured over a 24-hour period.
   STORM SEWER. A closed conduit for conveying collected stormwater, while
excluding sewage and industrial wastes. Also called a STORM DRAIN.
   STORMWATER. Water resulting from rain, melting or melted snow, hail, or
sleet.
   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN. A plan developed to minimize the
impact of stormwater pollutants resulting from construction activities.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF. The water derived from rains falling within a tributary
basin, flowing over the surface of the ground or collected in channels or
conduits.
   STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT PLAN. A comprehensive written document that
addresses stormwater runoff quality.
   STORMWATER QUALITY MEASURE. A practice, or a combination of practices, to
control or minimize pollutants associated with storm water runoff.
   STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM. All means, natural or man-made, used for
conducting storm water to, through or from a drainage area to any of the
following: conduits and appurtenant features, canals, channels, ditches,
storage facilities, swales, streams, culverts, streets and pumping stations.
   STRIP DEVELOPMENT. A multi-lot project where building lots front on an
existing road.
   SUBDIVISION. Any land that is divided or proposed to be divided into lots,
whether contiguous or subject to zoning requirements, for the purpose of sale
or lease as part of a larger common plan of development or sale.
   SUBSURFACE DRAIN. A pervious backfield trench, usually containing stone and
perforated pipe, for intercepting groundwater or seepage.
   SURFACE RUNOFF. Precipitation that flows onto the surfaces of roofs,
streets, the ground, and the like, and is not absorbed or retained by that
surface but collects and runs off.
   SWALE. An elongated depression in the land surface that is at least
seasonally wet, is usually heavily vegetated, and is normally without flowing
water. Swales conduct stormwater into primary drainage channels and may provide
some groundwater recharge.
   TEMPORARY STABILIZATION. The covering of soil to ensure its resistance to
erosion, sliding, or other movement. The term includes vegetative cover,
anchored mulch, or other non-erosive material applied at a uniform density of
70% across the disturbed area.
   TILE DRAIN. Pipe made of perforated plastic, burned clay, concrete, or
similar material, laid to a designed grade and depth, to collect and carry
excess water from the soil.
   TOPOGRAPHIC MAP. Graphical portrayal of the topographic features of a land
area, showing both the horizontal distances between the features and their
elevations above a given datum.
   TOPOGRAPHY. The representation of a portion of the earth's surface showing
natural and man-made features of a give locality, such as rivers, streams,
ditches, lakes, roads, buildings and, most importantly, variations in ground
elevations for the terrain of the area.
   TRAINED INDIVIDUAL. An individual who is trained and experienced in the
principles of stormwater quality, including erosion and sediment control as may
be demonstrated by state registration, professional certification, experience,
or completion of coursework that enable the individual to make judgments
regarding stormwater control or treatment and monitoring.
   URBAN DRAIN. A drain defined as URBAN DRAIN in Indiana Drainage Code.
   URBANIZATION. The development, change or improvement of any parcel of land
consisting of one or more lots for residential, commercial, industrial,
institutional, recreational or public utility purposes.
   VEGETATED SWALE. A type of vegetative practice used to filter stormwater
runoff via a vegetated, shallow-channel conveyance.
   WATER QUALITY. A term used to describe the chemical, physical, and
biological characteristics of water, usually in respect to its suitability for
a particular purpose.
   WATER RESOURCES. The supply of groundwater and surface water in a given
area.
   WATER BODY. Any accumulation of water, surface, or underground, natural or
artificial, excluding water features designed and designated as water pollution
control facilities.
   WATERCOURSE. Any river, stream, creek, brook, branch, natural or man-made
drainageway in or into which stormwater runoff or floodwaters flow either
continuously or intermittently.
   WATERSHED. The region drained by or contributing water to a specific point
that could be along a stream, lake or other stormwater facilities. Watersheds
are often broken down into subareas for the purpose of hydrologic modeling.
   WATERSHED AREA. All land and water within the confines of a drainage divide.
See also WATERSHED.
   WETLANDS. Areas that are inundated or saturated by surface water or
groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under
normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted
for life in saturated soil conditions.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 53.008 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor shall administer,
implement, and enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any powers granted or
duties imposed upon the authorized enforcement agency may be delegated in
writing by Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor to
qualified persons or entities acting in the beneficial interest of or in the
employ of Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-3-2023)
§ 53.009 CONFLICTING ORDINANCES.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be deemed as additional requirements to
minimum standards required by other Boone County ordinances, and as
supplemental requirements to Indiana’s Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System
(MS4) General Permit (MS4 GP) and Indiana’s Construction Stormwater General
Permit (CSGP). In case of conflicting requirements, the most restrictive shall
apply.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-3-2023)
§ 53.010 INTERPRETATION.
   Words and phrases in this chapter shall be construed according to their
common and accepted meanings, except that words and phrases defined in §
53.007, shall be construed according to the respective definitions given in
that section. Technical words and technical phrases that are not defined in
this chapter but which have acquired particular meanings in law or in technical
usage shall be construed according to such meanings.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-3-2023)
§ 53.011 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on historical records, engineering, and
scientific methods of study. Larger storms may occur or stormwater runoff
amounts may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land uses permitted will be free from stormwater damage. This
chapter shall not create liability on the part of Boone County Drainage Board
and/or Boone County Surveyor or any officer, representative, or employee
thereof, for any damage which may result from reliance on this chapter or on
any administrative decision lawfully made there under.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-3-2023)
PROHIBITED DISCHARGES AND CONNECTIONS
§ 53.020 APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply to all discharges, including illegal dumping,
entering the storm drain system under the control of Boone County Drainage
Board and/or Boone County Surveyor, regardless of whether the discharge
originates from developed or undeveloped lands, and regardless of whether the
discharge is generated from an active construction site or a stabilized site.
These discharges include flows from direct connections to the storm drain
system, illegal dumping, and contaminated runoff.
   (B)   Stormwater runoff from agricultural, timber harvesting, and mining
activities is exempted from the requirements of this chapter unless determined
to contain pollutants not associated with such activities or in excess of
standard practices. Farm residences are not included in this exemption.
   (C)   Any non-stormwater discharge permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver,
or waste discharge order issued to the discharger and administered under the
authority of the Federal Environmental Protection Agency, provided that the
discharger is in full compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver,
or order and other applicable laws and regulations, and provided that written
approval has been granted for the subject discharge to the storm drain system,
is also exempted from this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-3-2023)
§ 53.021 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge to a MS4 conveyance, watercourse, or
waterbody, directly or indirectly, any substance other than stormwater or an
exempted discharge. Any person discharging stormwater shall effectively
minimize pollutants from also being discharged with the stormwater, through the
use of best management practices (BMPs).
   (B)   The Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor is
authorized to require dischargers to implement pollution prevention measures,
utilizing BMPs, necessary to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants into
the Boone County stormwater drainage system.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-3-2023) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.022 EXEMPTED DISCHARGES AND CONNECTIONS.
   Notwithstanding other requirements in this chapter, stormwater comingled
with other discharges either regulated by other NPDES permits or determined by
the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor to not be a
significant source of pollutants, including the following, are exempt from the
requirements of this chapter:
   (A)   Water line and hydrant flushing for maintenance;
   (B)   Irrigation water;
   (C)   Footing, foundation, and crawl space drains (uncontaminated);
   (D)   Excess storm sewer cleaning water not collected by a vacuum truck
(uncontaminated);
   (E)   Fire suppression activities;
   (F)   Uncontaminated pumped groundwater;
   (G)   Springs;
   (H)   Residential car washing;
   (I)   Non-commercial car washing by community organizations;
   (J)   External building washdown, without detergents;
   (K)   Dechlorinated/debrominated residential swimming pool discharges;
   (L)   Uncontaminated groundwater infiltration (as defined at 40 CFR 35.2005
(20));
   (M)   Pavement wash waters provided spills or leaks of toxic or hazardous
materials have not occurred (unless all spill material has been removed) and
where detergents are not used; and
   (N)   Uncontaminated condensate from air conditioning units, coolers, and
other compressors, and from outside storage of refrigerated gases or liquids.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-3-2023)
§ 53.023 STORAGE OF HAZARDOUS OR TOXIC MATERIAL.
   Storage or stockpiling of hazardous or toxic material within any
watercourse, or in its associated floodway or floodplain, is strictly
prohibited. Storage or stockpiling of hazardous or toxic material, including
sewage treatment plant stockpiles, on active construction sites must include
adequate protection and/or containment so as to prevent any such materials from
entering any temporary or permanent stormwater conveyance or watercourse.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-3-2023) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.024 PRIVATE PROPERTY MAINTENANCE DUTIES.
   Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or such
person’s lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse located
within their property boundaries, free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation,
and other obstacles that would pollute, contaminate, or significantly retard
the flow of water through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee
shall maintain existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to a
watercourse, so that such structures will not become a hazard to the use,
function, or physical integrity of the watercourse.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-3-2023) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.025 SPILL REPORTING.
   (A)   Any discharger who accidentally discharges into a waterbody any
substance other than stormwater or an exempted discharge shall immediately
inform the Boone County Health Department concerning the discharge. A written
report concerning the discharge shall be filed with the Boone County Drainage
Board and/or Boone County Surveyor and IDEM, by the dischargers, within five
days. The written report shall specify:
      (1)   The composition of the discharge and the cause thereof;
      (2)   The date, time, and estimated volume of the discharge;
      (3)   All measures taken to clean up the accidental discharge, and all
measures proposed to be taken to prevent any recurrence;
      (4)   The name and telephone number of the person making the report, and
the name and telephone number of a person who may be contacted for additional
information on the matter.
   (B)   A properly reported accidental discharge shall be an affirmative
defense to a civil infraction proceeding brought under this chapter against a
discharger for such discharge. It shall not, however, be a defense to a legal
action brought to obtain an injunction, to obtain recovery of costs or to
obtain other relief because of or arising out of the discharge. A discharge
shall be considered properly reported only if the discharger complies with all
the requirements of this section. This requirement does not relieve discharger
from notifying other entities as required by state or federal regulations.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-3-2023)
§ 53.026 INSPECTIONS AND MONITORING.
   (A)   Storm drainage system. The Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone
County Surveyor has the authority to periodically inspect the portion of the
storm drainage system under the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County
Surveyor’s control, in an effort to detect and eliminate illicit connections
and discharges into the system. This inspection will include a screening of
discharges from outfalls connected to the system in order to determine if
prohibited flows are being conveyed into the storm drainage system. It could
also include spot testing of waters contained in the storm drainage system
itself to detect the introduction of pollutants into the system by means other
than a defined outfall, such as dumping or contaminated sheet runoff.
   (B)   Potential polluters. If, as a result of the storm drainage system
inspection, a discharger is suspected of an illicit discharge, the Boone County
Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor may inspect and/or obtain
stormwater samples from stormwater runoff facilities of the subject discharger,
to determine compliance with the requirements of this chapter. Upon request,
the discharger shall allow the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County
Surveyor’s properly identified representative to enter upon the premises of the
discharger at all hours necessary for the purposes of such inspection or
sampling. The Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor or its
properly identified representative may place on the discharger’s property the
equipment or devices used for such sampling or inspection. Identified illicit
connections or discharges shall be subject to enforcement action as described
in §§
53.100 through
53.105 and §
53.999.
   (C)   New development and re-development. Following the final completion of
construction and the receipt of as-built drawings by the Boone County Drainage
Board and/or Boone County Surveyor, the Boone County Drainage Board and/or
Boone County Surveyor has the authority to inspect new development and re-
development sites to verify that all on-site stormwater conveyances and
connections to the storm drainage system are in compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-3-2023)
STORMWATER QUANTITY MANAGEMENT
§ 53.035 APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   The storage and controlled release rate of excess stormwater runoff shall be
required for all new business, commercial and industrial developments,
residential subdivisions, planned developments, rural estate subdivisions, and
any redevelopment or other new construction located within Boone County. The
Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor, after thorough
investigation and evaluation, may waive the requirement of controlled runoff
for minor subdivisions and parcelization.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-3-2023)
§ 53.036 POLICY ON STORMWATER QUANTITY MANAGEMENT.
   It is recognized that most streams and drainage channels serving Boone
County do not have sufficient capacity to receive and convey stormwater runoff
resulting from continued urbanization. Accordingly, the storage and controlled
release of excess stormwater runoff as well as compensation for loss of
floodplain storage and prevention of increased flooding and erosion risks to
others shall be required for all developments and redevelopments (as defined in
§
53.007) located within Boone County. Release rate requirements, downstream
restriction considerations, acceptable outlet, adjoining property impact
considerations, compensatory floodplain storage requirements, and requirements
associated with dams and levees are detailed in the Boone County Stormwater
Technical Standards Manual.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-3-2023)
§ 53.037 CALCULATIONS AND DESIGN STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   The calculation methods as well as the type, sizing, and placement of all
stormwater facilities shall meet the design criteria, standards, and
specifications outlined in the Boone County Stormwater Technical Standards
Manual. The methods and procedures in the Stormwater Technical Standards Manual
are consistent with the policy stated above.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-3-2023)
§ 53.038 DRAINAGE EASEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   There shall be no trees or shrubs planted, nor any structures or
fences erected in any regulated drainage easement. All stormwater systems,
including detention or retention basins, conveyance systems, structures and
appurtenances, located outside of the right-of-way may be incorporated into the
Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor’s system at the
discretion of the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor. The
developer shall petition to incorporate the storm system into the Boone County
Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor’s system. The stormwater management
permit shall not be approved until such petition is submitted in a form
accepted by the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor.
   (B)   The following specific areas shall be included in a petition:
      (1)   Subdivisions.
         (a)   All new channels, drain tiles equal to or greater than 12 inches
in diameter, six-inch or larger subsurface drains in rear yard swales, inlet
and outlet structures of detention and retention ponds, and appurtenances
thereto as required by this chapter, that are installed in subdivisions
requiring a stormwater management permit from the Boone County Drainage Board
and/or Boone County Surveyor shall be petitioned to become incorporated into
the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor’s system upon
completion, proper inspection, and acceptance by the Boone County Drainage
Board and/or Boone County Surveyor. New drain tiles refer to all sub-surface
stormwater piping, tubing, tiles, manholes, inlets, catch basins, risers, and
the like.
         (b)   New drain tile shall be placed in a minimum 30-foot (15 feet
from centerline on each side) regulated drain easement (RDE) and shall be
designated on the record plat as 30-foot regulated drain easement.
         (c)   A minimum of 25 feet from top of the bank on each side of a new
channel shall be designated on the record plat as a drain easement.
         (d)   Rear-yard swales, 100-year emergency overflow paths, and
emergency overflow routes associated with detention ponds shall not be included
in petition for incorporation. However, a minimum of 30 feet width (15 feet
from centerline on each side) needs to be designated as drainage easement.
         (e)   A minimum of 15 feet beyond the actual footprint (top of the
bank) of stormwater detention facilities shall be designated as drainage
easement. A minimum 25-foot width easement shall also be required as access
easement, unless the pond is immediately next to a public right-of-way.
         (f)   The statutory 75-foot (each side) drainage easement for
regulated drains already within the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone
County Surveyor’s system may be reduced if the drain is re-classified by the
County Surveyor as an urban drain.
         (g)   An annual maintenance assessment shall be set up on each new
regulated drain established in a new subdivision. The amount of the assessment
will be determined by the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County
Surveyor and so certified.
         (h)   If the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor
accepts the petition for incorporation into their system, the following
statement shall become part of the restrictive covenants of every platted
subdivision and shown on recorded plat: “channels, tile drains 12-inch or
larger, 6-inch or larger subsurface drains in rear yard swales, inlets and
outlets of detention and retention ponds, and appurtenances thereto within
designated drain easements are extensions of the Boone County Drainage Board
and/or Boone County Surveyor’s stormwater drainage system and are the
responsibility of the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor.
Drainage swales shall be the responsibility of owner or homeowner association.”
         (i)   The following statement shall be put on each subdivision plat:
“A petition addressed to the Boone County Drainage Board has been filed in
duplicate with the County Surveyor, requesting that the subdivision’s storm
drainage system and its easements be accepted into the County’s regulated
drainage system. The storm drainage system and its easements that are accepted
into the County’s regulated drainage system are delineated on the plat as
Regulated Drainage Easements (RDEs). These drainage easements are established
under authority of the Indiana Drainage Code and the said Board may exercise
powers and duties as provided in said code (e.g., annual drainage assessment
per lot). All other storm drainage easements have not been accepted into the
County’s system. All drainage improvements performed relative to the conveyance
of Stormwater runoff and the perpetual maintenance thereof, within the latter
easements, shall be the responsibility of the owner or homeowner association.
The Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor Drainage Board
assumes no responsibility relative to said improvements or the maintenance
thereof. This subdivision contains        linear feet of open ditches and
        linear feet of subsurface drains that will be included in the County’s
Regulated Drainage System.”
         (j)   No driveways shall be allowed in drainage easements except for
the purpose of crossing a front yard drainage easement to provide access to the
property. Any crossing and/or encroachment of a regulated drainage easement
requires application and acceptance from the Boone County Drainage Board and/or
Boone County Surveyor.
      (2)   Non-subdivisions. Where the Boone County Drainage Board and/or
Boone County Surveyor is responsible for maintenance of the drainage system,
regulated drainage easements of 75 feet from the top of bank on each side of
the channel or each side of the tile centerline must be dedicated to the Boone
County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor.
      (3)   Establishment of new regulated drain. When the Boone County
Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor determines it is necessary to
establish a new regulated drain, each developer shall provide the necessary
information and meet the requirements of the 1965 Indiana Drainage Code, as
amended, for the establishment of a new regulated drain. Necessary easements
for adequate maintenance of any new regulated drain shall be determined by the
Boone County Surveyor if not already established in this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-3-2023)
§ 53.039 PLACEMENT OF UTILITIES.
   No utility company may disturb existing storm drainage facilities without
the consent of the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor,
whose decision may be appealed to the Boone County Board of Commissioners. All
existing drainage facilities shall have senior rights and damage to said
facilities shall result in penalties as prescribed in §§
53.100 through
53.105 and §
53.999.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-3-2023)
§ 53.040 STRUCTURES NEAR COUNTY-REGULATED DRAINS.
   For regulated drains not located in platted subdivisions, unless otherwise
accepted by the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor, no
permanent structure (including fences) shall be erected within 75 feet measured
at right angles from:
   (A)   The existing top edge of each bank of a regulated open drain, as
determined by the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor; or
   (B)   The center line of a tiled regulated drain. The Indiana Drainage Code
may be consulted for further details.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-3-2023)
§ 53.041 INSPECTION, MAINTENANCE, RECORD KEEPING, AND REPORTING.
   (A)   After the approval of the stormwater management permit by the Boone
County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor and the commencement of
construction activities, the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County
Surveyor has the authority to conduct inspections of the work being done to
ensure full compliance with the provisions of this chapter, the Stormwater
Technical Standards Manual, and the terms and conditions of the approved
permit.
   (B)   The Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor also has
the authority to perform longterm, post-construction inspection of all public
or privately owned stormwater quantity facilities. The inspection will cover
physical conditions, available storage capacity, and the operational condition
of key facility elements. Stormwater quantity facilities shall be maintained in
good condition, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the approved
stormwater management permit, and shall not be subsequently altered, revised or
replaced except in accordance with the approved stormwater permit, or in
accordance with accepted amendments or revisions to the permit. If deficiencies
are found during the inspection, the owner of the facility will be notified by
Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor and will be required
to take all necessary measures to correct such deficiencies. If the owner fails
to correct the deficiencies within the allowed time period, as specified in the
notification letter, the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County
Surveyor will undertake the work and collect from the owner using lien rights
if necessary.
   (C)   Assignment of responsibility for maintaining facilities serving more
than one lot or holding shall be documented by appropriate covenants to
property deeds, unless responsibility is formally accepted by a public body,
and determined before the final stormwater permit is approved. Stormwater
detention/retention basins may be donated to the Boone County Drainage Board
and/or Boone County Surveyor or other unit of government designated by the
Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor, for ownership and
permanent maintenance providing the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone
County Surveyor or other governmental unit is willing to accept responsibility.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-3-2023)
STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION FOR CONSTRUCTION SITES
§ 53.050 APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor will
require a Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP), which includes erosion
and sediment control measures and materials handling procedures, to be
submitted as part of the construction plans and specifications. Any project
located within Boone County that includes clearing, grading, excavation, and
other land disturbing activities, resulting in the disturbance of 10,000 square
feet or more of total land area, is subject to the requirements of this
chapter. This includes both new development and re-development. This chapter
also applies to disturbances of land that are part of a larger common plan of
development or sale if the larger common plan will ultimately disturb 10,000
square feet or more of total land area. Section
53.052 of this subchapter provides guidelines for calculating land disturbance.
   (B)   The requirements under this subchapter do not apply to the following
activities:
      (1)   Agricultural land disturbing activities; or
      (2)   Forest harvesting activities.
   (C)   The requirements under this subchapter do not apply to the following
activities, provided other applicable state permits contain provisions
requiring immediate implementation of soil erosion control measures:
      (1)   Landfills that have been issued a certification of closure under
329 I.A.C. 10.
      (2)   Coal mining activities permitted under I.C. 14-34.
      (3)   Municipal solid waste landfills that are accepting waste pursuant
to a permit issued by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management under
329 I.A.C. 10 that contains equivalent stormwater requirements, including the
expansion of landfill boundaries and construction of new cells either within or
outside the original solid waste permit boundary.
   (D)   For an individual lot where land disturbance is expected to be one
acre or more, the individual lot owner must complete their own notice of intent
letter, apply for a stormwater permit from the Boone County Drainage Board and/
or Boone County Surveyor, and ensure that a sufficient construction and
stormwater pollution prevention plan is completed and submitted in accordance
with §§
53.080 through
53.089; regardless of whether the individual lot is part of a larger permitted
project site.
   (E)   An individual lot with land disturbance less than 10,000 square feet,
located within a larger permitted project site, is considered part of the
larger permitted project site, and the individual lot operator must comply with
the terms and conditions of the stormwater permit approved for the larger
project site. The stormwater permit application for the larger project site
must include detailed erosion and sediment control measures for individual
lots. In addition, the builders of these individual lots are required to submit
an individual lot plot plan permit application along with a SWPPP for the
individual lot prior to receiving a building permit. Details of the permitting
process for individual lots and parcels are contained in §§
53.080 through
53.089.
   (F)   It will be the responsibility of the project site owner to complete a
stormwater permit application and ensure that a sufficient construction plan is
completed and submitted to Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County
Surveyor in accordance with §§
53.080 through
53.089. It will be the responsibility of the project site owner to ensure
compliance with this chapter during the construction activity and
implementation of the construction plan, and to notify the Boone County
Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor with a sufficient notice of
termination letter upon completion of the project and stabilization of the
site. However, all persons engaging in construction and land disturbing
activities on a permitted project site meeting the applicability requirements
must comply with the requirements of this chapter and this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-3-2023)
§ 53.051 POLICY ON STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION.
   (A)   Effective stormwater pollution prevention on construction sites is
dependent on a combination of preventing movement of soil from its original
position (erosion control), intercepting displaced soil prior to entering a
waterbody (sediment control), and proper on-site materials handling. For land
disturbance of one acre or more, the developer must submit to the Boone County
Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor, a SWPPP with detailed erosion and
sediment control plans as well as a narrative describing materials handling and
storage, and construction sequencing. The SWPPP and the project management log
must be retained for at least three years from the date the project permit is
terminated. For land disturbances totaling 10,000 square feet or more but less
than one acre, appropriate erosion and sediment control measures that are
consistent with the Boone County Technical Standards must be designed and shown
on the plans.
   (B)   Detailed requirements for stormwater pollution prevention on
construction sites within Boone County, which are consistent with IDEM minimum
requirements and apply to all land-disturbing activities, are contained in the
Boone County Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-3-2023) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.052 CALCULATIONS AND DESIGN STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   In calculating the total area of land disturbance, for the purposes of
determining applicability of this chapter to the project, the following
guidelines should be used:
      (1)   Off-site construction activities that provide services (for
example, road extensions, sewer, water, offsite stockpiles, and other
utilities) to a land disturbing project site, must be considered as a part of
the total land disturbance calculation for the project site, when the activity
is under the control of the project site owner.
      (2)   Strip developments will be considered as one project site and must
comply with this chapter unless the total combined disturbance on all
individual lots is less than one acre and is not part of a larger common plan
of development or sale.
      (3)   To determine if multi-lot project sites are regulated by this rule,
the area of land disturbance shall be calculated by adding the total area of
land disturbance for improvements, such as, roads, utilities, or common areas,
and the expected total disturbance on each individual lot, as determined by the
following:
         (a)   For a single-family residential project site where the lots are
one-half acre or more, one-half acre of land disturbance must be used as the
expected lot disturbance.
         (b)   For a single-family residential project site where the lots are
less than one-half acre in size, the total lot must be calculated as being
disturbed.
         (c)   To calculate lot disturbance on all other types of projects
sites, such as industrial and commercial projects project sites, a minimum of
one acre of land disturbance must be used as the expected lot disturbance,
unless the lots are less than one acre in size, in which case the total lot
must be calculated as being disturbed.
   (B)   The calculation methods as well as the type, sizing, and placement of
all stormwater pollution prevention measures for construction sites shall meet
the design criteria, standards, and specifications outlined in the Indiana
Stormwater Quality Manual or the Boone County Stormwater Technical Standards
Manual. The methods and procedures included in these two references are in
keeping with the above stated policy and meet the requirements of the IDEM’s
CSGP. A copy of the Indiana Stormwater Quality Manual may be obtained online
through IDEM.
   (C)   The design requirements that would apply to all land-disturbing
activities and shall be considered in the selection, design, and implementation
of all stormwater quality and management measures contained in the SWPPP are
contained in the Boone County Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-3-2023)
§ 53.053 INSPECTION, MAINTENANCE, RECORD KEEPING, AND REPORTING.
   (A)   Following approval of the stormwater management permit by the Boone
County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor and commencement of
construction activities, the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County
Surveyor has the authority to conduct inspections of the site to ensure full
compliance with the provisions of this subchapter, the approved stormwater
pollution prevention plan, the Indiana Stormwater Quality Manual, and the terms
and conditions of the approved permit.
   (B)   A self-monitoring program must be implemented by the project site
owner to ensure the stormwater pollution prevention plan is working
effectively. A trained individual, acceptable to Boone County Drainage Board
and/or Boone County Surveyor, shall perform a written evaluation of the project
site by the end of the next business day following each measurable storm event.
If there are no measurable storm events within a given week, the site should be
monitored at least once in that week. Weekly inspections by the trained
individual shall continue until the entire site has been stabilized and a
notice of termination has been issued. The trained individual should look at
the maintenance of existing stormwater pollution prevention measures, including
erosion and sediment control measures, drainage structures, and construction
materials storage/containment facilities, to ensure they are functioning
properly. The trained individual should also identify additional measures,
beyond those originally identified in the stormwater pollution prevention plan,
necessary to remain in compliance with all applicable statutes and regulations.
   (C)   The resulting evaluation reports must include the name of the
individual performing the evaluation, the date of the evaluation, problems
identified at the project site, and details of maintenance, additional
measures, and corrective actions recommended and completed.
   (D)   The stormwater pollution prevention plan shall serve as a guideline
for stormwater quality, but should not be interpreted to be the only basis for
implementation of stormwater quality measures for a project site. The project
site owner is responsible for implementing, in accordance with this subchapter,
all measures necessary to adequately prevent polluted stormwater runoff.
Recommendations by the trained individual for modified stormwater quality
measures should be implemented.
   (E)   Although self-monitoring reports do not need to be submitted to Boone
County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor, the Boone County Drainage
Board and/or Boone County Surveyor has the right to request complete records of
maintenance and monitoring activities involving stormwater pollution prevention
measures. All evaluation reports for the project site must be made available to
Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor, in an organized
fashion, within 48 hours upon request.
   (F)   A project management log must be maintained at the project site or in
the possession of on-site individuals associated with the management and
operations of the construction activities. Details regarding requirements
related to the project management log are contained in the Boone County
Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-3-2023)
STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT FOR POST-CONSTRUCTION
§ 53.065 APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   In addition to the requirements of §§
53.050 through
53.053, the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan, which is to be submitted to
the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor as part of the
stormwater management permit application, must also include post-construction
stormwater quality measures. These measures are incorporated as a permanent
feature into the site plan and are left in place following completion of
construction activities to continuously treat stormwater runoff from the
stabilized site. Any project located within Boone County that includes
clearing, grading, excavation, and other land disturbing activities, resulting
in the disturbance of 10,000 square feet or more of total land area, is subject
to the requirements of this chapter. This includes both new development and re-
development, and disturbances of less than 10,000 square feet of land that are
part of a larger common plan of development or sale if the larger common plan
will ultimately disturb 10,000 square feet or more acres of land, within the
MS4 area. In addition, regardless of the amount of disturbance, the Boone
County Drainage Board and/or the Boone County Surveyor reserves the right to
require pre-treatment BMPs for proposed hot spot developments in accordance to
provisions contained in the Boone County Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
   (B)   The requirements under this subchapter do not apply to the following
activities:
      (1)   Agricultural land disturbing activities; or
      (2)   Forest harvesting activities; or
      (3)   Construction activities associated with a single family residential
dwelling disturbing less than one acre, when the dwelling is not part of a
larger common plan of development or sale; or
      (4)   Individual building lots within a larger permitted project.
   (C)   The requirements under this subchapter do not apply to the following
activities, provided other applicable state permits contain provisions
requiring immediate implementation of soil erosion control measures:
      (1)   Landfills that have been issued a certification of closure under
329 I.A.C. 10.
      (2)   Coal mining activities permitted under I.C. 14-34.
      (3)   Municipal solid waste landfills that are accepting waste pursuant
to a permit issued by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management under
329 I.A.C. 10 that contains equivalent stormwater requirements, including the
expansion of landfill boundaries and construction of new cells either within or
outside the original solid waste permit boundary.
   (D)   It will be the responsibility of the project site owner to complete a
stormwater permit application and ensure that a sufficient construction plan is
completed and submitted to the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County
Surveyor in accordance with §§
53.080 through
53.089. It will be the responsibility of the project site owner to ensure
proper construction and installation of all stormwater BMPs in compliance with
this chapter and with the approved stormwater management permit, and to notify
the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor with a sufficient
notice of termination letter upon completion of the project and stabilization
of the site. However, all eventual property owners of stormwater quality
facilities meeting the applicability requirements must comply with the
requirements of this subchapter and this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-3-2023)
§ 53.066 POLICY ON STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   It is recognized that developed areas, as compared to undeveloped
areas, generally have increased imperviousness, decreased infiltration rates,
increased runoff rates, and increased concentrations of pollutants such as
fertilizers, herbicides, greases, oil, salts and other pollutants. As new
development and re-development continues in Boone County, measures must be
taken to intercept and filter pollutants from stormwater runoff prior to
reaching regional creeks, streams, and rivers. Through the use of best
management practices (BMPs) to treat the water quality volume (WQv) or the
water quality flow (Qwq), stormwater runoff will be filtered and harmful
amounts of sediment, nutrients, and contaminants will be removed.
   (B)   It is also recognized that another major source of pollution in many
state streams, including those within Boone County, is the streambank erosion
associated with urbanizing watersheds. Stream channels develop their shape in
response to the volume and rate of runoff that they receive from their
contributing watersheds. Research has shown that in hydrologically stable
watersheds, the stream flow responsible for most of the shaping of the channel
(called the bankfull flow) occurs between every one to two years. When land is
developed, the volume and rate of runoff from that land increases for these
comparatively small flooding events that are not normally addressed by the
detention practices and the stream channel will adapt by changing its shape. As
the stream channel works to reach a new stable shape, excess erosion occurs. As
new development and re-development continues within Boone County, measures must
be taken to minimize the impact of such development or re-development on
streambank erosion. Through the use of appropriate best management practices
(BMPs) to retain and/or detain and slowly release the channel protection volume
(CPv), the volume and rate of runoff for channel forming flows will be reduced
in an attempt to minimize increased streambank erosion in the receiving streams
and channels.
   (C)   The project site owner must submit to the Boone County Drainage Board
and/or Boone County Surveyor, a storm water pollution prevention plan (SWPPP)
that would show placement of appropriate BMP(s) from a pre-approved list of
BMPs specified in the Boone County Stormwater Technical Standards Manual. The
SWPPP submittal shall include an operation and maintenance manual for all post-
construction BMP(s) included in the project and a notarized maintenance
agreement, consistent with the sample agreement provided in Appendix B of the
Boone County Stormwater Technical Standards Manual, providing for the long-term
maintenance of those BMPs, both of which shall be recorded with the deed for
the property on which the project is located. The noted BMPs must be designed,
constructed, and maintained according to guidelines provided or referenced in
the Boone County Stormwater Technical Standards Manual. Practices other than
those specified in the pre-approved list may be utilized. However, the burden
of proof, as to whether the performance and ease of maintenance of such
practices will be according to guidelines provided in the Boone County
Stormwater Technical Standards Manual, would be placed with the applicant.
Details regarding the procedures and criteria for consideration of acceptance
of such BMPs are provided in the Boone County Stormwater Technical Standards
Manual.
   (D)   Gasoline outlets and refueling areas must install appropriate
practices (as noted under “Hot Spots” provision in the Technical Standards) to
reduce lead, copper, zinc, and hydrocarbons in stormwater runoff. These
requirements will apply to all new facilities and existing facilities that
replace their tanks, regardless of the size of the facility.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-3-2023)
§ 53.067 CALCULATIONS AND DESIGN STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Calculation of land disturbance should follow the guidelines discussed
in §
53.052.
   (B)   The calculation methods as well as the type, sizing, and placement of
all stormwater quality management measures, or BMPs shall meet the design
criteria, standards, and specifications outlined in the Indiana Stormwater
Quality Manual or the Boone County Stormwater Technical Standards Manual. The
methods and procedures included in these two references are in keeping with the
above stated policy and meet the requirements of IDEM’s MS4 GP.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-3-2023)
§ 53.068 EASEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   All stormwater quality management systems, including detention or retention
basins, filter strips, pocket wetlands, in-line filters, infiltration systems,
conveyance systems, structures and appurtenances located outside of the right-
of-way shall be incorporated into permanent easements. For developments
occurring within the county’s unincorporated areas and/or at the discretion of
the Boone County Surveyor and/or Drainage Board, the developer shall petition
to establish the noted system as a portion of regulated drain pursuant to the
provisions of I.C. 36-9-27-54, and the drainage plan shall not be accepted
until such petition is submitted in a form accepted by the County Surveyor and
the County Drainage Board. The actual routine maintenance of detention/
retention basins and/or other distributed post-construction stormwater BMPs
shall remain the responsibility of the property owners and/or homeowners
association. For the purposes of monitoring, inspection, and general
maintenance activities, adequate easement width, as detailed in the Boone
County Stormwater Technical Standards Manual, beyond the actual footprint of
the stormwater quality management facility as well as a 20-foot wide access
easement from a public right-of-way to each BMP shall be provided.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-3-2023)
§ 53.069 INSPECTION, MAINTENANCE, RECORD KEEPING, AND REPORTING.
   (A)   After the approval of the stormwater management permit by the Boone
County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor and the commencement of
construction activities, the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County
Surveyor has the authority to conduct inspections of the work being done to
ensure full compliance with the provisions of this subchapter, the Stormwater
Technical Standards Manual, and the terms and conditions of the approved
permit.
   (B)   Stormwater detention/retention basins and post-construction stormwater
BMPs may be donated to the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County
Surveyor or other unit of government designated by the Boone County Drainage
Board and/or Boone County Surveyor, for ownership and permanent maintenance
providing the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor or other
governmental unit is willing to accept responsibility.
   (C)   The Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor also has
the authority to perform long-term, post-construction inspection of all public
or privately owned stormwater quality facilities. The inspection will cover
physical conditions, available water quality storage capacity and the
operational condition of key facility elements. Noted deficiencies and
recommended corrective action will be included in an inspection report.
   (D)   Post construction stormwater facilities shall be maintained in good
condition, in accordance with the stormwater management practices maintenance
agreement prepared and recorded for the project as well as operation and
maintenance procedures and schedules listed in the Boone County Stormwater
Technical Standards Manual, and the terms and conditions of the approved
stormwater permit, and shall not be subsequently altered, revised, or replaced
except in accordance with the approved stormwater permit, or in accordance with
accepted amendments or revisions in the permit. In the event the property owner
or the homeowners association fails to exercise its obligation, the Boone
County Drainage Board may perform the required maintenance and shall have the
right to assess each lot in the subdivision a proportionate amount of the
associated costs. If necessary, a notice of lien shall be filed against the
affected lots. The lien shall be enforced in the same manner as a mortgage lien
under state law and, therefore, shall include reimbursement of attorney’s fees,
title expenses, interest, and costs of collection.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-3-2023)
PERMIT REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES
§ 53.080 CONCEPTUAL DRAINAGE PLAN REVIEW.
   In order to gain an understanding of the drainage requirements for a
specific project, a developer may submit conceptual drainage plans and
calculations for review by the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County
Surveyor. The direction provided by the Boone County Drainage Board and/or
Boone County Surveyor during such a review is based on preliminary data and
shall not be construed as an acceptance or binding on either party. The
following is a general listing of minimum data requirements for the review of
conceptual drainage plans:
   (A)   Two complete sets of conceptual plans showing general project layout,
including existing and proposed drainage systems (plan sheets must be larger
than 11 inches by 17 inches, but not to exceed 24 inches by 36 inches).
   (B)   General description of the existing and proposed drainage systems in
narrative form.
   (C)   Watershed Boundaries with USGS Contours or best information possible.
   (D)   Existing watercourse or regulated drains.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-3-2023)
§ 53.081 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   This section applies to all development or re-development of land
within unincorporated Boone County that are subject to this chapter as
specified in §
53.002 of this chapter. Individual lots with land disturbance less than one
acre that are developed within a larger permitted project site should refer to
§
53.084 for plan review requirements and procedures. Figure 1 is a flowchart
summarizing the plan review/permit approval process and can be found at the end
of this subchapter.
   (B)   The project site owner shall submit an application for a stormwater
management permit to the Boone County Surveyor’s Office. The application will
include a completed permit application checklist, construction plan sheets,
stormwater drainage technical report, a stormwater pollution prevention plan
for construction sites (if the total disturbance is one acre or more), post-
construction pollution prevention plan (if the total disturbance is one acre or
more), and any other necessary support information. Specific information to be
included in the application can be found in §
53.083 below and in the Boone County Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
Adequate number of copies of each application material, as noted in the
“Stormwater Permit Application Check-In Checklist” contained in the Boone
County Stormwater Technical Standards Manual, must be submitted to the Boone
County Surveyor’s Office. Additionally, a digital copy of the construction
plans is required in a format accepted by the Boone County Surveyor.
   (C)   After the Boone County Surveyor’s Office receipt of the application,
the applicant will be notified as to whether their application was complete or
insufficient. The applicant will be asked for additional information if the
application is insufficient. The information provided will be reviewed in
detail by the Boone County Surveyor and/or its plan review consultant(s). Once
all comments have been received and review completed, the Boone County Surveyor
will either approve the project or request modifications.
   (D)   The project site owner must notify the Boone County Surveyor’s office
and IDEM 48 hours before beginning construction. Notification to the Boone
County Surveyor’s office shall be in the form of an email while notification to
IDEM shall be in the form of an online IDEM NOI submittal. For Boone County
Surveyor’s Office, copies of the final, approved construction plans, stormwater
drainage technical report, stormwater pollution prevention plan for
construction sites (if the total disturbance is one acre or more), and post-
construction stormwater pollution prevention plan shall also accompany the
above-noted written notification. The number of required copies varies from
case to case and additional copies may be requested by the Boone County
Surveyor’s Office. A pre-construction meeting is required to be held with the
participation of the Boone County Surveyor’s Office and other entities involved
prior to any grading activity to ensure that appropriate perimeter control
measures have been implemented on the site and the location of any existing
tiles has been properly marked.
   (E)   Once construction starts, the project owner shall monitor construction
activities and inspect all stormwater pollution prevention measures to verify
compliance with this chapter and the terms and conditions of the approved
permit. Upon completion of construction activities, a certification of
completion and compliance and as-built plans must be submitted to the Boone
County Surveyor’s Office. Once the construction site has been stabilized and
all temporary erosion and sediment control measures have been removed, a
notification shall be sent to the Boone County Surveyor’s office, requesting a
termination inspection. The Boone County Surveyor, or a representative, shall
inspect the construction site to verify that the completed project is fully
stabilized and meets the requirements of this chapter and its technical
standards as well as the terms and conditions of the permit. Once the applicant
receives a signed copy of the termination inspection checklist confirming
compliance, they must forward a copy to IDEM along with the required IDEM NOT
form. Permits issued under this scenario will expire five years from the date
of issuance. If construction is not completed within five years, an updated
permit application must be submitted to Boone County Drainage Board and an
updated NOI must be resubmitted to IDEM at least 90 days prior to expiration.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-3-2023)
§ 53.082 SWPPP REVIEW TIME LIMITS.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 13-18-27, an MS4-designated entity or other review
authority such as SWCD must make a preliminary determination as to whether the
construction plan associated with SWPPP is substantially complete before the
end of the tenth working day (for sites with less than five acres of land
disturbance) after the day on which the SWPPP is submitted to the review
authority or the fourteenth working day (for sites with five acres or larger of
land disturbance) after the day on which the SWPPP is submitted to the review
authority.
   (B)   Note that the above time limits only apply to the SWPPP portion of the
overall stormwater permit submittal and does not affect any official or non-
official permit review timelines set by the entity for other aspects of the
stormwater permit application.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-3-2023)
§ 53.083 INFORMATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Specific projects or activities may be exempt from all or part of the
informational requirements listed below. Exemptions are detailed in §§
53.020,
53.035,
53.050, and
53.065. If a project or activity is exempt from any or all requirements of this
chapter, an application should be filed listing the exemption criteria met, in
lieu of the information requirements listed below. This level of detailed
information is not required from individual lots, disturbing less than one acre
of land, developed within a larger permitted project site. Review and
acceptance of such lots is covered under §
53.084 of this subchapter.
   (B)   The different elements of a permit submittal include an application
checklist, construction plans, a stormwater drainage technical report, a
stormwater pollution prevention plan for active construction sites, a post-
construction stormwater pollution prevention plan, and any other necessary
supporting information. The application checklist can be found in Appendix B of
the Technical Standards. All plans, reports, calculations, and narratives shall
be signed and sealed by a professional engineer or a licensed surveyor,
registered in the State of Indiana who also meets the definition of a trained
individual found in §
53.007.
      (1)   Permit application checklist. As part of the Boone County
stormwater management permit application package, the application checklist
provided in the Technical Standards Manual must be completed by the applicant
and provided along with other required supporting material.
      (2)   Construction plans. Construction plan sheets (larger than 11 inches
by 17 inches, but not to exceed 24 inches by 36 inches in size) and an
accompanying narrative report shall describe and depict the existing and
proposed conditions. Note that in order to gain an understanding of and to
evaluate the relationship between the proposed improvements for a specific
project section/phase and the proposed improvements for an overall multi-
section (phased) project, the detailed information requested herein for the
first section/phase being permitted must be accompanied by an overall project
plan that includes the location, dimensions, and supporting analyses of all
detention/retention facilities, primary conveyance facilities, and outlet
conditions. Construction plans need to include items listed in the application
checklist provided in the Boone County Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
      (3)   Stormwater drainage technical report. A written stormwater drainage
technical report must contain a discussion of the steps taken in the design of
the stormwater drainage system. Note that in order to gain an understanding of
and to evaluate the relationship between the proposed improvements for a
specific project section/phase and the proposed improvements for an overall
multi-section (phased) project, the detailed information requested herein for
the first section/phase being permitted must be accompanied by an overall
project plan that includes the location, dimensions, and supporting analyses of
all detention/retention facilities, primary conveyance facilities, and outlet
conditions. The technical report needs to include items listed in the
application checklist provided in the Boone County Stormwater Technical
Standards Manual.
      (4)   Stormwater pollution prevention plan for construction sites. For
sites with total disturbance of one acre or more, a stormwater pollution
prevention plan (SWPPP) associated with construction activities must be
designed to, at least, meet the requirements of this chapter. The SWPPP must
include items listed in the application checklist provided in the Boone County
Stormwater Technical Standards Manual. For land disturbances totaling less than
one acre but greater than 10,000 square feet, appropriate erosion and sediment
control measures that are consistent with the Boone County Technical Standards
must be designed and shown on the plans.
      (5)   Post-construction stormwater pollution prevention plan. For sites
with total disturbance of 10,000 square feet or more, a post-construction
stormwater pollution prevention plan must be designed to, at least, meet the
requirements of this chapter and must include the information provided in the
Boone County Technical Standards Manual. The post-construction stormwater
pollution prevention plan must include items listed in the application
checklist provided in the Boone County Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
      (6)   Operation and maintenance manual. An operations and maintenance
(O&M) manual for all private infrastructure, including but not limited to
pipes, ponds, ditches, and BMPs (when required), shall be submitted for the
final plan approval and permit process. The detailed requirements for O&M
manual are provided in the Boone County Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
         (a)   This operation and maintenance manual will be kept on file by
the Boone County Surveyor’s office for use during inspections. A copy will also
be provided to the landowner for inspection and maintenance purposes.
         (b)   Suggested inspection and maintenance guidelines to be used in
the manual for various post-construction stormwater quality measures can be
found in the Technical Standards appendices.
      (7)   Maintenance agreement. A formal BMP maintenance agreement will need
to be prepared and notarized consistent with the sample agreement provided in
Appendix B of the Boone County Stormwater Technical Standards Manual, providing
for the long-term maintenance of those BMPs. This maintenance agreement shall
be recorded with the deed for the property on which the project is located.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-3-2023)
§ 53.084 REVIEW OF INDIVIDUAL LOTS WITHIN A PERMITTED PROJECT.
   (A)   For individual lots disturbing 10,000 square feet or more of total
land area, a formal review and issuance of an individual lot plot plan permit
will be required before a building permit can be issued. Similarly, for
individual lots disturbing less than 10,000 square feet of total land area,
developed within a larger permitted project, a formal review and issuance of an
individual lot plot plan permit will be required before a building permit can
be issued. All stormwater management measures necessary to comply with this
chapter must be implemented in accordance with permitted plan for the larger
project.
   (B)   The following information must be submitted to the Boone County
Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor, for review and acceptance, by the
individual lot operator, whether owning the property or acting as the agent of
the property owner, as part of a request for review and issuance of an
individual lot plot plan permit that must be obtained prior to the issuance of
a building permit.
      (1)   A site layout for the subject lot and all adjacent lots showing
building pad location, dimensions, and elevations, and the drainage patterns
and swales.
      (2)   Erosion and sediment control plan that, at a minimum, includes the
following measures:
         (a)   Installation and maintenance of a stable construction site
access.
         (b)   Installation and maintenance of appropriate perimeter erosion
and sediment control measures prior to land disturbance.
         (c)   Minimization of sediment discharge and tracking from the lot.
         (d)   Clean-up of sediment that is either tracked or washed onto
roads. Bulk clearing of sediment shall not include flushing the area with
water. Cleared sediment must be redistributed or disposed of in a manner that
is in compliance with all applicable statutes and rules.
         (e)   Adjacent lots disturbed by an individual lot operator must be
repaired and stabilized with temporary or permanent surface stabilization.
         (f)   Self-monitoring program including plan and procedures.
      (3)   Certification of compliance stating that the individual lot plan is
consistent with the stormwater management permit, as approved by the Boone
County Drainage Board for the larger project.
      (4)   Name, address, telephone number, and list of qualifications of the
trained individual in charge of the mandatory stormwater pollution prevention
self-monitoring program for the project site.
   (C)   The individual lot operator is responsible for installation and
maintenance of all erosion and sediment control measures until the site is
stabilized.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-3-2023)
§ 53.085 CHANGES TO PLANS.
   Any changes or deviations in the detailed plans and specifications after
approval of the applicable stormwater management permit shall be filed with,
and accepted by, the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor
prior to the land development involving the change. Copies of the changes, if
accepted, shall be attached to the original plans and specifications.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-3-2023)
§ 53.086 FEE STRUCTURE.
   (A)   Fee amount. As a condition of the submittal and the review of
development plans by Boone County, the applicant shall agree to pay the Boone
County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor the applicable fee, as set
by the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor with respect to
the review of all drainage submittals, preliminary plans, final plans,
construction plans and accompanying information and data, as well as pre-paid
inspection fees.
   (B)   Time of payment.
      (1)   After the meeting at which the Boone County Drainage Board and/or
Boone County Surveyor is scheduled to consider acceptance of the applicant’s
final stormwater management plan, the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone
County Surveyor will furnish a written statement to the applicant specifying
the total amount due the Boone County Drainage Board in connection with the
review of the applicant’s submittals, plans and accompanying information and
data, including the amount required to be paid by applicant for review and pre-
paid inspection fees.
      (2)   As a condition of acceptance of final drainage plans by the Boone
County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor, applicant shall pay to the
Boone County Drainage Board the sum set forth in said statement. The Boone
County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor may issue such a billing
statement before the project advances to the final acceptance stage, and such
payment is due by applicant upon receipt of said billing statement regardless
of whether the project is advanced to the final acceptance stage.
      (3)   The Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor shall
have the right to not accept the drainage improvements or to not approve the
advancement of any project for which the applicable fees have not been paid.
   (C)   Method of payment.
      (1)   Fees shall be paid by one of the following methods:
         (a)   Certified check.
         (b)   Cashier’s check.
         (c)   Money order.
      (2)   All checks shall be made payable to the:
         Boone County Surveyor’s Office
         116 West Washington Street
         Lebanon, IN 46052
   (D)   Refund of payment. Fees are refundable only if the Boone County
Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor determines that compliance by the
development to this chapter is not necessary.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-3-2023)
§ 53.087 REQUIRED ASSURANCES.
   As a condition of approval and issuance of the permit, the Boone County
Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor shall require the applicant to
provide assurance in form of an irrevocable letter of credit or a bond when the
stormwater management plan has been accepted and before construction begins.
Said assurance will guarantee a good faith execution of the stormwater drainage
plan, the stormwater pollution prevention plan, the stormwater quality
management plan, and any permit conditions. The assurance shall be for an
amount equal to 110% of the total costs of all stormwater management measures
for the entire project. The above mentioned costs shall be based on an estimate
as prepared by a registered engineer or land surveyor. Said costs shall be for
the installation and ongoing monitoring and maintenance of erosion control
measures and the construction and ongoing monitoring and maintenance of storm
drainage infrastructure, detention/retention facilities, and stormwater quality
BMPs, as regulated under this chapter, until the construction is completed,
site is stabilized, and as-built plans are accepted by the Boone County
Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor. Assurances shall be for a minimum
of $5,000. Local governmental jurisdictions may require additional performance
and/or maintenance assurances. The intent of this assurance is not only to
complete the installation of storm drain infrastructure for the project, but
also to assure that adequate stormwater pollution prevention measures are
properly installed and maintained. If adequate assurances are set aside by the
project site owner for the overall project, proof of total assurance can be
submitted in place of an individual stormwater assurance.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-3-2023)
§ 53.088 TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF PERMITS.
   (A)   In granting a stormwater management permit, the Boone County Drainage
Board and/or Boone County Surveyor may impose such terms and conditions as are
reasonably necessary to meet the purposes of this chapter. The project site
owner shall ensure compliance with such terms and conditions. Non-compliance
with the terms and conditions of permits will be subject to enforcement as
described in §§
53.100 through
53.105 and §
53.999.
   (B)   The project site owner shall inform all general contractor,
construction management firms, grading or excavating contractors, utility
contractors, and the contractors that have primary oversight on individual
building lots of the terms and conditions of the stormwater management permit
and the schedule for proposed implementation.
   (C)   In the event that a project site is determined to impact or discharge
to a sensitive area or is located in an impact drainage area, the Boone County
Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor may require more stringent
stormwater quantity and quality measures than detailed in this chapter or in
the Indiana Stormwater Quality Manual.
   (D)   Determination of sensitive areas. Sensitive areas include highly
erodible soils, wetlands, threatened or endangered species habitat, outstanding
waters, impaired waters, recreational waters, and surface drinking water
sources. A listing of highly erodible soils, outstanding water, impaired water,
recreation water and surface drinking water sources can be found in the Boone
County Storm Water Quality Management Plan - Part B. Any discharge from a
stormwater practice that is a Class V injection well shall meet the state
groundwater quality standards. If wetlands are suspected on a site, a wetland
delineation should be completed in accordance with the methodology established
by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (COE). The presence of threatened or
endangered species habitat will be determined by the Boone County Drainage
Board and/or Boone County Surveyor during the permit review process. Special
terms and conditions for development determined to impact or discharge to any
sensitive area shall be included in the stormwater management permit.
   (E)   Determination of impact drainage areas.
      (1)   The following areas shall be designated as impact drainage areas,
unless good reason for not including them is presented to the Boone County
Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor.
         (a)   A floodway or floodplain as designated by the most updated Boone
County Code dealing with floodplain regulation and/or by the best available
data through IDNR.
         (b)   Land within 75 feet of each bank of any ditch within the Boone
County’s system.
         (c)   Land within 75 feet of the centerline of any drain tile or
enclosed conduit within the Boone County’s system.
      (2)   The Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor is
authorized, but is not required, to classify certain geographical areas as
impact drainage areas. In determining impact drainage areas, the Boone County
Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor shall consider such factors as
topography, soil type, capacity of existing drains, and distance from adequate
drainage facility.
      (3)   Land that does not have an adequate outlet, taking into
consideration the capacity and depth of the outlet, may be designated as an
impact drainage area by the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County
Surveyor. Special terms and conditions for development within any impact
drainage area shall be included in the stormwater management permit.
   (F)   Designated drainage areas served by regional facilities. The Boone
County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor is authorized, but is not
required, to classify certain geographical areas as designated drainage areas
that are or will be served by regional facilities, such as a regional pond. In
such cases, an infrastructure development fee (IDF) rate may be established for
the designated drainage area. The basis for determining such a fee for a
proposed development or re-development within a designated drainage area will
be as detailed in the Boone County Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-3-2023)
§ 53.089 CERTIFICATION OF AS-BUILT PLANS.
   (A)   After completion of construction of the project and before final
acceptance of the stormwater management plan (the issuance of a "verified"
NOT), a professionally prepared and certified “as-built” set of plans (record
drawings) shall be submitted to the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone
County Surveyor for review. These as-built plans/record drawings must be
prepared and certified by the Engineer of Record, that is the company/engineer
who originally prepared the construction plans. Additionally, a digital copy of
the “as-built” plans (record drawings) as well as finalized digital versions of
all analyses, models, manuals, and reports that are consistent with the as-
built conditions is required in a format accepted by the Boone County Drainage
Board and/or Boone County Surveyor that they can be electronically filed for
any future reference. These plans shall include all pertinent data relevant to
the completed storm drainage system and stormwater management facilities, and
shall include:
      (1)   Pipe size and pipe material;
      (2)   Invert elevations;
      (3)   Top rim elevations;
      (4)   Elevation of the emergency overflow (spillway) for ponds;
      (5)   Grades along the emergency flood routing path(s);
      (6)   Pipe structure lengths;
      (7)   BMP types, dimensions, and boundaries/easements;
      (8)   "As-planted" plans for BMPs, as applicable;
      (9)   Data and calculations showing detention basin storage volume;
      (10)   Data and calculations showing BMP treatment capacity;
      (11)   Certified statement on plans stating the completed storm drainage
system and stormwater management facilities substantially comply with
construction plans and the stormwater management permit as approved by the
Boone County Drainage Board. (See certificate in Stormwater Technical Standards
Manual.)
   (B)   The property owner, developer, or contractor shall be required to file
a three-year maintenance bond or other acceptable guarantee with the Boone
County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor, prior to acceptance, in an
amount not to exceed 25% of the cost of the stormwater drainage system located
outside the public road rights-of-way, and in a form satisfactory to the Boone
County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor's attorney in order to
assure that such stormwater system installation was done according to standards
of good workmanship, that the materials used in the construction and
installation were of good quality and construction, and that such project was
done in accordance with the accepted plans, and this chapter. The bond or other
acceptable guarantee shall be in effect for a period of three years after the
date of the final project acceptance (issuance of a "verified" NOT) by the
Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor.
   (C)   To verify that all regulated drain tiles are functioning properly,
visual recordings (via closed circuit television) of such tile drains shall be
required, once following the completion of installation (including the
installation of all utility mains) and the second time before release of
maintenance bonds. These visual recordings will be scheduled by the Boone
County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor and paid for by the
developer. Notices shall be provided to the Boone County Drainage Board and/or
Boone County Surveyor within 72 hours following the completion of installation
and again at least 60 days prior to the expiration date of the maintenance bond
so that the noted recordings may be scheduled. Reports summarizing the results
of the noted visual recordings shall be reviewed and accepted by the Boone
County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor before the plat is
recommended for recording and again before maintenance bond would be
recommended to be released.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 12-13-2004)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 53.100 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS CHAPTER.
   In addition to the requirements of this chapter, compliance with the
requirements set forth in the local zoning ordinances is also necessary.
Compliance with all applicable ordinances of Boone County Drainage Board and/or
Boone County Surveyor as well as with applicable State of Indiana statues and
regulations shall also be required. Unless otherwise stated, all other
specifications referred to in this chapter shall be the most recent edition
available. Violations of the requirements of this chapter are subject to the
penalties listed below.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-3-2023)
§ 53.101 STOP WORK ORDER.
   (A)   In addition to the penalties listed above, if land disturbance
activities are conducted contrary to the provisions of this chapter or accepted
final stormwater management plans, the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone
County Surveyor may order the work stopped by notice in writing served on any
person engaged in the doing or causing of such work to be done, and any such
persons shall forthwith stop such work until authorized by the Boone County
Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor to proceed with the work. The Boone
County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor may also undertake or cause
to be undertaken, any necessary or advisable protective measures to prevent
violations of this chapter or to avoid or reduce the effects of noncompliance
herewith. The cost of any such protective measures shall be the responsibility
of the owner of the property upon which the work is being done and the
responsibility of any person carrying out or participating in the work.
   (B)   Any person who neglects or fails to comply with a stop work order
shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not
less than $1,000 or imprisonment for not more than three months, or both such
fine and imprisonment, and such person shall also pay such costs as may be
imposed in the discretion of the court. A permit reinstatement fee may also be
assessed by the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-3-2023)
§ 53.102 FAILURE TO COMPLY OR COMPLETE.
   In addition to any other remedies, should any owner fail to comply with the
provisions of this chapter, the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County
Surveyor may, after giving notice and opportunity for compliance, have the
necessary work done, and the owner shall be required to promptly reimburse the
Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor for all costs of such
work.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-3-2023)
§ 53.103 SUSPENSION OF ACCESS TO THE STORM DRAIN SYSTEM.
   (A)   Suspension due to emergency situations. The Boone County Drainage
Board and/or Boone County Surveyor may, without prior notice, suspend storm
drain system discharge access to a person when such suspension is necessary to
stop an actual or threatened discharge which presents or may present imminent
and substantial danger to the environment, or to the health or welfare of
persons, or to the storm drain system or waters of the United States. If the
violator fails to comply with a suspension order issued in an emergency, the
Boone County Drainage Board may take such steps as deemed necessary to prevent
or minimize damage to the storm drain system or waters of the United States, or
to minimize danger to persons.
   (B)   Suspension due to the detection of illicit discharge. Any person
discharging to the storm drain system in violation of this chapter may have
their storm drain system access terminated if such termination would abate or
reduce an illicit discharge. The Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone
County Surveyor will notify a violator of the proposed termination of its MS4
access. The violator may petition the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone
County Surveyor for a reconsideration and hearing.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-3-2023) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.104 CORRECTIVE ACTION.
   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Boone County Drainage Board and/
or Boone County Surveyor from taking such other lawful action as may be
necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. All costs connected therewith
shall accrue to the person or persons responsible. Costs include, but are not
limited to, repairs to the storm drain system made necessary by the violation,
as well as those penalties levied by the EPA or IDEM for violation of the Boone
County NPDES permit, attorney fees, and other costs and expenses.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-3-2023)
§ 53.105 APPEALS.
   Any person to whom any provision of this chapter has been applied may appeal
in writing, not later than 30 days after the action or decision being appealed
from, to the Boone County Board of Commissioners the action or decision whereby
any such provision was so applied. Such appeal shall identify the matter being
appealed, and the basis for the appeal. The Boone County Board of Commissioners
shall consider the appeal and make a decision whereby it affirms, rejects or
modifies the action being appealed. In considering any such appeal, the Boone
County Board of Commissioners may consider the recommendations of the Boone
County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor and the comments of other
persons having knowledge of the matter. In considering any such appeal, the
Boone County Board of Commissioners may grant a variance from the terms of this
chapter to provide relief, in whole or in part, from the action being appealed,
but only upon finding that the following requirements are satisfied:
   (A)   The application of the chapter provisions being appealed will present
or cause practical difficulties for a development or development site;
provided, however, that practical difficulties shall not include the need for
the developer to incur additional reasonable expenses in order to comply with
the chapter; and
   (B)   The granting of the relief requested will not substantially prevent
the goals and purposes of this chapter, nor result in less effective management
of stormwater runoff.
   (C)   Any person who has appealed a violation to the Boone County Board of
Commissioners may appeal an adverse decision of the Board to the Boone County
court within 60 days of the Board’s order, all pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-9(e) and
(f).
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-3-2023)
§ 53.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Notice of violation/citation.
      (1)   If the Boone County Drainage Board and/or the Boone County Surveyor
determines that an applicant or other responsible person has failed to comply
with the terms and conditions of a permit, an approved stormwater management
design plan, a recorded stormwater management maintenance agreement, or the
provisions of this chapter, it shall issue a written notice of violation to
such applicant or other responsible person and the owner of the property. Where
a person is engaged in activity covered by this chapter without having first
secured a permit therefore, the notice of violation shall be served on the
owner or the responsible person in charge of the activity being conducted on
the site.
      (2)   The notice of violation can be in the form of a citation ticket
and/or a written letter that would contain detailed inspection findings,
conclusions of law, disposition of warning or fines assessed, stipulated
remedial actions as discussed with the responsible party representative,
reasonable deadlines for those remedial actions, and the date of re-inspection.
   (B)   Compensatory action. In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties,
and remedies authorized by this chapter, the Boone County Drainage Board may
impose upon a violator, alternative compensatory actions, such as storm drain
stenciling, attendance at compliance workshops, creek cleanup, public
education, and the like.
   (C)   Civil penalties for violations.
      (1)   Any person found in violation of any provision of this chapter
shall be responsible for a civil infraction and subject to a maximum fine of
$5,000 for a first offense, and a maximum of $10,000 for a subsequent offense,
plus costs, damages, and expenses. Each day such violation occurs or continues
shall be deemed a separate offense and shall make the violator liable for the
imposition of a fine for each day. The rights and remedies provided for in this
section are cumulative and in addition to any other remedies provided by law.
An admission or determination of responsibility shall not exempt the offender
from compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Any person who aids or abets a person in a violation of this
chapter shall be subject to the penalties provided in this section.
      (3)   For purposes of this section, “subsequent offense” means a
violation of the provisions of this chapter committed by the same person within
12 months of a previous violation of the same provision of this chapter for
which said person admitted responsibility or was adjudicated to be responsible.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-3-2023)
APPENDIX A: PERMIT APPROVAL PROCESS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1542.gif]
 
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-3-2023)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL REGULATIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
72.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Skateboards, in-line skates and roller skates
   
70.02   Load limits on county roads
   
70.03   Commercial truck traffic prohibited
   
70.04   Vegetative matter near county roads
   
70.05   Off-road vehicles
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 SKATEBOARDS, IN-LINE SKATES AND ROLLER SKATES.
   Skateboards, in-line skates and roller skates, and other such modes of
transportation or leisure activity of a comparable nature, are expressly banned
and prohibited upon the Courthouse Square.
(Ord. 98-11, passed 5-18-1998) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 LOAD LIMITS ON COUNTY ROADS.
   (A)   Purpose. This section provides for the preservation of county roads
and highways by limiting the gross weight of vehicles operated on Boone County
Highways during certain periods of the calendar year. This section also
provides exceptions on the award of a written permit by the County Highway
Supervisor.
   (B)   General provisions.
      (1)   Any vehicle or combination of vehicles shall not have a total gross
weight, with load, in excess of 24,000 pounds, except and unless a written
permit has been obtained from the Boone County Highway Supervisor.
      (2)   This regulation applies to any public road or public highway of the
county system of Boone County, except roads or highways in the state highway
system of the state of Indiana and highways in the federal highway system.
   (C)   Time period. For and at all times during the period of 120 days
commencing on and following the first day of January, 1973 and for all calendar
years, thereafter.
   (D)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Exceptions to these regulations may be made by the County Highway
Supervisor. Applications must be made in writing.
      (2)   Permittees shall operate and move said specially permitted weight
load only upon the roads and highways of said county system on the route and as
directed in writing by the County Highway Supervisor.
      (3)   This section shall not apply to school or church buses, vehicles or
equipment owned by Boone County, or to residential or agricultural deliveries.
(Ord. passed 12-6-1965; Am. Ord. 2017-04, passed 4-3-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 COMMERCIAL TRUCK TRAFFIC PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Commercial truck traffic is hereby prohibited on County Road 200 West
from State Road 32 to Mount Zion Road and on Mount Zion Road from County Road
200 West to the Lebanon city limits.
   (B)   A COMMERCIAL TRUCK is defined as any non-agricultural vehicle with a
gross vehicle weight of 20,000 pounds or more.
(Ord. 2008-06, passed 6-2-2008) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 VEGETATIVE MATTER NEAR COUNTY ROADS.
   The Highway Superintendent, the County Highway Department, its employees,
agents and contractors are empowered with the authority to trim, cut, spray
herbicides, pesticides or weed control or remove all trees, bushes, plants or
other vegetative matter (“vegetative matter”) that is growing or present a
distance of ten feet from the pavement, berm, or travel portion of any county
road, said distance measured perpendicular from the nearest edge of the travel
portion of the county road, or to the edge of the apparent right-of-way,
whichever is less.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 1-19-2010; Am. Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-6-2017; Am. Ord.
2019-09, passed 7-1-2019)
§ 70.05 OFF-ROAD VEHICLES.
   (A)   The operator's compliance with all laws and regulations enacted by the
State of Indiana, the Indiana Bureau of Motor Vehicles, and the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources relating to the use and operation of motor
vehicles on public roads and the use and operation of off-road vehicles on
public rights-of-way.
   (B)   The owner and operator's compliance with all laws relating to the use
and operation of motor vehicles relating to insurance provisions as codified in
Title IX of the Indiana Code. Additionally, all off-road vehicles must be
equipped with headlights and taillights.
   (C)   This section does not apply to the Farm Heritage Trail or other
pedestrian or bicycle trails owned and maintained by Boone County, and the
operation of off-road vehicles on such property is specifically prohibited.
   (D)   The off-road vehicles must be annually registered with the Boone
County Highway Department (“BCHD”). The fee for annual registration shall be
$25. The registration may be issued for up to three years for a fee of $75. The
registration sticker shall be visibly displayed on the vehicle. Registration
shall occur by January 1 of each year. All registration fees received by the
BCHD shall be deposited in a non-reverting fund for use by the BCHD for road
maintenance.
   (E)   Penalties for violation of this section shall be $100 per occurrence.
   (F)   If any provision of this chapter is found to illegal or
unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, that provision shall be
excised and removed such that the non-offending provisions of this section
survive in full force and effect.
(Ord. 2015-5, passed 11-2-2015; Am. Ord. 2019-12, passed 10-21-2019)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this title for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any individual who is found to violate §
70.01 shall be fined in an amount not to exceed $100. In addition, any
individual who affirmatively or passively allows a minor to violate §
70.01 shall be fined an amount of $100.
(Ord. 98-11, passed 5-18-1998)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits
   
II.   No passing zones
   
III.   Limited access highways
   
IV.   Stop intersections
   
V.   Yield intersections
   
VI.   Restrictions on culverts
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
Location Speed Limit Ord. No. Date Passed
Location                                                                      Speed Ord.  Date
                                                                              Limit No.   Passed
All subdivision roads                                                         20    92-3  3-2-
                                                                              mph         1992
CR 1100 East, from its intersection with CR 700 North to its terminus at SR   40    96-11 10-7-
47                                                                            mph         1996
CR 150 West (Witt Road) between CR 450 North and SR 47                        35    2023- 11-20-
                                                                              mph   09    2023
CR 300 South, approximately 1 mile east of US 421 at the New Union School     30    2007- 8-20-
                                                                              mph   19    2007
CR 650 South                                                                  30    2004- 12-6-
                                                                              mph   19    2004
CR 700 East                                                                   30    2004- 12-6-
                                                                              mph   19    2004
CR 700 East, approximately one-half mile north of Oak Street and CR 550 South 25    2023- 7-17-
in a school zone                                                              mph   06    2023
CR 700 East, approximately ½ mile north of SR 334 at the location of the new 25    2007- 10-1-
Zionsville West Middle School                                                       22    2007
CR 950 East from Whitestown Road to SR 334                                    30    98-10 5-11-
                                                                              mph         1998
CR 975 East, from the north side boundary line of Zionsville town limits to   30    92-3  3-2-
the Whitestown-Zionsville Road on the west half of CR 975 East                mph         1992
Elizaville Road from County Road 500 East to a point 1600 feet west and south 30    2008- 5-19-
of County Road 500 East                                                       mph   5     2008
Ford Road, from the south side boundary line of the Zionsville town limits on 30          3-2-
the west half of Ford Road north to the intersection of Starkey Road and Ford mph   92-3  1992
Road on the southeast corner on the east side of Ford Road
Greenfield Road (CR 550 South), from its intersection with U.S. 421 to the    40    97-15 8-18-
Boone, Hamilton County boundary line                                          mph         1997
Haffner Trailer Park on Haffner Drive                                         15    96-6  5-20-
                                                                              mph         1996
Hunt Club Road                                                                30    94-5  4-4-
                                                                              mph         1994
Royal Run Boulevard                                                           30    2004- 12-6-
                                                                              mph   19    2004
School zone on Pleasant View Church Road (CR 975 East)                        25    95-7  11-6-
                                                                              mph         1995
Zionsville-Whitestown Road                                                    40    10-77 8-8-
                                                                              mph         1977
CR 1100 East (Ford Road) from the south edge of the Zionsville corporation
limits (Zionsville) to the common boundary of Boone and Marion Counties and   35    2009- 11-16-
for County Road 800 S (96th Street) from County Road 100 E (Ford Road) to     mph   09    2009
Zionsville.
CR 800 S (96th Street) between Ford Road and Moore Road                       35    2009- 11-16-
                                                                              mph   09    2009
 
SCHEDULE II. NO PASSING ZONES.
 
Location     Ord. No. Date Passed
CR 300 South 2002-12  9-9-2002
 
SCHEDULE III. LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAYS.
 
Street        Location                        Ord. No. Date Passed
Willow Avenue East of U.S. 421 to Eagle Creek 92-7     12-14-1992
 
SCHEDULE IV. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
Location Stop Type Ord. No. Date Passed
Location                                         Stop Type Ord. No. Date Passed
Along Fox Hollow Ridge, where Ford Valley lane   Two-way   2004-12  9-13-2004
enters into Fox Hollow Ridge
CR 950 East at its intersection with CR 600      Two-way   82-7     8-9-1982
South
Intersection of CR 100 South and CR 400 East     Four-way  2019-14  12-16-2019
Intersection of CR 150 West and CR 300 North     Four-way  2017-06  4-17-2017
Intersection of CR 150 West (Witt Road) and CR   Two-way   2023-09  11-20-2023
450 North
Intersection of CR 700 East and CR 525 South     Three-way 2002-11  9-9-2002
Intersection of CR 875 East and CR 500 South     Four-way  2001-18  11-14-2001
Intersection of CR 800 East and CR 400 South     Four-way  2003-15  7-14-2003
Intersection of CR 800 East and CR 500 South     Four-way  2003-16  7-14-2003
Intersection of CR 300 South and CR 975 East     Four-way  92-4     3-2-1992
Intersection of CR 650 South, CR 650 East and    Four-way  99-10-A  12-20-1999
Royal Run Boulevard
Intersection of CR 950 East and CR 200 South     Four-way  2003-11  6-23-2003
Intersection of CR 600 South and CR 25 West      Four-way  2002-10  8-5-2002
Intersection of CR 350 West and CR 400 North     Four-way  97-20    12-1-1997
Intersection of CR 900 East and CR 200 South     Four-way  97-21    12-1-1997
Intersection of CR 300 South and CR 400 East     Four-way  98-19    7-20-1998
Intersection of CR 700 East and CR 550 South     Three-way 98-22    11-2-1998
Intersection of CR 875 East and CR 550 South     Three-way 98-21    11-2-1998
Intersection of Mulberry Street (Whitestown
Road) and CR 975 East (Pleasant View Church      Three-way 97-14    8-18-1997
Road)
Intersection of Westminster Drive and Regents    Four-way  2018-11  9-4-2018
Park Drive
Intersection of Whitestown Road, North Ford Road Four-way  2001-16  10-22-2001
and CR 975 East
 
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 97-11, passed - -1997, is adopted by reference and incorporated herein
as if set out in full. The ordinance sets out stop intersections in the towns
and cities of the county.
   Two copies of Ord. 97-11, passed - -1997 are available for public inspection
at the office of the Clerk-Treasurer during regular business hours.
SCHEDULE V. YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 97-11, passed - -1997, is adopted by reference and incorporated herein
as if set out in full. The ordinance sets out yield intersections in the towns
and cities of the county.
   Two copies of Ord. 97-11, passed - -1997 are available for public inspection
at the office of the Clerk-Treasurer during regular business hours.
SCHEDULE VI. RESTRICTIONS ON CULVERTS.
   (A)   Priority list.
      (1)   MBE C6A.4.4.2.2: HS20 may be substituted in place of the three
legal trucks for load rating purposes.
      (2)   MBE 6A.4.4.4 Rating in Tons: RT = RF*W.
      (3)   MBE Eqn. 6A.8.3-1 Safe Posting Load.
                       Tons
Structure Safe Posting Lowest Safe Posting
                       Tons
Structure Safe Posting Lowest Safe Posting
JE017     6            7
CL030     8            10
MA030     8            10
WO002     8            11
JE020     10           12
CE032     10           13
UN015     11           14
PE001     13           16
JE016     13           16
MA033     12           17
JA027     14           18
WO016     15           18
CL036     14           19
JA005     14           19
WO003     14           19
SC020     15           19
 
   (B)   Locations.
1  JE017 Broshar Ditch           900 W                 0.1 mi. S of 100 S
2  CL030 Field Ditch             400 E                 300 ft. N of 750 N
3  MA030 Hinshaw Ditch           750 N                 0.9 mi. E of 1000 E
4  WO002 Tributary to Jackson    300 S                 Between 780 E and 800 E
         Run
5  JE020 Walnut Fork Sugar Creek 50 S                  0.2 mi. E of SR 75
6  CE032 Storms Ditch            375 N                 0.1 mi. W of SR 39
7  UN015 Tributary to Jackson    300 S                 0.3 mi. E of 800 E
         Run
8  PE001 Tributary to Belt Ditch 500 S                 0.2 mi. E of 100 E (John
                                                       Bart I)
9  JE016 Broshar Ditch           200 S                 0.1 mi. E of SR 75
10 MA033 Mount’s Run           750 E                 0.8 mi. S of 400 N
11 JA027 Tributary to Eel River  Middle Jamestown Road Just West of 600 W
         Ditch
12 WO016 D Neese Ditch           100 S                 0.1 m. W of 600 E
13 CL036 Waddle Ditch            440 N                 0.6 mi. W of Elm Swamp
                                                       Rd.
14 JA005 J Service Ditch         650 W                 0.3 mi. S of 200 S
15 WO003 Tributary to Jackson    780 E                 0.1 mi. N of 300 S
         Run
16 SC020 Tributary to Woody      450 N                 0.3 mi. E of 1200 W
         Ditch
 
(Ord. 2020-05, passed 8-3-2020)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Parking restrictions
SCHEDULE I. PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
Location Restriction Type Ord. No. Date Passed
Location           Restriction Type     Ord. No.          Date Passed
Crane Drive        No parking zone      2011-12           12-5-2011
                   established
Diane Lane         No parking zone      2005-01           1-18-2005
                   established
Hunt Country Lane
within 300 feet of No parking zone      2019-07           7-1-2019
its intersection   established
with CR 775E
Indianapolis Road
beginning at the
intersection of
State Road 334 and No parking zone      2007-05; Am. Ord. 2-12-2007; 3-12-2007
650 South and      established          2007-09
proceeding north
for 300 feet along
Indianapolis Road
                   Parking prohibited
                   on the public roads
                   or rights-of-way
                   within the Royal Run
                   subdivision after
                   the accumulation of
                   at least two inches
Royal Run          of snowfall within a 2013-02           3-4-2013
subdivision        24-hour period,
                   until the public
                   roads and rights-of-
                   way within Royal Run
                   are plowed and/or
                   cleared by the
                   county or its
                   agents.
North side of East
Stonegate Drive
between Regents
Park Drive and the No parking zone      2017-07           6-5-2017
western/southern   established
entrance to
Stonegate
Elementary School
                   
 
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   LITTER CONTROL
      
91.   WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
      
92.   NOISE
      
93.   MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS
      
94.   PUBLIC AND SEMI-PUBLIC SWIMMING POOL AND SPA OPERATIONS
CHAPTER 90: LITTER CONTROL
Section
   
90.01   Purpose
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Enforcement
   
90.04   Prohibited acts and regulated activities
   
90.05   Litter Enforcement Fund
   
90.06   Authority of County Counsel
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish requirements to control
littering in the county, to prescribe penalties for the failure to comply and
to provide for recovery by the county of the expenses of litter removal.
(Ord. 2004-16, passed 11-8-2004)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and
their derivations shall have the meanings stated herein unless their use in the
text of this chapter clearly demonstrates a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words used in the plural number include the singular number, and words
used in the singular number include the plural number. The word SHALL is always
mandatory and not merely directory.
   AUTOMOBILE LITTER. Automotive vehicles or trailers of any type without
plates in an inoperable condition so as to be deemed dead storage.
   COUNTY. The County of Boone.
   CONSTRUCTION SITE. Any private or public property upon which repairs to an
existing building, construction of a new building or demolition of an existing
structure is taking place.
   ELEMENTS. Any element or mechanism, animate or inanimate, which is a
reasonably foreseeable means of carrying litter from one place to another.
ELEMENTS shall include, but not limited to, wind, rain, water current and
animals.
   HEARING BOARD. The board members of the enforcement authority issuing any
citation according to the terms established in this chapter.
   LITTER.
      (1)   Any uncontainerized man-made or man-used waste, which, if deposited
within the county in any manner or location other than in a litter receptacle,
tends to create a public nuisance or a danger to public health, safety and
welfare, or to impair the environment of the people of the county.
      (2)   LITTER may include, but is not limited to, any garbage, trash,
refuse, confetti, debris, rubbish, grass clippings or other lawn or garden
waste, newspaper, magazine, glass, metal, plastic or paper container or other
construction material, motor vehicle part, furniture, oil, carcass of a dead
animal, obnoxious or offensive matter of any kind, or any object likely to
injure any person or create a nuisance condition or a traffic hazard.
   LOADING OR UNLOADING DOCK. Any dock space or area used by any moving vehicle
for the purpose of receiving, shipping and transporting goods, wares,
commodities and persons.
   NEWSPAPER. Any newspaper of general circulation, as defined by general law,
any newspaper duly entered with the United States Postal Service in accordance
with federal statute or regulation, and any newspaper filed and recorded with
any recording officer, as provided by general law; and, in addition thereto,
shall mean and include any periodical or current magazine regularly published
with not less than four issues per year and sold or distributed to the public.
   PERSON. Any natural person, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company, not-for-profit organization or any governmental entity.
   PRIVATE PREMISES. Any dwelling house, building or other structure designed
to be used, either wholly or in part, for private residential purposes, whether
inhabited or temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant and shall
include any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps, vestibule, mailbox or
other structure belonging or appurtenant to the dwelling house, building or
other structure.
   PUBLIC WAY OR PLACE. Any and all streets, boulevards, avenues, lanes, alleys
or other public ways, and parks, squares, plazas, grounds and buildings
frequented by the general public, whether publicly or privately owned.
   VIOLATIONS CLERK. The Clerk of Boone County.
(Ord. 2004-16, passed 11-8-2004)
§ 90.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   This chapter shall be enforced by the authorized employee(s) of the
following (hereinafter collectively referred to as Enforcement Personnel):
   (A)   Boone County Health Department; and
   (B)   Boone County Area Plan Commission.
(Ord. 2004-16, passed 11-8-2004)
§ 90.04 PROHIBITED ACTS AND REGULATED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Littering the premises of another.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cast, place or deposit any
litter upon real property owned by another, without the consent of the owner or
lessee of the real property.
      (2)   Whenever any person shall be charged with a violation of this
section, it shall be a sufficient allegation of an ordinance violation to state
that the person deposited litter upon property of which he or she was not then
the owner or lessee. It shall be an affirmative defense to such an alleged
violation for the person to show that he or she had permission of the owner or
lessee to so deposit the litter.
   (B)   Maintenance of property.
      (1)   Every owner, lessee or occupant of a residential, business or
commercial building or real estate shall maintain litter collection and storage
areas in a clean condition and ensure that all litter is containerized. Failure
to so maintain clean litter collection and storage areas shall constitute a
violation of this section.
      (2)   All litter that is subject to movement by the elements shall be
secured by the owner, lessee or occupant of a residential, business or
commercial building where it is found before the same is removed or carried by
the elements to adjoining premises.
      (3)   It shall be the duty of any person owning, leasing or occupying a
house or other building or premises, including vacant lots visible from any
public place or private premises, to maintain the house, building or premises
in a reasonably clean and orderly manner. It shall be unlawful to abandon,
neglect or disregard the condition or appearance of any premises so as to
permit the accumulation of litter thereon or the dispersion of litter
therefrom.
      (4)   The owner or person in control of any public place, including, but
not limited to, restaurants, shopping centers, fast-food outlets, stores,
hotels, motels, industrial establishments, office buildings, apartment
buildings, housing projects, gas stations and hospitals and clinics, shall, at
all times, keep the premises clean of all litter and shall take measures,
including daily cleanup of the premises, to prevent litter from being carried
by the elements to adjoining premises. It shall be unlawful to abandon, neglect
or disregard the condition or appearance of the premises so as to permit the
accumulation of litter thereon or the dispersion of litter therefrom.
      (5)   The owner or operator of any public establishment which provides
off-street customer parking and dispenses food or beverages intended for human
consumption outside the establishment or off its premises shall maintain litter
receptacles in the off-street parking area as follows: a minimum of one
receptacle shall be provided for nine or fewer parking spaces and one
additional receptacle for each additional nine parking spaces.
      (6)   The person owning, operating or in control of a loading or
unloading dock shall, at all times, maintain the dock area free of litter in
such a manner that littler will be prevented from being carried by the elements
to adjoining premises.
      (7)   The property owners and the prime contractors in charge of any
construction site shall maintain the construction site in such a manner that
litter will be prevented from being carried by the elements to adjoining
premises. All litter from construction activities or any related activities
shall be picked up at the end of each workday and placed in containers which
will prevent litter from being carried by the elements to adjoining premises.
      (8)   Persons owning, occupying or in control of any premises shall keep
the sidewalks and alleys adjacent thereto free of litter. In residential areas,
owners or occupants shall sweep or rinse off the sidewalks abutting their
premises as often as may be required to keep the walk reasonably free from
dirt, paper and waste.
      (9)   It shall be unlawful for any person who is in control of the
premises upon which is located or on whose behalf there is maintained any
container of refuse, water or garbage to allow that refuse, waste or garbage to
remain uncollected or to allow that container to remain unemptied:
         (a)   More than 15 days; or
         (b)   Until the refuse, waste or garbage creates any condition whish
is offensive to persons upon any private premises or public place.
      (10)   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person who has contracted to
collect and remove refuse, waste or garbage from any residential, business or
commercial building to allow that refuse, waste or garbage to remain
uncollected or to allow a refuse container to remain unemptied:
            1.   More than 15 days; or
            2.   Until that refuse, waste or garbage creates any condition
which is offensive to persons upon any private premises or public place.
         (b)   A violation of this division may be abated by the county in
accordance with this chapter; provided also, however, that the container in
question may be impounded and a lien may be executed against any property held
in connection with the business of collecting refuse, waste or garbage by the
person alleged to be in violation of this division.
      (11)   Automobile litter shall be prohibited unless the automotive
vehicle or trailer is in a completely enclosed building.
(Ord. 2004-16, passed 11-8-2004) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 LITTER ENFORCEMENT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created a special fund to be designated as the Litter
Ordinance Enforcement Fund of Boone County, Indiana.
   (B)   This Fund shall be a continuing fund, with all balances remaining
therein at the end of each fiscal year, and no balances shall lapse into the
county general funds or ever be diverted, directly or indirectly, in any
manner, to any other uses than for the purpose of enforcement and
administration in connection with the Boone County Litter Ordinance.
   (C)   This Fund shall be comprised of revenue derived from the collection of
fines and penalties levied pursuant hereto.
   (D)   Moneys from this Fund shall be appropriate in accordance with
procedures for expenditures of public funds.
   (E)   The fund shall be administered by the Auditor of Boone County,
Indiana.
(Ord. 2004-16, passed 11-8-2004)
§ 90.06 AUTHORITY OF COUNTY COUNSEL.
   The county may use such attorney(s), including but not limited to the
designated County Attorney, as it deems fit, in its sole discretion, for the
prosecution of any claim hereunder, whether appearing before the court or
otherwise.
(Ord. 2004-16, passed 11-8-2004)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Littering the premises of another and/or litter from transport or
travel on public ways.
      (1)   Any person found to violate §
90.04(A) of this chapter in any manner shall be subject to a fine in the
following amounts:
         (a)   Fifty dollars for first violation;
         (b)   One hundred dollars for second violation; and
         (c)   Two hundred fifty dollars for third or greater violation within
a 12-month time period.
      (2)   The enforcement personnel citing the violation shall issue a
citation in the form set forth in Attachment “A” of the ordinance codified
herein. The citation shall include notice that the recipient may admit or deny
the alleged violation subject to the provisions in divisions (A)(2)(a) and (A)
(2)(b) of this section. Any person receiving such a citation shall appear in
person before the Violation Clerk to either admit or deny the violation within
seven days of the date of the issuance of the citation.
         (a)   If the recipient admits the violation, he or she shall be
subject to payment of the penalty as provided above. All such payments shall be
made within seven days of the date of the citation.
         (b)   If the recipient denies the violation, he or she shall request a
hearing in front of the Hearing Board. The hearing shall be conducted at the
next regular meeting of the Board. Notice of the date and time of the hearing
shall be provided to recipient.
         (c)   The Hearing Board conducting a hearing under this section shall
determine whether a violation of this chapter has been proven by a
preponderance of the evidence. Upon a finding that a violation of this chapter
has been committed, the Board shall enter an order requiring the alleged
violator to pay the fine provided in division (A)(1) above.
      (3)   A citation issued under this section shall be provided to the
recipient and a copy of the citation shall be forwarded to all other
enforcement authorities. The issuing enforcement authority shall notify the
remaining enforcement authority as to all actions taken with regard to the
cited violation.
   (B)   Maintenance of property.
      (1)   Any person found to violate §
90.04(B) of this chapter in any manner shall be subject to a fine of not more
than $2,500. Each day any such violation is committed or permitted to continue
may constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such hereafter.
      (2)   In addition to the penalties described in division (B)(1) above of
this section, the county, by appropriate action, may seek injunctive relief,
requesting the court to enjoin or order the abatement of any violation of this
chapter.
      (3)   The enforcement personnel citing a violation under §
90.04(B) of this chapter shall issue a notice in the form set forth in
Attachment “B” of the ordinance codified herein. The notice shall include a
description of the alleged violation and notice to the recipient that failure
to abate the violation within 15 days may result in the pursuit of an action by
the county in a court of appropriate jurisdiction as well as the imposition of
additional fines up to $2,500 for each violation.
      (4)   The notice shall also include notice that the recipient may deny
the alleged violation. Any person receiving such a notice shall appear in
person before the Violation Clerk to deny the violation within seven days of
the date of the issuance of the citation.
         (a)   If the recipient denies the violation, he or she shall request a
hearing in front of the Hearing Board. The hearing shall be conducted at the
next regular meeting of the Board. Notice of the date and time of the hearing
shall be provided to recipient.
         (b)   The Hearing Board conducting a hearing under this section shall
determine whether a violation of this chapter has been proven by a
preponderance of the evidence. Upon a finding that a violation of this chapter
has been committed, the Board shall enter an order requiring the alleged
violator to abate the violation within 15 days of the issuance of the Board’s
order and shall impose a fine in an amount to be determined by the Board, but
not to exceed $2,500, for each day a violation is found to have occurred.
      (5)   A notice issued under this section shall be provided to the
recipient and a copy of the notice shall be forwarded to all other enforcement
authorities. The issuing enforcement authority shall notify the remaining
enforcement authority as to all actions taken with regard to the cited
violation.
      (6)   Should any individual fail to comply with the Board’s order to
remove the violation within the time period provided, the county, in its sole
discretion, may undertake the work necessary to abate the violation, and may
either seek reimbursement for the cost of work performed by filing an action in
a court of appropriate jurisdiction or file a lien against the subject real
estate for the cost of the work performed, until the cost is paid by the party
on whose behalf the abatement work was performed.
      (7)   Failure by the recipient to abate the violation or pay the assessed
fine may result in the pursuit of an action by the county in a court of
appropriate jurisdiction. The county may recover the cost of removal of the
item(s) constituting the violation, the amount of penalty imposed, attorney
fees and costs of bringing the action.
(Ord. 2004-16, passed 11-8-2004)
CHAPTER 91: WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Section
   
91.01   Establishment
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   Compliance with state standards required
   
91.04   Inspection of mobile instruments
   
91.05   Instrument repair and installation
   
91.06   Numbering of instruments
   
91.07   Security seals
   
91.08   Commodity regulations
   
91.09   Creation of Weights and Measures Fund
   
91.10   Enforcement procedures
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Boone County Weights and Measures Department is established to enforce
State and Local Weights and Measures standards, to carry out the Indiana State
and Local Weights and Measures Program and to inspect, test, try and ascertain
if they are correct, all weights, scales, beams, measures of every kind,
instruments or mechanical devices for measurement and the tools, appliances or
accessories, connected with any or all such instruments or measurements used or
employed within the county by any proprietor, agent, lessee or employee in
determining the size, quantity, extent or measurement of quantities, things,
produce, articles for distribution of hire or award. The provisions of this
section are intended to supplement the state and local weights and measures
standards and the state and local weights and measures program and are in no
way intended or designed to restrict, repeal or abrogate said standards or
program.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 8-3-2009)
§ 91.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNTY INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized to inspect weighing
or measuring instruments in Boone County.
   INSTRUMENT. Any scale, weight, beam, measure or weighing or measuring device
of every kind, or instrument or parts thereof subject to regulation by the
Division of Weights and Measures of the State Department of Health.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 8-3-2009)
§ 91.03 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE STANDARDS REQUIRED.
   No person engaged in the business of selling, buying, exchanging goods or
commodities by weight, measurement or volume shall use an instrument in his or
her business operations for such purpose if the instrument does not meet the
standards established by the State of Indiana or the Division of Weights and
Measures of the State Department of Health.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 8-3-2009 ) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 INSPECTION OF MOBILE INSTRUMENTS.
   If an instrument is mobile or otherwise operated at more than one location
and is not made available to be inspected by the County Inspector at a
permanent business location during regular business hours of the county, the
County Inspector shall have the authority to order the owner or operator to
present the instrument for inspection by the County Inspector at a time and
location designated by the County Inspector.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 8-3-2009)
§ 91.05 INSTRUMENT REPAIR AND INSTALLATION.
   All owners or operators of instruments shall inform the County Inspector
that an instrument has been repaired or installed and provide the County
Inspector with the location of the instrument prior to that instrument being
placed into service.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 8-3-2009)
§ 91.06 NUMBERING OF INSTRUMENTS.
   Any person who owns or operates more than one instrument of a particular
type at a business location shall serially number each instrument in such a
manner that each instrument shall be readily distinguishable from all other
such instruments of that type present at that location.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 8-3-2009)
§ 91.07 SECURITY SEALS.
   (A)   When a weighing or measuring device is security sealed by a County
Inspector, the security seal shall not be cut, severed or removed without
permission of the County Inspector. Any weighing or measuring device designed
to be security sealed shall be sealed by a County Inspector.
   (B)   Repairpersons, whose equipment is certified by the State of Indiana
under §
91.05, may remove a security seal for the purpose of making repairs without
prior approval of the County Inspector. Repairpersons who cut, sever or remove
a security seal shall immediately notify the County Inspector within 24 hours.
   (C)    No security seal shall be valid in the county except a seal approved
by the State Inspector of Indiana.
   (D)   No weighing or measuring device shall be used in the business of
selling, buying, bartering or exchanging of goods or commodities if:
      (1)   The security seal has been cut, severed or removed; or
      (2)   The event counter, event logger, or other analogous component that
generates an electronic audit trail for the instrument has been recalibrated
until it is resealed by the County Inspector or permission is given by the
County Inspector if immediate resealing is impracticable.
   (E)   After an instrument is certified with a security seal and an annual
approval seal, such instrument shall not be recalibrated without establishing
that the instrument’s calibration is outside the range of acceptance tolerance
for that instrument as provided in the appropriate section of “Handbook 44"
published by the National Institute of Standards and Technology, U.S.
Department of Commerce. A person who violates this section shall be fined $100.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 8-3-2009; Am. Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-21-2018)
§ 91.08 COMMODITY REGULATIONS.
   All persons engaged in the selling, buying, bartering or exchanging goods or
commodities must sell, buy, barter or exchange the goods or commodities using
the legal method of selling, buying, bartering or exchanging the goods or
commodities as required by the National Conference on Weights and Measures Sale
of Commodities Regulations, as provided by I.C. 24-6-3-2.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 8-3-2009)
§ 91.09 CREATION OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES FUND.
   There is hereby established a Boone County Weights and Measures Fund (the
Fund). All minimum fines and fines imposed by the courts of Boone County shall
be deposited into the Fund. The Fund shall not revert at the end of the year,
but shall be maintained by the Boone County Auditor. Any amount in the Fund may
be appropriated by the Boone County Council to either:
   (A)   Pay the cost of the acquisition of additional equipment for the
Weights and Measures Inspector and his or her department, as approved by the
Board of Commissioners of Boone County.
   (B)   Be appropriated into a part-time line item for the payment of part-
time employees.
   (C)   Be appropriated into appropriate salary line item to assist in the
payment of the Weights and Measures Inspector.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 8-3-2009)
§ 91.10 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES.
   The County Inspector for weights and measures, shall maintain duplicate
ticket books and shall cause to be recorded in his or her records the payment
of all minimum fines. All minimum fines shall be mailed directly to the Boone
County Auditor, attention weights and measures fines, 201 Courthouse Square,
Lebanon, Indiana 46052. The Weights and Measures Office shall be responsible
for maintaining records of the minimum fines that are paid and assessed,
causing minimum fines to be deposited and filing additional tickets in the
appropriate court of Boone County.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 8-3-2009)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)    The County Inspector or his or her designated assistant may issue to
the violator a citation which shall be written on a citation ticket, the form
of which shall be approved by the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   The owner or operator of an establishment who violates this chapter
shall be guilty of a Class C infraction and may be fined up to $500, plus
statutory court costs.
   (C)   Any person who commits a second or subsequent violation of this
chapter in any one calendar year, shall be guilty of a Class B infraction, and
may be fined up to $1,000, plus statutory court costs.
   (D)   Any person who receives a citation and pays the following fines (the
minimum fine) within 15 days of the citation, shall not be cited into court for
an infraction violation as set out above. The minimum fine for the first
violation of this chapter within a one-year period shall be $100. The minimum
fine for any second or subsequent violation shall be $200.
   (E)   The County Inspector or his or her designated assistant may issue a
citation as a warning. If a warning is issued, the person or operator who
receives the warning, shall correct the violation of this chapter within 15
days, or they may receive a citation, a minimum fine and/or be guilty of an
infraction as set out above.
   (F)   Each day of any violation shall be deemed as a separate offense.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 8-3-2009)
CHAPTER 92: NOISE
Section
   
92.01   Purpose
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Unlawful noise
   
92.04   Unlawful noise from a building or structure
   
92.05   Exemptions
   
92.06   Entry onto private property
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 PURPOSE.
   It is hereby declared, as a matter of public policy of Boone County, that:
   (A)   The making, creation or maintenance of noise of various kinds and by
various means that is unreasonably loud, injurious to health, indecent,
offensive or an obstruction to the free use of property within the county has
so increased as to constitute a public nuisance; and
   (B)   The making, creation or maintenance of noise of various kinds and by
various means that is unreasonably loud, injurious to health, indecent,
offensive or an obstruction to the free use of property and is prolonged in its
time, place and use, adversely affects and is a detriment to the comfort,
repose, health, peace and safety of the residents of and visitors to the
county; and
   (C)   The necessity, in the public interest, for the declaration of this
public policy as set forth in the provisions of this chapter is declared as a
matter of legislative determination and is designed to secure and promote the
comfort, repose, health, peace and safety of the residents of and visitors to
the county.
(Ord. 2007-14, passed 7-16-2007)
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and
intended for the shelter, housing or enclosure of any individual, animal,
process, equipment, goods or materials of any kind or nature.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on or in the ground, or attachment to something having a fixed
location on or in the ground. Structures include buildings, mobile homes,
walls, parking areas and public and private infrastructure.
(Ord. 2007-14, passed 7-16-2007)
§ 92.03 UNLAWFUL NOISE.
   (A)   Generally. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it shall be
unlawful for any person to make, create or maintain any noise that is:
      (1)   Unreasonably loud, injurious to health, indecent, offensive or an
obstruction to the free use of property within the county; or
      (2)   Adversely or substantially affects, annoys, disturbs, injures or
endangers the comfort, repose, health and peace and safety of others within the
county.
   (B)   Violations. Accordingly, the following acts, among others, are
declared to be unlawful noises in violation of this chapter:
      (1)   Construction or repair of buildings or structures. The erection,
demolition, alteration or repair of any building, or the excavation therefor,
at any times other than between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m., Monday
through Sunday. There shall be an exception to this constituting unlawful noise
in the case of an emergency or urgent necessity in the interest of public
health and safety, but then only with a permit from the County Building
Inspector which permit may be granted for a period not to exceed three days
while the emergency or urgent necessity continues and which permit may be
renewed for an additional period up to three additional days while the
emergency or urgent necessity continues.
      (2)   Music and electronic devices. Playing, using or operating, or
permitting to be played, used or operated, any radio or television set, musical
instrument, or other machine or electronic device for producing or reproducing
sound in such a manner as to make, create or maintain an unlawful noise, or at
any time with volume louder than is necessary for convenient hearing of the
person or persons who are in the room, vehicle or chamber in which such machine
or electronic device is operation. The operation of such set, instrument,
machine or electronic device between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. in
such a manner as to be plainly audible in the immediate vicinity of the
building, structure or vehicle in which it is located shall be prima facie
evidence of a violation of this division.
      (3)   Exhaust. The discharge into the open air of any unlawful noise
created by the exhaust of any internal combustion engine, or any type of engine
or power unit on a motorcycle or other motor vehicle or craft of any kind,
except through a muffler or other device that will effectively reduce and
prevent unlawful noise therefrom except for farm vehicles. A motor vehicle must
be equipped with a muffler or other noise dissipation device that is in good
working order and is in constant operation to prevent unlawful noise.
      (4)   Special use vehicles and equipment. The operation of off-road
vehicles, ATVs, snowmobile and other special use vehicles shall be prohibited
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(Ord. 2007-14, passed 7-16-2007)
§ 92.04 UNLAWFUL NOISE FROM A BUILDING OR STRUCTURE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit persons creating unlawful
noise or persons of disorderly character to assemble in any Building or
Structure owned, occupied, or controlled by him or her. A person who
recklessly, knowingly, or intentionally engages in conduct which makes unlawful
noise and continues to do so after being directed or requested to stop commits
disorderly conduct.
(Ord. 2007-14, passed 7-16-2007)
§ 92.05 EXCEPTIONS.
   The following are exempted from the provisions of this chapter:
   (A)   Noise or sounds emitted from any authorized emergency vehicle.
   (B)   Parades, festivals, carnivals, fairs, celebrations, concerts, artistic
performances or any other event authorized by the county.
   (C)   Noise arising from or created by athletic or sporting practices or
events.
   (D)   Sounds associated with the normal conduct of legally established non-
transient businesses when such sounds are customary and within the normal range
appropriate for such use and do not constitute unlawful noise. Noises
ordinarily associated with agricultural uses. Noises ordinarily associated with
aircrafts, airports and trains.
(Ord. 2007-14, passed 7-16-2007)
§ 92.06 ENTRY ONTO PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any duly authorized law enforcement officers or representatives in the
course of their duties in enforcing this chapter shall have the right to enter
onto private property, provided that they have probable cause that a violation
of this chapter is occurring or has occurred, but they shall not enter into any
structure or building without permission or authorization to do so.
   (B)   For the purpose of determining compliance with the provisions of this
chapter the Boone County Sheriff or its authorized representatives are hereby
authorized to make inspections of all sources of noise whenever necessary to
determine the quantity and character of such noise. If any person refuses or
restricts entry and free access to any part of a building or structure, or
refuses inspection of any activity, device, facility, motor vehicle, or process
where inspection is sought, such officer or their authorized representatives
may seek from the county court a warrant for inspection requiring that such
person permit entry and free access without interference, restriction or
obstruction, at a reasonable time, for the purpose of inspecting, testing or
measuring noise. The county court shall have power, jurisdiction and authority
to enforce all orders issued under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-14, passed 7-16-2007)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   If any duly authorized law enforcement officer or representative has
probable cause that a violation of this chapter is occurring or has occurred,
the officer or representative shall first give a verbal warning to the person
believed to be violating this chapter. After issuance of the verbal warning
from the officer or representative, the officer or representative may write a
ticket for a subsequent or continuing violation of the provisions or this
chapter. A person violating the provision of this chapter or an order issued
under authority of this chapter after receipt of a verbal warning shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a violation. A violation of this chapter shall carry a
fine, which fine shall be an amount, fixed by the court in its discretion, not
greater than $250 per violation, or $100 if paid at least seven days in advance
of the scheduled hearing or appearance date in court for such violation.
(Ord. 2007-14, passed 7-16-2007)
CHAPTER 93: MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS
Section
Animals
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Responsibilities and prohibitions
Tobacco Use Prohibited
   
93.10   Public facilities
 
   
93.99   Penalties
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   This subchapter does not apply to livestock as defined in I.C. 15-15-2-47.
   The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this chapter in any
tense, plurality, or other, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
   ABANDONED. Means placed or left upon public property or upon the private
property of another without the express permission of the owner, custodian, or
tenant of the property or is unattended or uncared for.
   ANIMAL. A member of the animal kingdom, except humans, dead or alive,
domestic or not. (I.C. 15-17-2-3)
   ANIMAL CARE FACILITY. An animal control center, an animal shelter, a humane
society, or another animal impounding facility that has as its purpose the
humane care and treatment of animals. (I.C. 6-9-39-1)
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER (ACO). A person who is authorized to implement and
enforce county animal ordinances and state statutes and as defined in state
statutes and is a sworn law enforcement officer, as defined under Indiana law.
   ANIMAL FIGHTING CONTEST. Any event or activity facilitated by a person or
persons in which animals engage in violent, aggressive, or otherwise harmful
conduct with another animal in a form that is not generally associated with the
species under normal circumstances.
   AT LARGE. Leaving or straying away from the land owned, rented, or leased by
the owner or custodian of the animal or not being kept in direct control of an
owner or possessor of the animal. AT LARGE does not include the use of a dog
under the supervision of a person to hunt, chase or tree predatory animals or
game birds, or the use of a dog to control or protect livestock or in other
related agricultural activities.
   BEAT. An intentional or knowing act of applying unnecessary physical force
or contact in a manner which has as its main objective inducing pain,
inflicting harm, or causing discomfort in a manner that could not reasonably be
described as an appropriate means of discipline.
   BITE. A wound inflicted by an animal tooth causing a tear, puncture,
abrasion, or other marking on the skin in which blood is visible or the skin is
damaged.
   CAT. All domestic members of the feline family.
   CATTERY. Any place in which three cats or more are kept for the purpose of
breeding or boarding for financial compensation.
   COLONY. A group of one or more feral cats, whether unmanaged or managed.
   CRUELTY. Means and includes any intentional or knowing act or omission
whereby unnecessary or unjustifiable pain, suffering, or death is caused,
permitted, or allowed to continue where there is reasonable remedy or relief.
   CUSTODIAN. A person who is in temporary direct control of an animal as
authorized by the owner of the animal, or is a law enforcement officer acting
within his/her scope of duties to impound or possess an animal. This may
include, but is not limited to, a veterinarian, an animal grooming facility, a
law enforcement officer or animal control officer.
   DIRECT CONTROL. Under the immediate physical restraint of the owner or
custodian of the animal or within the confines of land owned, rented, or leased
by the owner or custodian of the animal.
   DOG. All domestic members of the canine family.
   DOMESTIC. Generally and commonly known to live in or about the habitation of
humans.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. An animal kept as a pet or used for service, protection,
comfort, companionship, hobby or similar purpose.
   FERAL CAT. Any cat that has no apparent owner or identification and is wild,
untamed, unsocialized, unmanageable, or unable to be approached or handled.
   HARBOR. Performing acts of providing care, shelter, protection, restraint,
refuge, food or nourishment.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Boone County Health Department.
   HUMANE TRAP. A device or procedure to contain or dispose of an unwanted
animal, as permitted by law, in a way that provides minimal discomfort or
unnecessary pain to the animal.
   IMPOUNDMENT. The act of taking physical possession and control of an animal
by an animal control officer or other person whom is empowered to act by law
and transporting it to an animal care facility or humane society.
   KENNEL. Any place in which three dogs or more are kept for the purpose of
breeding or boarding for financial compensation.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. An appointed officer or employee hired by and on
the patrol of the state, or any of the state's political subdivisions, as
defined under Indiana law, who is granted lawful authority to enforce all or
some of the penal laws of the State of Indiana, and who possesses, with respect
to those laws, the power to effect arrests for offenses committed in the
officer's or employee's presence.
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, bison, horses, mules, poultry, or
other animals, that are commonly associated with activities associated with
farming or food production. (I.C. 15-17-2-47)
   MANAGED COLONY. A colony of feral cats that are registered with a humane
society or designee and is maintained by a colony caretaker using trap, neuter,
and return methodology.
   MUTILATE. An intentional or knowing act of applying unnecessary physical
force or contact in a manner which has as its main objective creating changes
to the physical appearance of the animal in a manner that could not reasonably
be described as an appropriate and common modification for the animal species
involved. Spaying or neutering or any other procedure that changes an animal
does not constitute mutilation if the procedure is done in a certified facility
by a person certified to perform the procedure or is a common or accepted
practice in the industry specific to the animal.
   NEGLECT. An intentional or knowing act or omission whereby an animal is
deprived of adequate and reasonable food, water, shelter, exercise, air, or any
other resource commonly associated with the health and well-being of the
particular animal species involved.
   OFFICE. The Boone County Sheriff’s office.
   OWNER. Any person who owns, harbors, keeps, feeds, maintains, or has lawful
possession of an animal; however, this shall not include a person hired or
acting as custodian of the animal.
   PERSON. Any individual, group of individuals, firm, association,
partnership, or corporation.
   QUARANTINE. A place or period of isolation as to prevent cross
contamination, infection, or other hazardous events as determined by a law
enforcement officer, animal control officer, Health Department, the humane
society, or any other agent permitted by law.
   SECURE RESTRAINT. A structure or device that maintains physical control of
the animal; this can include, but is not limited to, a fence of adequate design
and strength, a tethering device which is securely attached to the animal at
one end and a fixed object at the other end, or a cage. An "invisible fence," a
fence of inadequate design and strength, or other structures or devices that
cannot maintain physical control of the animal under normal circumstances are
not considered a "secure restraint."
   SPAY/NEUTER. An operation done to a female or male animal to prevent the
conception of offspring.
   STRAY. Any animal that does not appear, upon reasonable inquiry, to have an
owner, or has escaped restraint and is running at large.
   VICIOUS. Known to bite, attack, or injure human beings, domestic animals,
companion animals, or livestock without provocation. No animal may be declared
vicious if a threat, injury, or damage was sustained by a human being who, at
the time, was committing a willful trespass or other tort upon the premises
occupied by the owner or keeper of the animal or was teasing, tormenting,
abusing, assaulting, or otherwise provoking the animal, or has, in the past,
been observed or reported to have teased, tormented, abused, assaulted, or
otherwise provoked the animal involved, or was committing or attempting to
commit a crime.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 6-4-2018)
§ 93.02 RESPONSIBILITIES AND PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Jurisdiction. The Board of Commissioners finds that the terms and
conditions of this subchapter are in the best interests of all citizens and
animals of Boone County. Therefore, this subchapter shall be in full force and
effect in both the incorporated and unincorporated part of the county unless or
until a municipality within in the county adopts an ordinance prohibiting
enforcement of this subchapter within the boundaries of the municipality. For
purposes of this subchapter, if a municipality (city or town) has reorganized
with a township, pursuant to I.C. 36-1.5.1.1 et seq., the term "incorporated"
means areas within the former city or town limits and any platted subdivision.
   (B)   Basic responsibilities and duties of animal owners.
      (1)   Every owner of every domestic animal kept in the county, whether in
the care of the owner or a custodian, shall see that such animal:
         (a)   Is kept in a clean, sanitary, and healthy manner and is not
confined so as to be forced to stand, sit, or lie in its own excrement. The
owner or custodian of the animal shall regularly and as often as needed
maintain all animal areas to prevent odor or health and sanitation problems;
         (b)   Shall be provided with proper amounts of food that is
nutritionally appropriate for the species to maintain good health;
         (c)   Shall have fresh drinking water;
         (d)   Shall have ventilation and appropriate shelter from the
elements;
         (e)   Is able to exercise and move about freely, as needed by the
species;
         (f)   Shall not be tethered by use of a choke or pronged collar nor by
any rope, chain, or cord directly attached to the animal's neck in lieu of an
appropriate collar, nor by a leash less than 12 feet in length or of such
unreasonable weight as to prevent the animal from moving about freely;
         (g)   Is protected against abuse, cruelty, neglect, torment, overload,
overwork, or any other mistreatment;
         (h)   Is provided with reasonable necessary medical care or attention
and maintains current on inoculations outlined by this subchapter or by state
law; and
         (i)   Is maintained in compliance with all applicable federal, state,
and local laws and regulations regarding animal care and control.
      (2)   Any person who witnesses a violation of this section shall notify
the animal control officer or local law enforcement within 24 hours.
   (C)   Cruelty, abuse, and neglect.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for a person to commit, or otherwise
participate in, acts of animal cruelty. Acts of cruelty shall include, but are
not limited to, the following:
         (a)   An act of maliciously killing, abusing, maiming, or disfiguring
any animal or willfully or maliciously administering poison to any animal or
exposing any poisonous substance with the intent that the poisonous substance
shall be taken and consumed by such animal (does not include the killing of
animals for the protection of persons or property);
         (b)   An act of overloading, torturing, tormenting, depriving an
animal of its necessary sustenance or shelter, beating, mutilating, killing, or
carrying an animal in or upon a vehicle in a cruel or inhumane manner;
         (c)   An act of failing to supply an animal with wholesome food and
water, keeping an animal in an enclosure without wholesome exercise and
ventilation, or abandoning any animal to die;
         (d)   An act of owning, possessing, keeping, or training an animal
with the intent that such animal shall be engaged in an animal fighting
contest;
         (e)   Building, maintaining, making, or keeping a pit on premises
owned or occupied by the person for the purpose of an exhibition of an animal
fighting contest;
         (f)   Encouraging, instigating, promoting, or assisting in an
exhibition of an animal fighting contest; or
         (g)   Charging admission, being an assistant, or promoting in an
exhibition of an animal fighting contest.
      (2)   Any animal control officer or other officer empowered to act by law
may impound any animal pursuant to or during an investigation under this
subchapter.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit hunting or fishing as
permitted by the law of the state and the rules and regulations of the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources.
      (4)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the use of commercially sold
poisons or humane traps for the control of rats, mice, groundhogs, moles, or
other similar rodents, raccoons, possums or other pests, as long as the person
using the poisons uses reasonable care to ensure that neither domestic animals
nor livestock are exposed to the poisons.
      (5)   If the number of domestic animals being kept or harbored by an
owner or custodian jeopardizes the health or welfare of the animals, some or
all of the animals may be impounded, and the animal control officer may pursue
any remedies provided under this subchapter.
   (D)   Restraint of animals.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or possessor of any domestic
animal to allow such animal to run at large, whether wearing a collar and tags
or not, within any incorporated area of the county. Any and all such domestic
animals found at large may be immediately impounded by the animal control
officer or any law enforcement officer and the officers may pursue the animal
onto private property to effect capture of the animal.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of every owner or custodian of any domestic
animal that typically resides within any incorporated area of the county to
ensure that the animal is kept under secure restraint and that reasonable care
and precautions are taken to prevent the animal from leaving the real property
limits of its owner or custodian and ensure that the animal cannot easily dig,
climb, jump, or otherwise escape the secure restraint.
      (3)   Chaining of a domestic dog is discouraged, but if it is done, the
following is required:
         (a)   All basic responsibilities and duties described in this
subchapter are met at all times;
         (b)   The chain must be at least 12 feet in length, regardless of the
size of the dog;
         (c)   The chain must be not of a weight heavy enough to cause physical
damage to the dog's neck or body; and
         (d)   The chain must be able to move freely in all directions.
         (e)   These restrictions do not apply to owners and their animals that
are participating in sanctioned dog shows or similar events.
      (4)   The owner or custodian of any guard dog or watchdog must confine
such animal within a perimeter fence and meet the following conditions:
         (a)   The fence shall be sufficient to prevent the dog's escape with
all points of ingress and egress securely locked at all times; and
         (b)   A beware of dog, or similar wordage, sign shall be conspicuously
displayed on each exterior side of the enclosure for each 50 feet of enclosure,
with a minimum of two, as well as a sign on each ingress or egress point to the
enclosure. Signs shall be a minimum of ten inches high and 14 inches wide.
   (E)   Restraint of female domestic animals in estrus. The owner or custodian
of any female domestic animal in estrus (commonly referred to as heat) shall
confine the animal within a secure enclosure and in such a manner as to prevent
the animal from becoming a nuisance and to prevent conception except during
planned breeding.
   (F)   Permanent identification of a domestic animal required. (Effective 06/
1/2019)
      (1)   A person who owns a domestic animal which is six months or older
which permanently resides in the county with an owner whose legal address falls
within the county limits shall ensure that at all times the animal bears a
permanent means of identification such that the owner can be ascertained
accurately, quickly, and easily.
      (2)   The means of identifications required by this section shall be in
addition to any tags required to be worn by state law of other provisions of
this subchapter, and shall be either by means of:
         (a)   A microchip implanted in the animal that bears a registered
identification number and can be read by a standard microchip scanner; or
         (b)   A permanent tag attached to a durable collar worn at all times
by the animal and the tag bears the owner's current name, address, and
telephone number.
      (3)   The identifying chip or tag may only be removed by the animal's
owner, custodian, or veterinarian acting on behalf of the owner, and can only
be temporarily removed for reasonably short periods of time for the ability to
maintain the animal's health and hygiene.
      (4)   Each veterinarian or other person in the county who implants a
microchip shall make available upon request to the animal control officer the
names, addresses, and phone numbers of the owner(s) of the animal and the
corresponding microchip identification number. Such records shall be available
to the animal control officer without court order.
   (G)   Vaccinations and proof of vaccination.
      (1)   The owners of all domestic animals within Boone County must comply
with vaccination requirements as set forth in state law, local ordinance and
the rules and regulations for the State Board of Health and the Boone County
Health Department.
      (2)   All dogs, cats, and ferrets three months of age and older must be
vaccinated against rabies. The rabies vaccination of a dog, cat, and ferret
shall be maintained by ongoing revaccination of the animal as follows:
         (a)   Ferrets shall be revaccinated within 12 months of the prior
vaccination.
         (b)   Dogs and cats that are vaccinated with a rabies vaccine whose
label recommends annual boosters shall be revaccinated within 12 months of the
prior vaccination.
         (c)   Dogs and cats that are vaccinated with a rabies vaccine whose
label recommends a booster one year later and triennially thereafter shall be
revaccinated within 12 months of the first vaccination and shall be
revaccinated within 36 months of each vaccination thereafter.
      (3)   The owner of the animal is responsible for procuring the
vaccinations required by this section.
      (4)   All dogs shall have a rabies vaccination tag securely affixed to
their collar or harness at all times and owners of dogs, cats, and ferrets must
be able to provide documentation of rabies vaccination within 24 hours of being
asked by the animal control officer or local law enforcement agency.
      (5)   Vaccinations records must be supplied by the owner to the animal
control officer upon request if the animal has bitten, or is suspected of
biting, a person or other domestic animal.
   (H)   Abandonment.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for a person to knowingly, intentionally, or
recklessly abandon a domestic animal or livestock as described by this
subchapter.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for a person to abandon an animal upon private
property which the person owns, leases, rents, or otherwise has a contractual
interest in unless the animal is checked on routinely and all basic
responsibilities and duties of animal owners are met.
      (3)   A defense to this division (H) may include an unforeseen medical
emergency of the owner or custodian of the animal.
      (4)   Colonies and feral cats are excluded from this division (H).
   (I)   Vicious animals. It shall be unlawful for a person to cause, permit,
accompany, or be responsible for the presence of any vicious animal on the
streets or public places of the county or allow the animal to run on the
premises of another at any time, unless, in addition to the other requirements
of this subchapter, the animal is securely muzzled to effectively prevent it
from biting any person or other animal.
   (J)   Animal bites and quarantine.
      (1)   In the event of a human being bitten by a domestic animal, the
animal shall be quarantined in conformity with state law and the rules and
regulations of the State Board of Health and the Health Department.
      (2)   Every incident involving a human being bitten by an animal shall be
reported within 24 hours to a local healthcare establishment, a law enforcement
agency, or the animal control officer. It is the duty of the person bitten or
the person's parent or guardian to make the report in conformance with title
410 IAC 1-2.3-52 as amended.
      (3)   If the animal involved is located and able to be detained, the
animal shall be quarantined as determined by the Health Department and state
law.
      (4)   Law enforcement animals maintaining current certification are
exempt from this division (J).
   (K)   Public nuisance animals.
      (1)   A public nuisance animal shall mean and include, but is not limited
to, a domestic animal that:
         (a)   Is found at large (stray);
         (b)   Damages the property of anyone other than the owner;
         (c)   Is vicious;
         (d)   Attacks without provocation;
         (e)   Excessively makes disturbing noises, including, but not limited
to, continued and repeated howling, barking, whining, or other utterances
causing unreasonable disturbance or discomfort to neighbors or others in close
proximity to the premises where the animal is kept; or
         (f)   Is not being kept in conformity with county ordinances and
regulations pertaining to land, animals, and ownership.
      (2)   A public nuisance animal may be impounded by the animal control
officer, without a court order, and the owner or custodian of the animal cited
for a violation of this subchapter. The animal may be returned to the owner
upon proof of ownership, proof of payment of damages (if any), and proof of
reasonable attempts to mitigate the cause of nuisance determination.
   (L)   Animal sacrifice.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for a person to engage in, participate in,
assist in, or perform animal sacrifice. No person shall own, keep, possess, or
harbor any animal with the purpose or intention of using such animal for animal
sacrifice.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for a person to knowingly sell, offer for
sale, give away, or transfer any animal to any person when he or she knows or
believes that person intends to use such animal for animal sacrifice.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit hunting or fishing as
permitted by the law of the state and the rules and regulations of the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources.
   (M)   Vehicles and animals.
      (1)   A person who is in operation of a vehicle which causes injury or
death to a domestic animal shall immediately notify the animal's owner, if
known, or the local law enforcement agency or animal control officer. The
person must provide the location of the incident, a description of the animal,
and the condition of the animal. Such person is not required to provide his or
her name or identifying information, i.e. an address, as the only purpose of
this requirement is to aid the stricken animal and notify its owner.
      (2)   A person who is in operation of a vehicle which causes injury or
death to a non-domestic animal shall immediately notify the local law
enforcement agency or animal control officer if any of the following exists:
         (a)   The collision leaves debris or carnage which constitutes a road
hazard;
         (b)   The collision causes damage to a secondary vehicle or injury to
a pedestrian; or
         (c)   The collision causes damage to private property if the driver of
the involved vehicle does not have a contractual interest with the property.
      (3)   No animal shall be left unattended in a vehicle, whether on private
or public property, in which the conditions of the vehicle would constitute a
health hazard to the animal.
      (4)   No animal shall be transported in the trunk of a vehicle, a small
storage compartment of a vehicle (i.e. glove box), or in any other fashion
which restricts the animal from reasonable mobility and access to air during
transport.
      (5)   An animal in a vehicle involved in a motor vehicle collision should
be:
         (a)   Released to the owner or custodian of the animal if possible;
         (b)   Be held by the law enforcement agency and released to a person
named by the owner or the custodian of the animal if that person can be to the
scene in a reasonable time period; or
         (c)   Transported to an animal care facility for a temporary holding
period.
   (N)   Stray animals.
      (1)   A person who finds a stray animal should notify the local law
enforcement agency or the animal control officer within 24 hours.
      (2)   A person possessing the lost or stray animal must comply with all
rules and regulations of this subchapter pertaining to humane care and
treatment of animals while the animal is in custody awaiting the return to the
owner or intervention of an animal care facility, the local law enforcement
agency, or the animal control officer.
   (O)   Injured animals.
      (1)   A person who discovers an injured domestic animal or accidentally
causes injury to a domestic animal shall immediately notify the animal's owner,
if known, the local law enforcement agency, or the animal control officer.
      (2)   The person must provide the location of the incident, a description
of the animal, and the condition of the animal. Such person is not required to
provide his or her name or identifying information, i.e. an address, as the
only purpose of this requirement is to aid the stricken animal and notify its
owner.
   (P)   Deceased animals.
      (1)   A person finding a dead domestic animal, large undomesticated
animal that constitutes a road or biohazard, or the surviving offspring of
either, shall call the local law enforcement agency or the animal control
officer immediately.
      (2)   If the local law enforcement agency is called, the agency shall:
         (a)   Notify the animal control officer if foul play is suspected or
the death appears to be caused by factors other than an accident, such as a
vehicular collision, or natural causes if the animal is a domestic animal; or
         (b)   Contact the appropriate agency to properly dispose of the
animal's remains, i.e. the County Highway Department.
      (3)   Any deceased animal located on private property must be disposed of
within 24 hours in accordance with Indiana law, the Policy and/or Rules of the
State Board of Animal Health, or industry standards as the case may dictate.
The property owner is responsible for the disposal even if a third party was
responsible for the death of the animal.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 6-4-2018) Penalty, see §
93.99
TOBACCO USE PROHIBITED
§ 93.10 PUBLIC FACILITIES.
   (A)   Tobacco shall be prohibited:
      (1)   Within any structure owned by the County of Boone, except private
residences leased from the county;
      (2)   Within 100 feet of the front main entrances to the Boone County Law
Enforcement Facility (Jail), Boone County Annex, and the Boone County
Courthouse; and
      (3)   Polling places.
   (B)   Tobacco use may occur at a reasonable distance outside any enclosed
area where such use is prohibited, but tobacco use must be accomplished so as
to ensure that tobacco smoke does not enter the area through entrances,
windows, ventilation systems or any other means.
   (C)   Persons violating the provisions of this section shall be subject to
the penalty imposed for a Class C infraction, as set forth in I.C. 34-28-5-4.
Accordingly, this section shall be enforced by the provisions of I.C. 34-28-5.
(Ord. 2009-06, passed 10-5-2009)
§ 93.99 PENALTIES.
   (A)   The owner of a domestic animal found to be roaming at large or stray
may be fined $50 for the first offense and $100 for each subsequent offense
involving the same animal occurring within one year.
   (B)   The owner of any animal, or person in whose care an animal is
entrusted, or other individual found to be in violation of any provision of §§
93.01 and
93.02 relating to cruelty, abuse, mutilation, sacrifice or willful neglect of
an animal may be fined up to $1,000 for each offense or animal.
   (C)   For any other violation of this subchapter, the owner may be fined up
to $100.
   (D)   In addition to any fines imposed, the owner may be responsible for any
and all court costs imposed and may be responsible to reimburse the county for
any and all legal costs associated with the enforcement proceeding.
   (E)   An animal control officer may enter private property and investigate
any violation of §§
93.01 and
93.02 and impound any animal where there is reasonable suspicion that the
animal is a public nuisance, or is subject to, or in danger of, cruelty, abuse,
or neglect.
   (F)   All violations of §§
93.01 and
93.02 or any action seeking enforcement by fine or injunction shall be filed
and prosecuted by the Boone County Attorney or his or her designee in Boone
Superior Court.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 6-4-2018)
CHAPTER 94: PUBLIC AND SEMI-PUBLIC SWIMMING POOL AND SPA OPERATIONS
Section
   
94.01   Title
   
94.02   Adopted by reference
   
94.03   Definitions
   
94.04   License requirements
   
94.05   Issuance of license
   
94.06   License restrictions
   
94.07   Sampling and testing
   
94.08   Addition of chemicals
   
94.09   Inspections
   
94.10   Report of inspection
   
94.11   Correction of violations
   
94.12   Suspension of license
   
94.13   License revocation
   
94.14   Serving of notice
   
94.15   Hearings
   
94.16   License fees
   
94.17   License fee penalty
   
94.18   Plan review
   
94.19   Construction
   
94.20   Authority of Health Officer
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 TITLE.
   This chapter may be referred to as the “Boone County Swimming Pool
Ordinance.”
(Ord. 2008-16, passed 12-1-2008)
§ 94.02 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The regulations located at 410 IAC 6-2.1 et seq. entitled “Public and Semi-
Public Pools,” as amended from time to time and promulgated by the Indiana
State Department of Health and 675 IAC 20-1.1 et seq., 675 IAC 20-2 et. seq.,
and 675 IAC 20-3 et seq. entitled “Swimming Pool Code,” as amended from time to
time and promulgated by the Indiana Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission are hereby incorporated and adopted by reference. One copy of these
regulations shall be on file with the Boone County Health Department.
(Ord. 2008-16, passed 12-1-2008)
§ 94.03 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as provided below, the terms defined in 410 IAC 6-2.1 and 675 IAC 2-
1.1 shall carry the same definitions wherever used in this chapter as the
definition provided in those regulations. For the purpose of this chapter, the
terms below shall be defined as follows:
   ALKALINITY.  The total amount of bicarbonate, carbonate, and hydroxide
compounds present in water. ALKALINITY refers to the ability or capacity of
water to resist change in pH.
   CALCIUM HARDNESS. The amount of calcium dissolved in the water. CALCIUM
HARDNESS shall be expressed in parts per million of calcium carbonate.
   CHLORINE.  The chemical element Cl that exists as a gas in its elemental
form and which is an oxidant and a biocidal agent, used in swimming pool
disinfection. CHLORINE may be derived from chlorine gas, calcium hypochlorite,
sodium hypochlorite, or lithium hypochlorite.
   COMBINED CHLORINE (CHLORAMINE). The portion of the total chlorine existing
in water in chemical combination with ammonia, nitrogen, and/or organic
compounds. CHLORAMINE causes eye and skin irritation and has a strong,
objectionable odor.
   CYANURIC ACID. A chemical family of pool sanitizer products (isocyanurates )
that are used to prevent the decomposition of chlorine by ultra-violet light.
CYANURIC ACID is also referred to as stabilizer, isocyanuric acid, conditioner,
or triazinetrione.
   DISINFECTANT. A chemical or chemicals used to react with and to kill
undesirable or pathogenic organisms and having an easily measured free
residual.
   FREE CHLORINE. That portion of the total chlorine remaining in chlorinated
water that is not combined with ammonia, nitrogen compounds, or other compounds
and will react chemically with undesirable or pathogenic organisms.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Boone County Health Department.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The Boone County Health Officer or his/her duly authorized
representative.
   HEALTH HAZARD. Any condition which in the opinion of the Health Officer may
reasonably lead to injury or disease or put the public health at risk. A HEALTH
HAZARD may include, but shall not be limited to: unacceptable disinfection
residuals; unacceptable bacterial levels; water clarity that does not allow
viewing all parts of the pool.
   IMMINENT HEALTH HAZARD. Any event, circumstance or situation, which in the
discretion of the Health Officer, presents a serious and present health or
safety risk to a person or to the public at large.
   INSPECTION. A review of any portion of a swimming pool facility and its
operations. The facility shall include the swimming pool and surrounding area,
water supply, sewage disposal system,  mechanical equipment and equipment room,
chemical storage facility, safety and testing equipment, bath house, and any
other portion of the swimming pool facility as deemed necessary by the Health
Officer. The operations shall include bacteriological reports, operating
records, and chemical water testing results.
   LICENSEE. Any individual, association, company, corporation, partnership,
division of government or other group acting as a unit, trust, estate, agent or
legal representative thereof who shall hold title to the real estate upon which
the pool is placed, or who shall be legally responsible for the operations of
the pool, or who shall be so named as the owner on the pool permit application.
   MECHANICAL CHEMICAL FEEDER. A device approved by the Health Officer that
allows for the continuous (24 hours per day) and automatic addition of a
chemical which imparts an easily measured free residual. All such devices must
be sized to provide an acceptable chemical residual, sufficiently adjustable to
readily increase or decrease the chemical as necessary, and durable enough to
operate continuously 24 hours per day.
   OPERATING RECORDS. A written record on approved forms, completed daily,
outlining hours of operation, and all testing results (including bacterial,
disinfectant residual, combined chlorine, pH, alkalinity, cyanuric acid,
calcium hardness), and any changes to the pool operation.
   PERSON(S) IN CHARGE (PIC). The individual(s) who has knowledge of all laws,
rules, and regulations of both the State of Indiana and Boone County governing
swimming pools and who supervises compliance with all parts of this chapter.
The PIC shall be available to the health department, either in person or by
telephone, at all times during normal working hours. In addition, the PIC shall
be available within one hour for emergencies during non-working hours.
   pH. A measure of the relative acidity or basicity of water as indicated by
the hydrogen ion concentration. pH is expressed as a number on the scale of 0
to 14.
   POOL ENCLOSURE. The barrier between the swimming pool area and the area
outside which is intended to deter unauthorized entry from outside the swimming
pool area. The POOL ENCLOSURE shall provide self-closing and self-latching
hardware on all gates, doors, or other accesses through the enclosure; and
shall be locked when the swimming pool is closed.
   STATE HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Indiana State Department of Health.
   STOP WORK ORDER. A written order of the Health Officer to stop all work on a
project or construction of a swimming pool until the project is in compliance
with all provisions of this chapter.
   SUPERCHLORINATE. The practice of adding a sufficient amount of chlorine to
water to destroy chlorine demand compounds and any combined chlorine which may
be present. SUPERCHLORINATION is referred to as breakpoint chlorination.
Generally, chlorine must be added to ten times the difference between the free
chlorine and the total chlorine in the swimming pool water to superchlorinate
and achieve breakpoint chlorination.
   SWIMMING POOL. An artificial body of water used by individuals primarily for
the purposes of swimming, wading, diving, recreation, or instruction, and
includes all related equipment, bath houses, structures, areas, and enclosures
intended for the use of individuals using or operating the swimming pool.
SWIMMING POOLS shall include any structure, basin, chamber, or tank containing
water for swimming, wading, diving, recreation or instruction and shall include
swimming pools, pools, slide pools, spa pools, wave pools, wading pools, diving
pools, whirlpools, hot tubs, water slides, and spas. SWIMMING POOLS shall not
include:
      (1)   Residential swimming pools serving one- or two-family dwellings and
maintained by an individual for the sole use of the household and house guests;
      (2)   Portable hot tubs or other pools or spas operated for medical
treatment, physical therapy, or related purposes, or that are drained and
cleaned between uses and filled directly prior to use; and
      (3)   Natural bathing areas such as streams, lakes, rivers, or man-made
lakes.
   TEST KIT. A set of devices and reagents used to accurately monitor the
disinfectant residual, pH, alkalinity, calcium hardness, combined chlorine, and
any other chemical characteristic of the water determined by the Health Officer
as important in the control of water quality. A TEST KIT shall be durable;
shall have the appropriate range of standards which are accurate and stable;
shall have fresh reagents; and shall be simple to use. When cyanuric acid is
used, a test kit for determining cyanuric acid levels shall be provided.
   TOTAL DISSOLVED SOLIDS. The total amount of dissolved matter in water (such
as calcium, magnesium, carbonate, bicarbonates, metallic compounds and the
like).
(Ord. 2008-16, passed 12-1-2008)
§ 94.04 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a swimming pool in Boone County without a
valid license. A swimming pool license shall be issued for a term of one year
commencing May 1st and expiring on April 30th of the subsequent year and must
be renewed annually.
   (B)   The person(s) in charge shall only be in charge of one pool for any
given facility except for facilities with more than one pool located on the
same or contiguous property. The licensee may be the person in charge or must
specify a person in charge. At any time the swimming pool is not under the
operation of the specified person(s) in charge, the licensee shall find a new
person in charge within one week. If the new person in charge is in not
specified within one week, the swimming pool shall close. Swimming pool
licenses are not transferable and shall be conspicuously posted at every
swimming pool.
(Ord. 2008-16, passed 12-1-2008) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Any pool owner wishing to operate a swimming pool in Boone County
shall make written application for a license to operate the swimming pool on
approved forms. The application shall include the name and address of the
owner, the location and type of proposed swimming pool, dimensions and volume
of pool(s), the signature of the owner, the names, addresses, and phone numbers
of the person(s) in charge, the days and hours of operation, and any other
information deemed necessary by the Health Officer. Application for licensure
must be completed prior to all requests for inspection.
   (B)   Before approving an application for a license to operate a swimming
pool, the Health Officer shall inspect the swimming pool to determine
compliance with this chapter.
   (C)   The Health Officer shall promptly issue a license if it is determined
that the proposed swimming pool is in compliance with this chapter and is
designed, constructed, and equipped to be operated in a manner which protects
public health.
(Ord. 2008-16, passed 12-1-2008)
§ 94.06 LICENSE RESTRICTIONS.
   A swimming pool which has not held a required license to operate for a
period of one year, or has had its license revoked by the Health Officer, shall
be required to apply for a new license before resuming operations and shall not
be issued a license to operate unless it complies with all of the requirements
of this chapter, including the construction, design, equipment, and sanitation
requirements applicable to a new swimming pool. Upon change of ownership of a
swimming pool, a new license to operate must be obtained from the Health
Department prior to operating under the new owner. A license will not be issued
to the new owner unless the swimming pool is in compliance with current codes
and regulations.
(Ord. 2008-16, passed 12-1-2008)
§ 94.07 SAMPLING AND TESTING.
   Bacteriological examination of all swimming pools must be completed prior to
opening and at least once per week as outlined in Rule 410 IAC 6- 2.1. Sample
results must be submitted in writing to the Health Department within seven days
of sample collection. Every swimming pool shall be equipped with a chemical
test kit. Tests for residual disinfectant and pH in the swimming pool shall be
conducted not less than two times per day and recorded on approved forms. These
tests shall be conducted prior to opening the pool and spa to swimmers and one
other time later in the day when the pool is in use by swimmers. Tests for
alkalinity and cyanuric acid shall be conducted as necessary to maintain
acceptable chemical balance but not less than once per week. Tests for combined
chlorine shall be conducted at least twice per week. The Health Department
recommends but does not require that the test for calcium hardness be conducted
at least once per month. Results shall be recorded on the approved operating
record forms. All such records shall be maintained for at least one year and
shall be available for examination by the Health Officer.
(Ord. 2008-16, passed 12-1-2008)
§ 94.08 ADDITION OF CHEMICALS.
   (A)   The water chemistry and bactericidal chemical concentrations shall be
maintained within the parameters as established in Rule 410 IAC 6-2.1.
Required Disinfectant Levels
 
                        Chlorine         Bromine
Pool Type               Minimum  Maximum Minimum Maximum
Wading pools            3.0 ppm  7.0 ppm 4.0 ppm 10 ppm
Spa pools               2.0 ppm  7.0 ppm 4.0 ppm 10 ppm
Waterslide plunge pools 2.0 ppm  7.0 ppm 3.0 ppm 10 ppm
Wave pools              2.0 ppm  7.0 ppm 3.0 ppm 10 ppm
All other pools         1.0 ppm  7.0 ppm 2.0 ppm 10 ppm
 
Required Levels of Other Chemical Parameters
 
                  Minimum Maximum
pH                7.2     7.8
Cyanuric Acid     NA      60 mg/L
Alkalinity        80 mg/L NA
Combined Chlorine NA      0.50 mg/L
NA= not applicable
Cyanuric Acid shall not be used in any indoor pool.
 
   (B)   Where the concentration of combined chlorine is greater than 0.50 mg/
L (ppm), the swimming pool shall be superchlorinated or otherwise treated in a
manner to oxidize and diminish the concentration of combined chlorine. No harsh
or irritating chemical shall be added manually and directly to the water of any
swimming pool except under emergency conditions. Should it be necessary to add
any such chemical in concentrated form directly into the water of any swimming
pool, use of the swimming pool shall be terminated until such time as the
chemical is dissolved completely in and is diffused thoroughly throughout the
swimming pool. The broadcasting or manual application of chemicals to maintain
a disinfectant residual or pH is prohibited except as may be required to
superchlorinate the swimming pool. Under no conditions may superchlorination or
manual adjustment of pH occur while the swimming pool is in use by swimmers.
(Ord. 2008-16, passed 12-1-2008) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.09 INSPECTIONS.
   The Health Officer may enter upon the swimming pool premises and other
property of a person at all reasonable times for the purpose of inspecting the
swimming pool, examining records maintained by the operator, and carrying out
the requirements of this chapter upon producing proper credentials and
identification. No person shall open or place in service any swimming pool
without first obtaining a license for such operation from the Health Officer.
An applicant for licensure shall notify the Health Officer, to request an
initial inspection, at least one week prior to the anticipated opening. The
Health Officer shall make the inspection within three working days of the
receipt of notice from the applicant but only after a minimum of one
satisfactory bacterial sample is received by the Health Department. A minimum
of one additional inspection will normally be completed during the swimming
pool’s regular operating season but inspections may be performed as often as
necessary for the efficient and effective enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-16, passed 12-1-2008)
§ 94.10 REPORT OF INSPECTION.
   Whenever an inspection is made of a swimming pool, the findings shall be
recorded on an approved inspection report form. The inspection report form
shall summarize the violations of this chapter and shall set forth requirements
for correction. A copy of the completed inspection report form shall be
presented to the person(s) in charge of the swimming pool at the conclusion of
the inspection. The complete inspection report form constitutes an official
notice of the inspection findings and an order of the Health Officer to correct
all violations found.
(Ord. 2008-16, passed 12-1-2008)
§ 94.11 CORRECTION OF VIOLATIONS.
   The completed inspection form shall specify a reasonable period of time for
the correction of the noted violations. Correction of all violations shall be
accomplished within the period specified in accordance with the following
provisions:
   (A)   If an imminent health hazard is determined by the Health Officer to
exist, the swimming pool shall immediately close to all swimmers and guests
until the violation can be corrected. Operations shall not be resumed until
authorized by the Health Officer.
   (B)   If the weekly bacterial water tests do not demonstrate acceptable
water quality, the swimming pool shall immediately close to all swimmers. The
pool may reopen only after a satisfactory bacterial test result is obtained.
   (C)   If inspection by the Health Officer determines a disinfectant residual
below the levels required in 410 IAC 6-2.1 for the type of pool in question,
the swimming pool shall immediately close to all swimmers and guests as
required by Rule 410 IAC 6-2.1 until disinfectant levels are acceptable.
Suitable chlorine levels shall be verified by the Health Officer prior to
reopening the swimming pool to swimmers and guests.
   (D)   All other violations of this chapter shall be corrected in accordance
with the Boone County Swimming Pool Inspection Form and the following schedule:
      (1)   Water quality: Corrective action required to commence immediately
with compliance required within 24 hours.
      (2)   Water clarity: Corrective action required to commence immediately
with compliance required within 48 hours.
      (3)   Disinfectant residual: Corrective action required to commence
immediately with compliance required within 48 hours.
      (4)   Circulation and filtration: Compliance required within 30 days if
water quality is being maintained. If water quality cannot be maintained, the
Health Officer may order closure until repairs are completed.
      (5)   Tests and records: Corrective action required to commence
immediately with compliance required within ten days.
      (6)   Structures and fixtures: Compliance required within the number of
days specified by the Health Officer dependent upon severity, but with
compliance always required prior to renewal of the license.
      (7)   Safety: Corrective action required to commence immediately with
compliance required within the number of days specified by the Health Officer.
      (8)   Signs and enclosure: Compliance required prior to opening;
replacements required within 30 days.
      (9)   Cleanliness: Compliance required within ten days.
      (10)   License: License to be obtained and posted prior to opening; if
licensure cannot be demonstrated, then immediate closure is required until the
license is obtained.
(Ord. 2008-16, passed 12-1-2008)
§ 94.12 SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The Health Officer may, upon written notice without prior warning or
hearing, suspend any license to operate a swimming pool for any of the
following reasons:
      (1)   The operation, in the opinion of the Health Officer, constitutes an
imminent health hazard.
      (2)   Interference with the Health Officer in the performance of his or
her duties;
      (3)   Failure to correct any specific violation on two or more
consecutive routine inspections; or
      (4)   Failure to comply with the correction schedule established by the
Health Officer.
   (B)   The license shall be promptly reinstated when it has been verified by
the Health Officer that the reason for suspension has been corrected.
Suspension shall be for a period not exceeding 30 days. Whenever the license to
operate a swimming pool is suspended, the licensee or the person(s) in charge
shall be notified in writing that the license to operate the swimming pool is,
upon serving of the notice, immediately suspended. Opportunity for a hearing
will be provided if a written request for a hearing is filed, by the licensee
or the person(s) in charge, with the Health Officer within ten days after
service of the notice. An opportunity for a hearing with the Health Officer
shall be afforded within 20 days of receipt of the request. If no written
request for hearing is filed within ten days, the suspension is sustained. The
Health Officer shall end the suspension upon request of the licensee or the
person(s) in charge if the reason for the suspension no longer exists. If after
30 days the suspension is still in place, the Health Officer shall conduct a
hearing for license revocation.
(Ord. 2008-16, passed 12-1-2008)
§ 94.13 LICENSE REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Health Officer may, after providing opportunity for hearing,
revoke a license to operate a swimming pool for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Repeated violations of this chapter found in consecutive
inspections;
      (2)   Interference with the Health Officer in the performance of his or
her duties; or
      (3)   As a result of a license suspension which has exceeded 30 days.
   (B)   Before revocation, the Health Officer shall notify the licensee or the
person(s) in charge, in writing, of the reasons for which such license is
subject to revocation. The license to operate the swimming pool shall be
revoked at the end of ten days following service of such notice unless a
written request for a hearing is filed with the Health Officer within the ten-
day period. If no request for hearing is filed within the ten-day period, the
revocation of the license to operate the swimming pool becomes final.
(Ord. 2008-16, passed 12-1-2008)
§ 94.14 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   Any notice provided for in this chapter is properly served when it is
delivered to the licensee or to the person(s) in charge, or when it is sent by
registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last known
address of the licensee. A copy of the notice shall be filed in the records of
the Health Department.
(Ord. 2008-16, passed 12-1-2008)
§ 94.15 HEARINGS.
   (A)   The hearings provided for in this chapter shall be conducted by the
Health Officer at a time and place designated by the Health Officer. The Health
Officer shall make a final finding based upon the complete hearing record and
shall sustain, modify, or rescind any notice or order considered in the
hearing. A written report of the hearing decision shall be furnished to the
licensee, or to the person in charge, by the Health Officer within ten days of
the hearing if requested. The licensee and person(s) in charge shall
immediately comply with an order or decision of the Health Officer. Should the
Health Officer be unable to conduct a hearing or should he consider it in the
best interests of Boone County to do so, he or she may in his or her discretion
request that the Boone County Board of Health conduct the hearing.
   (B)   In the event that the licensee or his or her authorized representative
fails to attend any hearing, he or she shall be deemed to have accepted the
decision of the Health Officer.
   (C)   In the event that the licensee or the person(s) in charge fails to
abide by the hearing decision or written orders of the Health Officer, the
Health Officer may furnish written evidence of the violation to the Boone
County Prosecutor for prosecution for violation of the provisions of this
chapter. The Health Officer may also furnish written evidence of the violation
to the office of the Boone County Attorney for appropriate action against the
licensee including enforcement action for violation of the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2008-16, passed 12-1-2008)
§ 94.16 LICENSE FEES.
   License fees shall be charged prior to the issuance of a license to operate
a swimming pool in Boone County. All such fees shall be charged in accordance
with the Health Department Fee Schedule as amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2008-16, passed 12-1-2008)
§ 94.17 LICENSE FEE PENALTY.
   Any person found to be operating a swimming pool after May 1st of each year,
after February 1, 2009, without a valid license shall be assessed a license fee
with civil penalty. The license fee with penalty shall be equal to three times
the appropriate license fee as determined under the Health Department Fee
Schedule. The license fee with penalty shall be paid prior to issuance of a
license to operate.
(Ord. 2008-16, passed 12-1-2008)
§ 94.18 PLAN REVIEW.
   Prior to the construction, rehabilitation, or alteration of any swimming
pool in Boone County a plan review fee shall be paid, as provided in the Health
Department Fee Schedule as amended periodically. The plans and specification
sheets stamped with the State of Indiana Plan Release, shall also be submitted
to the Health Officer for plan review. The plans and specifications shall
indicate the proposed layout, arrangement, mechanical plans, construction
materials of work areas, and the type and model of proposed fixed and non-fixed
equipment and facilities. Failure to submit the appropriate plan review fee and
construction plans prior to beginning construction, rehabilitation, or
alteration may result in a stop work order.
(Ord. 2008-16, passed 12-1-2008)
§ 94.19 CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   In the event that any provision of this chapter is ultimately
determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to conflict with any provision
of 410 IAC 6-2.1 et seq., 675 IAC 20- 1.1 et seq., 675 IAC 20-2 et seq., or 675
IAC 20-3 et seq., then and in any such event the more strict provision shall
govern.
   (B)   In the event that any provision of this chapter is ultimately
determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be preempted by any state or
federal law or regulation, this chapter shall automatically be deemed amended
by eliminating the pre-empted provision and incorporating in its place the
applicable provision of the preempting state or federal law or regulation.
   (C)   Each provision of this chapter shall be construed as separate, to the
end that if any part of it shall be held invalid for any reason, the remainder
shall continue in full force and effect.
   (D)   Compliance with the requirements of this chapter does not obviate or
eliminate the necessity of complying with any other applicable federal, state,
or local laws and regulations affecting swimming pools.
(Ord. 2008-16, passed 12-1-2008)
§ 94.20 AUTHORITY OF HEALTH OFFICER.
   It is hereby acknowledged, understood, and declared by the Board of
Commissioners of the County of Boone, Indiana, that under this chapter the
Health Officer is required to exercise and is vested with the authority to
exercise his or her discretion and judgment in order to protect and preserve
the public health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens of the County of
Boone, Indiana in regulating swimming pools. The authority of the Health
Officer to issue, deny, suspend, or revoke or fail or refuse to issue, deny,
suspend, or revoke any license, approval, order, registration, or similar
authorization under this chapter is hereby declared to be discretionary.
(Ord. 2008-16, passed 12-1-2008)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed to
have committed an violation and, upon conviction, shall be fined not more than
$500 for the first offense and not more than $1,000 for the second and each
subsequent offense. Each violation of the chapter shall constitute a separate
violation, and each day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate
violation. In addition to the specific enforcement mechanisms contained within
this chapter, the Health Officer may furnish written evidence of any violation
of this chapter to the Boone County Prosecutor and/or the Boone County Attorney
for appropriate action against the licensee and the person(s) in charge,
including prosecution and enforcement action for violation of the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-16, passed 12-1-2008)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
111.   FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
      
112.   MASSAGE PARLORS, BATH HOUSES AND THE LIKE
      
113.   TATTOO, PIERCING AND BODY MODIFICATION
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Ephedrine, Pseudoephedrine, Phenylpropanolamine; Limits on Sales
   
110.01   Purpose
   
110.02   Definitions
   
110.03   Permits
   
110.04   Limitations on sale or purchase
   
110.05   Exclusions
   
110.99   Penalty
EPHEDRINE, PSEUDOEPHEDRINE, PHENYLPROPANOLAMINE; LIMITS ON SALES
§ 110.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Ephedrine, pseudoephedrine, ephedrine hydrochloride, pseudoephedrine
hydrochloride, pseudoephedrine sulfate and phenylpropanolamine are active
ingredients in over-the-counter products for allergy and congestion, and in
addition to their legal uses, ephedrine, pseudoephedrine, ephedrine
hydrochloride, pseudoephedrine hydrochloride, pseudoephedrine sulfate and
phenylpropanolamine are being purchased and misused by some segments of the
community to manufacture the illegal substance of methamphetamine.
   (B)   Boone County, not unlike many, if not all counties in Indiana, has
become known to narcotics officers and drug enforcement agents for having had
incidents of illicit manufacture, sale and use of methamphetamine.
   (C)   There is a current and immediate threat to the public health, safety
and welfare in that the manufacture, processing, transportation, possession and
sales of illicit narcotics and drugs are inherently dangerous, and that the
chemicals, compounds, substances, byproducts and waste associated with the
manufacture of illicit narcotics and drugs are both dangerous and injurious to
the health, welfare and safety of the residents of Boone County, Indiana.
   (D)   Products commonly associated with the manufacture of methamphetamine
are sold in Boone County and law enforcement agencies in Boone County continue
to report incidents of thefts and the illegal possession of over-the-counter
products that contain as an ingredient ephedrine, pseudoephedrine, ephedrine
hydrochloride, pseudoephedrine hydrochloride, pseudoephedrine sulfate and
phenylpropanolamine, as well as other products associated with the manufacturer
of methamphetamine.
   (E)   Placing restrictions and controls on the purchase of products
containing ephedrine, pseudoephedrine, ephedrine hydrochloride, pseudoephedrine
hydrochloride, pseudoephedrine sulfate and phenylpropanolamine will facilitate
the tracking and eventual capture of methamphetamine manufacturers and improve
the effectiveness of law enforcement and the prevention of drug abuse and the
crime that results therefrom.
   (F)   The county shall require any person, as hereinafter defined, who sells
any product, on a retail level, containing ephedrine, pseudoephedrine,
ephedrine hydrochloride, pseudoephedrine hydrochloride, pseudoephedrine sulfate
and phenylpropanolamine to apply for a permit, on an annual basis, with the
Boone County Sheriff’s Department (hereinafter referred to as the permittee).
   (G)   The reasonable limitations found in this subchapter on the quantity of
products containing ephedrine, pseudoephedrine, ephedrine hydrochloride,
pseudoephedrine hydrochloride, pseudoephedrine sulfate and phenylpropanolamine
that may be sold to or purchased by a customer on a single day will assist the
county in its effort to combat the insidious criminal methods of illegal
methamphetamine manufacturers in the county, and will not unduly restrict
legitimate businesses or customers from selling or buying these products.
(Ord. 2005-07, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 110.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CUSTOMER. Any person who purchases or acquires products from any retail
store.
   EPHEDRINE. Any drug, substance or compound, whether legal or illegal, that
contains ephedrine, pseudoephedrine, ephedrine hydrochloride, pseudoephedrine
hydrochloride, pseudoephedrine sulfate or phenylpropanolamine.
   PACKAGE. Any bottle, box, blister pack or other container in which products
containing ephedrine are sold.
   PERMITTEE. A person who has obtained a permit to sell ephedrine to
customers.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   RETAIL STORE. Any single geographic location of any business, company,
corporation, person, employee or associate that sells ephedrine to any
customer. It does not include any wholesaler engaged in a wholesale
transaction.
   SELL. To furnish, give away, exchange, transfer, deliver, surrender,
distribute or supply, whether or not for monetary gain or other consideration.
   WHOLESALER. One whose business is the selling of goods in gross to retail
stores for purposes of resale.
(Ord. 2005-07, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 110.03 PERMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a retail store in Boone
County that does not possess a valid permit issued by the Boone County
Sheriff’s Office. The permit shall be posted in the establishment in a place
conspicuous to the public.
   (B)   No permit is required for a prescription written by a licensed
physician and/or a pharmacist providing the drugs for a prescription.
   (C)   An applicant may apply for a permit by submitting a completed
application form to the Boone County Sheriff’s Office.
   (D)   All permits issued by the Boone County Sheriff’s Office shall contain
the name of the retail store; name of the person to whom the permit is granted;
the address of the retail store for which the permit is issued; and the
inclusive dates the permit is valid, if other than for a calendar year.
   (E)   A permit issued to a retail store shall not be sold, assigned or
transferred.
   (F)   Should any person fail to obtain a permit, the person shall be charged
a $250 penalty fee in addition to the set permit fee.
(Ord. 2005-07, passed 4-11-2005) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 LIMITATIONS ON SALE OR PURCHASE.
   (A)   Each permittee shall require from its customer a picture form of
identification that maintains the customer’s current address and evidences he
or she is of age. All information obtained on the customer shall be recorded in
an appropriate manner and a copy of the report shall be forwarded to the Boone
County Prosecutor’s Office at the end of each calendar month by the permittee.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person or permittee during a single transaction
to sell to a customer more than two packages of products containing ephedrine.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any customer to purchase or acquire more than two
packages of products containing ephedrine within a seven-day period.
(Ord. 2005-07, passed 4-11-2005) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 EXCLUSIONS.
   This subchapter excludes any prescription written by a licensed physician
and a pharmacist providing the drugs for a prescription.
(Ord. 2005-07, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Each offense shall be considered a separate offense and subject
to a fine. Each 24 hours that a violation occurs will be considered a separate
offense and can be cited as such.
      (2)   Whoever violates any provisions of §§
110.01 et seq. shall be fined not more than $2,500. Each day a violation is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2005-07, passed 4-11-2005)
CHAPTER 111: FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Permits
   
111.03   Permit fees
   
111.04   Inspection
   
111.05   Compliance and enforcement
   
111.06   Appeals inspection
   
111.07   Conflict of interest
 
   
111.99   Penalties
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT. As defined in 410 IAC 7-15.5, is an
operator occupied residence that:
      (1)   Provides sleeping accommodations to the public for a fee;
      (2)   Has no more than 14 guest rooms;
      (3)   Provides breakfast to its guests as part of the fee; and
      (4)   Provides sleeping accommodations for no more than 30 consecutive
days to a particular guest.
   CONFLICT OF INTEREST. Derived from 68 IAC 9-1-1(b)(2), is a situation in
which the private financial interest of local official, local official's
spouse, ex-spouse, siblings, in-laws, children and/or unemancipated child, may
influence the local official's judgment in the performance of a public duty.
   CONSECUTIVE INSPECTIONS. A violation which occurs directly after another
inspection. The type of inspection or period of time between inspections is not
significant. CONSECUTIVE INSPECTIONS also means an inspection which follows one
another in uninterrupted succession or order; successive. The type of
inspection or period of time between inspections is not significant.
   CRITICAL ITEM. A provision of this rule that, if in noncompliance, is more
likely than other violations to significantly contribute to food contamination,
illness, or environmental health hazard. (Indiana State Department of Health;
410 IAC 7-24-21).
   FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. As defined in I.C.16-18-2-137, is any building, room,
basement, vehicle of transportation, cellar, or open or enclosed area occupied
or used for handling food. This definition also includes a retail food
establishment as defined in 410 IAC 7-24: however, it does not include a bed
and breakfast establishment.
   FARMERS’ MARKET. A common facility where two or more fanners or growers
gather on a regular reoccurring basis to sell a variety of fruits, vegetables,
and other farm products directly to the consumer.
   FARMERS’ MARKET FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. A retail food establishment, excluding a
mobile food establishment, which operates with the approval of the market
master at a farmers’ market.
   BOONE COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The local health department in Boone County
or authorized representative having jurisdiction over a bed and breakfast
establishment, food establishment and/or temporary food establishment.
   LOCAL OFFICIAL. Any Official of Boone County, Indiana.
   HAZARD ANALYSIS CRITICAL CONTROL POINT (HACCP) PLAN. As defined in 410 IAC
7-24), is a written document that delineates the formal procedures for
following the hazard analysis critical control point principles developed by
the National Advisory Committee on Microbiological Criteria for Foods.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The person, appointed as specified in I.C. 16-20-2-16, or
his/her duly authorized representative, as specified in I.C. 16-2-1-14, who may
conduct inspections and make a final decision on an enforcement action.
   HEARING OFFICER. An individual or panel of individuals acting in the
capacity of a hearing officer in proceedings. The hearing officer is not the
health officer or any other employee of the Boone County Health Department.
   IMMINENT HEALTH HAZARD. A significant threat or danger to health that is
considered to exist when there is evidence sufficient to show that a product,
practice, circumstance, or event creates a situation that requires immediate
correction or cessation of operation to prevent injury or illness based on the
number of potential injuries and illnesses and the nature, severity and
duration of the anticipated injury or illness (e.g., sewage backing up in a
food preparation area or contamination of food products with toxic materials).
   INSPECTION REPORT. The document prepared by the Boone County Health
Department that is completed as the result of the inspection and provided to
the operator.
   MARKET MASTER. The individual or group of individuals that are responsible
for coordinating and organizing the farmers' market.
   MOBILE FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. A retail food establishment that is wheeled; on
skids; mounted on a vehicle; a marine vessel; or otherwise readily movable;
such as a pushcart or trailer that changes locations too frequently to be
candidate for permanent utility connections, as determined by the Health
Officer.
   OPERATOR. The person who has a primary oversight responsibility for
operation of the establishment through ownership, or lease or contractual
agreement, and who is responsible for the storage, preparation, display,
transportation or serving of food to the public.
   ORDER. Derived from IC 4-21.5-1-9, is a Boone County Health Department
action of particular applicability that determines the legal rights, duties,
privileges, immunities, or other legal interests of one or more specific
persons. The term includes a permit.
   PERMIT. The document issued by the Boone County Health Department that
authorizes a person to operate a bed and breakfast establishment, mobile food
establishments, farmers’ market, farmers’ market food establishments, food
establishment, and/or temporary food establishment.
   PERSON. An association; a corporation; an individual; partnership; or other
legal entity, government, or governmental subdivision or agency.
   TEMPORARY FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. A food establishment that operates for a
period of no more than 14 consecutive days in conjunction with a single event
or celebration.
(Ord. 2016-05, passed 11-21-2016; Am. Ord. 2018-03, passed 4-16-2018)
§ 111.02 PERMITS.
   (A)   General. It is unlawful for a person to operate any bed and breakfast
establishment, mobile food establishments, farmers’ market, farmers’ market
food establishments, food establishment and/or temporary food establishment in
Boone County, without first obtaining a valid permit from the health officer.
The valid permit must be posted in a conspicuous location in the bed and
breakfast establishment, mobile food establishments, farmers’ market, farmers’
market food establishments, food establishment and/or temporary food
establishment.
      (1)   Only persons who comply with the applicable requirements of 410 IAC
7-15.5 and /or 410 IAC 7-24 will be entitled to obtain and keep a permit.
      (2)   A separate permit shall be required for each bed and breakfast
establishment, mobile food establishments, farmers’ market, farmers’ market
food establishments, food establishment and/or temporary food establishment
operated or to be operated by any person.
      (3)   A permit issued under this chapter is not transferable or
refundable.
      (4)   A bed and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment
permitted by Boone County Health Department shall be considered registered as
required in I.C.16-42-1-6.
   (B)   Permit period.
      (1)   Bed and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment shall be
issued for a term beginning January 1, and/or before commencement of operation,
and expiring December 31, of the same year and shall be applied for by the
person and/or operator annually.
      (2)   Temporary food establishment shall be for the term of one
continuous operation at one location. This permit is not to exceed 14
consecutive days.
      (3)   Mobile food establishment shall include expiration on December 31st
of the same calendar year in which the permit is issued.
      (4)   Farmers’ market and farmers’ market food establishments shall
include expiration on December 31 of the same calendar year in which the permit
is issued.
   (C)   Permit content. Any permit issued by the health officer shall contain:
      (1)   The name and address of the person and/or owner to whom the permit
is granted;
      (2)   The location of the establishment for which the permit is issued;
      (3)   The issuance and expiration date(s); and
      (4)   Other such pertinent data as may be required by the Boone County
Health Officer.
   (D)   Application. A person desiring to operate a bed and breakfast
establishment, mobile food establishments, farmers’ market, farmers’ market
food establishments, food establishment and/or temporary food establishment
shall submit to the Boone County Health Department a written application for a
permit on a form provided by the Boone County Health Department.
   (E)   Content of the application. The application may include:
      (1)   The name, mailing address, telephone number, and original signature
of the person and/or operator applying for the permit and the name, mailing
address, and location of the bed and breakfast establishment, mobile food
establishments, farmers’ market, farmers’ market food establishments, food
establishment and/or temporary food establishment;
      (2)   Information specifying whether the bed and breakfast establishment,
mobile food establishments, farmers’ market, farmers’ market food
establishments, food establishment and/or temporary food establishment is owned
by an association, corporation, individual, partnership, or other legal entity;
      (3)   A statement specifying whether the bed and breakfast establishment
and/or food establishment:
         (a)   If not permanent, is mobile, farmers’ market, farmers’ market
establishment and/or temporary food establishment; and
         (b)   The operation includes one or more of the following:
            1.   Prepares, offers for sale, or serves potentially hazardous
food:
               A.   Only to order upon a consumer's request;
               B.   In advance in quantities based on projected consumer demand
and discards food that is not sold or served at an approved frequency; or
               C.   Using time, rather than temperature, as the public health
control as specified under 410 IAC 7-24.
               D.   Prepares acidified foods as defined in 410 IAC 7-21-3.
            2.   Prepares potentially hazardous food in advance using a food
preparation method that involves two or more steps which may include combining
potentially hazardous ingredients; cooking; cooling; reheating; hot or cold
holding; freezing; or thawing;
            3.   Prepares food as specified under division (E)(3)(b)2. of this
section for delivery to and consumption at a location off the premises of the
bed and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment where it is prepared;
            4.   Prepares food as specified under division (E)(3)(b)2. of this
section for service to a highly susceptible population, as defined in 410 IAC
7-24;
            5.   Prepares only food that is not potentially hazardous; or
            6.   Does not prepare, but offers for sale only prepackaged food
that is not potentially hazardous.
      (4)   The name, title, address, and telephone number of the operator
directly responsible for the bed and breakfast establishment, mobile food
establishments, farmers’ market, farmers’ market food establishments, food
establishment and/or temporary food establishment.
      (5)   The name, title, address, and telephone number of the person who
functions as the immediate supervisor of the person specified under division
(E)(4) of this section such as the zone, district, or regional supervisor;
      (6)   The names, titles, and addresses of:
         (a)   The persons comprising the legal ownership as specified under
division (E)(2) of this section including the owners and operators; and
         (b)   The local resident agent if one is required based on the type of
legal ownership.
      (7)   A statement signed by the applicant that:
         (a)   Attests to the accuracy of the information provided in the
application; and
         (b)   Affirms that the applicant will:
            1.   Comply with this chapter; and
            2.   Allow the Boone County Health Department access to the bed and
breakfast establishment, mobile food establishments, farmers’ market, farmers’
market food establishments, food establishment and/or temporary food
establishment and records as specified in 410 IAC 7-15.5 and 410 IAC 7-24.
      (8)   Other information required by the Boone County Health Department.
   (F)   Qualification. To qualify for a permit, an applicant must:
      (1)   Be an owner and/or operator of the bed and breakfast establishment,
mobile food establishments, farmers’ market, farmers’ market food
establishments, food establishment and/or temporary food establishment;
      (2)   Comply with the requirements of this chapter;
      (3)   Agree to allow access to the bed and breakfast establishment,
mobile food establishments, farmers’ market, farmers’ market food
establishments, food establishment and/or temporary food establishment and
provide required information; and
      (4)   Pay the applicable permit fees at the time the application is
submitted.
   (G)   Plans requirements.
      (1)   The owner or other authorized agent of an existing or proposed bed
and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment shall submit to the Boone
County Health Department properly prepared plans and specifications for review
and approval 30 working days prior to:
         (a)   The construction of a bed and breakfast establishment and/or
food establishment;
         (b)   The conversion of an existing structure for use as a bed and
breakfast establishment and/or food establishment; or
         (c)   The remodeling of a bed and breakfast establishment and/or food
establishment or a change of type of bed and breakfast establishment and/or
food establishment or food operation if the Boone County Health Department
determines that plans and specifications are necessary to ensure compliance
with this section.
      (2)   The plans and specifications for a bed and breakfast establishment
and/or food establishment shall include, the type of operation, type of food
preparation (as specified in Appendix B of the published version of 410 IAC 7-
24, and the menu.
      (3)   The plans and specifications shall be deemed satisfactory and
approved by the Boone County Health Department before a permit can be issued.
      (4)   A pre-operational inspection shows that the bed and breakfast
establishment and/or food establishment is built or remodeled in accordance
with the approved plans and specifications and that the establishment is in
compliance with this chapter, 410 IAC 7-24 and/or 410 IAC 7-15.5.
   (H)   Responsibilities of the operator. Upon acceptance of the permit issued
by the Boone County Health Department, the operator in order to retain the
permit shall:
      (1)   Comply with the provisions of this chapter and all laws and rules
adopted by reference herein and the conditions of any variances granted by the
Indiana State Department of Health;
      (2)   Immediately discontinue affected operations and notify the Boone
County Health Department if an imminent health hazard may exist;
      (3)   Allow representatives of the Boone County Health Department access
to the bed and breakfast establishment mobile food establishments, farmers’
market, farmers’ market food establishments, food establishment and/or
temporary food establishment at all reasonable times;
      (4)   Comply with directives of the Boone County Health Department
including time frames for corrective actions specified in Inspection Reports,
notices, orders, warnings, and other directives issued by the Boone County
Health Department in regard to the operator's of a bed and breakfast
establishment mobile food establishments, farmers’ market, farmers’ market food
establishments, food establishment and/or temporary food establishment at all
reasonable times; or in response to community emergencies;
      (5)   Accept notices issued and served by the Boone County Health
Department;
      (6)   Be subject to the administrative, civil, injunctive, and criminal
remedies authorized in law for failure to comply with this chapter or a
directive of the Boone County Health Department; and
      (7)   Post the permit in a location in the bed and breakfast
establishment mobile food establishments, farmers’ market, farmers’ market food
establishments, food establishment and/or temporary food establishment at all
reasonable times; that is conspicuous to consumers.
(Ord. 2016-05, passed 11-21-2016)
§ 111.03 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a bed and breakfast
establishment, mobile food establishments, farmers’ market, farmers’ market
food establishments, food establishment and/or temporary food establishment in
Boone County, who has not paid the permit fee required to be paid for the
operation of such establishment as set forth in Boone County Ordinance 2005-12.
   (B)   The fee shall be paid for a term of one year and shall be renewed
annually, on or before January 1 and expiring on December 31 of the same year
and shall be applied for by the person and/or operator annually.
   (C)   Permit fees for the issuance of a permit under this chapter to a bed
and breakfast establishment, mobile food establishments, farmers’ market,
farmers’ market food establishments, food establishment and/or a temporary food
establishment shall be set by the Boone County Health Department, as provided
by the Statutes of the State of Indiana (see I.C. 16-20-1-27).
   (D)   A receipt for the payment of such fee shall be provided by the Boone
County Health Department.
   (E)   The payment of such fees shall be required for each bed and breakfast
establishment, mobile food establishments, farmers' market, farmers’ market
food establishments, food establishment and/or temporary food establishment
operated or to be operated by any person.
   (F)   Exemption from permit fees. An organization that is exempt from the
Indiana gross income tax under I.C. 6-2.1-3-20 through 6-2.1-3-22 and offers
food for sale to the final consumer at an event held for the benefit of the
organization is exempt from the payment of fees. This exemption only applies to
organization(s) that meet the criteria addressed in I.C. 16-42-5-4. The health
officer shall be provided, upon request, proof of an organization's tax
exemption.
   (G)   Late fees. A late fee for failure to pay the permit fee prior to the
operation of the bed and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment or
the late fee for failure to renew a permit after the expiration of the permit
to operate bed and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment shall be
assessed as set forth in Boone County Ordinance 2005-12 by the Boone County
Health Board. Permit application for a mobile food establishments, farmers’
market, farmers’ market food establishments, and temporary food establishments
must be submitted to the Health Department at least two business days prior to
the start of the event or operation, or a late fee shall be assessed as set
forth in Boone County Ordinance 2005-12 by the Boone County Health Board.
   (H)   The payment of fees under this chapter is not transferable or
refundable.
(Ord. 2016-05, passed 11-21-2016)
§ 111.04 INSPECTION.
   (A)   General. The Boone County Health Department shall inspect a bed and
breakfast establishment and/or food establishment at least once every six
months unless a system of risk based inspections is utilized as stated below.
   (B)   The Boone County Health Department may modify the interval between
inspections beyond six months if:
      (1)   The bed and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment are
fully operating under an approved and validated Hazard Analysis Critical
Control Point (HACCP) plan(s);
      (2)   The bed and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment is
assigned a less frequent inspection frequency based on a written risk-based
inspection schedule that is being uniformly applied throughout the
jurisdiction.
      (3)   The Boone County Health Department may contact the operator to
determine that the nature of the food operation has not changed.
   (C)   Mobile food establishments, farmers’ market, farmers’ market food
establishments, and temporary food establishment. The Boone County Health
Department shall periodically inspect throughout its permit period a mobile
food establishments, farmers’ market, farmers’ market food establishments, and
temporary food establishment that prepares, sells, or serves potentially
hazardous food and may inspect mobile food establishments, farmers’ market,
farmers’ market food establishments, and temporary food establishment that
prepares, sells or serves unpackaged, non-potentially hazardous food that:
      (1)   Has improvised rather than permanent facilities or equipment for
accomplishing functions such as handwashing, food preparation and protection,
food temperature control, warewashing, providing drinking water, waste
retention and disposal, and insect and rodent control; or
      (2)   Has untrained food employees.
   (D)   Performance and risk-based inspections. Within the parameters
specified in the above inspection divisions of this chapter, the Boone County
Health Department shall prioritize, and conduct more frequent inspections based
upon its assessment of a bed and breakfast establishment and/or food
establishment's history of compliance with this chapter and the bed and
breakfast establishment and/or food establishment's potential as a vector of
foodborne illness by evaluating:
      (1)   Past performance, for violations of 410 IAC 7-15.5, 410 IAC 7-24
and/or 410 IAC 7-22 and/or HACCP plan requirements that are critical or non-
critical;
      (2)   Past performance, for numerous or repeat violations of 410 IAC 7-
15.5 and/or 410 IAC 7-24 and/or HACCP plan requirements that are non-critical;
      (3)   Past performance, for complaints investigated and found to be
valid;
      (4)   The hazards associated with the particular foods that are prepared,
stored, or served;
      (5)   The type of operation including the methods and extent of food
storage, preparation, and service;
      (6)   The number of people served; and
      (7)   Whether the population served is a highly susceptible population.
   (E)   Access allowed at reasonable times after due notice. After the Boone
County Health Department presents official credentials and provides notice of
the purpose of and the intent to conduct an inspection, the operator shall
allow the Boone County Health Department to determine if the bed and breakfast
establishment, mobile food establishments, farmers’ market, farmers’ market
food establishments, food establishment, and/or temporary food establishment is
in compliance with this chapter by allowing access to the establishment,
allowing inspection, and providing information and records specified in this
chapter. The Boone County Health Department is entitled the information and
records according to I.C. 16-42-1-13 and I.C. 16-42-5-23, during the bed and
breakfast establishment and/or food establishment's hours of operation and
other reasonable times.
      (1)   Access is a condition of the acceptance and retention of a food
establishment permit to operate.
      (2)   If access is denied, an order issued by the appropriate authority
allowing access may be obtained according to law (see I.C. 16-20-1-26).
   (F)   Inspection reports. At the conclusion of the inspection, the Boone
County Health Department shall provide a copy of the completed inspection
report and the notice to correct violations to the operator or to the person-
in-charge, as required under I.C. 16-20-8.
   (G)   Timely correction of critical violations. Except as specified in the
next paragraph, an operator shall at the time of inspection correct a critical
violation of 410 IAC 7-15.5, 410 IAC 7-24 and/or 410 IAC 7-22 and implement
corrective actions for a HACCP plan provision that is not in compliance with
its critical limit.
      (1)   Considering the nature of the potential hazard involved and the
complexity of the corrective action needed, the Boone County Health Department
may agree to or specify a longer time frame after the inspection, for the
operator to correct critical code violations or HACCP plan deviations.
      (2)   After receiving notification that the operator has corrected a
critical violation or HACCP plan deviation, or at the end of the specified
period of time, the Boone County Health Department shall verify correction of
the violation, document the information on an inspection report, and enter the
report in the Boone County Health Department's records.
   (H)   Refusal to sign acknowledgment. Refusal to sign an acknowledgment of
receipt will not affect the operator's obligation to correct the violations
noted in the inspection report within the time frames specified.
   (I)   A refusal to sign an acknowledgment of receipt is noted in the
inspection report and conveyed to the Boone County Health Department historical
record for the bed and breakfast establishment, mobile food establishments,
farmers’ market, farmers’ market food establishments, food establishment and/or
temporary food establishment.
   (J)   The operator is not necessarily in agreement with the findings of the
Boone County Health Department inspection by acknowledgment of receipt.
   (K)   Public information. Except as specified in section 194 (trade secrets)
of 410 IAC 7-24, the Boone County Health Department shall treat the Inspection
Report as a public document and shall make it available for disclosure to a
person who requests it as provided in law (see I.C. 16-20-8).
(Ord. 2016-05, passed 11-21-2016)
§ 111.05 COMPLIANCE AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Application denial. If an application for a plan review and/or permit
to operate a bed and breakfast establishment, mobile food establishments,
farmers’ market, farmers’ market food establishments, food establishment, and/
or temporary food establishment is denied, the Boone County Health Department
shall provide the applicant with a notice that includes:
      (1)   The specific reasons and rule citations for the application and/or
permit denial;
      (2)   The actions, if any, that the applicant must take to qualify for
the application and/or permit; and
      (3)   Advisement of the applicant's right of appeal and the process and
time frames for appeal that are provided in law.
   (B)   Permit revocation. The Boone County Health Department may revoke a
permit to operate a bed and breakfast establishment, mobile food
establishments, farmers’ market, farmers’ market food establishments, food
establishment and/or temporary food establishment for a time period not to
exceed 90 calendar days. If the permit has been revoked in the past and a clear
demonstration of non-compliance is demonstrated by the permit holder then the
permit may be revoked for a longer period of time as determined by the health
officer.
   (C)   Permit suspension. The Boone County Health Department may suspend a
permit to operate a bed and breakfast establishment, mobile food
establishments, farmers’ market, farmers’ market food establishments, food
establishment and/or temporary food establishment if it determines through
inspection or examination of employee, food, records, or other means as
specified in this chapter, that an imminent health hazard exists. A suspension
shall not exceed 30 calendar days. The permit may be suspended for a longer
period of time as determined by the health officer.
   (D)   (1)   Ceasing operation and contacting the Boone County Health
Department. An operator of a bed and breakfast establishment, mobile food
establishments, farmers’ market, farmers’ market food establishments, food
establishment and/or temporary food establishment shall immediately discontinue
operations and notify the Boone County Health Department if an imminent health
hazard may exist because of an emergency such as a fire, flood, extended
interruption of electrical or water service, sewage backup, misuse of poisonous
or toxic materials, onset of an apparent food borne illness outbreak, gross
unsanitary occurrence or condition, or other circumstance that may endanger
public health.
      (2)   An operator need not discontinue operations in an area of an
establishment that is unaffected by the imminent health hazard.
   (E)   Resuming operation. If a bed and breakfast establishment, mobile food
establishments, farmers’ market, farmers’ market food establishments, food
establishment and/or temporary food establishment have discontinued operations
for the reasons stated above or otherwise according to law, the operator must
obtain approval from the Boone County Health Department before resuming
operations.
   (F)   Outstanding fees. Any outstanding fees may be a condition upon which a
permit may not be issued.
   (G)   Enforcement. The Boone County Health Department may:
      (1)   Conduct administrative proceeding for suspension and/or revocation
of the bed and breakfast establishment, mobile food establishments, farmers’
market, farmers’ market food establishments, food establishment and/or
temporary food establishment permit in front of the health officer. (See the
appeals section of this chapter to ensure that due process is followed.)
      (2)   The Boone County Health Officer may issue an "Order To Abate" based
on a condition that may transmit, generate, or promote disease. Failure on the
part of the operator to comply with the order could result in the enforcement
of the order in the court of jurisdiction by the initiation of an action by the
county attorney or county prosecuting attorney (see I.C. 16-20-1-25; See also
the appeals section of this chapter to ensure that due process is followed.)
      (3)   If the action concerning public health is an ordinance violation,
request the county attorney or county prosecuting attorney to institute a
proceeding in the courts for the enforcement of the ordinance violation (see
I.C. 34-28-5-1)
      (4)   If the action concerning public health is a criminal offense,
request the county attorney or county prosecuting attorney to institute a
proceeding in the courts for enforcement (see I.C. 16-20-1-25 (c)).
(Ord. 2016-05, passed 11-21-2016)
§ 111.06 APPEALS SECTION.
   (A)   Any person(s) aggrieved by orders issued under enforcement of §
111.05 above shall be entitled to a review of the final order before a hearing
officer by filing an administrative written request therefore with the Health
Officer (Secretary of the Boone County Board of Health, see I.C. 16-20-1-10).
The written request must be mailed or hand delivered to Health Officer, 116 W.
Washington St. Lebanon, IN 46052 and must be received within 15 days after such
final order is issued.
   (B)   Upon the health officer receipt of such request, the hearing officer
shall hear the matter again in an open hearing after at least five days written
notice of the time, place and nature thereof. The time shall be measured
pursuant to the rules of court of the jurisdiction. (A shorter period of time
may be granted, if requested by either party and agreed upon.)
   (C)   The notice of the hearing shall be served upon the person requesting
the review by hand delivering or mailing by certified mail the notice to the
address listed on the permit application as the person's mailing address or
such other address, as the person shall designate in the letter of request to
the health officer.
   (D)   The hearing officer establishes the rules of procedure and advises the
parties prior to the start of the proceedings.
   (E)   The hearing officer shall make written findings of facts and shall
enter its final administrative order or determination of this matter in
writing.
   (F)   The administrative order completes the administrative appeals
procedure.
(Ord. 2016-05, passed 11-21-2016)
§ 111.07 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   No local official shall conduct himself or herself in a manner that is or
could have the appearance of a conflict of interest.
(Ord. 2016-05, passed 11-21-2016)
§ 111.99 PENALTIES.
   The provisions of Title 4101 AC 7-23 provides local health departments with
authority to assess civil penalties (fines) for violators of laws intended to
suppress disease and health risks associated with preparation and distribution
of food. For purposes of tracking critical item violations and imposing fines
under this chapter, the department shall maintain inspection records for not
less than one year from the date of any inspection conducted after the
effective date of this chapter. No fine is payable the first time a "critical
item" violation is noted within any one year period after the effective date of
this chapter. For a second or subsequent "critical item " violation of this
chapter after its effective date, or within one year of the date of an
inspection conducted after the effective date of this chapter, a civil penalty
is payable as provided in this chapter.
   (A)   The following civil penalties (fine) shall apply for a "critical item"
violation which reoccurs for a second or subsequent time within any one year
period after the effective date of this chapter, regardless if that "critical
item" can be corrected immediately:
      (1)   The second time the same "critical item" violation is determined
within any one year period, there will be a fine of $50.
      (2)   The third time the same "critical item" violation is determined
within any one year period there will be a fine of $100.
      (3)   If the same "critical item" reappears as a violation for a fourth
(or more) time within any one year period, there will be a fine of $200.
   (B)   Each day after the expiration of the time limit for abating any
violation of this chapter or completing other actions as ordered by the Health
Department or the health officer of the county, shall constitute a distinct and
separate offense.
   (C)   All fines shall be payable in full within 30 days of assessment,
unless otherwise ordered by the hearing officer. Failure to pay fines by the
due date will result in an additional 10% late fee. No permit is to be issued
or renewed until all fines have been paid in full. Any fines and late fees may
be collected in any manner provided herein or as provided by law including any
law for collection of debts, along with attorney fees incurred to collect and
said amounts owing and with all costs of collection.
   (D)   For non-critical violations, a fine of $50 shall be imposed after the
third violation as determined within any one year period, a fine of $100 shall
be imposed for the fourth violation, and $200 for the fifth violation.
   (E)   Any assessment of a civil penalty by this chapter is subject to the
right of appeal and a public hearing which will be scheduled, conducted, and
concluded as provided in §
111.06 of this chapter. Any request for an appeal shall be filed in writing
with the health officer within 15 days of assessment of the civil penalty.
(Ord. 2018-03, passed 4-16-2018)
CHAPTER 112: MASSAGE PARLORS, BATH HOUSES AND THE LIKE
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   License required
   
112.03   Applications for licenses
   
112.04   License fees
   
112.05   Operations
   
112.06   Issuance and rejection of application; qualifications
   
112.07   Signs and advertising
   
112.08   Pre-existing operations
   
112.09   Complaints
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BATH HOUSE. Any building, room, place or establishment other than a
regularly licensed hospital, dispensary, hotel, rooming house or public lodging
house, where members of the public are provided with baths, regardless whether
steam, vapor, water, sauna or otherwise.
   MASSAGE. Any method of treating the superficial soft parts of the body for
remedial or hygienic purposes, consisting of rubbing, stroking, kneading or
tapping with the hands or instruments.
   MASSAGE PARLOR. Any building, room, place or establishment other than a
regularly licensed hospital or dispensary where non-medical and non-surgical
manipulative exercises are practiced upon the human body with or without the
use of mechanical or bath devices, by anyone not a physician, osteopath,
chiropractor, podiatrist or physical therapist duly registered with and
licensed by the State of Indiana.
   MASSAGE SCHOOL. Any bath house or massage parlor, defined herein, where the
act of massage, as defined herein, is either taught or practiced.
   MASSAGE THERAPIST. Any person who practices, administers or teaches all or
any of the subjects or methods of treatment, defined herein as massage therapy.
   MASSAGE THERAPY. The act of body massage, either by mechanical or electrical
apparatus for the purpose of reducing or contouring the body by the use of oil
rub, salt, hot and cold packs, cold showers and cabinet baths.
   MASSAGE THERAPY CLINIC. Any shop, establishment or place of business where
any or all of the methods of massage therapy are administered or used.
   MASSAGE THERAPY SCHOOL. Any duly registered massage therapy establishment
where a tuition is charged for the instruction of massage therapy techniques.
   PRIVATE HEALTH CLUB. Facility for exercise and physical training, excluding
the use of massage, which is operated for, and open only to members of a
private club and their invited guests.
   PRIVATE CLUB. An organization or association maintaining club rooms or other
recreation of social facilities used primarily for purposes other than a bath
house or massage parlor, membership in which is limited to persons paying a
regular dues or assessment.
(Ord. 80-2, passed 2-19-1980)
§ 112.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person or firm to operate, conduct or maintain
a massage school, massage parlor, massage therapy clinic or bath house without
a license to operate the massage school, massage parlor, massage therapy clinic
or bath house issued by the County Auditor.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm licensed to operate a
massage school, massage parlor, massage therapy clinic or bath house to employ
or permit any person to perform a massage unless the person be licensed as a
massage therapist by the County Auditor.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to be employed as a massage
therapist or to perform massages for a fee unless the person be licensed as a
massage therapist by the County Auditor.
(Ord. 80-2, passed 2-19-1980) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSES.
   (A)   The application for a license to operate a massage school, massage
parlor, massage therapy clinic or bath house shall contain the following
information and shall be individually signed by the applicant:
      (1)   Name of applicant and aliases;
      (2)   Resident address of applicant and former addresses for the past
three years;
      (3)   Business address of applicant;
      (4)   Number of massage tables, shower stalls or other such individual
units;
      (5)   The age, date of birth and citizenship of the applicant, in the
case of individuals, and of the manager and officers in the case of a
corporation;
      (6)   The names, addresses, ages, citizenship and designations of each
person connected with the applicant’s establishments;
      (7)   Whether the applicant or its manager or officers have ever been
previously engaged in operating a massage school, massage parlor, massage
therapy clinic or bath house;
      (8)   Whether any applicant, or in the case of a corporation, its
managers, officers, directors or stockholders have ever been convicted of a
felony, or of a prior violation of this chapter; and
      (9)   The application shall state thereon that:
“It is unlawful for any person to make a false statement on this application
and discovery of a false statement shall constitute grounds for denial of an
application or for revocation of a permit.”
   (B)   Along with the operators application for a license, there shall be
filed a verified application for a massage therapist license by each individual
who is employed in the establishment who is required by the chapter to be
licensed. The application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Name and aliases;
      (2)   Age, date of birth and Social Security number;
      (3)   Address and former addresses for past three years;
      (4)   Citizenship;
      (5)   Nature of work performed;
      (6)   Whether convicted of any public offense concerning an act of
violence, moral turpitude, sex offense or prior violation of this chapter; and
      (7)   The application shall state thereon that:
“It is unlawful for any person to make a false statement on this application
and discovery of a false statement shall constitute grounds for denial of an
application or for revocation of a permit.”
   (C)   Along with aforesaid applications for license, there shall be filed a
certificate from a duly licensed physician on a form prescribed by the County
Health Officer of Boone County, certifying that the applicant is free from
communicable diseases and that the examination has been made within 30 days
prior to the application for the license or permit herein sought.
   (D)   All applicants for license to engage in the practice of massage
therapy must submit with the application a certificate of affidavit of their
respective qualifications as to schooling, training and experience and where
and how obtained.
   (E)   Each applicant shall be photographed and have his or her fingerprints
taken by the Boone County Sheriff, which fingerprints and photograph shall
constitute a part of the application.
(Ord. 80-2, passed 2-19-1980)
§ 112.04 LICENSE FEES.
   The annual license fee for each person who operates or is employed by a
massage parlor, massage therapy clinic or bath house or any combination thereof
shall be determined in accordance with the following scale:
   (A)   Class A licenses shall be required for all private health, clubs. The
fee for the license to be $50 annually.
   (B)   Class B licenses shall be required for a massage school, massage
parlor, massage therapy clinic, bath house or massage therapy school, the fee
for the license to be $500 annually.
   (C)   Class C licenses shall be required for massage therapists, the fee for
the license to be $50 annually for each therapist.
(Ord. 80-2, passed 2-19-1980)
§ 112.05 OPERATIONS.
   (A)   No massage school, massage parlor, massage therapy clinic or bath
house shall be operated or conducted in, or without a separate opening to
living quarters. There must be a separate opening to living quarters and a
separate entrance to the place of business. No one shall use the business
quarters for a place of habitation.
   (B)   All licensed operators or permit holders under this chapter shall
display their license or permits in a visible location in their establishment.
   (C)   All licenses or permit holders shall be subject to all other town or
city ordinances, county ordinances and State of Indiana statutes and the
regulations of various administrative bodies of the town, city, county and
state, and violation of the regulations, ordinances or statutes shall be
grounds for revocation of licenses or permits.
   (D)   No person shall be employed by any licensee under this chapter or
reside on the premises or be within the view of any of the services rendered by
a massage parlor, massage therapy clinic or bath house who has not reached the
age of 21 years.
   (E)   Any establishment licensed under this chapter as a private health club
shall maintain a current list of members as the case may be, along with the
dates the club was used by the members; the lists and rosters shall be
available to the County Auditor upon request.
(Ord. 80-2, passed 2-19-1980) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 ISSUANCE AND REJECTION OF APPLICATION; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Upon receipt of the application and license fee as set out in §
112.04 as provided for in the preceding section, the Auditor of Boone County
shall make or cause to be made a thorough investigation relative to the
application. The Auditor shall deny any application for a license under this
chapter after notice and hearing if the Auditor finds that the applicant has
been during the previous five years convicted, pleaded nolo contendere, or
suffered a forfeiture on any felony charge or a charge of violating any
provision included in the following: I.C. 35-45-4-1 through 35-45-4-4; I.C. 35-
45-2-2; 35-46-1-3; which laws relate to sexual offenses, or on a charge of
violating a similar law, or on a charge of violating any similar law of any
jurisdiction, or on a charge of violating any provision of this chapter or
similar ordinance in any other jurisdiction. The making of a false statement on
the application as provided for herein shall also be grounds for denial of this
license. Notice of the hearing before the Auditor of Boone County of this
application shall be given in writing, setting forth the grounds of the
proposed denial of a license and the time and place of the hearing. The notice
shall be mailed by certified mail to the applicant’s last known address at
least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing. The Auditor shall submit
a decision to the applicant within five days of the decision or within 30 days
of his or her receipt of the application, whichever date is the sooner.
   (B)   The Auditor shall revoke the license of any person after notice and
hearing if the Auditor finds that the person has been within the previous five
years convicted, pleaded nolo contendere or suffered a forfeiture on any felony
charge or on a charge of violating any provision included in those sections of
the Indiana Code set forth in the immediate preceding sections of this chapter,
which laws relate to sexual offenses, or on a charge of violating a similar law
of any other jurisdiction or on a charge of violating any provisions of this
chapter or a similar ordinance in any other jurisdiction. The license shall
also be revoked by the Auditor if he or she finds, after notice and hearing,
that any license holder has made a false statement on the application provided
for herein. Notice of the hearing before the Auditor for revocation of the
license shall be given in writing, setting forth the grounds of the proposed
revocation and the time and place of the hearing. The notice shall be mailed by
certified mail to the license holder’s last known address at least ten days
prior to the date set for the hearing.
   (C)   Any person who purports to hold a valid license shall display upon
request to any police officer corroborating identifying evidence that he or she
is, in fact, the person displaying the license, and shall display the license
upon request by a police officer. It shall likewise be an automatic case for
revocation of the license of any owner or manager of a massage parlor should
they have two or more violations of these provisions in their establishment
within a 12-month period.
   (D)   A PERSON applying for a license hereunder shall include a partnership
or association and any partner or member thereof or if the applicant is a
corporation it shall include any officer, director or manager thereof or
shareholder owning 10% or more of its stock and shall likewise include members
of both sexes.
   (E)   In the event the Auditor should deny or revoke any license hereunder,
the applicant shall have an automatic right to appeal the denial or revocation
to the Board of Commissioners of the County of Boone. The Board of
Commissioners shall hold a hearing with same procedural guidelines as set out
above for the Auditor within 30 days of the date of the denial or revocation.
The Board of Commissioners shall submit their decision to the applicant or
license holder within five days of its decision or within 30 days of the
hearing whichever date is sooner.
   (F)   The license shall be valid for one year and may be renewed on an
annual basis upon the filling of a new application and payment of the license
fee as set out in §
112.04. The application for renewal must be filed in the Office of the Boone
County Auditor not less than 30 days prior to the expiration of the existing
license.
(Ord. 80-2, passed 2-19-1980)
§ 112.07 SIGNS AND ADVERTISING.
   (A)   Any persons, firms or corporations, whose business operations are
covered in whole or in part by this chapter, shall limit their signs to only
one sign, the sign shall only be allowed to be placed flush or flat on the
building and shall be made of wood.
   (B)   The sign shall be externally luminated with one non-flashing light and
no further signs such as window signs and the like shall be permitted on or in
the premises; further, that the sign shall not exceed six square feet and shall
only set forth the name, business hours and the professional services offered
to be performed by the business.
(Ord. 80-2, passed 2-19-1980)
§ 112.08 PRE-EXISTING OPERATIONS.
   All persons, firms or corporations to which this chapter is applicable, who
are presently operating within the jurisdiction of the Board of Commissioners
of Boone County shall make application for license as required herein within 30
days of the effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. 80-2, passed 2-19-1980)
§ 112.09 COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   All complaints of alleged violations of the provisions of this chapter
shall be made in writing to the Boone County Auditor. Upon learning of
violations of the provisions of this chapter and/or related ordinances or laws,
the Auditor shall utilize the enforcement remedies as provided herein.
   (B)   After a hearing thereon, if the Auditor should determine that the
license shall be revoked, no refund of license or permit fee shall be due.
(Ord. 80-2, passed 2-19-1980)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Penalties. All persons, firms or corporations violating the provisions
of this chapter shall be guilty of a Class B infraction punishable by a fine of
not more than $1,000. Every day any violation of this chapter shall continue
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Remedies. The Board of Commissioners, the Boone County Prosecutor, the
Boone County Auditor or any designated enforcement official, may institute a
suit for injunction in the Circuit or Superior Courts of Boone County, Indiana,
to restrain an individual, firm or corporation from violating the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 80-2, passed 2-19-1980)
CHAPTER 113: TATTOO, PIERCING AND BODY MODIFICATION
Section
   
113.01   Sanitary operation of tattoo parlors
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   General requirements
   
113.04   Minimum standards for physical facilities
   
113.05   Operator and artist responsibilities
   
113.06   Additional requirements for mobile units
   
113.07   Prohibited acts
   
113.08   Exceptions
   
113.09   Permits
   
113.10   Application for plan review/application for permit
   
113.11   Fees
   
113.12   Inspections
   
113.13   Closure of tattoo and body piercing facility
   
113.14   Fines
   
113.15   Enforcement
   
113.16   Appeals section
   
113.17   Conflict of interest
§ 113.01 SANITARY OPERATION OF TATTOO PARLORS.
   All places, individuals and businesses that offer to affix any type of
permanent tattoo to a person, or install or perform a body or skin piercing or
modification shall be regulated by this chapter and shall maintain the premises
in which tattoos are performed and equipment used in the tattoo, piercing or
modification process in a sanitary manner.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 11-21-2016)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions in 410 IAC 1-5, the following definitions
shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of this chapter.
   ARTIST. A person employed by an establishment to perform body piercing, body
modification or to affix a permanent tattoo to an individual. This includes
those defined as "body piercer" or "tattoo artist" by 410 IAC 1-5, or any
person who performs tattooing, boring, penetration or tunneling through the
body of a client.
   BODY MODIFICATION. Any tattoo, permanent cosmetics, body piercing, or other
penetrating body art, or the use of needles, scalpels or other medical devices
to insert devices or modify the body for the purpose of adornment. This does
not include henna tattoos or other surface adornment.
   BRANDING. A potentially invasive procedure in which a permanent mark is
burned into or onto the skin using either temperature, mechanical or chemical
means.
   CLIENT. A person or patron who receives tattooing, body piercing or body
modification services.
   CONFLICT OF INTEREST. Derived from 68 IAC 9-1-1 (b)(2), is a situation in
which the private financial interest of local official, local official's
spouse, ex-spouse, siblings, in-laws, children and/or emancipated child, may
influence the Local Official's judgment in the performance of a public duty.
   ESTABLISHMENT. A location where body piercing, body modification and/or
tattooing are performed. This includes a facility as defined by 410 IAC 1-5 and
includes temporary events and mobile establishments.
   EVENT COORDINATOR. A person or persons responsible for the event.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Boone County Health Department having jurisdiction in
Boone County, Indiana.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The duly appointed health officer having jurisdiction in
Boone County, Indiana.
   HEARING OFFICER. An individual or panel of individuals acting in the
capacity of a hearing officer in proceedings. The hearing officer is not the
health officer or any other employee of the Boone County Health Department.
   IMPLANTING. A procedure involving the placement of an object or multiple
objects under the skin to mold or shape the skin outwardly for a particular
appearance.
   INSPECTION REPORT means the document prepared by the Boone County Health
Department that is completed as the result of the inspection and provided to
the operator.
   LOCAL OFFICIAL. Any Official of Boone County, Indiana.
   MOBILE ESTABLISHMENT. A tattoo, body piercing, or body modification
establishment that is wheeled; mounted on a vehicle; or otherwise readily
movable; that changes location too frequently to be a candidate for permanent
utility connections, as determined by the health officer.
   OPERATOR. A person who controls, operates, conducts, manages, or owns any
establishment or any artist at a temporary event.
   ORDER.  Derived from I.C. 4-21.5-1-9, is a Boone County Health Department
action of particular applicability that determines the legal rights, duties,
privileges, immunities, or other legal interests of one or more specific
Persons. The term includes a permit.
   SCARIFICATION. Altering skin texture by cutting the skin and controlling the
body's healing process in order to produce wounds, which result in permanently
raised wheals or bumps known as keloids.
   SUSPENSION. Hanging the body from (or partially from) hooks that are placed
by body piercing.
   TEMPORARY EVENT. An establishment located within a permanent structure that
operates for a period of no more than 14 consecutive days for the purposes of
product demonstration, industry trade show, or education.
   TONGUE SPLITTING. Tongue bifurcation or a type of body modification in which
the tongue is cut centrally from its tip part of the way towards its base,
forking the end.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 11-21-2016)
§ 113.03 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No person shall do any of the following:
   (A)   Operate a business that offers tattooing, body-piercing, or other body
modification services, unless the Boone County Health Department has issued a
permit to the business under this chapter, and the business in compliance with
410 I AC 1-5.
   (B)   Perform a tattooing, body-piercing, or other body modification
procedure in a manner that does not meet the requirements of this chapter, 410
IAC 1-5, and I.C. 35-42-2-7.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 11-21-2016)
§ 113.04 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR PHYSICAL FACILITIES.
   In addition to the requirements of 410 IAC 1-5, all tattoo, body piercing,
or other body modification establishments must comply with the following:
   (A)   The premises in which tattooing and/or body piercing occurs, shall be
conducted in an enclosed building or establishment. Each artist station shall
be reasonably separated from each other and from waiting clients or observers.
   (B)   Tattoo, body piercing, and other body modification establishments
shall be equipped with artificial light sources equivalent to at least 20 foot-
candles at a distance of 30 inches above the floor throughout the
establishment. A minimum of 40 foot-candles of light shall be provided at the
level where the tattooing is being performed. Spotlighting may be used to
achieve this required degree of illumination.
   (C)   All walls and floors near equipment used for tattooing, body-piercing
or other body modification activities shall be smooth, nonabsorbent and easily
cleanable surface and be maintained in a sanitary manner at all times.
   (D)   All tables and other equipment shall be constructed with a smooth,
nonabsorbent and easily cleanable finish. If used, disposable table paper shall
be changed between clients.
   (E)   Exterior doors shall be self-closing and tight fitting. Operable
windows shall have tight-fitting screens.
   (F)   Restroom facilities shall be available to employees at all times the
establishment is open for operation. The restroom shall be equipped with a
toilet, toilet paper, hand sink supplied with warm running water, liquid soap,
paper towels in dispensers or hand dryers, and a waste receptacle.
   (G)   A hand sink supplied with running water at a temperature of 100-120°F,
liquid soap, paper towels in dispensers, and a waste receptacle shall be
located in close proximity of each artist's station and shall be readily
accessible and available without passing through any door or barrier. One hand
sink shall serve no more than six artists' stations.
   (H)   Equipment and supplies used in the course of tattoo and body-piercing
services or disinfection and sterilization procedures shall not be stored or
utilized within the restroom.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 11-21-2016)
§ 113.05 OPERATOR AND ARTIST RESPONSIBILITIES.
   In addition to the requirements of 410 IAC 1-5 and 29 CFR 1910.1030, the
operator shall ensure the following:
   (A)   The use of properly calibrated autoclave sterilization units on all
reusable items and monthly spore testing of the autoclave are mandatory. A copy
of the results of all spore tests shall be submitted to the Health Department
upon receipt of each test report. Autoclave indicator tape or other verifiable
indication of sterilization shall be used and maintained with each reusable
item until used.
   (B)   A copy of all applicable regulations shall be retained on premises.
   (C)   The following records must be maintained by all operators for at least
two years:
      (1)   A government-issued ID with a photo and date of birth on each
client;
      (2)   If the client is under age 18, parental consent forms; and
      (3)   With respect to tattooing services, written records must also
include the professional tattooing ink used for each tattoo performed.
   (D)   Verbal and written instructions for the aftercare of the tattoo or
other body modification shall be provided to each client or legal guardian if
client is under 18. The written public education materials shall:
      (1)   Advise the client to consult a physician or dentist as appropriate
at the first sign of infection;
      (2)   Shall contain the name, address and phone number of the
establishment or artist; and
      (3)   Shall be signed and dated by the artist and the client, with a copy
given to the client.
   (E)   The following information for each artist and operator shall be kept
on file at the establishment and available for inspection by the Health
Department:
      (1)   Full name, date of birth, gender, and identification photos;
      (2)   Proof that all artists and operators are a minimum of 18 years of
age;
      (3)   Written documentation of one of the following:
         (a)   The completion of the Hepatitis B vaccination series;
         (b)   Antibody testing that has revealed immunity to Hepatitis B;
         (c)   The Hepatitis B vaccine is contraindicated for medical reasons;
         (d)   Documentation of bloodborne pathogen training
   (F)   Before and after performing tattoos, body piercings, or other body
modification procedures, the artist shall thoroughly wash hands in warm running
water with liquid soap, then rinse hands and dry with disposable paper towels.
This shall be done as often as necessary to remove contaminants. Single- use,
disposable paper products shall be used.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 11-21-2016)
§ 113.06 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR MOBILE UNITS.
   In addition to all other requirements in this chapter and 410 IAC 1-5, all
mobile establishments must meet the following:
   (A)   Mobile establishment must receive an initial inspection at a location
specified by the Health Department prior to permit issuance to insure
compliance with requirements. Additional inspections may be performed at any
location where the mobile unit is operating.
   (B)   Tattooing and/or body-piercing performed pursuant to this section
shall be done only from inside an enclosed unit.
   (C)   The mobile establishment shall be used only for the purpose of
performing body modification procedures. No habitation or cooking is permitted
inside the mobile establishment.
   (D)   An adequate supply of potable water shall be maintained for the Mobile
Establishment at all times during operation.
   (E)   All liquid wastes shall be stored in an adequate storage tank with a
capacity at least 15% greater than the capacity of the on board potable water
supply. Liquid wastes shall be disposed of in accordance with all applicable
regulations at a site approved by the Health Department.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 11-21-2016)
§ 113.07 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   The following activities are strictly prohibited:
      (1)   Tongue splitting; and
      (2)   Tattoo removal.
   (B)   The following activities are strictly prohibited to minors (under age
18)
      (1)   Branding;
      (2)   Implanting;
      (3)   Suspension;
      (4)   Scarification; and
      (5)   Piercing of the genitalia or nipples.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 11-21-2016)
§ 113.08 EXCEPTIONS.
   Ear lobe piercing and medical procedures performed by a state-licensed
medical practitioner are exempt from this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 11-21-2016)
§ 113.09 PERMITS.
   No person, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, business trust,
corporation or any organized group of persons may operate an establishment
unless it has first received a valid permit from the Boone County Health
Department.
   (A)   The valid permit shall be posted in a conspicuous location in the
establishment.
   (B)   A separate permit shall be required for each establishment, mobile
unit, and/or temporary establishment.
   (C)   A permit for an Establishment shall be issued for a term beginning
January 1, or the date of commencement of operation, and expiring December 31,
of the same year, and shall be applied for by the operator annually.
   (D)   A permit for a temporary establishment shall be issued for 14 days or
less and for the duration of a single event at a single location.
   (E)   Every person that desires to perform any tattoo or body modification
shall obtain an artist permit. The person shall satisfy the minimum
requirements of §
113.05.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 11-21-2016)
§ 113.10 APPLICATION FOR PLAN REVIEW/APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   The operator of a proposed establishment, mobile unit, or temporary
establishment shall submit the following to the Boone County Health Department
at least 30 days prior to scheduling the pre-operational inspection and 30 days
prior to the proposed first day of operation:
      (1)   Plan review fee: $100 per establishment;
      (2)   Completed exposure control plan;
      (3)   Contract with infectious waste removal company;
      (4)   Copy of bloodborne pathogen training for all employees;
      (5)   Hepatitis B waivers signed by all employees; and
      (6)   Spore test results within last 30 days (if applicable).
   (B)   The plans and specifications for an establishment shall be deemed
satisfactory and approved by the Boone County Health Department before a permit
can be issued.
   (C)   A pre-operational inspection shall be conducted to ensure that the
establishment is built, remodeled, or arranged in accordance with the approved
plans and specifications and to assure the establishment is in compliance with
410 IAC 1-5 and this chapter.
   (D)   Any application for a temporary establishment shall also include the
signature of the venue owner acknowledging that the requirements of this
chapter shall be met during the temporary event.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 11-21-2016)
§ 113.11 FEES.
   (A)   The fee for an establishment, other than a temporary establishment,
shall be paid for a term beginning January 1, and/or before the commencement of
operation and expiring December 31, of the same year and shall be applied for
by the operator annually.
   (B)   Fees for temporary establishments shall be charged per operator, and
per artist's station.
   (C)   The fees paid under this chapter are not transferable or refundable. A
permit may not be issued to any establishment where outstanding or unpaid fees,
or late fees, are due.
   (D)   A late renewal fee shall be assessed as set by the Boone County Health
Department for failure to renew a permit within 14 days after the expiration of
the permit to operate an establishment.
   (E)   A receipt for the payment of such fee shall be provided by the Boone
County Health Department.
   (F)   Permit fees for the issuance of a permit under this chapter to an
establishment or artist shall be set by the Boone County Health Department and
approved by the Board of Commissioners, as provided by the Statutes of the
State of Indiana (see I.C. 16-20-1-27).
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 11-21-2016)
§ 113.12 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Boone County Health Department may conduct inspections of
establishments located in Boone County, Indiana at least once every six months.
   (B)   After the Boone County Health Department presents official credentials
and provides notice of the purpose of and the intent to conduct and inspection,
the operator shall allow the health officer to determine if the establishment
is in compliance with this chapter by allowing access to the establishment,
allowing inspection, and providing information and records specified in this
chapter.
   (C)   Access is a condition of the acceptance and retention of an
establishment permit to operate. If access is denied, an order issued by the
appropriate authority allowing access may be obtained according to law (see
I.C. 16-20-1-6).
   (D)   The health officer shall provide a copy of the completed inspection
report and the notice to correct violations to the operator or to the person-
in-charge.
   (E)   Violations noted by the Health Department shall be corrected
immediately.
   (F)   Considering the nature of the potential hazard involved and the
complexity of the corrective action needed, the Boone County Health Department
may agree to or specify a longer time frame after the inspection for the
operator to correct violations.
   (G)   After receiving notification that the operator has corrected a
violation, or at the end of the specified time frame, the Boone County Health
Department shall verify correction of the violation, document the information
on the inspection report, and enter the report into the Boone County Health
Department's records.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 11-21-2016)
§ 113.13 CLOSURE OF TATTOO AND BODY PIERCING FACILITY.
   (A)   The Health Officer may immediately close a facility and suspend a
permit when any of the following occur:
      (1)   Untimely reporting of test results;
      (2)   Proper handwashing sink not provided at each station;
      (3)   Conditions that present an imminent threat to public health or
transmission of communicable disease; and
      (4)   Three or more occurrences of the violations described in this
chapter, 410 IAC 1-5, and any other applicable local, state, or federal
regulation within a 12-month period.
   (B)   The health officer may post a sign notifying the public that the
facility has been closed. It is a violation of this chapter for any person
other than the health officer to remove the sign.
   (C)   The health officer may reinstate the Establishment permit upon
satisfactory compliance with this chapter, 410 IAC 1-5, and other applicable
local, state, or federal regulation.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 11-21-2016)
§ 113.14 FINES.
   (A)   If a tattoo artist or operator shall fail to obtain a permit prior to
the conduct of their business or at any time after one has been issues, but has
expired, the tattoo artist and/operator may be subject to a fine of not more
than $100. Each day the tattoo artist and/or operator shall be in violation
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person who willfully violates any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be subject to a fine of not more than $1,000 for each violation.
Each day of the existence of any violation of this chapter shall be considered
to be a separate offense.
   (C)   In the event a lawsuit is necessary to collect the cost of fees,
penalties, or services for this chapter, the individual or business entity
found to be liable shall also pay for reasonable attorney fees and cost of
litigation to the county.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 11-21-2016)
§ 113.15 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Boone County Health Department may:
   (A)   Conduct administrative proceeding for suspension and/or revocation of
the establishment permit in front of the health officer. (See the appeals
section of this chapter to ensure that due process is followed.)
   (B)   The Boone County Health Officer may issue an "Order to Abate" based on
a condition that may transmit, generate, or promote disease. Failure on the
part of the operator to comply with the order could result in the enforcement
of the order in the court of jurisdiction by the initiation of an action by the
county attorney or county prosecuting attorney. (See I.C. 16-20-1-25; see also
the appeals section of this chapter to ensure that due process is followed.)
   (C)   If the action concerning public health is an ordinance violation,
request the county attorney or county prosecuting attorney to institute a
proceeding in the courts for the enforcement of the ordinance violation (see
I.C. 34-28-5-1).
   (D)   If the action concerning public health is a criminal offense, request
the county attorney or county prosecuting attorney to institute a proceeding in
the courts for enforcement. (See I.C.16-20-l-25(c).)
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 11-21-2016)
§ 113.16 APPEALS SECTION.
   (A)   Any person(s) aggrieved by the orders issued under enforcement of §
113.14 above shall be entitled to a review of the final order before a hearing
officer by filing an administrative written request therefore with the health
officer (Secretary of the Boone County Board of Health see I.C.16-20-1-10). The
written request must be mailed or hand delivered to Health Officer, 116 W.
Washington St. Lebanon, IN 46052 and must be received within 15 days after such
final order is issued.
   (B)   Upon the health officer receipt of such request, the hearing officer
shall hear the matter again in an open hearing after at least five days written
notice of the time, place and nature thereof. The time shall be measured
pursuant to the rules of the court of the jurisdiction. (A shorter period of
time may be granted, if requested by either party and agreed upon.)
   (C)   The notice of the hearing shall be served upon the person requesting
the review by hand delivering or mailing by certified mail the notice to the
address listed on the permit application as the person's mailing address or
such other address, as the person shall designate in the letter of request to
the health officer.
   (D)   The hearing officer establishes the rule of procedure and advises the
parties prior to the start of the proceedings.
   (E)   The hearing officer shall make written findings of facts and shall
enter its final administrative order or determination of this matter in
writing.
   (F)   The administrative order completes the administrative appeals
procedure. An aggrieved party may appeal the administrative order by filing an
action in Boone Circuit or Superior Courts within 30 days of the order.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 11-21-2016)
§ 113.17 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   No local official shall conduct himself or herself in a manner that is or
could have the appearance of a conflict of interest.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 11-21-2016)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Synthetic cannabinoids
   
130.02   Bridges and county owned structures
§ 130.01 SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS.
   (A)   Products containing synthetic cannabinoids (“products”), such as K2/
Spice, or similar products which contain one or more of the following chemical
compounds:
      (1)   (6aR,10aR)-9-(hydroxymethyl)-6,6-dimethyl-3-(2methyloctan-2-yl)-
6a,7,10,10a-tetrahydrobenzo[c]chromen-l-ol, also known as HU-210;
      (2)   1-Pentyl-3-(l-naphthoyl)indole, also known as JWH-018;
      (3)   1-Butyl-3-(l-naphthoyl)indole, also known as JWH-073; or
      (4)   Any other equivalent compound or derivative;
shall not be sold, marketed, or offered for sale within Boone County, Indiana.
   (B)   Products containing synthetic cannabinoids (“products”) may not be
burned, incinerated or ignited in any public place or on any property owned,
leased or controlled by the county.
   (C)   Persons or entities violating the provisions of this section shall be
subject to the penalty imposed for a Class B infraction, as set forth in I.C.
34-28-5-4. Accordingly, this section shall be enforced by the provisions of
I.C. 34-28-5.
(Ord. 2010-06, passed 8-16-2010)
§ 130.02 BRIDGES AND COUNTY OWNED STRUCTURES.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this section for any person or individual
to restrict the traffic on any county owned bridge.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this section for any person or individual
to jump off any county owned bridge or county owned structure.
   (C)   A person or individual found to be in violation of this section shall
be fined up to $ 1,000 for each such act or occurrence.
   (D)   A person or individual found to be in violation of this section shall
also be responsible for court costs and attorney fees for the county’s
enforcement of this section.
   (E)   Any action for enforcement of this section shall be filed in Boone
Circuit or Superior Courts.
(Ord. 2017 -12, passed 8-21-2017)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   AGREEMENTS; FRANCHISE AND INTERLOCAL
      
II.   PROPERTY; DISPOSAL AND THE LIKE
      
III.   STREET VACATIONS
TABLE I: AGREEMENTS; FRANCHISE AND INTERLOCAL
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
82-1     3-15-1982   Cable system franchise to C-A-T-V, Inc.
82-9     9-20-1982   Cable system franchise to Omega of Zionsville Cable T.V.
                     Co.
89-2     5-8-1989    Cable system franchise to TCI of Indiana, Inc.
98-4     4-14-1998   Authorizing the entry into an interlocal agreement for the
                     investment of public funds
98-3     4-20-1998   Authorizing the entry into an interlocal agreement for the
                     investment of public funds
98-9     5-11-1998   Cable system franchise to Phoenix Concept Cablevision of
                     Indiana, L.L.C.
2005-08  4-18-2005   Cable system franchise to Cablevision of Indianapolis,
                     L.P.
 
TABLE II: PROPERTY; DISPOSAL AND THE LIKE
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
94-15    9-19-1994   Disposal of certain surplus personal property listed by
                     department heads
97-13    8-18-1997   Disposal of certain surplus personal property listed by
                     department heads
98-1     2-2-1998    Disposal of mechanical voting machines
 
TABLE III: STREET VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
             Vacating part of County Road 650 East, located in Eagle Township, south of
97-5  3-17-  County Road 650 South, in part of the south half of Section 6, Township 17
      1997   North, Range 2 East and part of the northeast quarter of Section 7, Township
             17 North, Range 2 East.
97-10 7-14-  Abandoning county roadway to landowner, Kenneth H. Ferguson, Jr.
      1997
      11-3-  Vacating part of County Road 650 South, located in Eagle Township, east of
97-18 1997   County Road 650 South, in part of the south half of Section 6, Township 17
             North, Range 2 East.
             Vacating part of County Road 650 South as it intersects with C and W, Inc.’s
99-3  2-16-  southeast boundary line and the southwest boundary line of the Charles
      1999   McGlocklin property, then west until it intersects with C and W, Inc.’s west
             property line at I-65.
99-8  9-13-  Vacating a portion of old 96th Street from Zionsville Road to new 96th Street.
      1999
             Vacating part of County Road 400 S as it intersects with Valenti-Held Real
01-2  1-22-  Estate Group, LLP’s western boundary at Indianapolis Road and running in a
      2001   common width east of Valenti-Held Real Estate Group, LLP’s eastern boundary as
             it intersects with the right-of-line of I-65.
2001- 3-12-  Vacating part of Royal Avenue from its intersection with old U.S. 52
3     2001   (Indianapolis Road) south in and along property owned by Platinum Properties,
             LLC and Robert Lee and Beth Ann Wagner.
2001- 4-23-  Vacating part of North Willow Road from Little Eagle Creek until the
6     2001   intersection of Little Eagle Creek Avenue.
2001- 5-14-  Vacating the Cul De Sac Circular Drive located in the middle and northwest
9     2001   ends of lots 29, 30 and 31 in Garden Acres Subdivision in Washington Township.
01-15 9-17-  Vacating certain public alleys shown on the original plat of Eagle Village.
      2001
2016- 5-16-  Vacating the right-of-way of County Road 1175 West.
02    2016
2021- 6-7-   Vacating the right-of-way of County Road 950 West.
04    2021
2021- 11-15- Vacating a portion of the right-of-way of County Roads 600 South and South
08    2021   Darlington Road (900 W).
            
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cites Code Section
I.C. Cites            Code Section
1-1-1-5               10.04
1-1-1-7               10.12 
1-1-1-8               10.06
1-1-4-5               10.05
1-1-5-1               10.11
1-1-6-1               10.08
4-21.5-1-9            111.01;
                      113.02
5-11-1-27(e)          30.08
5-11-1-27(g)          30.08
5-1 l-l-27(j)         30.08
5-11-1-27(1)          30.08
5-14-1.5-2.9          30.10
5-14-1.5-5(d)         33.43
5-14-3-2              34.24
5-14-3-3              34.35
5-14-3-3(e)           34.23;
                      34.24
5-14-3-3.5            34.24
5-14-3-4              34.24
5-14-3-8              34.05
5-14-3-8(f)           34.23
5-14-3-8.5            34.05
5-22-9-5              32.02
6-1.1-18.5-10         34.03
6-1.1-41              34.09
6-1.1-41-4            34.09
6-2.1-3-20–6-2.1-3-2111.03
6-2.5                 34.45
6-9-18-5              31.01
6-9-39-1              93.01
10-2-4-6              33.04
10-2-4-7              33.04
10-4-1                33.18
10-4-1-3(l)           33.02
10-4-1-5              33.18
10-4-1-7              33.40;
                      33.42
10-4-1-9              33.02
10-4-1-10             33.05;
                      33.15
10-4-1-10(f)          33.17
10-4-1-10(l)(5)       33.45
10-4-1-15             33.05
10-4-1-15(b)          33.45
10-4-1-17             33.45
10-4-1-20(b)          33.21
                      33.02;
10-4-1-23(a)          33.40;
                      33.42
10-4-1-25             33.45
10-14-3-29            33.53
11-12-2-2(a)          31.05
11-12-2-2(b)          31.05
11-18-8-21            34.07
12-29-1-1             34.03
12-29-1-1(C)          34.03
13                    50.01
13-11-2-205(a)        50.21
13-11-2-205(b)        50.21
13-11-2-206           50.21
13-11-2-209           50.21
13-18-27              53.082
13-21                 50.21
13-21-14              50.21
14-32                 53.007
14-34                 53.050;
                      53.065
15-3-4.6              31.03
15-3-4.6-1            31.03
15-15-2-47            93.01
15-17-2-3             93.01
15-17-2-47            93.01
16-1-3-28             34.28
16-1-4-21             34.28
16-1-4-22             34.28
16-1-4-24             34.28
16-1-5-2              34.28
16-2-1-14             111.01
16-18-2-137           111.01
16-18-2-211           51.05
16-18-258             51.05
16-20                 51.05
16-20-1-6             113.12
16-20-1-10            111.06;
                      113.16
16-20-1-25            111.05;
                      113.15
16-20-1-25(c)         111.05;
                      113.15
16-20-1-26            34.28;
                      111.04
16-20-1-27            111.03;
                      113.11
16-20-2-16            111.01
16-42-1-6             111.02
16-42-1-13            111.04
16-42-5-4             111.03
16-42-5-23            111.04
17-2-22-2             34.28
17-2-22-3             34.28
18-1-1-5-7            34.28
24-6-3-2              91.08
27-1-15.6-6(d)        34.35
27-7-3-2              34.35
27-7-3-6              34.35
34-28-5-1             111.05;
                      113.15
34-28-5-4             93.10;
                      130.01
34-28-5               93.10;
                      130.01
34-42-2-7             113.03
35-45-2-2             112.06
35-45-4-1–35-45-4-4 112.06
35-46-1-3             112.06
36-1-3-8(a)(10)       10.99
36-1-6-9(e)           53.105
36-1-6-9(f)           53.105
36-1.5.1.1 et seq.    93.02
36-2-2-8(a)           33.43
36-2-5-12             30.01
36-2-7-10.1(d)        34.35
36-2-9-18(d)          34.25
36-8-3-20             31.04
36-9-14.5             34.09
36-9-27-29            53.001
36-9-27-54            53.068
36-27-7-10(f)         34.35
                      
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.     Date Passed Code Section
- -          12-6-1965   70.02
98-16        - -         31.01
10-77        8-8-1977    Ch. 71, Sch. I
                         112.01-
80-2         2-19-1980   112.09;
                         112.99
80-4         10-6-1980   30.06
81-1         2-2-1981    34.28
                         50.20-
81-3         3-1-1982    50.32;
                         50.99
82-1         3-15-1982   TSO I
82-9         4-19-1982   31.03
82-7         8-9-1982    Ch. 71, Sch. IV
82-9         9-20-1982   TSO I
82-10        10-4-1982   31.04
82-11        10-12-1982  30.05
82-12        10-12-1982  34.31
89-2         5-8-1989    TSO I
91-3         7-1-1991    50.01
92-3         3-2-1992    Ch. 71, Sch. I
92-4         3-2-1992    Ch. 71, Sch. IV
92-6         6-8-1992    34.02
92-7         12-14-1992  Ch. 71, Sch. III
93-2         2-16-1993   34.02
93-3         2-16-1993   34.25
93-8         6-7-1993    34.28
93-13        10-19-1993  34.08,
                         34.45
94-5         4-4-1994    Ch. 71, Sch. I
                         30.02,
94-6         4-19-1994   34.06,
                         34.20
94-10        9-12-1994   34.21
94-11        9-12-1994   34.25
94-12        9-19-1994   52.01
94-15        9-19-1994   TSO II
95-4         6-19-1995   34.22
1995-5       10-16-1995  30.03
95-7         11-6-1995   Ch. 71, Sch. I
96-6         5-20-1996   Ch. 71, Sch. I
                         33.01-
                         33.05;
96-7         8-5-1996    33.15-
                         33.25;
                         33.40-
                         33.52
96-11        10-7-1996   Ch. 71, Sch. I
97-11        - -1997     Ch. 71, Sch. IV,
                         V
97-13        8-18-1997   TSO II
97-14        8-18-1997   Ch. 71, Sch. IV
97-15        8-18-1997   Ch. 71, Sch. I
97-16        10-14-1997  34.23
97-20        12-1-1997   Ch. 71, Sch. IV
97-21        12-1-1997   Ch. 71, Sch. IV
97-23        12-1-1997   34.31
97-24        12-1-1997   34.46
98-1         2-2-1998    TSO II
98-12        5-12-1998   34.24
98-4         4-14-1998   TSO I
98-3         4-20-1998   TSO I
98-9         5-11-1998   TSO I
98-10        5-11-1998   Ch. 71, Sch. I
98-11        5-18-1998   70.01;
                         70.99
98-13        6-15-1998   32.01;
                         32.02
98-19        7-20-1998   Ch. 71, Sch. IV
98-14        9-8-1998    32.02
98-21        11-2-1998   Ch. 71, Sch. IV
98-22        11-2-1998   Ch. 71, Sch. IV
1995-5       12-31-1998  30.03
98-24        12-31-1998  30.04
99-1         2-1-1999    31.02
99-2         2-9-1999    34.05,
                         34.24
99-10-A      12-20-1999  Ch. 71, Sch. IV
2001-16      10-22-2001  Ch. 71, Sch. IV
2001-18      11-14-2001  Ch. 71, Sch. IV
2002-10      8-5-2002    Ch. 71, Sch. IV
2002-07      5-14-2002   30.01
2002-4       4-8-2002    34.04
2002-11      9-9-2002    Ch. 71, Sch. IV
2002-12      9-9-2002    Ch. 71, Sch. II
2003-2       1-21-2003   31.01
2003-11      6-23-2003   Ch. 71, Sch. IV
2003-13      7-7-2003    34.28
2003-15      7-14-2003   Ch. 71, Sch. IV
2003-16      7-14-2003   Ch. 71, Sch. IV
2003-24      12-22-2003  34.25
04-04        2-17-2004   34.31
2004-12      9-13-2004   Ch. 71, Sch. IV
2004-13      9-20-2004   34.01
                         90.01-
2004-16      11-8-2004   90.06;
                         90.99
2004-19      12-6-2004   Ch. 71, Sch. I
2005-01      1-18-2005   Ch. 72, Sch. I
2005-02      2-14-2005   34.26
2005-12      5-9-2005    34.28
2005-23      12-5-2005   34.27
                         110.01-
2005-07      4-11-2005   110.05;
                         110.99
2005-08      4-18-2005   TSO I
2006-03      - -2006     34.01
2006-04      - -2006     34.31
2006-08      - -2006     34.01
2006-14      9-18-2006   34.31
2006-18      - -2006     34.01
2007-05      2-12-2007   Ch. 72. Sch. I
2007-7       3-5-2007    34.01
2007-09      3-12-2007   Ch. 72, Sch. I
2007-10      - -2007     34.03
2007-13      7-2-2007    34.01
Res. 2007-02 7-16-2007   31.05
                         92.01-
2007-14      7-16-2007   92.06;
                         92.99
2007-16      8-13-2007   34.07,
                         34.30
2007-17      8-13-2007   34.29
2007-18      8-20-2007   34.28
2007-19      8-20-2007   Ch. 71, Sch. I
2007-22      10-1-2007   Ch. 71, Sch. I
2007-25      12-17-2007  34.01
2008-02      1-7-2008    34.01
2008-05      5-19-2008   Ch. 71, Sch. I
2008-06      6-2-2008    70.03
2008-07      6-16-2008   Adopting Ordinance
2008-09      8-8-2008    34.01
2008-11      9-9-2008    34.01
                         94.01–
2008-16      12-1-2008   94.20;
                         94.99
2009-01      1-5-2009    34.01
2009-03      3-20-2009   34.28
                         91.01–
2009-04      8-3-2009    91.10;
                         91.99
2009-05      9-21-2009   34.01
2009-06      10-5-2009   93.10
2009-08      11-2-2009   34.01
2009-09      11-16-2009  Ch. 71, Sch. I
2010-01      1-19-2010   70.04
2010-02      3-1-2010    32.03
2010-03      4-5-2010    34.01
2010-06      8-16-2010   130.01
2010-09      11-1-2010   34.29
2010-10      11-15-2010  34.01
2011-1       1-4-2011    34.32
2011-02      1-18-2011   34.28
2011-03      2-7-2011    31.02
2011-04      4-4-2011    34.28
2011-07      10-3-2011   30.03
2011-09      12-5-2011   34.28
2011-10      12-5-2011   34.28
2011-12      12-5-2011   Ch. 72, Sch. I
2012-03      3-19-2012   30.07
2012-04      4-2-2012    51.01 -
                         51.13
2012-05      4-2-2012    51.20 -
                         51.25
2012-07      10-15-2012  34.01
2012-08      11-19-2012  34.28
2013-01      1-22-2013   33.53
2013-02      3-4-2013    Ch. 72, Sch. I
2013-03      10-7-2013   34.28
                         50.21;
2013-04      10-21-2013  50.33 -
                         50.35;
                         50.99
2014-01      3-3-2014    31.05
2014-02      3-24-2014   34.01
2014-03      6-24-2014   34.09
2015-02      5-18-2015   34.33
2015-04      8-3-2015    34.34
2015-05      11-2-2015   70.05
2015-06      11-2-2015   34.01
2016-02      5-16-2016   TSO III
2016-03      6-20-2016   30.08
2016-04      10-17-2016  34.28
2016-05      11-21-2016  111.01 -
                         111.07
2016-06      11-21-2016  113.01 -
                         113.17
2017-01      1-17-2017   34.31
2017-02      2-6-2017    70.04
2017-03      3-6-2017    30.09
2017-04      4-3-2017    70.02
2017-06      4-17-2017   Ch. 71, Sch. IV
2017-07      6-5-2017    Ch. 72, Sch. I
2017-08      6-19-2017   34.09
2017-10      7-17-2017   34.35
2017-11      8-21-2017   34.21
2017-12      8-21-2017   130.02
2018-01      3-5-2018    34.10
                         93.01;
2018-02      6-4-2018    93.02;
                         93.99
2018-03      4-16-2018   111.01;
                         111.99
2018-04      5-21-2018   91.07
2018-05      6-4-2018    34.01
2018-06      6-4-2018    34.11
2018-07      6-18-2018   34.12
2018-08      6-18-2018   34.13
2018-09      7-16-2018   34.14
2018-10      8-6-2018    34.15
2018-11      9-4-2018    Ch. 71, Sch. IV
2018-12      10-25-2018  34.16
2019-03      4-1-2019    50.34
2019-06      6-3-2019    34.17
2019-07      7-1-2019    Ch. 72, Sch. I
2019-08      7-1-2019    34.25,
                         34.32
2019-09      7-1-2019    70.04
2019-11      10-21-2019  34.18
2019-12      10-21-2019  70.05
2019-13      12-2-2019   34.19
2019-14      12-16-2019  Ch. 71, Sch. IV
2020-01      2-3-2020    34.19.1
2020-03      4-6-2020    34.09
2020-05      8-3-2020    Ch. 71, Sch. VI
2020-08      9-8-2020    34.01
2021-02      4-5-2021    34.19.2
2021-03      4-5-2021    34.19.3
2021-04      6-7-2021    TSO III
2021-05      6-7-2021    34.19.4
2021-07      11-1-2021   34.19.4
2021-08      11-15-2021  TSO III
2022-02      6-20-2022   34.36
2022-03      8-1-2022    34.19.5
2022-04      9-19-2022   34.19.6
2022-05      12-5-2022   34.28
2023-01      1-3-2023    34.19.7
                         53.001 -
                         53.011,
                         53.020 -
                         53.026,
                         53.035 -
                         53.041,
                         53.050 -
2023-02      1-3-2023    53.053,
                         53.065 -
                         53.069,
                         53.080 -
                         53.089,
                         53.100 -
                         53.105,
                         53.999,
                         Ch. 53, App. A
2023-03      3-6-2023    34.34
2023-04      4-17-2023   34.19.8
2023-06      7-17-2023   Ch. 71, Sch. I
2023-07      10-2-2023   30.10
                         Ch. 71,
2023-09      11-20-2023  Sch. I,
                         Sch. IV
                        
 
VOLUME 2
LAND USAGE
2024 S-15 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 2023-10, passed 2-2-2024; and
State legislation current through 2024 Indiana Legislative Service, Pamphlet
No. 3
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CODES
      
152.   FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
      
153.   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
      
154.   STREETS AND ROADS
      
155.   HOUSING PROVISIONS
      
156.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
157.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Geothermal open-loop systems; restrictions
   
150.02   Unified legal description required for combined parcels
   
150.03   Prohibiting moving, changing or altering of corner monuments
Construction in Rights-of-Way
   
150.15   Name
   
150.16   Scope
   
150.17   Authority
   
150.18   Definitions
   
150.19   Cost, ownership, and maintenance of improvements
   
150.20   General right-of-way standards for improvements
   
150.21   Emergencies
   
150.22 - 150.29   Reserved
   
150.30   Forms, specifications, and details
   
150.31   Application for permit
   
150.32 - 150.39   Reserved
   
150.40   Conveyance of right-of-way
   
150.41 - 150.49   Reserved
   
150.50   Permit fees
   
150.51   Bonds
   
150.52 - 150.59   Reserved
   
150.60   General permit conditions
   
150.61   Permit review and issuance
   
150.62   Permit term and extension
   
150.63 - 150.69   Reserved
   
150.70   Installation, inspection, and approval
   
150.71   Non-compliance
   
150.72   Encroachment agreement
   
150.73 - 150.79   Reserved
   
150.80   Non-conformity
   
150.81 - 150.89   Reserved
   
150.90   Violations
   
150.91   Other permits
   
150.92   Dust control application
   
150.93   Utility accommodation policy
   
150.94   Subsurface utility engineering required projects
   
150.95   Utility coordination on county owned design projects
   
150.96   Acceptance of rights-of-way and improvements
 
Cross-reference:
   Building Regulations; Codes, see
Chapter 151
   Streets and Roads, see
Chapter 154
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 GEOTHERMAL OPEN-LOOP SYSTEMS; RESTRICTIONS.
   From and after the effective date of this section, the construction of
geothermal open-loop heating and/or cooling systems within the boundaries of
the county is prohibited.
(Ord. 90-7, passed 10-8-1990)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 150.02 UNIFIED LEGAL DESCRIPTION REQUIRED FOR COMBINED PARCELS.
   The Board of County Commissioners do hereby require that any individual or
entity that combined parcels of land must provide a unified legal description
that describes the entire combined parcel, and that shall be submitted by a
professional land surveyor.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 12-1-2014)
§ 150.03 PROHIBITING MOVING, CHANGING OR ALTERING OF CORNER MONUMENTS.
   Any and all persons are prohibited from moving, changing or otherwise
altering a monument marking a corner without the approval of the Boone County
Surveyor and compliance with Indiana law. Any person who violates this section
shall be responsible for compensating the county for the actual costs for
repairing or replacing the monument and shall be fined in an amount not to
exceed $500. Any penalty collected shall be deposited in the Boone County
Surveyor's Corner Perpetuation Fund.
Ord. 2016-01, passed 4-4-2016)
CONSTRUCTION IN RIGHTS-OF-WAY
§ 150.15 NAME.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Boone County Construction in Rights-
of-Way Ordinance”.
(Ord. 2023-10, passed 2-2-2024)
§ 150.16 SCOPE.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall govern the construction,
relocation, alteration, or change in the character or use of improvements in
the rights-of-way of the Boone County Highway System (which includes rights-of-
way in the Rural Service District of the Town of Zionsville to the extent
regulated by Boone County), and the maintenance of such improvements, which are
not otherwise governed under Title XV of this code.
   (B)   Improvements, for the purposes of this subchapter, include, but are
not limited to:
      (1)   Entrances, driveways, or drive approaches;
      (2)   Mailbox approaches;
      (3)   Culvert or roadside ditch modifications necessitated for other
improvements;
      (4)   Sidewalks, pathways, trails, or multi-use paths; and
      (5)   Public service utility infrastructure.
   (C)   Improvements, as defined by this subchapter, shall not include:
      (1)   Infrastructure made under contract with or by order of the Board of
Commissioners.
      (2)   Surfacing or resurfacing of a paved improvement provided it does
not change drainage flows and does not expand the width of the existing
improvement.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to construct
improvements in the rights-of-way of the Boone County Highway system without
first obtaining a permit in accordance with this subchapter.
   (E)   Any work completed as emergency work which does not meet the
definition of emergency as set out in this section is a violation of this
subchapter.
   (F)   The Highway Engineer shall have the authority to issue stop work
orders for any violations of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2023-10, passed 2-2-2024)
§ 150.17 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Boone County Highway Engineer, as defined by I.C. 8-17-5, is
hereby authorized to approve and issue permits for all improvements under this
subchapter:
   (B)   The Highway Engineer shall have the authority to:
      (1)   Execute permits and encroachment agreement documents, agreements
and other documents;
      (2)   Perform, or cause the performance of, inspections;
      (3)   Administer the terms of permits and encroachment agreements;
      (4)   Order or otherwise compel correction of violations of this
subchapter, including issuance of stop work orders;
      (5)   Approve the completion and acceptability of work under a permit;
and
      (6)   Perform all other actions necessary for the administration and
enforcement of this subchapter.
   (C)   The Highway Department may elevate a permit for approval by the
Commissioners on an as needed basis.
   (D)   The Highway Engineer may delegate his or her authority under this
section to other Boone County Highway Department employees as advisable to meet
the intent of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2023-10, passed 2-2-2024)
§ 150.18 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions apply only to this subchapter.
   CHANGE OF USE. As determined by the Highway Department when a property’s
existing use.
   COMMERCIAL DRIVE. Any driveway serving a property zoned commercial, serving
a business or place otherwise open to the public, or providing access to an
occupied utility facility. COMMERCIAL DRIVES are categorized as follows:
      (1)   MINOR COMMERCIAL DRIVE. Any COMMERCIAL DRIVE having or requiring
accel and decel tapers, but not having or requiring associated auxiliary lanes
except a mailbox approach.
      (2)   MAJOR COMMERCIAL DRIVE. Any COMMERCIAL DRIVE having or requiring
associated full-width auxiliary lanes with accel and decel tapers.
   CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT. Backhoes, loaders, bulldozers, graders, excavators,
trenchers, dump trucks, compactors, cranes, forklifts, pavers, milling
machines, boring machines, heavy equipment transport trucks, and related heavy
construction equipment. CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT does not include agricultural
equipment or construction-type equipment typically used in agricultural
activities.
   EMERGENCY. A situation where there is an immediate need to perform repair
work on an existing utility infrastructure that has been interrupted or damaged
and where the failure to perform such work would result in an immediate danger
to life or property or cause environmental damage.
   HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT. Any employee or designated subcontractor of the Boone
County Highway Department.
   HIGHWAY ENGINEER. The Boone County Highway Engineer or his or her designee.
In the event there is no highway engineer, this shall mean any individual
within the Highway Department who has been given authority by the
Commissioners.
   FIELD ENTRANCE. A drive (paved, gravel or dirt) which is installed only for
access to an agricultural field or solely for farm use. Any drive installed to
serve an agricultural or farm business which is open to the public shall be
considered and permitted as a COMMERCIAL DRIVE.
   OVERHEAD LINEAR PROJECT. Overhead infrastructure and its related
construction that is installed substantially parallel to the right-of-way.
   PRIVATE LINEAR UTILITY. Privately owned infrastructure providing a product
or service to one or a small number of properties that is installed
substantially parallel to the right-of-way.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. A business organization providing a product or service
regarded as a utility (often termed a public utility regardless of ownership)
and managed as a private enterprise or utility cooperative.
   RESIDENTIAL DRIVE. A driveway serving a private property zoned residential
and serving one or two single-family dwellings or one two-family dwelling unit
on a single property.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Real property or interest therein usually in a strip acquired
for or devoted to transportation purposes as described in I.C. 8-20-1-15.
APPARENT RIGHT-OF-WAY is defined as that real estate adjoining the roadway
necessary maintain the roadway or as may be defined and/or established in
accordance with I.C. 8-20-1-15.5.
   UNDERGROUND LINEAR PROJECT. Underground infrastructure and its related
construction that is installed substantially parallel to the right-of-way,
including open ditching, grading, trenching, excavation, directional drilling
or boring.
   UTILITY PULL OFF DRIVE. A drive serving only as access to a normally
unmanned utility facility where occasional maintenance or facility observation
is required.
(Ord. 2023-10, passed 2-2-2024)
§ 150.19 COST, OWNERSHIP, AND MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Permittee shall own and be responsible for the cost of construction,
materials, and installation of improvements in the right-of-way.
   (B)   The maintenance of improvements will remain the responsibility of the
property owner and must be maintained in a manner which does not interfere with
the use of the right-of-way for its dedicated purpose.
(Ord. 2023-10, passed 2-2-2024)
§ 150.20 GENERAL RIGHT-OF-WAY STANDARDS FOR IMPROVEMENTS.
   General right-of-way standards will be as outlined in the permit
requirements.
(Ord. 2023-10, passed 2-2-2024)
§ 150.21 EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   In the event of an emergency, utility repairs may be undertaken
without first receiving a permit. However, in a utility emergency, the utility
must notify the Highway Department as soon as possible, but in no case later
than 24 hours after initiation of such repairs in the right-of-way.
Notification during non-work hours may be made by fax or e-mail.
   (B)   All repairs conducted under an emergency shall be done in a safe
manner generally meeting Highway Department and INDOT maintenance of traffic
standards. Final repairs shall comply with Highway Department standards.
   (C)   A regular permit and fee must be filed with the Highway Department
within 72 hours of the time the work is begun under an emergency.
(Ord. 2023-10, passed 2-2-2024)
§ 150.22 - 150.29 RESERVED.
§ 150.30 FORMS, SPECIFICATIONS, AND DETAILS.
   (A)   The Highway Engineer is hereby authorized to adopt and revise standard
permit and other forms, construction details, and technical specifications
applicable to the construction of improvements in the rights-of-way.
   (B)   The Highway Engineer shall cause the currently applicable construction
details and technical specifications to be published on the county website.
(Ord. 2023-10, passed 2-2-2024)
§ 150.31 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person, firm, public utility, or corporation desiring to construct
an improvement, or to alter, change or modify an existing structure in the
right-of-way of the Boone County Highway System shall make application for a
permit to the Highway Engineer on the forms provided, accompanied by the
required information and fees.
   (B)   The owner of record of the property to be served by an improvement
shall certify as to ownership and, if not the applicant, authorize the
application.
   (C)   The property owner of record shall accept an encroachment agreement
for the requested improvement as part of the application and permitting
process.
   (D)   The Highway Engineer shall not accept incomplete applications, or
applications not accompanied by the required fees.
   (E)   An application accepted as complete may be revised by applicant to
address review comments by the Highway Engineer. Such revised application shall
not be considered a new application for the purposes of this subchapter.
   (F)   Any application for which a permit is not issued or which the
applicant is not actively pursuing resolution of review comments shall be
considered abandoned by the applicant 90 days after the date of the last
interaction between the applicant and the Highway Engineer related to the
application.
(Ord. 2023-10, passed 2-2-2024)
§§ 150.32 - 150.39 RESERVED.
§ 150.40 CONVEYANCE OF RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Where application is for an entrance, driveway, or approach or for
sidewalks, pathways, trails, or multi-use paths, or for any change in use of
the property necessitating improvement to structures in the right-of-way,
applicant shall convey or cause to be conveyed right-of-way in accordance with
the Boone County Thoroughfare Plan and the Boone County Comprehensive Plan.
   (B)   Conveyance shall be for right-of-way along the county highway to which
the entrance, driveway, or approach is connecting to or along the roadway
parallel to the sidewalk, pathway, or multi-use path.
   (C)   Right-of-way conveyance shall be a pre-requisite for issuance of an
applicable permit, except for field entrance permits.
   (D)   If the conveyance creates a zoning non-conformity, applicant will need
to seek a waiver from the Boone County Board of Zoning Appeals. The Highway
Engineer will support this waiver request.
(Ord. 2023-10, passed 2-2-2024)
§§ 150.41 - 150.49 RESERVED.
§ 150.50 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Applicant shall pay a permit fee to the Highway Department with the
application for permit for all improvements in the Boone County Highway System
rights-of-way. This permit fee shall provide for the review, permit issuance,
and inspection of the improvements.
   (B)   Permit fees shall be as set forth in the schedule of fees for the
Boone County Highway Department as approved by the Boone County Commissioners.
   (C)   When a project exceeds one mile in total continuous length of impact
to county rights-of-ways as determined by the Highway Department, or as
otherwise required by permit, the Highway Engineer may choose to contract
outside inspection services. If outside inspection services are hired,
additional permit fees will be calculated based on the actual costs for said
inspections and other services related to the encroachment and will be assessed
in addition to the base fees outlined in the schedule of fees.
      (1)   Highway Engineer shall estimate the costs of services related to
the requested encroachment.
      (2)   Applicant shall deposit with the Highway Engineer the amount
estimated by the Highway Engineer for the services requested plus 10% prior to
approval of the permit.
      (3)   Upon completion of the work and before final inspection, Highway
Engineer shall cause to be prepared a summary of the expenses incurred for the
requested service.
         (a)   The cost of the final inspection shall be estimated by Highway
Engineer and shall be considered adequate for the service, whether the actual
costs were more or less than estimated. If the final inspection does not result
in approval of the work, a new summary and final inspection estimate will be
prepared incorporating the costs of the failed final inspection and estimating
the new final inspection.
         (b)   A copy of the summary shall be provided to the applicant.
      (4)   If the expenses were less than the deposit, Highway Engineer shall
refund unused funds to applicant after approval of the final inspection.
      (5)   If the expenses exceeded the deposit, applicant shall deposit with
the Highway Engineer additional funds to cover the costs of the requested
services prior to approval of the project.
   (D)   Permit fees shall be paid by check or money order or credit card made
payable to the “Boone County Highway Department”. Cash cannot be accepted.
   (E)   Permit fees shall be deposited in the Highway Department’s general
operating fund for the costs of administering the Department.
   (F)   Permit fees are refundable only if the Highway Engineer determines
that compliance with this section is not necessary.
(Ord. 2023-10, passed 2-2-2024)
§ 150.51 BONDS.
   (A)   Where, in the opinion of the Highway Engineer, the improvements may
impact county improvements in the right-of-way, a permit bond (bond) equal to,
but not less than, the estimated cost of the impact shall be provided to the
Highway Department. The bond shall be submitted and approved prior to issuance
of a permit.
   (B)   The bond shall be obligated such that the applicant will well and
faithfully do and perform the things to be done and performed according to the
terms of the permit and to the satisfaction of the Highway Engineer, and shall
pay all lawful claims of the contractor, vendors and laborers for labor
performed and materials furnished, or other services rendered in the carrying
forward, performing and completing of the permit.
   (C)   The standard bond amounts shall be as set forth in the schedule of
bonds for the Boone County Highway Department as approved by the Boone County
Commissioners.
   (D)   The Highway Engineer may allow utilities intending to file for
multiple permits to have an annual bond for utility work in the county right-
of-way in an amount acceptable to the Highway Engineer. The minimum annual bond
amount requirement is $25,000. The annual bond shall be written so that it
covers all contemplated projects within Boone County and automatically renews,
unless the surety gives the Highway Engineer a written notice 60 days prior to
the annual expiration date. An annual bond cannot be used for drive or public
road approach permits.
   (E)   The Highway Engineer shall have the authority to develop bond forms
and to approve bonds received for improvements.
   (F)   Prior to the release of any bond, the Highway Engineer will require an
inspection to determine the completion of construction according to the terms
of the permit and to the satisfaction of the Highway Engineer.
   (G)   At the discretion of the Highway Engineer, a maintenance bond may be
required from an applicant as a condition of approval or as a condition of
releasing the bond. A utility company having a certificate of authority or
franchise issued by the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commissioner and who has a
continuous bond on file with the Boone County Highway Department may be used in
lieu of the maintenance bond when approved by the Highway Engineer.
   (H)   Prior to the release of a bond issued for the cutting of a road, the
applicant shall post a three year maintenance bond which cannot be canceled
prior to three years from the completion of the road cut.
   (I)   If the bond company issuing the bond sends notice that the bond is
being canceled, at any time prior to completion of the conditions for which the
bond is obligated, the total amount of the bond shall become immediately due
and payable to the Boone County Board of Commissioners. If a maintenance bond
is not submitted upon completion of the work, the total amount of the bond
covering the work will become immediately due and payable to the Boone County
Board of Commissioners and no additional permits will be issued to the
applicant.
(Ord. 2023-10, passed 2-2-2024)
§§ 150.52 - 150.59 RESERVED.
§ 150.60 GENERAL PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Permits for work in the right-of-way shall include applicable special
provisions as determined by the Highway Engineer. Applicable provisions will be
included with the approved permit.
   (B)   Permittee will be held responsible for costs incurred by the Highway
Department to repair the existing county highway or public improvements if
damaged.
(Ord. 2023-10, passed 2-2-2024)
§ 150.61 PERMIT REVIEW AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The Highway Engineer shall review each application for compliance with
the provisions of this subchapter and the published details and specifications.
   (B)   The Highway Engineer shall conduct, or cause the performance of, an
inspection of the location of any proposed encroachment.
   (C)   Upon a finding by the Highway Engineer that the proposed improvement
substantially complies with the county’s requirements, the Highway Engineer
shall:
      (1)   Approve and issue a permit for the improvements; or
      (2)   Forward the permit to the Commissioners for consideration. Upon
approval, the Highway Department shall issue the permit.
   (D)   Driveway permits shall be posted in a conspicuous location where the
improvements are being constructed.
(Ord. 2023-10, passed 2-2-2024)
§ 150.62 PERMIT TERM AND EXTENSION.
   (A)   The holder of a permit shall complete the work within one year of the
date of issuance of the permit.
   (B)   A permit will expire the earlier of:
      (1)   One year from the date of issuance;
      (2)   Upon final approval of the work covered by the permit as determined
by the Highway Engineer; or
      (3)   Sixty days prior to the expiration of the permit bond covering the
work.
   (C)   In the event permittee has not initiated the work prior to the end of
the permit term, the permit shall expire and the encroachment agreement shall
not go into effect.
   (D)   An extension of time for a period of one year may be granted upon
receipt of a new application and permit fee.
(Ord. 2023-10, passed 2-2-2024)
§§ 150.63 - 150.69 RESERVED.
§ 150.70 INSTALLATION, INSPECTION, AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   Permittee shall be responsible for the purchase, installation, and
construction of all improvements in the right-of-way according to the permit.
   (B)   (1)   The Highway Department shall inspect, or cause an inspection of
the improvements to determine conformity with the permit and the applicable
details and specifications.
      (2)   Any costs incurred by the Highway Department for inspection
services shall be reimbursed by the permittee.
   (C)   The Highway Department shall be notified at least 24 hours in advance
of construction and when construction is complete in order to allow for
inspections.
   (D)   (1)   The Highway Engineer shall have the authority to make final
administrative determinations as to the acceptability of any work done in the
right-of-way.
      (2)   A final determination by the Highway Engineer that the work is
complete and complies with the applicable standards shall satisfy permittee’s
obligations under the permit and the permit bond, and the permit shall
transition to an encroachment agreement.
(Ord. 2023-10, passed 2-2-2024)
§ 150.71 NON-COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The following conditions or events, as determined by the Highway
Engineer, represent noncompliance with the permit:
      (1)   Permittee’s work is substantially completed but does not fully
comply with the applicable standards following notification to permittee and
providing 30 days for correction;
      (2)   The term of the permit is expiring and permittee is not making
continuing, diligent efforts to complete the work; or
      (3)   Where a condition exists related to the permit work that, in the
Highway Engineer’s opinion, creates an unsafe condition or a hazard and
permittee has not corrected the condition after being notified and provided the
opportunity to resolve the condition.
   (B)   A permit time extension shall satisfy the non-compliant conditions or
events represented under divisions (A)(1) or (2) above.
   (C)   The Highway Engineer is authorized to issue a stop work order for work
under any permit until any condition under division (A)(3) above is resolved.
   (D)   Upon a condition or event of non-compliance, the Highway Engineer may
notify the permit bond issuer that a claim is pending under the permit bond to
complete the work. The Highway Engineer thereafter may take such actions as he
or she considers prudent to cause the work to be completed.
(Ord. 2023-10, passed 2-2-2024)
§ 150.72 ENCROACHMENT AGREEMENT.
   (A)   The permit document, upon approval of a final inspection of the
improvements and containing the appropriate approval signatures, shall
represent an encroachment agreement between Boone County, the permittee, and
permittee’s successors in ownership of the property to which the improvements
are intended to serve.
   (B)   As a condition of the encroachment agreement, permittee shall agree to
maintain that portion of the improvement within the right-of-way, including the
culvert pipe, end sections, and drainage ditches impacted by the permitted
work, in good condition in substantial compliance with the standard details and
specifications published at the time of the work and in such a manner as to
prevent obstruction, interference, or degradation of the county highway, or
negatively impact the traffic thereon or the flow of runoff water to or within
any roadside ditch.
(Ord. 2023-10, passed 2-2-2024)
§§ 150.73 - 150.79 RESERVED.
§ 150.80 NON-CONFORMITY.
   (A)   If any improvements in the rights-of-way are found to be in violation
with the encroachment agreement in a manner that, in the Highway Engineer’s
opinion does not represent a significant potential safety hazard, permittee or
property owner shall be notified in writing by the Highway Engineer about the
violation and shall be given 30 days to conform to this subchapter.
   (B)   If any improvements in the rights-of-way are found to be in violation
with the encroachment agreement in a manner that, in the Highway Engineer’s
opinion, represents a significant potential safety hazard, the Highway Engineer
may issue a stop work order for use of the improvements and direct permittee to
immediately rectify the violation to the extent the safety hazard is resolved,
after which the stop work order shall be revoked.
   (C)   Continued violation of this subchapter may result in revocation of the
permit or encroachment agreement and may result in the removal of existing
improvements at permittee’s expense by the Highway Department.
   (D)   Permittee will then have to file for a new permit, pay a new permit
fee, and comply with the current standard details and specifications.
   (E)   Nothing in this subchapter shall limit the county’s rights to seek and
obtain injunctive relief for any non-conformance.
(Ord. 2023-10, passed 2-2-2024)
§§ 150.81 - 150.89 RESERVED.
§ 150.90 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   A person who violates this subchapter commits a Class A infraction as
defined under state law. When a violation occurs, the permit holder, the
contractor, company or individual performing the work and the owner of the
facilities being installed or constructed shall be held in violation both
jointly and separately. Each subsection violated and each day for which the
violation remains shall be a separate violation. A fine in an amount not to
exceed $2,500 shall be imposed for each violation of this subchapter.
Additionally, the permittee, owner or contractor shall be responsible for the
costs of restitution for any damages to any county right-of-way or improvement
thereon. The applicable fine and restitution cost shall be entered against a
person who violates this subchapter per violation for each day of the
violation.
   (B)   Fee for enforcement of violations. Whenever any individual or
corporation is found to be in violation of any section of this subchapter, an
inspection fee will be imposed to cover the costs of enforcement. This fee
shall be $250 per day per violation of each section of this subchapter. This
fee is due and payable by permittee upon notification by the Highway
Department. Failure to pay the fee within 14 days of notification will result
in the withholding of all future permits to the individual or corporation and
immediate submittal of the violation to the Boone County Attorney for
collection. At the discretion of the Highway Engineer, this fee may be waived
for an initial violation of this subchapter provided the violator immediately
corrects his violation.
   (C)   Appeal of the levy of this fee may be made to the Boone County
Commissioners. The fee amount due will not be required to be paid until the
Boone County Commissioners have acted upon the appeal. The decision of the
Boone County Commissioners may be appealed to a court of competent jurisdiction
in Boone County, Indiana within 30 days of the decision.
   (D)   In addition to the remedies set out in this section, any contractor,
company, or individual who violates any provision in this subchapter may be
ineligible to obtain a permit under this subchapter unless, or until all fines,
damages, judgments, or restitution costs are paid in full by the violator.
   (E)   For any violation of this subchapter or for any fine, fee, or cost
ofrestitution as provided for in this subchapter, Boone County may file an
action for injunctive relief and for the imposition or collection of such fine,
fee, or cost of restitution in the Boone County Circuit or Superior Courts. The
person, company, corporation for contractor found to be in violation shall also
be ordered to pay the costs of such action including reasonable attorney fees
of Boone County.
(Ord. 2023-10, passed 2-2-2024)
§ 150.91 OTHER PERMITS.
   For permits issued for improvements in the right-of-way necessitated by or
related to building construction or remodeling projects, the Boone County Area
Plan Commission shall:
   (A)   Not issue a building permit until a permit is issued under this
subchapter; and
   (B)   Not issue a certificate of occupancy until approval of the
improvements in the right-of-way work.
(Ord. 2023-10, passed 2-2-2024)
§ 150.92 DUST CONTROL APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any person, firm, corporation or entity who desires to apply any form
of dust control material on a county highway must first obtain a dust control
permit from the Highway Engineer.
   (B)   Any and all dust control materials to be applied to the county
highways must meet or exceed those contained on the dust control permit and
shall be approved for such use by the Indiana Department of Environmental
Management.
   (C)   The quantity of the dust control materials to be applied shall adhere
strictly the dust control permit issued by the Highway Engineer. The area to be
treated is the sole responsibility of the permittee to keep and maintain in a
manner which is safe for those vehicles accessing county highways.
   (D)   The application of any dust control material may be made any time
between May 1 to and including August 30 of each year. No dust control material
can be applied after September 1 of each year without special permission from
the Highway Engineer.
   (E)   The Boone County Commissioners reserve the right to request the
Highway Department to prepare the treated roadbed for winter after October 1 of
each year.
(Ord. 2023-10, passed 2-2-2024)
§ 150.93 UTILITY ACCOMMODATION POLICY.
   The Boone County Highway Department shall establish a utility accommodation
policy to provide procedures pertaining to the accommodation and relocation of
utility facilities in the right-of-way to the county’s highway systems.
(Ord. 2023-10, passed 2-2-2024)
§ 150.94 SUBSURFACE UTILITY ENGINEERING REQUIRED PROJECTS.
   (A)   A “subsurface utility engineering required project” means a project
that meets all of the following conditions:
      (1)   The project involves a construction contract with Boone County, or
other political subdivision as defined in I.C. 36-1-2-13;
      (2)   The project involves primarily horizontal construction and does not
involve primarily the construction of buildings;
      (3)   The project:
         (a)   Has an anticipated excavation footprint that exceeds two feet in
depth and that is a contiguous one thousand square feet; or
         (b)   Involves utility boring.
      (4)   The project requires the design services of a licensed professional
engineer.
   (B)   Unless directed otherwise by the Boone County engineer, all projects
meeting the above conditions shall be considered a subsurface utility
engineering required project.
   (C)   At the project owner’s expense, a licensed professional engineer
designing for a subsurface utility engineering-required project shall:
      (1)   Either:
         (a)   Meet or exceed the ASCE 38 standard for defining the underground
facility location in the stamped plans for all underground facilities within
the proposed excavation area; or
         (b)   Document the reasons why any underground facilities depicted in
the stamped plans do not meet or exceed ASCE 38 quality level B or its
successor utility quality level;
      (2)   Attempt to achieve ASCE 38 quality level B or its successor quality
level on all utilities within the proposed excavation area unless a reasonable
rationale by a licensed professional engineer is given for not doing so; and
      (3)   Document the reasons why any underground facilities depicted in the
stamped plans do not meet or exceed ASCE 38 utility quality level A for
underground facilities at the point of potential conflict with the installation
of a gravity-fed system.
(Ord. 2023-10, passed 2-2-2024)
§ 150.95 UTILITY COORDINATION ON COUNTY OWNED DESIGN PROJECTS.
   The Boone County Highway Department shall establish a formal procedure for
county highway improvement projects that involve the relocation of utility
facilities.
(Ord. 2023-10, passed 2-2-2024)
§ 150.96 ACCEPTANCE OF RIGHTS-OF-WAY AND IMPROVEMENTS.
   Any improvements located in rights-of-way owned by Boone County, or
expansions to existing rights-of-way, must comply with the terms of this
subchapter. All such improvements shall meet or exceed all standards of the
Highway Department and be inspected prior to the acceptance of the improvements
and/or expanded right-of-way by the County Commissioners.
(Ord. 2023-10, passed 2-2-2024)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CODES
Section
Unsafe Buildings
   
151.01   Establishment
   
151.02   Adoption of state law
   
151.03   Declaration of public nuisance
   
151.04   Administration
   
151.05   Description
   
151.06   Definition
   
151.07   Unsafe Building Fund
   
151.08   Hearing authority
Building Codes
   
151.20   Short title
   
151.21   Authority
   
151.22   Scope
   
151.23   Adoption of codes by reference
   
151.24   Permits required
   
151.25   Application for permits
   
151.26   Review of applications
   
151.27   Building inspections
   
151.28   Certificate of occupancy
   
151.29   Stop work order
   
151.30   Right of entry
   
151.31   Standards
   
151.32   Violations
   
151.33   Appeals
   
151.34   Fees
   
151.35   Exempt structures
   
151.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Housing Standards, see
Chapter 155
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 151.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9, there is hereby established the Boone County Unsafe
Building Law.
(Ord. 2004-14, passed 10-4-2004)
§ 151.02 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   (A)   I.C. 36-7-9 is hereby adopted by reference as the Boone County Unsafe
Building Law.
   (B)   In the event the provisions of this subchapter conflict with the
provisions of I.C. 36-7-9, then the provisions of the state statute shall be
controlling.
(Ord. 2004-14, passed 10-4-2004; Am. Ord. passed 12-21-2009)
Editor’s note:
   Two copies of the provisions adopted by reference in this section are
available for public inspection at the office of the Town Clerk-treasurer
during regular business hours.
§ 151.03 DECLARATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   All buildings or portions thereof within Boone County which are determined,
after inspection by the enforcement authority to be unsafe, as defined in this
subchapter, are hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be abated by
repair, rehabilitation, demolition or removal.
(Ord. 2004-14, passed 10-4-2004)
§ 151.04 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Boone County Area Plan Commission is designated as the Department
authorized to administer this subchapter.
   (B)   The Enforcement Authority is the Executive Director of the Boone
County Area Plan Commission or his or her designee.
(Ord. 2004-14, passed 10-4-2004)
§ 151.05 DESCRIPTION.
   The description of an unsafe building and premises contained in I.C. 36-7-9-
4 is hereby incorporated by reference.
(Ord. 2004-14, passed 10-4-2004)
Editor’s note:
   Two copies of the provisions adopted by reference in this section are
available for public inspection at the office of the Town Clerk-treasurer
during regular business hours.
§ 151.06 DEFINITION.
   The definition of SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST set forth in I.C. 36-7-9-
2 is hereby incorporated by reference herein as if copied in full.
(Ord. 2004-14, passed 10-4-2004)
Editor’s note:
   Two copies of the provisions adopted by reference in this section are
available for public inspection at the office of the Town Clerk-treasurer
during regular business hours.
§ 151.07 UNSAFE BUILDING FUND.
   An Unsafe Building Fund is hereby established in the operating budget of
Boone County, in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-14.
(Ord. 2004-14, passed 10-4-2004)
§ 151.08 HEARING AUTHORITY.
   For the purpose of I.C. 36-7-9, the hearing authority, as required by this
subchapter and the state statutes governing the same, shall be that person or
persons as designated by the County Commissioners.
(Ord. 2004-14, passed 10-4-2004)
BUILDING CODES
§ 151.20 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto, may be
cited as the Building Codes Ordinance of Boone County, Indiana.
(Ord. 82-6, passed 7-19-1982)
§ 151.21 AUTHORITY.
   The Commissioners of Boone County, Indiana, do hereby authorize and direct
that the Boone County Area Plan Commission, under the management of the
Executive Director and the Building Inspector, shall administer and enforce all
of the provisions of this subchapter. Whenever, in the building regulations, it
is provided that anything must be done to the approval of or subject to the
direction of the Executive Director or any other staff member of the Boone
County Area Plan Commission, this shall be construed to give the officer only
the discretion of determining whether the rules and standards established by
ordinance has been complied with; and no such provision shall be construed as
giving any officer discretionary powers as to what the regulations, codes or
standards shall be, or power to require conditions not prescribed by ordinances
or to enforce ordinance provisions in an arbitrary or discriminatory manner.
(Ord. 82-6, passed 7-19-1982)
§ 151.22 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this code apply to the construction, alterations, repair,
use, occupancy, maintenance and additions to all buildings and structures other
than fences, within the jurisdiction of the Boone County Area Plan Commission.
(Ord. 82-6, passed 7-19-1982)
§ 151.23 ADOPTION OF CODES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The following rules, regulations and codes are hereby adopted by
reference as the rules and regulations governing the construction and
alteration of buildings and structures in the County of Boone, Indiana.
      (1)   Construction Rules and Regulations, Volume I, 1980 Edition of the
State of Indiana (660 I.A.C. 1-1.1) originally published as (3 I.R. 2148) which
identifies, amends and incorporates therein the Uniform Building Code, 1979
Edition, and the Uniform Building Code Standards, 1979 Edition.
      (2)   Indiana Electrical Rules, 1981 Edition (660 I.A.C. 7) originally
published as (4 I.R. 798) which identifies, amends and incorporates therein the
National Electrical Code, 1981 Edition.
      (3)   Indiana Plumbing Rules, 1981 Edition, (660 I.A.C. 9) originally
published as (4 I.R. 2398) which identifies, amends and incorporates therein
the Uniform Plumbing Code, 1979 Edition.
      (4)   Indiana Mechanical Rules, 1981 Edition (660 I.A.C. 8) originally
published as (4 I.R. 1828) which identifies, amends and incorporates therein
the Uniform Mechanical Code, 1979 Edition.
      (5)   One and Two Family Dwelling Code of Indiana, (660 I.A.C. 3-1)
originally published as (4 I.R. 916) which identifies, amends and incorporates
therein the One and Two Family Dwelling Code, 1979 Edition.
      (6)   Indiana Energy Conservation Rules and Regulations for New Building
Construction, Volume V, 1979 Edition. (660 I.A.C. 4) (1980 Supp.) published
under that title.
      (7)   Swimming Pool Code (660 I.A.C. 5) (1979 Supp.) published as the
Indiana Swimming Pool Code, 1978 Edition.
   (B)   Copies of this code and rules, regulations and codes adopted herein by
reference are on file as required by law in the office of the Boone County Area
Plan Commission.
(Ord. 82-6, passed 7-19-1982)
Editor’s note:
   Two copies of the provisions adopted by reference in this section are
available for public inspection at the office of the Town Clerk-treasurer
during regular business hours.
§ 151.24 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   A building permit shall be obtained before beginning construction,
alteration or repair of any commercial, industrial, public use, accessory use
or residential building or structure within the jurisdiction of the Boone
County Area Plan Commission.
(Ord. 82-6, passed 7-19-1982)
§ 151.25 APPLICATION FOR PERMITS.
   (A)   Application for building permits shall be filed at the Boone County
Area Plan Commission office, 104 Court House Square, Lebanon, Indiana. Permit
applications must be filed on official forms available at the Plan Commission
office and shall be accompanied by a certified plot plan showing lot
boundaries, building setbacks from lot boundaries and roadways, lot size,
location of all buildings on the lot and the exact location of the septic
system or sewage disposal line; and two copies of the building construction
plans which shall include cross sections, elevations and floor/foundation
layouts.
   (B)   All plans for building construction under the authority of the
Administrative Building Council of the State of Indiana must be filed with the
Council. No local permits for structures under the Authority of the
Administrative Building Council shall be issued until a copy of a release for
construction from the state’s Building Commissioner is received by the Boone
County Area Plan Commission.
(Ord. 82-6, passed 7-19-1982)
§ 151.26 REVIEW OF APPLICATIONS.
   Prior to the issuance of any building permit hereunder, the staff of the
Area Plan Commission shall:
   (A)   Review all building permit applications to determine full compliance
with the provisions of this subchapter and
Chapter 155 of this code;
   (B)   Review all building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements to determine whether proposed building sites will be
reasonably safe from flooding and that the sites comply with
Chapter 152 of this code; and
   (C)   Review building permit applications for major repairs within the flood
plain area having special flood hazards.
(Ord. 82-6, passed 7-19-1982)
§ 151.27 BUILDING INSPECTIONS.
   After the issuance of any building permit hereunder, the Building Inspector
shall make, or shall cause to be made, the inspections of the work being done
under the permit as are necessary to insure full compliance with the provisions
of this subchapter and the terms of the permit. Reinspections of work found to
be incomplete or not ready for inspection shall be made and the owner of the
permit may be assessed a reinspection fee not to exceed $10.
(Ord. 82-6, passed 7-19-1982)
§ 151.28 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   A certificate of occupancy shall be issued by the Building Inspector upon a
final inspection of a completed structure. No certificate of occupancy for any
building or structure erected, altered or repaired after the adoption of this
subchapter shall be issued unless the building or structure was erected,
altered or repaired in compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 82-6, passed 7-19-1982)
§ 151.29 STOP WORK ORDER.
   Whenever any work is being done contrary to the provisions of this code, the
Building Inspector may order the work stopped by notice in writing served on
any persons engaged in the doing or causing the work to be done, and any such
persons shall forthwith stop the work until authorized by the Building
Inspector to proceed with the work.
(Ord. 82-6, passed 7-19-1982)
§ 151.30 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Building Inspector or his or
her duly authorized representatives may enter, at reasonable times, any
building, structure or premises in the jurisdiction of the Boone County Area
Plan Commission to perform any duty imposed upon him or her by this subchapter.
Failure by a permit owner to allow such inspection shall require the Executive
Director of the Area Plan Commission to seek the enforcement remedies described
in §
151.99.
(Ord. 82-6, passed 7-19-1982)
§ 151.31 STANDARDS.
   All work on the construction, alteration and repair of buildings and other
structures shall be performed in a good and workmanlike manner according to
accepted standards and practices in the trade.
(Ord. 82-6, passed 7-19-1982)
§ 151.32 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, whether as owner,
lessee, sublessee or occupant, to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair,
improve, remove, convert, demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building
or structure, other than fences, in jurisdiction of the Boone County Area Plan
Commission or cause or permit the same to be done, contrary to or in violation
of the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 82-6, passed 7-19-1982) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.33 APPEALS.
   All persons shall have the right to appeal the Building Inspector’s decision
first through the Executive Director of the Boone County Area Plan Commission,
and then to the Administrative Building Council of Indiana, in accordance with
the provisions of state law, as applicable.
(Ord. 82-6, passed 7-19-1982)
§ 151.34 FEES.
   Local fees charged for building permits shall conform to the provisions of
Chapter 155 of this code. Fees for plan examination required by the Indiana
Administrative Building Council shall consist of those fee schedules adopted by
the ABC.
(Ord. 82-6, passed 7-19-1982)
§ 151.35 EXEMPT STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Certain structures shall be exempt from building permits under this
subchapter. Farm buildings for the confinement of animals, storage of farm
equipment or structures for other farm related uses such as grain silos and on-
farm fertilizer storage tanks shall not be required to acquire a building
permit.
   (B)   However, farm homes, garages and pole buildings not used for
agricultural uses shall require building permits.
   (C)   Residential uses not requiring building permits shall include fences
of less than five feet in height and mini-storage barns of less than 80 square
feet in size. Public utility installations shall be required to have proper
zoning approvals but are only required to acquire building permits for
buildings and not for structures, such as substations without buildings or pole
placements.
   (D)   Electrical permits may be required for all such exempt structures,
however.
(Ord. 82-6, passed 7-19-1982)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   No person, firm or corporation, whether as owner, lessee,
sublessee or occupant, shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move,
improve, remove, demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or
premises, or cause or permit the same to be done, contrary to or in violation
of any of the provisions of §§
151.01 et seq. or any order issued by the enforcement authority. Any person
violating the provisions of §§
151.01 et seq. or I.C. 36-7-9-28 shall commit an ordinance violation, or the
equivalent of a Class C infraction, as defined in I.C. 36-7-9-28, for each day
the violation continues. The person, firm or corporation, as defined herein,
may be fined up to a maximum of $500 for each violation of §§
151.01 et seq.
      (2)   In the event that Boone County Commissioners are required to file
ordinance violation charges or required to seek injunctive or other relief
before any court, upon any determination in favor of Boone County, the county
shall be further entitled to recover and have judgment against any such person,
firm or corporation, or other entity violating §§
151.01 et seq. for the county’s reasonable attorney fees incurred in the
prosecuting any of the actions set forth herein.
(Ord. 2004-14, passed 10-4-2004)
   (C)   (1)   The Attorney for the Boone County Area Plan Commission may, in
the name of the Commission, institute a suit for injunction in the Circuit
Court of the county, to restrain an individual or a governmental unit from
violating the provisions of §§
151.20 et seq., or of an ordinance enacted pursuant to its terms. The Attorney
may also institute a suit for mandatory injunction, directing an individual or
a governmental unit to remove a structure, erected in violation of the
provisions of §§
151.20 et seq., or of an ordinance enacted pursuant to its terms. If the Plan
Commission or the Board of Zoning Appeals is successful in its suit, the
respondent shall bear the costs of the action.
      (2)   Any persons or corporation who shall violate any of the provisions
of §§
151.20 et seq. or fail to fully comply therewith or with any of the
requirements thereof or who shall build, reconstruct or structurally alter any
building in violation of the approved plot plan or building plans shall be
charged with constituting a common nuisance, be guilty of an infraction and,
upon conviction, shall be fined not less than $10, and not more than $300, and
each day that the violation or non-compliance shall be permitted to exist shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 82-6, passed 7-19-1982)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
Section
Statutory Authorization, Findings of Fact, Purpose and Objectives
   
152.01   Statutory authorization
   
152.02   Findings of fact
   
152.03   Statement of purpose
   
152.04   Objectives
   
152.05   Definitions
General Provisions
   
152.10   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
152.11   Basis for establishing regulatory flood data
   
152.12   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
152.13   Compliance
   
152.14   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.15   Discrepancy between mapped floodplain and actual ground elevations
   
152.16   Interpretation
   
152.17   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
152.18   Increased cost of compliance (ICC)
Administration
   
152.25   Designation of Administrator
   
152.26   Permit procedures
   
152.27   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
152.35   General standards
   
152.36   Specific standards
   
152.37   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
152.38   Critical facility
   
152.39   Standards for identified floodways
   
152.40   Standards for identified fringe
   
152.41   Standards for SFHAs without established base flood elevation and/or
floodways/fringes
   
152.42   Standards for flood prone areas
Variance Procedures
   
152.55   Designation of Variance and Appeals Board
   
152.56   Duties of Variance and Appeals Board
   
152.57   Variance procedures
   
152.58   Conditions for variances
   
152.59   Variance notification
   
152.60   Historic structure
   
152.61   Special conditions
   
152.99   Penalty
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES
§ 152.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Indiana Legislature has in I.C. 36-7-4 and I.C. 14-28-4 granted the
power to local government units to control land use within their jurisdictions.
Therefore, the Boone County Commissioners hereby adopt the following floodplain
management regulations.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 152.02 FINDING OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of Boone County are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, und general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities, and by the
occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to
other lands which are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed, or otherwise
unprotected from flood damages.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 152.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards, which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage;
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands; and
   (F)   Make federally subsidized flood insurance available for structures and
their contents in the County by fulfilling the requirements of the National
Flood Insurance Program.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-36-2012)
§ 152.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To protect human life and health;
   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone, and sewer lines, streets, and bridges
located in floodplains;
   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood blight
areas, and
   (G)   To ensure that potential homebuyers are notified that property is in a
flood area.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 152.05 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage
and to give this chapter it's most reasonable application.
   A ZONE. Portions of the SFHA in which the principle source of flooding is
runoff from rainfall, snowmelt, or a combination of both. In A zones,
floodwaters may move slowly or rapidly, but waves are usually not a significant
threat to buildings. These areas are labeled as Zone A, Zone AE, Zones A1-A30,
Zone AO, Zone AH, Zone AR and Zone A99 on a FIRM or FHBM. The definitions are
presented below:
      ZONE A. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood event.
Because detailed hydraulic analyses have not been performed, no base flood
elevation or depths are shown. Mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements
apply.
      ZONE AE AND A1-A30.  Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance
flood event determined by detailed methods. Base flood elevations are shown
within these zones. Mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements apply.
(Zone AE is on new and revised maps in place of Zones A1-A30).
      ZONE AH. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow flooding
(usually areas of ponding) where average depths are between one and three feet.
Average flood depths derived from detailed hydraulic analyses are shown within
this zone. Mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements apply.
      ZONE AO. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow flooding
(usually areas of ponding) where average depths are between one and three feet.
Average flood depths derived from detailed hydraulic analysis are shown within
this zone. Mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements apply.
      ZONE AR. Areas that result from the decertification of a previously
accredited flood protection system that is determined to be in the process of
being restored to provide base flood protections. Mandatory flood insurance
purchase requirements apply.
      ZONE A99.  Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event, but which will ultimately be protected upon completion of an under-
construction federal flood protection system. These are areas of special flood
hazard where enough progress has been made on the construction of a protection
system, such as dikes, dams, and levees, to consider it complete for insurance
rating purposes. ZONE A99 may only be used when the flood protection system has
reached specified statutory progress toward completion. No base flood
elevations or depths are shown. Mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements
apply.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure that is located on
the same parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should
constitute a minimal initial investment, may not be used for human habitation,
and be designed to have minimal flood damage potential. Examples of accessory
structures are detached garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns, hay
sheds.
   ADDITION (to an existing structure). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or a request for variance.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on the community’s
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation of the1% annual chance flood.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a structure having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity that has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives for those communities in the Regular
Program that have gone beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to
develop extra measures to provide protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility for which even a slight change of flooding
might be too great. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire, and emergency response
installations, installations which produce, use or store hazardous materials or
hazardous waste.
   DEVELOPMENT.  
      (1)   Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate including
but not limited to:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a structure or any
addition to a structure;
         (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home or installing recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
         (c)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction
of roads, or similar projects;
         (d)   Construction of flood control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements and the like;
         (e)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation, or drilling
operations;
         (f)   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
         (g)   Storage of materials; or
         (h)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance of
existing structures and facilities such as painting, re-roofing; resurfacing
roads; or gardening, plowing, and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation, or the construction of permanent
structures.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, filled stem wall foundations (also called chain walls), pilings, or
columns (posts and piers).
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A certified statement that verifies a structure’s
elevation information.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The first phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP. It is intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at
subsidized rates on all insurable structures in that community before the
effective date of the initial FIRM.
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, permanent structures or development into a floodplain, which may
impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the start of construction
commenced before the effective date of the community’s first floodplain
ordinance.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes arc to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FIVE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD (500-YEAR FLOOD). The flood that has a 0.2% chance
of being equaled or exceeded in any year.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA or Federal Insurance Administration (FLA) has
delineated the areas of flood hazards and regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued by
FEMA, where the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard have been
identified as Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official hydraulic and hydrologic report
provided by FEMA. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the FIRM, FBFM
(where applicable), and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD PRONE AREA. Any land area acknowledged by a community as being
susceptible to inundation by water from any source. See FLOOD.
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPG). The elevation of the regulatory flood plus two
feet at any given location in the SFHA. See FREEBOARD.
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining any wetland, lake, or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory
flood. The floodplain includes both the floodway and the fringe districts.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited
to emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS.  This chapter and other zoning
ordinances, subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations,
special purpose ordinances, and other applications of police power which
control development in flood prone areas. This term describes federal, state,
or local regulations in any combination thereof, which provide standards for
preventing and reducing flood loss and damage. FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
REGULATIONS are also referred to as floodplain regulations, floodplain
ordinance, flood damage prevention ordinance, and floodplain management
requirements.
   FLOODPROOFING (DRY FLOODPROOFING). A method of protecting a structure that
ensures that the structure, together with attendant utilities and sanitary
facilities, is watertight to the floodproofed design elevation with walls that
are substantially impermeable to the passage of water. All structural
components of these walls are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy, and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form used to certify compliance for non-
residential structures as an alternative to elevating structures to or above
the FPG. This certification must be by a registered professional engineer or
architect.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flood flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood.
   FRINGE. Those portions of the floodplain lying outside the floodway.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to
water, such as a docking or port facility necessary for the loading and
unloading of cargo or passengers, shipbuilding, ship repair, or seafood
processing facilities. The term does not include long-term storage,
manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   HARDSHIP (as related to variances of this chapter). The exceptional hardship
that would result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The Boone
County Commissioners require that the variance is exceptional, unusual, and
peculiar to the property involved. Mere economic or financial hardship alone is
NOT exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps,
personal preferences, or the disapproval of one’s neighbors likewise cannot, as
a rule, qualify as an exceptional hardship. All of these problems can be
resolved through other means without granting a variance, even if the
alternative is more expensive, or requires the property owner to build
elsewhere or put the parcel to a different use than originally intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to the start of construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure individually listed on the National
Register of Historic Places or the Indiana State Register of Historic Sites and
Structures.
   INCREASE COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC). The cost to repair a substantially
damaged structure that exceeds the minimal repair cost and that is required to
bring a substantially damaged structure into compliance with the local flood
damage prevention ordinance. Acceptable mitigation measures are elevation,
relocation, demolition, or any combination thereof. All renewal and new
business flood insurance policies with effective dates on or after June 1,
1997, will include ICC coverage.
   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment to the currently effective FEMA
map that establishes that a property is not located in a SFHA. A LOMA is only
issued by FEMA.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official revision to the currently
effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones, delineations,
and elevations.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). An official revision by
letter to an effective NFIP map. A LOMR-F provides FEMA’s determination
concerning whether a structure or parcel has been elevated on fill above the
BFE and excluded from the SFHA.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The lowest elevation, after completion of
construction, of the ground, sidewalk, patio, deck support, or basement
entryway immediately next to the structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest of the following:
      (1)   The top of the lowest level of the structure.
      (2)   The top of the basement floor.
      (3)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level of
the structure.
      (4)   The top of the first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or
pillars.
      (5)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure, other than a basement,
below an elevated structure where the walls of the enclosure provide any
resistance to the flow of flood waters unless;
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood water by
providing a minimum of two openings (in addition to doorways and windows)
having a total net area of one square inch for every one square foot of
enclosed area. The bottom of all such openings shall be no higher than one foot
above the exterior grade or the interior grade immediately beneath each
opening, whichever is higher; and
         (b)   Such enclosed space shall be usable solely for the parking of
vehicles and building access.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP AMENDMENT. A change to an effective NFIP map that results in the
exclusion from the SFHA of an individual structure or a legally described
parcel of land that has been inadvertently included in the SFHA (such as no
alterations of topography have occurred since the date of the first NFIP map
that showed the structure or parcel to be within the SFHA).
   MAP PANEL NUMBER. The four-digit number followed by a letter suffix assigned
by FEMA on a flood map. The first four digits represent the map panel, and the
letter suffix represents the number of times the map panel has been revised.
(The letter "A" is not used by FEMA, the letter "B" is the first revision.)
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, excluding the land (as agreed to between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. MARKET VALUE can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of building (actual cash value), or
adjusted assessed values.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of mitigation
is two-fold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the cost of
disaster response and recovery.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD) OF 1929 as corrected in 1929. A
vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within
the floodplain.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the start of construction
commenced after the effective date of the community’s first floodplain
ordinance.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 (NAVD 88) as adopted in 1993. A
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, canalization,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation, or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water; or due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
   ONE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD (100-YEAR FLOOD). The flood that has a 1% chance of
being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with
the letter A is subject to the 1% annual chance flood. See REGULATORY FLOOD.
   ONE-PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. The flood that has a 1% chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with the
letter A is subject to the 1% annual chance flood. See REGULATORY FLOOD.
   PARTICIPATING COMMUNITY.  Any community that voluntarily elects to
participate in the NFIP by adopting and enforcing floodplain management
regulations that are consistent with the standards of the NFIP.
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR). An official republication of a community’s FEMA
map to effect changes to base (1% annual chance) flood elevations, floodplain
boundary delineations, regulatory floodways, and planimetric features. These
changes typically occur as a result of structural works or improvements,
annexations resulting in additional flood hazard areas, or correction to base
flood elevations of SFHAs.
   POST-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement that started
on or after the effective date of the initial FIRM of the community or after
December 31,1974, whichever is later.
   PRE-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement which started
on or after December 31, 1974, or before the effective date of the initial FIRM
of the community, whichever is later.
   PROBATION. A means of formally notifying participating communities of
violations and deficiencies in the administration and enforcement of the local
floodplain management regulations.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community, neighborhood or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
quarters for recreational camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of the community's participation in the NFIP
where more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and
higher amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure that is acceptable
to and approved by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency, The regulatory flood elevation at any location is
as defined in §
152.11. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the term BASE FLOOD, ONE-PERCENT
ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD, and 100-YEAR FLOOD.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period ending on the date of the event for
which the second claim is made, in which the cost of repairing the flood
damage, on the average, equaled or exceeded 25% of the market value of the
structure at the time of each such flood event.
   SECTION 1316. That section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new flood insurance coverage shall be provided
for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a duly
constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public body to
be in violation of state and local laws, regulations, or ordinances that
intended to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy in
flood-prone areas.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). Those lands within the jurisdictions of
Boone County subject to inundation by the regulatory flood. The SFHAs of the
Boone County are generally identified as such on the Boone County and
Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency, dated January 18, 2012. (These areas are shown on a FHBM or
FIRM as Zone A, AE, A1-A30, AH, A99,or AO).
   START OF CONSTRUCTION.  Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The actual start means the first placement or permanent construction of a
structure (including a manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of
slabs or footing, installation of piles, construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation for placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, foundations, or the erection of temporary forms. For substantial
improvement, the actual start of construction means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home, or a prefabricated building. The term also includes
recreational vehicles to be installed on a site for more than 180 days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to it’s before damaged condition would
equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred repetitive loss
or substantial damage regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term
does not include improvement of structures to correct existing violations of
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code requirements or any alteration
of a historic structure, provided that the alteration will not preclude the
structures continued designation as a historic structure.
   SUSPENSION. The removal of a participating community from the NFIP because
the community has not enacted and/or enforced the proper floodplain management
regulations required for participation in the NFIP.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter which
permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter where
specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A structure or other development without the
elevation, other certification, or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the North American
Vertical Datum of 1988 (NAVD 88) or National Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1929
(NGVD) (other datum where specified) of floods of various magnitudes and
frequencies in the floodplains of riverine areas.
   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
Shaded X zones shown on recent FIRMs (B zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% chance of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood). Unshaded X zones (C zones on older FIRMs)
designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is less
than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a FHBM or FIRM that reflects the severity
or type of flooding in the area.
   ZONE A. See A ZONE.
   ZONE B, C, AND X. Areas identified in the community as areas of moderate or
minimal hazard from the principal source of flood in the area. However,
buildings in these zones could be flooded by severe, concentrated rainfall
coupled with inadequate local drainage systems. Flood insurance is available in
participating communities but is not required by regulation in these zones.
(Zone X is used on new and revised maps in place of Zones B and C.)
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-3-2012)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.10 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all SFHAs and known flood prone areas within the
jurisdiction of the county.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 152.11 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING REGULATORY FLOOD DATA.
   This chapter’s protection standard is the regulatory flood. The best
available regulatory flood data is listed below. Whenever a party disagrees
with the best available data, the party submitting the detailed engineering
study needs to replace existing data with better data and submit it to the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources for review and approval.
   (A)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for the
studied SFHAs within the jurisdiction of Boone County shall be as delineated on
the 1% annual chance flood profiles in the Flood Insurance Study of Boone
County and Incorporated Areas dated January 18, 2012 and the corresponding
Flood Insurance Rate Map prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
and dated January 18, 2012.
   (B)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for each
of the SFHAs within the jurisdiction of Boone County, delineated as an "A Zone"
on the Boone County and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map prepared by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated January 18, 2012, shall be
according to the best data available as provided by the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources; provided the upstream drainage area from the subject site is
greater than one square mile.
   (C)   In the absence of a published FEMA map, or absence of identification
on a FEMA map, the regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits of
any watercourse in the community’s known flood prone areas shall be according
to the best data available as provided by the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources; provided the upstream drainage area from the subject site is greater
than one square mile.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 152.12 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in areas of special flood hazard.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 152.13 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure shall hereafter be located, extended, converted or structurally
altered within the SFHA without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. No land or stream within the SFHA shall
hereafter be altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-3-2012) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.14 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 152.15 DISCREPANCY BETWEEN MAPPED FLOODPLAIN AND ACTUAL GROUND ELEVATIONS.
   (A)   In cases where there is a discrepancy between the mapped floodplain
(SFHA) on the FIRM and the actual ground elevations, the elevation provided on
the profiles shall govern.
   (B)   If the elevation of the site in question is below the base flood
elevation, that site shall be included in the SFHA and regulated accordingly,
   (C)   If the elevation (natural grade) of the site in question is above the
base flood elevation, that site shall be considered outside the SFHA and the
floodplain regulations will not be applied. The property owner should be
advised to apply for a LOMA.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 152.16 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 152.17 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Therefore, this chapter does not create any
liability on the part of Boone County, the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources, or the State of Indiana, for any flood damage that results from
reliance on this chapter of any administrative decision made lawfully
thereunder.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 152.18 INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC).
   In order for buildings to qualify for a claim payment under ICC coverage as
a repetitive loss structure, the National Reform Act of 1994 requires that the
building be covered by a contract for flood insurance and incur flood-related
damages on two occasions during a ten-year period ending on the date of the
event for which the second claim is made, in which the cost of repairing the
flood damage, on the average, equaled or exceeded 25% of the market value of
the building at the time of each such flood event.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-3-2012)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.25 DESIGNATION OF ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Boone County Commissioners hereby appoint the Executive Director of the
Area Plan Commission to administer and implement the provisions of this chapter
and is herein referred to as the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 152.26 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be made to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her prior to any
development activities, and may include, but not limited to, the following:
plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and
elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed structures, earthen
fill, storage of materials or equipment, drainage facilities, and the location
of the foregoing. Specifically the following information is required:
   (A)   Application stage.
      (1)   A description of the proposed development;
      (2)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structure in relation to existing roads and streams;
      (3)   A legal description of the property site;
      (4)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed development
locations and existing and proposed land grades;
      (5)   Elevation of the top of the lowest floor (including basement) of
all proposed buildings. Elevation should be in NAVD 88 or NGVD;
      (6)   Elevation (in NAVD 88 or NGVD) to which any non-residential
structure will be floodproofed;
      (7)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or related as a result of proposed development.
   (B)   Construction stage. Upon placement of the lowest floor; or
floodproofing, it shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the
Floodplain Administrator a certification of the NAVD 88 or NGVD elevation of
the lowest floor or floodproofed elevation, as built. The certification shall
be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor or
professional engineer and certified by the same. When floodproofing is utilized
for a particular structure said certification shall be prepared by or under the
direct supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by
same. Any work undertaken prior to submission of the certification shall be at
the permit holders’ risk. (The Floodplain Administrator shall review the lowest
floor and floodproofing elevation survey data submitted.) The permit holder
shall correct deficiencies detected by such review before any further work is
allowed to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or failure to make said
corrections required hereby shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the
project.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 152.27 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or designated staff is hereby
authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of the chapter. The
Administrator is further authorized to render the interpretations of this
chapter, which are consistent with its spirit and purpose.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but not limited to:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development permits to assure that the permit
requirements of the chapter have been satisfied;
      (2)   Inspect the inventory damaged structures in the SFHA and complete
substantial damage determinations;
      (3)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources for all development projects subject to
§
152.39 and §
152.41(A) of this chapter, and maintain a record of such authorization (either
copy of actual permit or floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment);
      (4)   Ensure that all necessary federal or state permits have been
received prior to the issuance of the local floodplain development permit.
Copies of such permits are to be maintained on file with floodplain development
permit;
      (5)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Floodplain Coordinator
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit copies of
such notifications to FEMA;
      (6)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request local
permit documents, damaged structures inventories, substantial damage
determinations, regulatory flood data, SFHA maps, Letters of Map Amendment
(LOMA), Letters of Map Revision (LOMR), copies of DNR permits and floodplain
analysis and regulatory assessments (letters of recommendation), federal permit
documents, and "as-built" elevation and floodproofing data for all buildings
constructed subject to this chapter;
      (7)   Utilize and enforce all Letters of Map Revision (LOMR) of Physical
Map Revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently effective SFHA maps of the
community;
      (8)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished;
      (9)   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, in
accordance with §
152.26;
      (10)   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new or
substantially improved structures have been floodproofed, in accordance with §
152.26;
      (11)   Review certified plans and specification for compliance.
      (12)   Stop work orders.
         (a)   Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator, work on any
building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease.
         (b)   Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner
of the property, or to his or her agent, or to the person doing the work, and
shall state the conditions under which work may be resumed.
      (13)   Revocation of permits.
         (a)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval,
issued under the provisions of this chapter, in cases where there has been any
false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application
or plans on which the permit or approval was based.
         (b)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon
determination by the Floodplain Administrator that the construction, erection,
alteration, repair, moving, demolition, installation, or replacement of the
structure for which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in
conformity with, the provisions of this chapter.
      (14)   Inspect sites for compliance. For all new and/or substantially
improved buildings constructed in the SFHA, inspect before, during and after
construction. Authorized county officials shall have the right to enter and
inspect properties located in the SFHA.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-3-2012)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 152.35 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs and known flood prone areas the following provisions are
required:
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure;
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces;
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage below the FPG;
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, utility meters, and other service facilities shall be located at/
above the FPG or designed so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
with the components below the FPG. Water and sewer pipes, electrical and
telephone lines, submersible pumps, and other waterproofed service facilities
may be located below the FPG;
   (F)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
   (G)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
   (H)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding;
   (I)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure
that is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of new construction as contained in this chapter; and
   (J)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvement to a structure
that is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall be
undertaken only if said non-conformity is not further extended, or replaced.
   (K)   Whenever any portion of the SFHA is authorized for use, the volume of
space which will be occupied by the authorized fill or structure below the BFE
shall be compensated for and balanced by an equivalent volume of excavation
taken below the BFE. The excavation volume shall be at least equal to the
volume of storage lost (replacement ratio of 1 to 1) due to the fill or
structure.
      (1)   The excavation shall take place in the floodplain and in the same
property in which the authorized fill or structure is located;
      (2)   Under certain circumstances, the excavation may be allowed to take
place outside of but adjacent to the floodplain provided that the excavated
volume will be below the regulatory flood elevation, will be in the same
property in which the authorized fill or structure is located, will be
accessible to the regulatory flood water, will not be subject to ponding when
not inundated by flood water, and that it shall not be refilled;
      (3)   The excavation shall provide for true storage of floodwater but
shall not be subject to ponding when not inundated by flood water;
      (4)   The fill or structure shall not obstruct a drainage way leading to
the floodplain;
      (5)   The grading around the excavation shall be such that the excavated
area is accessible to the regulatory flood water;
      (6)   The fill or structure shall be of a material deeded stable enough
to remain firm and in place during periods of flooding and shall include
provisions to protect adjacent property owners against any increased runoff or
drainage resulting from its placement; and
      (7)   Plans depicting the areas to be excavated and filled shall be
submitted prior to the actual start of construction of any site work; once site
work is complete, but before the actual start of construction, the applicant
shall provide to the Floodplain Administrator a certified survey of the
excavation and fill sites demonstrating the fill and excavation comply with
this chapter.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 152.36 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   In addition to the requirements of §
152.35, all structures to be located in the SFHA shall be protected from flood
damage below the FPG. This building protection requirement applies to the
following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of any new structure having a floor area
greater than 400 square feet;
      (2)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure:
         (a)   Where the cost of the addition or improvement equals or exceeds
50% of the value of the existing structure (excluding the value of the land);
         (b)   With a previous addition or improvement constructed since the
community’s first floodplain ordinance.
      (3)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged structure where the
costs of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure (excluding the value of the
land) before damage occurred;
      (4)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days;
      (5)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. This chapter does not apply to returning the existing
manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it was removed
to avoid flood damage; and
      (6)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive loss structure.
   (B)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest
floor; including basement, at or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood
elevation). Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a
structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of
floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of §
152.36(D).
   (C)   Non-residential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or non-residential structure (or
manufactured home) shall either have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated to or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood elevation) or be
floodproofed to or above the FPG. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be
used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded
movements of floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of
§
152.36(D). Structures located in all "A Zones" may be floodproofed in lieu of
being elevated if done in accordance with the following:
      (1)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the structure has been designed so that below the FPG, the structure and
attendant utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the
effects of the regulatory flood. The structure design shall take into account
flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures, and impacts
from debris or ice. Such certification shall be provided to the official as set
forth in §
152.27(B)(10).
      (2)   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human intervention
and without an outside source of electricity.
   (D)   Elevated structures.  New construction or substantial improvements of
elevated structures shall have the lowest floor at or above the FPG. Elevated
structures with fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the flood protection grade shall be designed to allow for the entry
and exit of floodwaters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on
exterior walls. Designs must meet the following minimum criteria:
      (1)   Provide a minimum of two openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed area; and
      (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot above the
exterior grade or interior grade immediately beneath each opening, whichever is
higher; and
      (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided, they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions; and
      (4)   Openings are to be not less than three inches in any direction in
the plane of the wall. This requirement applies to the hole in the wall,
excluding any device that may be inserted such as typical foundation air vent
device; and
      (5)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow
for parking the vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of the maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator); and
      (6)   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be partitioned
or finished into separate rooms; and
      (7)   The interior grade of such enclosed area shall be at an elevation
at or higher than the exterior grade; and
      (8)   Where elevation requirements exceed six feet above the highest
adjacent grade, a copy of the legally recorded deed restriction prohibiting the
conversion of the area below the lowest floor to a use or dimension contrary to
the structure’s originally approved design, shall be presented as a condition
of issuance of the final certificate of occupancy.
   (E)   Structures constructed on fill.  A residential or nonresidential
structure may be constructed on a permanent land fill in accordance with the
following:
      (1)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep
before the compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the
Standard or Modified Proctor Test method.
      (2)   The fill should extend at least ten feet beyond the foundation of
the structure before sloping below the FPG.
      (3)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or bulkheading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three horizontal to one vertical.
      (4)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
      (5)   The top of the lowest floor including basements shall be at or
above the FPG.
   (F)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles to be installed or substantially
improved on a site for more than 180 days must meet one of the following
requirements:
      (1)   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent foundation
such that the lowest floor shall be at or above the FPG and securely anchored
to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement. This requirement applies to all manufactured homes to be
placed on a site;
         (a)   Outside a manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (b)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (c)   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
         (d)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as a result of a flood.
      (2)   The manufactured home shall be elevated so that the lowest floor of
the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other
foundational elevations that are no less than 36 inches in height above grade
and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement. This requirement applies to all
manufactured homes to be placed on a site in an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision that has not been substantially damaged by a flood.
      (3)   Manufactured homes with fully enclosed areas formed by foundation
and other exterior walls below the flood protection grade shall be designed to
preclude finished living space and designed to allow for the entry and exit of
floodwaters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior
walls as required for elevated structures in §
152.36(D).
      (4)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame or
foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (5)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site shall either:
         (a)   Be on site for less than 180 days; and
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use (defined as being on
its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions); or
         (c)   Meet the requirements for manufactured homes as stated earlier
in this section.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-3-2012) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.37 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage;
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards, and
   (D)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions), which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five acres.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals shall minimize development in the SFHA and/
or limit density or development permitted in the SFHA.
   (F)   All subdivision proposals shall ensure safe access into/out of the
SFHA for pedestrians and vehicles (especially emergency responders).
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-3-2012) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.38 CRITICAL FACILITY.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA. Construction of new critical facilities
shall be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated to or above the FPG at the site. Floodproofing and
sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be
displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above
the FPG shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 152.39 STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   Located within SFHAs, established in §
152.11, are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters, which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and has erosion potential. If the site is in an
identified floodway, the Floodplain Administrator shall require the applicant
to forward the application, along with all pertinent plans and specifications,
to the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and apply for a permit for
construction in a floodway. Under the provisions of I.C. 14-28-1 a permit for
construction in a floodway from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources is
required prior to the issuance of a local building permit for any excavation,
deposit, construction, or obstruction activity located in the floodway. This
includes land preparation activities such as filling, grading, clearing and
paving and the like undertaken before the actual start of construction of the
structure. However, it does exclude non-substantial additions/improvements to
existing (lawful) residences in a non-boundary river floodway. (I.C. 14-28-1-26
allows construction of non-substantial additions/improvements to residences in
a non-boundary river floodway without obtaining a permit for construction in
the floodway from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources. Please note that
if fill is needed to elevate an addition above existing grade, prior approval
(construction in a floodway permit) for the fill is required from the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources.);
   (B)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until a
permit (when applicable) has been issued by the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources granting approval for construction in the floodway. Once a permit for
construction in the floodway has been issued by the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local floodplain
development permit, provided the provisions contained in §§
152.35 through
152.42 have been met. The floodplain development permit cannot be less
restrictive than the permit for construction in a floodway issued by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources. However, a community’s more
restrictive regulations (if any) shall take precedence;
   (C)   No development shall be allowed which acting alone or in combination
with existing or future development, will increase the regulatory flood more
than 0.14 of one foot; and
   (D)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill (including
levees) the county shall submit the data and request that the Federal Emergency
Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 152.40 STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FRINGE.
   If the site is located in an identified fringe, then the Floodplain
Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit provided the
provisions contained in §§
152.35 through
152.42 have been met. The key provision is that the top of the lowest floor of
any new or substantially improved structure shall be at or above the FPG.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 152.41 STANDARDS FOR SFHAS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION AND/OR
FLOODWAYS/FRINGES.
   (A)   Drainage area upstream of the site is greater than one square mile:
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage area
upstream of the site is greater than one square mile, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources for review and comment.
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
either a permit for construction in a floodway or a floodplain analysis/
regulatory assessment citing the 100-year flood elevation and the recommended
flood protection grade has been received from the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources.
      (3)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper permit
for construction in a floodway or floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment
approving the proposed development, a floodplain development permit may be
issued provided the conditions of the floodplain development permit are not
less restrictive than the conditions received from the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources and the provisions contained in §§
152.35 through
152.42 have been met.
   (B)   Drainage area upstream of the site is less than one square mile:
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area upstream
of the site is less than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator shall
require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the limits of
the floodplain and 100-year flood elevation for the site.
      (2)   Upon receipt, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
floodplain development permit, provided the provisions contained in §§
152.35 through
152.42 have been met
   (C)   The total cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined
with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the
regulatory flood more than 0.14 of one foot and will not increase flood damages
or potential flood damages.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 152.42 STANDARDS FOR FLOOD PRONE AREAS.
   All development in known flood prone areas not identified on FEMA maps, or
where no FEMA published map is available, shall meet general standards as
required per §
152.35.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-3-2012)
VARIANCE PROCEDURES
§ 152.55 DESIGNATION OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals as established by the Boone County Commissioners
shall hear and decide appeals and requests for variances from requirements of
this chapter.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 152.56 DUTIES OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD.
   The Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged an error in any
requirement, decision, or determination is made by the Floodplain Administrator
in the enforcement or administration of this chapter. Any person aggrieved by
the decision of the Board may appeal such decision of the Circuit or Superior
Court of Boone County, Indiana, pursuant to Indiana law.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 152.57 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   In passing upon such applications, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall
consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards
specified in other sections of this chapter.
   (A)   The danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
   (B)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage of the individual owner;
   (C)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
   (D)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
   (E)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
   (F)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
   (G)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
   (H)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
   (I)   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment of
transport of the floodwaters at the site; and
   (J)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and bridges.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 152.58 CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variance shall only be issued when there is:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship; and
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public.
   (B)   No variance for a residential use within a floodway subject to §
152.39 or §
152.41(A) may be granted.
   (C)   Any variance granted in a floodway subject to §
152.39 or §
152.41(A) will require a permit from the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources.
   (D)   Variances to the provisions for flood hazard reduction of §
152.36, may be granted only when a new structure is to be located on a lot of
one-half acre or less in size, contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the flood protection grade.
   (E)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (F)   Variances may be granted for the reconstruction or restoration of any
structure individually listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the Indiana State Register of Historic Sites and Structures.
   (G)   Any application to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation to which the
lowest floor is to be built and stating that the cost of the flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest
floor elevation (See §
152.59).
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency or
the Indiana Department of Natural Resources upon request (See §
152.59).
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 152.59 VARIANCE NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice over the signature of community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to the amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
      (2)   Such construction below the base flood level increase risks to life
and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the Office of the County Recorder and shall be recorded in a
manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator will maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance, and report such variances
issued in the community’s biennial report submission to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 152.60 HISTORIC STRUCTURE.
   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure’s continued designation as an historic structure and
the variance is the minimum to preserve the historic character and design of
the structure.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 152.61 SPECIAL CONDITIONS.
   Upon the consideration of the factors listed in §§
152.55 through
152.61, and the purposes of this chapter, the Board of Commissioners may attach
such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further
the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit in the SFHA or failure to
comply with the requirements of a floodplain development permit or conditions
of a variance shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter. All violations
shall be considered a common nuisance and be treated as such in accordance with
the provisions of the Zoning Code for Boone County. All violations shall be
punishable by a fine not less than $100 and not more than $2,500.
   (A)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the violation
continues to exist.
   (B)   The Boone County Area Plan Commission shall inform the owner that any
such violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and
therefore may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be
suspended.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall prevent the county from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-3-2012)
CHAPTER 153: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Authority and title
   
153.002   Applicability and exemptions
   
153.003   Background
   
153.004   Findings
   
153.005   Purpose
   
153.006   Abbreviations and definitions
   
153.007   Responsibility for administration
   
153.008   Conflicting ordinances
   
153.009   Interpretation
   
153.010   Severability
   
153.011   Effective date
   
153.012   Disclaimer of liability
Prohibited Discharges and Connections
   
153.025   Applicability and exemptions
   
153.026   Prohibited discharges and connections
   
153.027   Exempted discharges and connections
   
153.028   Storage of hazardous or toxic material
   
153.029   Private property maintenance duties
   
153.030   Spill reporting
   
153.031   Inspections and monitoring
Stormwater Quantity Management
   
153.045   Applicability and exemptions
   
153.046   Policy on stormwater quantity management
   
153.047   Calculations and design standards and specifications
   
153.048   Drainage easement requirements
   
153.049   Placement of utilities
   
153.050   Structures near county regulated drains
   
153.051   Inspection, maintenance, record keeping, and reporting
Stormwater Pollution Prevention for Construction Sites
   
153.065   Applicability and exemptions
   
153.066   Policy on stormwater pollution prevention
   
153.067   Calculations and design standards and specifications
   
153.068   Inspection, maintenance, record keeping, and reporting
Stormwater Quality Management for Post-Construction
   
153.080   Applicability and exemptions
   
153.081   Policy on stormwater quality management
   
153.082   Calculations and design standards and specifications
   
153.083   Easement requirements
   
153.084   Inspection, maintenance, record keeping, and reporting
Permit Requirements and Procedures
   
153.095   Conceptual drainage plan review
   
153.096   Permit procedures
   
153.097   Information requirements
   
153.098   Review of individual lots within a permitted project
   
153.099   Changes to plans
   
153.100   Fee structure
   
153.101   Required assurances
   
153.102   Terms and conditions of permits
   
153.103   Certification of as-built plans
Enforcement
   
153.115   Compliance with this chapter
   
153.116   Penalties for violations
   
153.117   Stop work order
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 AUTHORITY AND TITLE.
   (A)   This chapter is adopted in accordance with statutory authority granted
under I.C. 36-9-27.29, and further is required by Phase II of the National
Pollution Discharge Elimination System program (FR Doc. 99-29181) authorized by
the 1972 amendments to the Clean Water Act, the Indiana Department of
Environmental Management's Rule 13 (327 IAC 15-13), and the Indiana Department
of Environmental Management's Rule 5 (327 IAC 15-5). Based on this authority
and these requirements, this chapter regulates:
      (1)   Discharges of prohibited non-stormwater flows into the storm drain
system.
      (2)   Stormwater drainage improvements related to development of lands
located within Boone County.
      (3)   Drainage control systems installed during new construction and
grading of lots and other parcels of land.
      (4)   Erosion and sediment control systems installed during new
construction and grading of lots and other parcels of land.
      (5)   The design, construction, and maintenance of stormwater drainage
facilities and systems.
      (6)   The design, construction, and maintenance of stormwater quality
facilities and systems.
   (B)   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Boone County
Stormwater Management chapter.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 153.002 APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter shall regulate all development and redevelopment
occurring within Boone County. No building permit shall be issued and no land
disturbance started for any construction in a development, as defined in §
153.006, until the plans required by this chapter for such construction have
been accepted in writing by the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County
Surveyor. With the exception of the requirements of §§
153.025 et seq. and §
153.098, single-family dwelling houses in accepted subdivisions, new buildings
(or building additions) with less than 500 square feet of area, and land-
disturbing activities affecting less than 10,000 square feet of area shall be
exempt from the requirements of this chapter. Also exempt from this chapter
shall be the agricultural land-disturbing activities.
   (B)   Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor Projects
shall be exempt from obtaining permit, but are expected to meet all applicable
technical requirements of this chapter and the Boone County Stormwater
Technical Standards Manual.
   (C)   If a construction project has received final drainage approval from
the Boone County Drainage Board or the Boone County Surveyor within two years
from the effective date of this chapter, and construction has commenced on the
project, the prior chapter and technical standards shall control the
development. If construction has not commenced within such two-year period, the
applicant must re-apply for drainage plan approval and this chapter and the
accompanying technical standards will control the development.
   (D)   The Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor has the
authority to modify, grant exemptions, and/or waive any and all the
requirements of this chapter and its associated technical standards document. A
pre-submittal meeting with the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County
Surveyor may be requested by the applicant to discuss the applicability of
various provisions of the chapter and its associated technical standards
document with regards to unique or unusual circumstances relating to a project.
However, any initial determination of such applicability shall not be binding
on future determinations of the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County
Surveyor that may be based on the review of more detailed information and
plans.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 153.003 BACKGROUND.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners of Boone County, State of Indiana, on April
21, 1997 adopted Ordinance No. 97-6 which established "Boone County Ordinance
#97-6: Storm Drainage, Erosion and Sediment Control", commonly known as the
"Boone County Drainage Code", in order to govern the control of runoff of
stormwater and to protect, conserve and promote the orderly development of the
land in Boone County and its water resources. This code was primarily targeted
at stormwater discharge quantity, and erosion and sediment control.
   (B)   On December 8, 1999, Phase II of the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) permit program, was published in the Federal
Register. The NPDES program, as authorized by the 1972 amendments to the Clean
Water Act, controls water pollution by regulating point sources that discharge
pollutants into waters of the United States. Phase II of NPDES requires permit
coverage for stormwater discharges from regulated small municipal separate
storm sewer systems (MS4s) and for small construction activity that results in
the disturbance of equal to or greater than one acre. This federal regulation
went into effect on March 10, 2003. In response to Phase II of NPDES, the
Indiana Department of Environmental Management enacted Rule 13 (327 IAC 15-13)
and revised Rule 5 (327 IAC 15-5).
   (C)   Under these new state and federal regulations, Boone County Drainage
Board was required to establish a regulatory mechanism for regulating
stormwater quality management. Therefore, the "Boone County Drainage Board and/
or Boone County Surveyor Drainage Code" was replaced in 2003 with a document
that included new requirements for management of stormwater quality in addition
to quantity. The noted document was updated in 2007 and 2008. Additional
updates have become necessary since 2008 and are reflected in this edition of
the Boone County Stormwater Management Ordinance.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 153.004 FINDINGS.
   The Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor finds that:
   (A)   Water bodies, roadways, structures, and other property within, and
downstream of Boone County are at times subjected to flooding;
   (B)   Flooding is a danger to the lives and property of the public and is
also a danger to the natural resources of the region;
   (C)   Land development alters the hydrologic response of watersheds,
resulting in increased stormwater runoff rates and volumes, increased flooding,
increased stream channel erosion, and increased sediment transport and
deposition;
   (D)   Soil erosion resulting from land-disturbing activities causes a
significant amount of sediment and other pollutants to be transported off-site
and deposited in ditches, streams, wetlands, lakes, and reservoirs;
   (E)   Increased stormwater runoff rates and volumes, and the sediments and
pollutants associated with stormwater runoff from future development projects
within Boone County will, absent reasonable regulation and control, adversely
affect the Boone County's water bodies and water resources;
   (F)   Pollutant contributions from illicit discharges within Boone County
will, absent reasonable regulation, monitoring, and enforcement, adversely
affect the Boone County's water bodies and water resources;
   (G)   Stormwater runoff, soil erosion, non-point source pollution, and
illicit sources of pollution can be controlled and minimized by the regulation
of stormwater management;
   (H)   Adopting the standards, criteria, and procedures contained and
referenced in this chapter and implementing the same will address many of the
deleterious effects of stormwater runoff and illicit discharges;
   (I)   Adopting this chapter is necessary for the preservation of the public
health, safety, and welfare, for the conservation of our natural resources, and
for compliance with State and Federal regulations.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 153.005 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the health, safety, and
general welfare of the citizens of Boone County through the regulation of
stormwater and non-stormwater discharges to the storm drainage system and to
protect, conserve and promote the orderly development of land and water
resources within Boone County. This chapter establishes methods for managing
the quantity and quality of stormwater entering into the storm drain system in
order to comply with state and federal requirements. The objectives of this
chapter are:
   (A)   To reduce the hazard to public health and safety caused by excessive
stormwater runoff.
   (B)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the storm drain system
from construction site runoff.
   (C)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the storm drain system
from runoff from new development and re-development.
   (D)   To prohibit illicit discharges into the storm drain system.
   (E)   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection, monitoring,
and enforcement procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 153.006 ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Abbreviations.
      (1)   BMP: Best Management Practice;
      (2)   COE: United States Army Corps of Engineers;
      (3)   CWA: Clean Water Act;
      (4)   EPA: Environmental Protection Agency;
      (5)   GIS: Geographical Information System;
      (6)   IDEM: Indiana Department of Environmental Management;
      (7)   MS4: Municipal Separate Storm Sewers;
      (8)   NRCS: USDA-Natural Resources Conservation Service;
      (9)   NPDES: National Pollution Discharge Elimination System;
      (10)   POTW:   Publicly Owned Treatment Works;
      (11)   SWCD:   Soil and Water Conservation District;
      (12)   SWPPP: Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan;
      (13)   USDA: United States Department of Agriculture; and
      (14)   USFWS: United States Fish and Wildlife Service.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AGRICULTURAL LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Tillage, planting, cultivation, or
harvesting operations for the production of agricultural or nursery vegetative
crops. The term also includes pasture renovation and establishment, the
construction of agricultural conservation practices, and the installation and
maintenance of agricultural drainage tile. For purposes of this rule, the term
does not include land disturbing activities for the construction of
agricultural related facilities, such as barns, buildings to house livestock,
roads associated with infrastructure, agricultural waste lagoons and
facilities, lakes and ponds, wetlands; and other infrastructure.
      BASE FLOW. Stream discharge derived from groundwater sources as
differentiated from surface runoff. Sometimes considered to include flows from
regulated lakes or reservoirs.
      BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES. Design, construction, and maintenance
practices and criteria for stormwater facilities that minimize the impact of
stormwater runoff rates and volumes, prevent erosion, and capture pollutants.
      BUFFER STRIP. An existing, variable width strip of vegetated land
intended to protect water quality and habitat.
      CAPACITY (OF A STORM DRAINAGE FACILITY). The maximum flow that can be
conveyed or stored by a storm drainage facility without causing damage to
public or private property.
      CATCH BASIN. A chamber usually built at the curb line of a street for the
admission of surface water to a storm drain or subdrain, having at its base a
sediment sump designed to retain grit and detritus below the point of overflow.
      CHANNEL. A portion of a natural or artificial watercourse which
periodically or continuously contains moving water, or which forms a connecting
link between two bodies of water. It has a defined bed and banks which serve to
confine the water.
      COMPREHENSIVE STORMWATER MANAGEMENT. A comprehensive stormwater program
for effective management of stormwater quantity and quality throughout the
community.
      CONSTRUCTED WETLAND. A manmade shallow pool that creates growing
conditions suitable for wetland vegetation and is designed to maximize
pollutant removal.
      CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Land disturbing activities, and land disturbing
activities associated with the construction of infrastructure and structures.
This term does not include routine ditch or road maintenance or minor
landscaping projects.
      CONSTRUCTION SITE ACCESS. A stabilized stone surface at all points of
ingress or egress to a project site, for the purpose of capturing and detaining
sediment carried by tires of vehicles or other equipment entering or exiting
the project site.
      CONTIGUOUS. Adjoining or in actual contact with.
      CONTOUR. An imaginary line on the surface of the earth connecting points
of the same elevation.
      CONTOUR LINE. Line on a map which represents a contour or points of equal
elevation.
      CONTRACTOR OR SUBCONTRACTOR. An individual or company hired by the
project site or individual lot owner, their agent, or the individual lot
operator to perform services on the project site.
      CONVEYANCE. Any structural method for transferring stormwater between at
least two points. The term includes piping, ditches, swales, curbs, gutters,
catch basins, channels, storm drains, and roadways.
      CROSS SECTION. A graph or plot of ground elevation across a stream valley
or a portion of it, usually along a line perpendicular to the stream or
direction of flow.
      CULVERT. A closed conduit used for the conveyance of surface drainage
water under a roadway, railroad, canal or other impediment.
      DECHLORINATED SWIMMING POOL DISCHARGE. Chlorinated water that has either
sat idle for seven days following chlorination prior to discharge to the MS4
conveyance, or, by analysis, does not contain detectable concentrations (less
than 0.05 milligram per liter) of chlorinated residual.
      DESIGN STORM. A selected storm event, described in terms of the
probability of occurring once within a given number of years, for which
drainage or flood control improvements are designed and built.
      DETENTION. Managing stormwater runoff by temporary holding and controlled
release.
      DETENTION BASIN. A facility constructed or modified to restrict the flow
of storm water to a prescribed maximum rate, and to detain concurrently the
excess waters that accumulate behind the outlet.
      DETENTION STORAGE. The temporary detaining of storage of stormwater in
storage facilities, on rooftops, in streets, parking lots, school yards, parks,
open spaces or other areas under predetermined and controlled conditions, with
the rate of release regulated by appropriately installed devices.
      DETENTION TIME. The theoretical time required to displace the contents of
a tank or unit at a given rate of discharge (volume divided by rate of
discharge).
      DETRITUS. Dead or decaying organic matter; generally contributed to
stormwater as fallen leaves and sticks or as dead aquatic organisms.
      DEVELOPER. Any person financially responsible for construction activity,
or an owner of property who sells or leases, or offers for sale or lease, any
lots in a subdivision.
      DEVELOPMENT.
         (a)   Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including but not limited to:
            1.   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a building or
any addition to a building;
            2.   Construction of flood control structures such as levees,
dikes, dams or channel improvements;
            3.   Construction or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
            4.   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for
a manufactured home, or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more
than 180 days;
            5.   Installing utilities, erection of walls, construction of
roads, or similar projects;
            6.   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation, or drilling
operations;
            7.   Storage of materials; or
            8.   Any other activity that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
         (b)   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance
of existing buildings and facilities such as painting, re-roofing, resurfacing
roads, or gardening, plowing and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation, or the construction of permanent
buildings.
      DISCHARGE. Usually the rate of water flow. A volume of fluid passing a
point per unit time commonly expressed as cubic feet per second, cubic meters
per second, gallons per minute, or millions of gallons per day.
      DISPOSAL. The discharge, deposit, injection, spilling, leaking, or
placing of any solid waste or hazardous waste into or on any land/or water so
that the solid waste or hazardous waste, or any constituent of the waste, may
enter the environment, be emitted into the air, or be discharged into any
waters, including ground waters.
      DITCH. A man-made, open watercourse in or into which excess surface water
or groundwater drained from land, stormwater runoff, or floodwaters flow either
continuously or intermittently.
      DRAIN. A buried slotted or perforated pipe or other conduit (subsurface
drain) or a ditch (open drain) for carrying off surplus groundwater or surface
water.
      DRAINAGE. The removal of excess surface water or groundwater from land by
means of ditches or subsurface drains. Also see NATURAL DRAINAGE.
      DRAINAGE AREA. The area draining into a stream at a given point. It may
be of different sizes for surface runoff, subsurface flow and base flow, but
generally the surface runoff area is considered as the drainage area.
      DRY WELL. A type of infiltration practice that allows stormwater runoff
to flow directly into the ground via a bored or otherwise excavated opening in
the ground surface.
      DURATION. The time period of a rainfall event.
      ENVIRONMENT. The sum total of all the external conditions that may act
upon a living organism or community to influence its development or existence.
      ERODIBILITY INDEX (EI). The soil erodibility index (EI) provides a
numerical expression of the potential for a soil to erode considering the
physical and chemical properties of the soil and the climatic conditions where
it is located. The higher the index, the greater the investment needed to
maintain the sustainability of the soil resource base if intensively cropped.
It is defined to be the maximum of (RxKxLS)/T (from the Universal Soil Loss
Equation) and (CxI)/T (from the Wind Erosion Equation), where R is a measure of
rainfall and runoff, K is a factor of the susceptibility of the soil to water
erosion, LS is a measure of the combined effects of slope length and steepness,
C is a climatic characterization of windspeed and surface soil moisture and I
is a measure of the susceptibility of the soil to wind erosion. ERODIBILITY
INDEX scores equal to or greater than eight are considered highly erodible
land.
      EROSION. The wearing away of the land surface by water, wind, ice,
gravity, or other geological agents. The following terms are used to describe
different types of water erosion:
         ACCELERATED EROSION. Erosion much more rapid than normal or geologic
erosion, primarily as a result of the activities of man.
         CHANNEL EROSION. An erosion process whereby the volume and velocity of
flow wears away the bed and/or banks of a well-defined channel.
         GULLY EROSION. An erosion process whereby runoff water accumulates in
narrow channels and, over relatively short periods, removes the soil to
considerable depths, ranging from one to two feet to as much as 75 to 100 feet.
         RILL EROSION. An erosion process in which numerous small channels only
several inches deep are formed; occurs mainly on recently disturbed and exposed
soils. See RILL.
         SPLASH EROSION. The spattering of small soil particles caused by the
impact of raindrops on wet soils; the loosened and spattered particles may or
may not be subsequently removed by surface runoff.
         SHEET EROSION. The gradual removal of a fairly uniform layer of soil
from the land surface by runoff water.
      EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL. A practice, or a combination of practices,
to minimize sedimentation by first reducing or eliminating erosion at the
source and then as necessary, trapping sediment to prevent it from being
discharged from or within a project site.
      FILTER STRIP. Usually a long, relatively narrow area (usually 20 to 75
feet wide) of undisturbed or planted vegetation used near disturbed or
impervious surfaces to filter stormwater pollutants for the protection of
watercourses, reservoirs, or adjacent properties.
      FLOATABLE. Any solid waste that will float on the surface of the water.
      FLOOD (OR FLOOD WATERS). A general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual
and rapid accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
      FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining the channel which
have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory or 100-year flood. Any
normally dry land area that is susceptible to being inundated by water from any
natural source. The FLOODPLAIN includes both the floodway and the floodway
fringe districts.
      FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
      FLOODWAY FRINGE. That portion of the floodplain lying outside the
floodway, which is inundated by the regulatory flood.
      FOOTING DRAIN. A drain pipe installed around the exterior of a basement
wall foundation to relieve water pressure caused by high groundwater elevation.
      GARBAGE. All putrescible animal solid, vegetable solid, and semisolid
wastes resulting from the processing, handling, preparation, cooking, serving,
or consumption of food or food materials.
      GASOLINE OUTLET. An operating gasoline or diesel fueling facility whose
primary function is the resale of fuels. The term applies to facilities that
create 5,000 or more square feet of impervious surfaces, or generate an average
daily traffic count of 100 vehicles per 1,000 square feet of land area.
      GEOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION SYSTEM. A computer system capable of assembling,
storing, manipulation, and displaying geographically referenced information.
This technology can be used for resource management and development planning.
      GRADE. (1) The inclination or slope of a channel, canal, conduit, etc.,
or natural ground surface usually expressed in terms of the percentage the
vertical rise (or fall) bears to the corresponding horizontal distance; (2) The
finished surface of a canal bed, roadbed, top of embankment, or bottom of
excavation; any surface prepared to a design elevation for the support of
construction, such as paving or the laying of a conduit; and (3) To finish the
surface of a canal bed, roadbed, top of embankment, or bottom of excavation, or
other land area to a smooth, even condition.
      GRADING. The cutting and filling of the land surface to a desired slope
or elevation.
      GRASS. A member of the botanical family Graminae, characterized by blade-
like leaves that originate as a sheath wrapped around the stem.
      GROUNDWATER. Accumulation of underground water, natural or artificial.
The term does not include manmade underground storage or conveyance structures.
      HABITAT. The environment in which the life needs of a plant or animal are
supplied.
      HIGHLY ERODIBLE LAND (HEL). Land that has an erodibility index of eight
or more.
      HYDROLOGIC UNIT CODE. A numeric United States Geologic Survey code that
corresponds to a watershed area. Each area also has a text description
associated with the numeric code.
      HYDROLOGY. The science of the behavior of water in the atmosphere, on the
surface of the earth, and underground. A typical hydrologic study is undertaken
to compute flow rates associated with specified flood events.
      ILLICIT DISCHARGE. Any discharge to a conveyance that is not composed
entirely of stormwater except naturally occurring floatables, such as leaves or
tree limbs.
      IMPAIRED WATERS. Waters that do not or are not expected to meet
applicable water quality standards, as included on IDEM's CWA Section 303(d)
List of Impaired Waters.
      IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. Surfaces, such as pavement and rooftops, which
prevent the infiltration of stormwater into the soil.
      INDIVIDUAL BUILDING LOT. A single parcel of land within a multi-parcel
development.
      INDIVIDUAL LOT OPERATOR. A contractor or subcontractor working on an
individual lot.
      INDIVIDUAL LOT OWNER. A person who has financial control of construction
activities for an individual lot.
      INFILTRATION. Passage or movement of water into the soil. Infiltration
practices include any structural BMP designed to facilitate the percolation of
run-off through the soil to groundwater. Examples include infiltration basins
or trenches, dry wells, and porous pavement.
      INLET. An opening into a storm drain system for the entrance of surface
storm water runoff, more completely described as a storm drain inlet.
      LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any man-made change of the land surface,
including removing vegetative cover that exposes the underlying soil,
excavating, filling, transporting and grading.
      LAND SURVEYOR. A person licensed under the laws of the State of Indiana
to practice land surveying.
      LARGER COMMON PLAN OF DEVELOPMENT OR SALE. A plan, undertaken by a single
project site owner or a group of project site owners acting in concert, to
offer lots for sale or lease; where such land is contiguous, or is known,
designated, purchased or advertised as a common unit or by a common name, such
land shall be presumed as being offered for sale or lease as part of a larger
common plan. The term also includes phased or other construction activity by a
single entity for its own use.
      LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The elevation of the lowest grade adjacent to a
structure, where the soil meets the foundation around the outside of the
structure (including structural members such as basement walkout, patios,
decks, porches, support posts or piers, and rim of the window well.
      LOWEST FLOOR. Refers to the lowest of the following:
         (a)   The top of the basement floor;
         (b)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level
of the building;
         (c)   The top of the first floor of buildings constructed on a slab or
of buildings elevated on pilings or constructed on a crawl space with permanent
openings; or
         (d)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure below an elevated
building where the walls of the enclosure provide any resistance to the flow of
flood waters unless:
            1.   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the
hydrostatic flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
flood waters, by providing a minimum of two opening (in addition to doorways
and windows) having a total area of one square foot for every two square feet
of enclosed area subject to flooding. The bottom of all such openings shall be
no higher than one foot above grade.
            2.   Such enclosed space shall be usable only for the parking of
vehicles or building access.
      MANHOLE. Storm drain structure through which a person may enter to gain
access to an underground storm drain or enclosed structure.
      MEASURABLE STORM EVENT. A precipitation event that results in a total
measured precipitation accumulation equal to, or greater than 0.5 inch of
rainfall.
      MULCH. A natural or artificial layer of plant residue or other materials
covering the land surface which conserves moisture, holds soil in place, aids
in establishing plant cover, and minimizes temperature fluctuations.
      MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWERS. An MS4 meets all the following criteria:
(1) is a conveyance or system of conveyances owned by the state, county, city,
town, or other public entity; (2) discharges to waters of the U.S.; (3) is
designed or used for collecting or conveying stormwater; (4) is not a combined
sewer; and (5) is not part of a Publicly Owned Treatment Works (POTW).
      NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM. A permit developed by
the U.S. EPA through the Clean Water Act. In Indiana, the permitting process
has been delegated to IDEM. This permit covers aspects of municipal stormwater
quality.
      NATURAL DRAINAGE. The flow patterns of stormwater run-off over the land
in its pre-development state.
      NUTRIENT(S). (1) A substance necessary for the growth and reproduction of
organisms; and (2) In water, those substances (chiefly nitrates and phosphates)
that promote growth of algae and bacteria.
      OPEN DRAIN. A natural watercourse or constructed open channel that
conveys drainage water.
      OPEN SPACE. Any land area devoid of any disturbed or impervious surfaces
created by industrial, commercial, residential, agricultural, or other manmade
activities.
      OUTFALL. The point, location, or structure where a pipe or open drain
discharges to a receiving body of water.
      OUTLET. The point of water disposal from a stream, river, lake,
tidewater, or artificial drain.
      PEAK DISCHARGE (OR PEAK FLOW). The maximum instantaneous flow from a
given storm condition at a specific location.
      PERCOLATION. The movement of water through soil.
      PERMANENT STABILIZATION. The establishment, at a uniform density of 70%
across the disturbed area, of vegetative cover or permanent non-erosive
material that will ensure the resistance of the soil to erosion, sliding, or
other movement.
      PERVIOUS. Allowing movement of water.
      POINT SOURCE. Any discernible, confined, and discrete conveyance
including but not limited to any pipe, ditch, channel, tunnel, conduit, well,
discrete fissure, or container from which pollutants are or maybe discharged
(P.L. 92-500, Section 502[14]).
      POROUS PAVEMENT. A type of infiltration practice to improve the quality
and reduce the quantity of storm water run-off via the use of manmade, pervious
pavement which allows run-off to percolate through the pavement and into
underlying soils
      PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. A person licensed under the laws of the State of
Indiana to practice professional engineering.
      PROJECT SITE. The entire area on which construction activity is to be
performed.
      PROJECT SITE OWNER. The person required to submit a stormwater permit
application, and required to comply with the terms of this chapter, including a
developer or a person who has financial and operational control of construction
activities, and project plans and specifications, including the ability to make
modifications to those plans and specifications.
      RAIN GARDEN. A vegetative practice used to alter impervious surfaces,
such as roofs, into pervious surfaces for absorption and treatment of rainfall.
      RECEIVING STREAM, RECEIVING CHANNEL, OR RECEIVING WATER. The body of
water into which runoff or effluent is discharged. The term does not include
private drains, unnamed conveyances, retention and detention basins, or
constructed wetlands used as treatment.
      RECHARGE. Replenishment of groundwater reservoirs by infiltration and
transmission from the outcrop of an aquifer or from permeable soils.
      REDEVELOPMENT. Alterations of a property that change a site or building
in such a way that there is disturbances of land. The term does not include
such activities as exterior remodeling.
      REFUELING AREA. An operating gasoline or diesel fueling area whose
primary function is to provide fuel to equipment or vehicles.
      REGIONAL POND. A detention/retention basin sized to detain/retain the
runoff from the entire watershed, on-site and off-site, tributary to the pond's
outlet.
      REGULATORY FLOOD. The discharge or elevation associated with the 100-year
flood as calculated by a method and procedure which is acceptable to and
approved by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known as the BASE
FLOOD.
      REGULATORY FLOODWAY. See FLOODWAY.
      RELEASE RATE. The amount of storm water release from a storm water
control facility per unit of time.
      RESERVOIR. A natural or artificially created pond, lake or other space
used for storage, regulation or control of water. May be either permanent or
temporary. The term is also used in the hydrologic modeling of storage
facilities.
      RETENTION. The storage of stormwater to prevent it from leaving the
development site. May be temporary or permanent.
      RETENTION BASIN. A type of storage practice, that has no positive outlet,
used to retain storm water run-off for an indefinite amount of time. Runoff
from this type of basin is removed only by infiltration through a porous bottom
or by evaporation.
      RETURN PERIOD. The average interval of time within which a given rainfall
event will be equaled or exceeded once. A flood having a return period of 100
years has a 1% probability of being equaled or exceeded in any one year.
      RIPARIAN ZONE. Of, on, or pertaining to the banks of a stream, river, or
pond.
      RIPARIAN HABITAT. A land area adjacent to a waterbody that supports
animal and plant life associated with that waterbody.
      RUNOFF. That portion of precipitation that flows from a drainage area on
the land surface, in open channels, or in stormwater conveyance systems.
      RUNOFF COEFFICIENT. A decimal fraction relating the amount of rain which
appears as runoff and reaches the storm drain system to the total amount of
rain falling. A coefficient of 0.5 implies that 50% of the rain falling on a
given surface appears as storm water runoff.
      SEDIMENT. Solid material (both mineral and/organic) that is in
suspension, is being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by
air, water, gravity, or ice and has come to rest on the earth's surface.
      SEDIMENTATION. The process that deposits soils, debris and other
unconsolidated materials either on the ground surfaces or in bodies of water or
watercourses.
      SENSITIVE WATER. A waterbody in need of priority protection or
remediation based on its:
         (a)   Providing habitat for threatened or endangered species;
         (b)   Usage as a public water supply intake;
         (c)   Relevant community value;
         (d)   Usage for full body contact recreation;
         (e)   Exceptional use classification as found in 327 IAC 2-1-11(b);
and
         (f)   Outstanding state resource water classification as found in 327
IAC 2-1-2(3) and 327 IAC 2-1.5-19(b).
      SITE. The entire area included in the legal description of the land on
which land disturbing activity is to be performed.
      SLOPE. Degree of deviation of a surface from the horizontal, measured as
a numerical ratio or percent. Expressed as a ratio, the first number is
commonly the horizontal distance (run) and the second is the vertical distance
(rise). (Example: 2:1). However, the preferred method for designation of slopes
is to clearly identify the horizontal (H) and vertical (V) components (length
(L) and width (W) components for horizontal angles). Also note that according
to international standards (metric), the slopes are presented as the vertical
or width component shown on the numerator. (Example: 1V:2H). Slope expressions
in this chapter follow the common presentation of slopes (example: 2:1) with
the metric presentation shown in parenthesis. (Example: 1V:2H). Slopes can also
be expressed in "percents". Slopes given in percents are always expressed as
(100*V/H). Example: a 2:1 (1V:2H) slope is a 50% slope.
      SOIL. The unconsolidated mineral and/organic material on the immediate
surface of the earth that serves as a natural medium for the growth of land
plants.
      SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION DISTRICT. A public organization created under
state law as a special-purpose district to develop and carry out a program of
soil, water, and related resource conservation, use, and development within its
boundaries. A subdivision of state government with a local governing body,
established under I.C. 14-32.
      SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, debris, or other discarded material.
      SPILL. The unexpected, unintended, abnormal, or unapproved dumping,
leakage, drainage, seepage, discharge, or other loss of petroleum, hazardous
substances, extremely hazardous substances, or objectionable substances. The
term does not include releases to impervious surfaces when the substance does
not migrate off the surface or penetrate the surface and enter the soil.
      STORM DURATION. The length of time that water may be stored in any
stormwater control facility, computed from the time water first begins to be
stored.
      STORM EVENT. An estimate of the expected amount of precipitation within a
given period of time. For example, a ten-year frequency, 24-hour duration storm
event is a storm that has a 10% probability of occurring in any one year.
Precipitation is measured over a 24-hour period.
      STORM SEWER. A closed conduit for conveying collected storm water, while
excluding sewage and industrial wastes. Also called a STORM DRAIN.
      STORMWATER. Water resulting from rain, melting or melted snow, hail, or
sleet.
      STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN. A plan developed to minimize the
impact of storm water pollutants resulting from construction activities.
      STORMWATER RUNOFF. The water derived from rains falling within a
tributary basin, flowing over the surface of the ground or collected in
channels or conduits.
      STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT PLAN. A comprehensive written document that
addresses stormwater runoff quality.
      STORMWATER QUALITY MEASURE. A practice, or a combination of practices, to
control or minimize pollutants associated with storm water runoff.
      STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM. All means, natural or man-made, used for
conducting storm water to, through or from a drainage area to any of the
following: conduits and appurtenant features, canals, channels, ditches,
storage facilities, swales, streams, culverts, streets and pumping stations.
      STRIP DEVELOPMENT. A multi-lot project where building lots front on an
existing road.
      SUBDIVISION. Any land that is divided or proposed to be divided into
lots, whether contiguous or subject to zoning requirements, for the purpose of
sale or lease as part of a larger common plan of development or sale.
      SUBSURFACE DRAIN. A pervious backfield trench, usually containing stone
and perforated pipe, for intercepting groundwater or seepage.
      SURFACE RUNOFF. Precipitation that flows onto the surfaces of roofs,
streets, the ground, etc., and is not absorbed or retained by that surface but
collects and runs off.
      SWALE. An elongated depression in the land surface that is at least
seasonally wet, is usually heavily vegetated, and is normally without flowing
water. Swales conduct stormwater into primary drainage channels and may provide
some groundwater recharge.
      TEMPORARY STABILIZATION. The covering of soil to ensure its resistance to
erosion, sliding, or other movement. The term includes vegetative cover,
anchored mulch, or other non-erosive material applied at a uniform density of
70% across the disturbed area.
      TILE DRAIN. Pipe made of perforated plastic, burned clay, concrete, or
similar material, laid to a designed grade and depth, to collect and carry
excess water from the soil.
      TOPOGRAPHIC MAP. Graphical portrayal of the topographic features of a
land area, showing both the horizontal distances between the features and their
elevations above a given datum.
      TOPOGRAPHY. The representation of a portion of the earth's surface
showing natural and man-made features of a give locality such as rivers,
streams, ditches, lakes, roads, buildings and most importantly, variations in
ground elevations for the terrain of the area.
      TRAINED INDIVIDUAL. An individual who is trained and experienced in the
principles of stormwater quality, including erosion and sediment control as may
be demonstrated by state registration, professional certification (such as
CESSWI and/or CPESC certification), or other documented and applicable
experience or coursework as deemed sufficient by the Boone County Drainage
Board and/or Boone County Surveyor that enable the individual to make judgments
regarding storm water control or treatment and monitoring.
      URBAN DRAIN. A drain defined as "Urban Drain" in Indiana Drainage Code.
      URBANIZATION. The development, change or improvement of any parcel of
land consisting of one or more lots for residential, commercial, industrial,
institutional, recreational or public utility purposes.
      VEGETATED SWALE. A type of vegetative practice used to filter stormwater
runoff via a vegetated, shallow-channel conveyance.
      WATER QUALITY. A term used to describe the chemical, physical, and
biological characteristics of water, usually in respect to its suitability for
a particular purpose.
      WATER RESOURCES. The supply of groundwater and surface water in a given
area.
      WATERBODY. Any accumulation of water, surface, or underground, natural or
artificial, excluding water features designed and designated as water pollution
control facilities.
      WATERCOURSE. Any river, stream, creek, brook, branch, natural or man-made
drainageway in or into which stormwater runoff or floodwaters flow either
continuously or intermittently.
      WATERSHED. The region drained by or contributing water to a specific
point that could be along a stream, lake or other stormwater facilities.
WATERSHEDS are often broken down into subareas for the purpose of hydrologic
modeling.
      WATERSHED AREA. All land and water within the confines of a drainage
divide. See also WATERSHED.
      WETLANDS. Areas that are inundated or saturated by surface water or
groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under
normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted
for life in saturated soil conditions.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 153.007 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINSTRATION.
   Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor shall administer,
implement, and enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any powers granted or
duties imposed upon the authorized enforcement agency may be delegated in
writing by Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor to
qualified persons or entities acting in the beneficial interest of or in the
employ of Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 153.008 CONFLICTING ORDINANCES.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be deemed as additional requirements to
minimum standards required by other Boone County ordinances, and as
supplemental requirements to Indiana's Rule 5 regarding Stormwater Discharge
Associated with Construction Activity, (327 IAC 15-5), and Indiana's Rule 13
regarding Stormwater Runoff Associated with Municipal Separate Storm Sewer
System Conveyances (327 IAC 15-13). In case of conflicting requirements, the
most restrictive shall apply.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 153.009 INTERPRETATION.
   Words and phrases in this chapter shall be construed according to their
common and accepted meanings, except that words and phrases defined in §
153.006, shall be construed according to the respective definitions given in
that section. Technical words and technical phrases that are not defined in
this chapter but which have acquired particular meanings in law or in technical
usage shall be construed according to such meanings.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 153.010 SEVERABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter are hereby declared severable, and if any
court of competent jurisdiction should declare any part or provision of this
chapter invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not
affect any other part or provision of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 153.011 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective after its final passage, approval, and
publication as required by law.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 153.012 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on historical records, engineering, and
scientific methods of study. Larger storms may occur or stormwater runoff
amounts may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land uses permitted will be free from stormwater damage. This
chapter shall not create liability on the part of Boone County Drainage Board
and/or Boone County Surveyor or any officer, representative, or employee
thereof, for any damage which may result from reliance on this chapter or on
any administrative decision lawfully made there under.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-20-2015)
PROHIBITED DISCHARGES AND CONNECTIONS
§ 153.025 APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply to all discharges, including illegal dumping,
entering the storm drain system under the control of Boone County Drainage
Board and/or Boone County Surveyor, regardless of whether the discharge
originates from developed or undeveloped lands, and regardless of whether the
discharge is generated from an active construction site or a stabilized site.
These discharges include flows from direct connections to the storm drain
system, illegal dumping, and contaminated runoff.
   (B)   Stormwater runoff from agricultural, timber harvesting, and mining
activities is exempted from the requirements of this chapter unless determined
to contain pollutants not associated with such activities or in excess of
standard practices. Farm residences are not included in this exemption.
   (C)   Any non-stormwater discharge permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver,
or waste discharge order issued to the discharger and administered under the
authority of the Federal Environmental Protection Agency, provided that the
discharger is in full compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver,
or order and other applicable laws and regulations, and provided that written
approval has been granted for the subject discharge to the storm drain system,
is also exempted from this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 153.026 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge to a MS4 conveyance, watercourse, or
waterbody, directly or indirectly, any substance other than stormwater or an
exempted discharge. Any person discharging stormwater shall effectively
minimize pollutants from also being discharged with the stormwater, through the
use of best management practices (BMPs).
   (B)   The Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor is
authorized to require dischargers to implement pollution prevention measures,
utilizing BMPs, necessary to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants into
the Boone County stormwater drainage system.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 153.027 EXEMPTED DISCHARGES AND CONNECTIONS.
   Notwithstanding other requirements in this chapter, the following categories
of non-stormwater discharges or flows are exempted from the requirements of
this chapter:
   (A)   Water line flushing;
   (B)   Landscape irrigation;
   (C)   Diverted streamflows;
   (D)   Rising ground waters;
   (E)   Uncontaminated groundwater infiltration;
   (F)   Uncontaminated pumped ground water;
   (G)   Discharges from potable water sources;
   (H)   Foundation drains;
   (I)   Air conditioning condensation;
   (J)   Irrigation water;
   (K)   Springs;
   (L)   Water from crawl space pumps;
   (M)   Footing drains;
   (N)   Lawn watering;
   (O)   Individual residential car washing;
   (P)   Flows from riparian habitats and wetlands;
   (Q)   Dechlorinated swimming pool discharges;
   (R)   Street wash water;
   (S)   Discharges from firefighting activities;
   (T)   Naturally introduced detritus (e.g. leaves and twigs).
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 153.028 STORAGE OF HAZARDOUS OR TOXIC MATERIAL.
   Storage or stockpiling of hazardous or toxic material within any
watercourse, or in its associated floodway or floodplain, is strictly
prohibited. Storage or stockpiling of hazardous or toxic material, including
sewage treatment plant stockpiles, on active construction sites must include
adequate protection and/or containment so as to prevent any such materials from
entering any temporary or permanent stormwater conveyance or watercourse.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 153.029 PRIVATE PROPERTY MAINTENANCE DUTIES.
   Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or such
person's lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse located
within their property boundaries, free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation,
and other obstacles that would pollute, contaminate, or significantly retard
the flow of water through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee
shall maintain existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to a
watercourse, so that such structures will not become a hazard to the use,
function, or physical integrity of the watercourse.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 153.030 SPILL REPORTING.
   (A)   Any discharger who accidentally discharges into a waterbody any
substance other than stormwater or an exempted discharge shall immediately
inform the Boone County Health Department concerning the discharge. A written
report concerning the discharge shall be filed with the Boone County Drainage
Board and/or Boone County Surveyor and IDEM, by the dischargers, within five
days. The written report shall specify:
      (1)   The composition of the discharge and the cause thereof;
      (2)   The date, time, and estimated volume of the discharge;
      (3)   All measures taken to clean up the accidental discharge, and all
measures proposed to be taken to prevent any recurrence; and
      (4)   The name and telephone number of the person making the report, and
the name and telephone number of a person who may be contacted for additional
information on the matter.
   (B)   A properly reported accidental discharge shall be an affirmative
defense to a civil infraction proceeding brought under this chapter against a
discharger for such discharge. It shall not, however, be a defense to a legal
action brought to obtain an injunction, to obtain recovery of costs or to
obtain other relief because of or arising out of the discharge. A discharge
shall be considered properly reported only if the discharger complies with all
the requirements of this section. This requirement does not relieve discharger
from notifying other entities as required by state or federal regulations.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 153.031 INSPECTIONS AND MONITORING.
   (A)   Storm drainage system. The Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone
County Surveyor has the authority to periodically inspect the portion of the
storm drainage system under the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County
Surveyor's control, in an effort to detect and eliminate illicit connections
and discharges into the system. This inspection will include a screening of
discharges from outfalls connected to the system in order to determine if
prohibited flows are being conveyed into the storm drainage system. It could
also include spot testing of waters contained in the storm drainage system
itself to detect the introduction of pollutants into the system by means other
than a defined outfall, such as dumping or contaminated sheet runoff.
   (B)   Potential polluters. If, as a result of the storm drainage system
inspection, a discharger is suspected of an illicit discharge, the Boone County
Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor may inspect and/or obtain
stormwater samples from stormwater runoff facilities of the subject discharger,
to determine compliance with the requirements of this chapter. Upon request,
the discharger shall allow the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County
Surveyor's properly identified representative to enter upon the premises of the
discharger at all hours necessary for the purposes of such inspection
or sampling. The Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor or
its properly identified representative may place on the discharger's property
the equipment or devices used for such sampling or inspection. Identified
illicit connections or discharges shall be subject to enforcement action as
described in §§
153.115 et seq.
   (C)   New development and re-development. Following the final completion of
construction and the receipt of as-built drawings by the Boone County Drainage
Board and/or Boone County Surveyor, the Boone County Drainage Board and/or
Boone County Surveyor has the authority to inspect new development and re-
development sites to verify that all on-site stormwater conveyances and
connections to the storm drainage system are in compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-20-2015)
STORMWATER QUANTITY MANAGEMENT
§ 153.045 APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   The storage and controlled release rate of excess stormwater runoff shall be
required for all new business, commercial and industrial developments,
residential subdivisions, planned development, rural estate subdivisions, and
any redevelopment or other new construction located within Boone County. The
Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor, after thorough
investigation and evaluation, may waive the requirement of controlled runoff
for minor subdivisions and parcelization.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 153.046 POLICY ON STORMWATER QUANTITY MANAGEMENT.
   It is recognized that most streams and drainage channels serving Boone
County do not have sufficient capacity to receive and convey stormwater runoff
resulting from continued urbanization. Accordingly, the storage and controlled
release of excess stormwater runoff as well as compensation for loss of
floodplain storage and prevention of increased flooding and erosion risks to
others shall be required for all developments and redevelopments (as defined in
§
153.006) located within Boone County. Release rate requirements, downstream
restriction considerations, acceptable outlet, adjoining property impact
considerations, compensatory floodplain storage requirements, and requirements
associated with dams and levees are detailed in the Boone County Stormwater
Technical Standards Manual.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 153.047 CALCULATIONS AND DESIGN STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   The calculation methods as well as the type, sizing, and placement of all
stormwater facilities shall meet the design criteria, standards, and
specifications outlined in the Boone County Stormwater Technical Standards
Manual. The methods and procedures in the Stormwater Technical Standards Manual
are consistent with the policy stated above.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 153.048 DRAINAGE EASEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   There shall be no trees or shrubs planted, nor any structures or
fences erected in any regulated drainage easement. All stormwater systems,
including detention or retention basins, conveyance systems, structures and
appurtenances, located outside of the right-of-way may be incorporated into the
Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor's system at the
discretion of the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor. The
developer shall petition to incorporate the storm system into the Boone County
Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor's system. The stormwater management
permit shall not be approved until such petition is submitted in a form
accepted by the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor.
   (B)   The following specific areas shall be included in a petition:
      (1)   Subdivisions.
         (a)   All new channels, drain tiles equal to or greater than 12 inches
in diameter, six-inch or larger subsurface drains in rear yard swales, inlet
and outlet structures of detention and retention ponds, and appurtenances
thereto as required by this chapter, that are installed in subdivisions
requiring a stormwater management permit from the Boone County Drainage Board
and/or Boone County Surveyor shall be petitioned to become incorporated into
the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor's system upon
completion, proper inspection, and acceptance by the Boone County Drainage
Board and/or Boone County Surveyor. New drain tiles refer to all sub-surface
stormwater piping, tubing, tiles, manholes, inlets, catch basins, risers, etc.
         (b)   New drain tile shall be placed in a minimum 30-foot (15 feet
from centerline on each side) regulated drain easement (RDE) and shall be
designated on the record plat as 30-foot regulated drain easement.
         (c)   A minimum of 25 feet from top of the bank on each side of a new
channel shall be designated on the record plat as a drain easement.
         (d)   Rear-yard swales, 100-year emergency overflow paths, and
emergency overflow routes associated with detention ponds shall not be included
in petition for incorporation. However, a minimum of 30 feet width (15 feet
from centerline on each side) needs to be designated as drainage easement.
         (e)   A minimum of 15 feet beyond the actual footprint (top of the
bank) of stormwater detention facilities shall be designated as drainage
easement. A minimum 25-foot width easement shall also be required as access
easement, unless the pond is immediately next to a public right-of-way.
         (f)   The statutory 75-foot (each side) drainage easement for
regulated drains already within the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone
County Surveyor's system may be reduced if the drain is re-classified by the
County Surveyor as an urban drain.
         (g)   An annual maintenance assessment shall be set up on each new
regulated drain established in a new subdivision. The amount of the assessment
will be determined by the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County
Surveyor and so certified.
         (h)   If the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor
accepts the petition for incorporation into their system, the following
statement shall become part of the Restrictive Covenants of every platted
subdivision and shown on recorded plat: "channels, tile drains 12-inch or
larger, six-inch or larger subsurface drains in rear yard swales, inlets and
outlets of detention and retention ponds, and appurtenances thereto within
designated drain easements are extensions of the Boone County Drainage Board
and/or Boone County Surveyor's stormwater drainage system and are the
responsibility of the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor.
Drainage swales shall be the responsibility of owner or homeowner association."
         (i)   The following statement shall be put on each subdivision plat:
"A petition addressed to the Boone County Drainage Board has been filed in
duplicate with the County Surveyor, requesting that the subdivision's storm
drainage system and its easements be accepted into the County's regulated
drainage system. The storm drainage system and its easements that are accepted
into the County's regulated drainage system are delineated on the plat as
Regulated Drainage Easements (RDEs). These drainage easements are established
under authority of the Indiana Drainage Code and the said Board may exercise
powers and duties as provided in said code (e.g., annual drainage assessment
per lot). All other storm drainage easements have not been accepted into the
County's system. All drainage improvements performed relative to the conveyance
of stormwater runoff and the perpetual maintenance thereof, within the latter
easements, shall be the responsibility of the owner or homeowner association.
The Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor Drainage Board
assumes no responsibility relative to said improvements or the maintenance
thereof. This subdivision contains _____ linear feet of open ditches and _____
linear feet of subsurface drains that will be included in the County's
regulated drainage system."
         (j)   No driveways shall be allowed in drainage easements except for
the purpose of crossing a front yard drainage easement to provide access to the
property. Any crossing and/or encroachment of an RDE requires application and
acceptance from the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor.
      (2)   Non-subdivisions. Where the Boone County Drainage Board and/or
Boone County Surveyor is responsible for maintenance of the drainage system,
regulated drainage easements of 75 feet from the top of bank on each side of
the channel or each side of the tile centerline must be dedicated to the Boone
County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor.
      (3)   Establishment of a new regulated drain. When the Boone County
Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor determines it is necessary to
establish a new regulated drain, each developer shall provide the necessary
information and meet the requirements of the 1965 Indiana Drainage Code, as
amended, for the establishment of a new Regulated Drain. Necessary easements
for adequate maintenance of any new regulated drain shall be determined by the
[Boone County Surveyor if not already established in this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 153.049 PLACEMENT OF UTILITIES.
   No utility company may disturb existing storm drainage facilities without
the consent of the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor,
whose decision may be appealed to the Boone County Board of Commissioners. All
existing drainage facilities shall have senior rights and damage to said
facilities shall result in penalties as prescribed in §§
153.115 et seq.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 153.050 STRUCTURES NEAR COUNTY REGULATED DRAINS.
   For regulated drains not located in platted subdivisions, unless otherwise
accepted by the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor, no
permanent structure (including fences) shall be erected within 75 feet measured
at right angles from a) the existing top edge of each bank of a regulated open
drain, as determined by the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County
Surveyor; or b) the center line of a tiled Regulated Drain. The Indiana
Drainage Code may be consulted for further details.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 153.051 INSPECTION, MAINTENANCE, RECORD KEEPING, AND REPORTING.
   (A)   After the approval of the stormwater management permit by the Boone
County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor and the commencement of
construction activities, the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County
Surveyor has the authority to conduct inspections of the work being done to
insure full compliance with the provisions of this chapter, the Stormwater
Technical Standards Manual, and the terms and conditions of the approved
permit.
   (B)   The Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor also has
the authority to perform long-term, post-construction inspection of all public
or privately owned stormwater quantity facilities. The inspection will cover
physical conditions, available storage capacity, and the operational condition
of key facility elements. Stormwater quantity facilities shall be maintained in
good condition, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the approved
stormwater management permit, and shall not be subsequently altered, revised or
replaced except in accordance with the approved stormwater permit, or in
accordance with accepted amendments or revisions to the permit. If deficiencies
are found during the inspection, the owner of the facility will be notified by
Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor and will be required
to take all necessary measures to correct such deficiencies. If the owner fails
to correct the deficiencies within the allowed time period, as specified in the
notification letter, the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County
Surveyor will undertake the work and collect from the owner using lien rights
if necessary.
   (C)   Assignment of responsibility for maintaining facilities serving more
than one lot or holding shall be documented by appropriate covenants to
property deeds, unless responsibility is formally accepted by a public body,
and determined before the final stormwater permit is approved. Stormwater
detention/retention basins may be donated to the Boone County Drainage Board
and/or Boone County Surveyor or other unit of government designated by the
Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor, for ownership and
permanent maintenance providing the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone
County Surveyor or other governmental unit is willing to accept responsibility.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-20-2015)
STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION FOR CONSTRUCTION SITES
§ 153.065 APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor will
require a Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP), which includes erosion
and sediment control measures and materials handling procedures, to be
submitted as part of the construction plans and specifications. Any project
located within Boone County that includes clearing, grading, excavation, and
other land disturbing activities, resulting in the disturbance of 10,000 square
feet or more of total land area, is subject to the requirements of this
chapter. This includes both new development and re-development. This chapter
also applies to disturbances of land that are part of a larger common plan of
development or sale if the larger common plan will ultimately disturb 10,000
square feet or more of total land area. §
153.067 of this chapter provides guidelines for calculating land disturbance.
Projects meeting the coverage requirements of 327 IAC 15-5 (Rule 5) shall also
be in compliance with 327 IAC 15-5.
   (B)   The requirements under this chapter do not apply to the following
activities:
      (1)   Agricultural land disturbing activities; or
      (2)   Forest harvesting activities.
   (C)   The requirements under this chapter do not apply to the following
activities, provided other applicable state permits contain provisions
requiring immediate implementation of soil erosion control measures:
      (1)   Landfills that have been issued a certification of closure under
329 IAC 10.
      (2)   Coal mining activities permitted under I.C. 14-34.
      (3)   Municipal solid waste landfills that are accepting waste pursuant
to a permit issued by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management under
329 IAC 10 that contains equivalent stormwater requirements, including the
expansion of landfill boundaries and construction of new cells either within or
outside the original solid waste permit boundary.
   (D)   For an individual lot where land disturbance is expected to be one
acre or more, the individual lot owner must complete their own notice of intent
letter, apply for a stormwater permit from the Boone County Drainage Board and/
or Boone County Surveyor, and ensure that a sufficient construction and
stormwater pollution prevention plan is completed and submitted in accordance
with §§
153.095 et seq., regardless of whether the individual lot is part of a larger
permitted project site.
   (E)   An individual lot with land disturbance less than 10,000 square feet,
located within a larger permitted project site, is considered part of the
larger permitted project site, and the individual lot operator must comply with
the terms and conditions of the stormwater permit approved for the larger
project site. The stormwater permit application for the larger project site
must include detailed erosion and sediment control measures for individual
lots. In addition, these individual lots are required to submit Individual Lot
Plot Plan Permit applications prior to receiving a building permit. Details of
the permitting process are contained in §§
153.095 et seq.
   (F)   It will be the responsibility of the project site owner to complete a
stormwater permit application and ensure that a sufficient construction plan is
completed and submitted to Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County
Surveyor in accordance with §§
153.095 et seq. It will be the responsibility of the project site owner to
ensure compliance with this chapter during the construction activity and
implementation of the construction plan, and to notify the Boone County
Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor with a sufficient notice of
termination letter upon completion of the project and stabilization of the
site. However, all persons engaging in construction and land disturbing
activities on a permitted project site meeting the applicability requirements
must comply with the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 153.066 POLICY ON STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION.
   (A)   Effective stormwater pollution prevention on construction sites is
dependent on a combination of preventing movement of soil from its original
position (erosion control), intercepting displaced soil prior to entering a
waterbody (sediment control), and proper on-site materials handling. For land
disturbance of one acre or more, the developer must submit to the Boone County
Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor, a SWPPP with detailed erosion and
sediment control plans as well as a narrative describing materials handling and
storage, and construction sequencing. For land disturbances totaling 10,000
square feet or more but less than one acre, appropriate erosion and sediment
control measures that are consistent with the Boone County Technical Standards
must be designed and shown on the plans.
   (B)   The following principles apply to all land-disturbing activities and
should be considered in the preparation of a Stormwater Pollution Prevention
Plan within Boone County.
      (1)   Minimize the potential for soil erosion by designing a development
that fits the topography and soils of the site. Deep cuts and fills in areas
with steep slopes should be avoided wherever possible, and natural contours
should be followed as closely as possible.
      (2)   Existing natural vegetation should be retained and protected
wherever possible. Areas immediately adjacent (within 35 feet of top of bank)
to watercourses and lakes also should be left undisturbed wherever possible.
Unvegetated or vegetated areas with less than 70% cover that are scheduled or
likely to be left inactive for 15 days or more must be temporarily or
permanently stabilized with measures appropriate for the season to reduce
erosion potential. Alternative measures to site stabilization may be acceptable
if the project site owner or their representative can demonstrate they have
implemented and maintained erosion and sediment control measures adequate to
prevent sediment discharge from the inactive area.
      (3)   All activities on a site should be conducted in a logical sequence
so that the smallest practical area of land will be exposed for the shortest
practical period of time during development.
      (4)   The length and steepness of designed slopes should be minimized to
reduce erosion potential. Drainage channels and swales must be designed and
adequately protected so that their final gradients and resultant velocities
will not cause erosion in the receiving channel or at the outlet. Methods for
determining acceptable velocities are included in the Stormwater Technical
Standards Manual.
      (5)   Sediment-laden water which otherwise would flow from the project
site shall be treated by erosion and sediment control measures appropriate to
minimize sedimentation. A stable construction site access shall be provided at
all points of construction traffic ingress and egress to the project site.
      (6)   Appropriate measures shall be implemented to prevent wastes or
unused building materials, including, garbage, debris, packaging material,
fuels and petroleum products, hazardous materials or wastes, cleaning wastes,
wastewater, concrete truck washout, and other substances from being carried
from a project site by runoff or wind. Identification of areas where concrete
truck washout is permissible must be clearly posted at appropriate areas of the
site. Wastes and unused building materials shall be managed and disposed of in
accordance with all applicable state statutes and regulations. Proper storage
and handling of materials such as fuels or hazardous wastes, and spill
prevention and cleanup measures shall be implemented to minimize the potential
for pollutants to contaminate surface or ground water or degrade soil quality.
      (7)   Public or private roadways shall be kept cleared of accumulated
sediment that is a result of runoff or tracking. Bulk clearing of accumulated
sediment shall not include flushing the area with water. Cleared sediment shall
be redistributed or disposed of in a manner that is in accordance with all
applicable statutes and regulations.
      (8)   Collected runoff leaving a project site must be either discharged
directly into a well-defined, stable receiving channel, or diffused and
released to adjacent property without causing an erosion or pollutant problem
to the adjacent property owner.
      (9)   Natural features, including wetlands, shall be protected from
pollutants associated with stormwater runoff.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 153.067 CALCULATIONS AND DESIGN STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   In calculating the total area of land disturbance, for the purposes of
determining applicability of this chapter to the project, the following
guidelines should be used:
      (1)   Off-site construction activities that provide services (for
example, road extensions, sewer, water, offsite stockpiles, and other
utilities) to a land disturbing project site, must be considered as a part of
the total land disturbance calculation for the project site, when the activity
is under the control of the project site owner.
      (2)   Strip developments will be considered as one project site and must
comply with this chapter unless the total combined disturbance on all
individual lots is less than one acre and is not part of a larger common plan
of development or sale.
      (3)   To determine if multi-lot project sites are regulated by this rule,
the area of land disturbance shall be calculated by adding the total area of
land disturbance for improvements, such as, roads, utilities, or common areas,
and the expected total disturbance on each individual lot, as determined by the
following:
         (a)   For a single-family residential project site where the lots are
0.5 acre or more, 0.5 acre of land disturbance must be used as the expected lot
disturbance;
         (b)   For a single-family residential project site where the lots are
less than 0.5 acre in size, the total lot must be calculated as being
disturbed; and
         (c)   To calculate lot disturbance on all other types of projects
sites, such as industrial and commercial projects project sites, a minimum of
one acre of land disturbance must be used as the expected lot disturbance,
unless the lots are less than one acre in size, in which case the total lot
must be calculated as being disturbed.
   (B)   The calculation methods as well as the type, sizing, and placement of
all stormwater pollution prevention measures for construction sites shall meet
the design criteria, standards, and specifications outlined in the "Indiana
Stormwater Quality Manual" or the Boone County Stormwater Technical Standards
Manual. The methods and procedures included in these two references are in
keeping with the above stated policy and meet the requirements of IDEM's Rule
5. A Copy of the Indiana Stormwater Quality Manual may be obtained through
IDEM.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 153.068 INSPECTION, MAINTENANCE, RECORD KEEPING, AND REPORTING.
   (A)   Following approval of the stormwater management permit by the Boone
County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor and commencement of
construction activities, the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County
Surveyor has the authority to conduct inspections of the site to ensure full
compliance with the provisions of this chapter, the Indiana Stormwater Quality
Manual, and the terms and conditions of the approved permit.
   (B)   A self-monitoring program must be implemented by the project site
owner to ensure the stormwater pollution prevention plan is working
effectively. A trained individual, acceptable to Boone County Drainage Board
and/or Boone County Surveyor, shall perform a written evaluation of the project
site by the end of the next business day following each measurable storm event.
If there are no measurable storm events within a given week, the site should be
monitored at least once in that week. Weekly inspections by the trained
individual shall continue until the entire site has been stabilized and a
Notice of Termination has been issued. The trained individual should look at
the maintenance of existing stormwater pollution prevention measures, including
erosion and sediment control measures, drainage structures, and construction
materials storage/containment facilities, to ensure they are functioning
properly. The trained individual should also identify additional measures,
beyond those originally identified in the stormwater pollution prevention plan,
necessary to remain in compliance with all applicable statutes and regulations.
   (C)   The resulting evaluation reports must include the name of the
individual performing the evaluation, the date of the evaluation, problems
identified at the project site, and details of maintenance, additional
measures, and corrective actions recommended and completed.
   (D)   The stormwater pollution prevention plan shall serve as a guideline
for stormwater quality, but should not be interpreted to be the only basis for
implementation of stormwater quality measures for a project site. The project
site owner is responsible for implementing, in accordance with this chapter,
all measures necessary to adequately prevent polluted stormwater runoff.
Recommendations by the trained individual for modified stormwater quality
measures should be implemented.
   (E)   Although self-monitoring reports do not need to be submitted to Boone
County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor, the Boone County Drainage
Board and/or Boone County Surveyor has the right to request complete records of
maintenance and monitoring activities involving stormwater pollution prevention
measures. All evaluation reports for the project site must be made available to
Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor, in an organized
fashion, within 48 hours upon request.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-20-2015)
STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT FOR POST-CONSTRUCTION
§ 153.080 APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   In addition to the requirements of §§
153.065 et seq., the stormwater pollution prevention plan, which is to be
submitted to the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor as
part of the stormwater management permit application, must also include post-
construction stormwater quality measures. These measures are incorporated as a
permanent feature into the site plan and are left in place following completion
of construction activities to continuously treat stormwater runoff from the
stabilized site. Any project located within Boone County that includes
clearing, grading, excavation, and other land disturbing activities, resulting
in the disturbance of 10,000 square feet or more of total land area, is subject
to the requirements of this chapter. This includes both new development and re-
development, and disturbances of less than 10,000 square feet of land that are
part of a larger common plan of development or sale if the larger common plan
will ultimately disturb 10,000 square feet or more acres of land, within the
MS4 area. In addition, regardless of the amount of disturbance, the Boone
County Drainage Board and/or the Boone County Surveyor reserves the right to
require pre-treatment BMPs for proposed hot spot developments in accordance to
provisions contained in the Boone County Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
   (B)   The requirements under this chapter do not apply to the following
activities:
      (1)   Agricultural land disturbing activities;
      (2)   Forest harvesting activities;
      (3)   Construction activities associated with a single family residential
dwelling disturbing less than five acres, when the dwelling is not part of a
larger common plan of development or sale; or
      (4)   Individual building lots within a larger permitted project.
   (C)   The requirements under this chapter do not apply to the following
activities, provided other applicable state permits contain provisions
requiring immediate implementation of soil erosion control measures:
      (1)   Landfills that have been issued a certification of closure under
329 IAC 10.
      (2)   Coal mining activities permitted under I.C. 14-34.
      (3)   Municipal solid waste landfills that are accepting waste pursuant
to a permit issued by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management under
329 IAC 10 that contains equivalent stormwater requirements, including the
expansion of landfill boundaries and construction of new cells either within or
outside the original solid waste permit boundary.
   (D)   It will be the responsibility of the project site owner to complete a
stormwater permit application and ensure that a sufficient construction plan is
completed and submitted to the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County
Surveyor in accordance with §
153.095. It will be the responsibility of the project site owner to ensure
proper construction and installation of all stormwater BMPs in compliance with
this chapter and with the approved stormwater management permit, and to notify
the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor with a sufficient
notice of termination letter upon completion of the project and stabilization
of the site. However, all eventual property owners of stormwater quality
facilities meeting the applicability requirements must comply with the
requirements of this chapter and this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 153.081 POLICY ON STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   It is recognized that developed areas, as compared to undeveloped
areas, generally have increased imperviousness, decreased infiltration rates,
increased runoff rates, and increased concentrations of pollutants such as
fertilizers, herbicides, greases, oil, salts and other pollutants. As new
development and re-development continues in Boone County, measures must be
taken to intercept and filter pollutants from stormwater runoff prior to
reaching regional creeks, streams, and rivers. Through the use of Best
Management Practices (BMP), stormwater runoff will be filtered and harmful
amounts of sediment, nutrients, and contaminants will be removed.
   (B)   It is also recognized that another major source of pollution in many
Indiana streams, including those within Boone County, is the streambank erosion
associated with urbanizing watersheds. Stream channels develop their shape in
response to the volume and rate of runoff that they receive from their
contributing watersheds. Research has shown that in hydrologically stable
watersheds, the stream flow responsible for most of the shaping of the channel
(called the bankfull flow) occurs between every one to two years. When land is
developed, the volume and rate of runoff from that land increases for these
comparatively small flooding events that are not normally addressed by the
detention practices and the stream channel will adapt by changing its shape. As
the stream channel works to reach a new stable shape, excess erosion occurs. As
new development and re-development continues within Boone County, measures must
be taken to minimize the impact of such development or re-development on
streambank erosion. Through the use of appropriate Best Management Practices
(BMPs), the volume and rate of runoff for channel forming flows will be reduced
in an attempt to minimize increased streambank erosion in the receiving streams
and channels.
   (C)   The project site owner must submit to the Boone County Drainage Board
and/or Boone County Surveyor, a Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP)
that would show placement of appropriate BMP(s) from a pre-approved list of
BMPs specified in the Boone County Stormwater Technical Standards Manual. The
SWPPP submittal shall include an Operation and Maintenance Manual for all post-
construction BMP(s) included in the project and a notarized Maintenance
Agreement, consistent with the sample agreement provided in Appendix D of the
Boone County Stormwater Technical Standards Manual, providing for the long-term
maintenance of those BMPs, both of which shall be recorded with the deed for
the property on which the project is located. The noted BMPs must be designed,
constructed, and maintained according to guidelines provided or referenced in
the Boone County Stormwater Technical Standards Manual. Practices other than
those specified in the pre-approved list may be utilized. However, the burden
of proof, as to whether the performance and ease of maintenance of such
practices will be according to guidelines provided in the Boone County
Stormwater Technical Standards Manual, would be placed with the applicant.
Details regarding the procedures and criteria for consideration of acceptance
of such BMPs are provided in the Boone County Stormwater Technical Standards
Manual.
   (D)   Gasoline outlets and refueling areas must install appropriate
practices to reduce lead, copper, zinc, and hydrocarbons in stormwater runoff.
These requirements will apply to all new facilities and existing facilities
that replace their tanks.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 153.082 CALCULATIONS AND DESIGN STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Calculation of land disturbance should follow the guidelines discussed
in §
153.067.
   (B)   The calculation methods as well as the type, sizing, and placement of
all stormwater quality management measures, or BMPs shall meet the design
criteria, standards, and specifications outlined in the Indiana Stormwater
Quality Manual or the Boone County Stormwater Technical Standards Manual. The
methods and procedures included in these two references are in keeping with the
above stated policy and meet the requirements of IDEM's Rule 13.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 153.083 EASEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   All stormwater quality management systems, including detention or retention
basins, filter strips, pocket wetlands, in-line filters, infiltration systems,
conveyance systems, structures and appurtenances located outside of the right-
of-way shall be incorporated into permanent easements. For developments
occurring within the County's unincorporated areas and/or at the discretion of
the Boone County Surveyor and/or Drainage Board, the developer shall petition
to establish the noted system as a portion of regulated drain pursuant to the
provisions of I.C. 36-9-27-54, and the drainage plan shall not be accepted
until such petition is submitted in a form accepted by the County Surveyor and
the County Drainage Board. The actual routine maintenance of detention/
retention basins and/or other distributed post-construction stormwater BMPs
shall remain the responsibility of the property owners and/or homeowners
association. For the purposes of monitoring, inspection, and general
maintenance activities, adequate easement width, as detailed in the Boone
County Stormwater Technical Standards Manual, beyond the actual footprint of
the stormwater quality management facility as well as a 20-foot wide access
easement from a public right-of-way to each BMP shall be provided.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 153.084 INSPECTION, MAINTENANCE, RECORD KEEPING, AND REPORTING.
   (A)   After the approval of the stormwater management permit by the Boone
County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor and the commencement of
construction activities, the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County
Surveyor has the authority to conduct inspections of the work being done to
ensure full compliance with the provisions of this chapter, the Stormwater
Technical Standards Manual, and the terms and conditions of the approved
permit.
   (B)   Stormwater detention/retention basins and post-construction stormwater
BMPs may be donated to the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County
Surveyor or other unit of government designated by the Boone County Drainage
Board and/or Boone County Surveyor, for ownership and permanent maintenance
providing the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor or other
governmental unit is willing to accept responsibility.
   (C)   The Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor also has
the authority to perform long-term, post-construction inspection of all public
or privately owned stormwater quality facilities. The inspection will cover
physical conditions, available water quality storage capacity and the
operational condition of key facility elements. Noted deficiencies and
recommended corrective action will be included in an inspection report.
   (D)   Post construction stormwater facilities shall be maintained in good
condition, in accordance with the Stormwater Management Practices Maintenance
Agreement prepared and recorded for the project as well as operation and
maintenance procedures and schedules listed in the Boone County Stormwater
Technical Standards Manual, and the terms and conditions of the approved
stormwater permit, and shall not be subsequently altered, revised, or replaced
except in accordance with the approved stormwater permit, or in accordance with
accepted amendments or revisions in the permit. In the event the property owner
or the homeowners association fails to exercise its obligation, the Boone
County Drainage Board may perform the required maintenance and shall have the
right to assess each lot in the subdivision a proportionate amount of the
associated costs. If necessary, a notice of lien shall be filed against the
affected lots. The lien shall be enforced in the same manner as a mortgage lien
under Indiana law and, therefore, shall include reimbursement of attorney's
fees, title expenses, interest, and costs of collection.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-20-2015)
PERMIT REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES
§ 153.095 CONCEPTUAL DRAINAGE PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   In order to gain an understanding of the drainage requirements for a
specific project, a developer may submit conceptual drainage plans and
calculations for review by the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County
Surveyor. The direction provided by the Boone County Drainage Board and/or
Boone County Surveyor during such a review is based on preliminary data and
shall not be construed as an acceptance or binding on either party.
   (B)   The following is a general listing of minimum data requirements for
the review of conceptual drainage plans:
      (1)   Two complete sets of conceptual plans showing general project
layout, including existing and proposed drainage systems (plan sheets must be
larger than 11 inches by 17 inches, but not to exceed 24 inches by 36 inches);
      (2)   General description of the existing and proposed drainage systems
in narrative form;
      (3)   Watershed Boundaries with USGS Contours or best information
possible; and
      (4)   Existing watercourse or regulated drains.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 153.096 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   This section applies to all development or re-development of land
within unincorporated Boone County that are subject to §
153.002. Individual lots with land disturbance less than one acre that are
developed within a larger permitted project site should refer to §§
153.065 et seq. for plan review requirements and procedures. Figure 1 is a
flowchart summarizing the plan review/permit approval process and can be found
at the end of this chapter.
   (B)   The project site owner shall submit an application for a stormwater
management permit to the Boone County Surveyor's office. The application will
include a Draft Notice of Intent letter (NOI) that would also act as permit
application form, construction plan sheets, stormwater drainage technical
report, a stormwater pollution prevention plan for construction sites (if the
total disturbance is one acre or more), post-construction pollution prevention
plan (if the total disturbance is one acre or more), and any other necessary
support information. Specific information to be included in the application can
be found in §
153.097 and in the Boone County Stormwater Technical Standards Manual. Adequate
number of copies of each application material, as noted in the "Stormwater
Permit Application Check-In Checklist" contained in the Boone County Stormwater
Technical Standards Manual, must be submitted to the Boone County Surveyor's
office. Additionally, a digital copy of the construction plans is required in a
format accepted by the Boone County Surveyor.
   (C)   After the Boone County Surveyor's office receipt of the application,
the applicant will be notified as to whether their application was complete or
insufficient. The applicant will be asked for additional information if the
application is insufficient. The information provided will be reviewed in
detail by the Boone County Surveyor and/or its plan review consultant(s). Once
all comments have been received and review completed, the Boone County Surveyor
will either approve the project or request modifications.
   (D)   Once a permit has been issued, the project site owner must file a
Notice of Intent a minimum of 48 hours prior to the commencement of
construction activities. Notification shall be in the form of an updated NOI
form. The submittal of the NOI must be provided to the Boone County Surveyor's
office and, if the total disturbance is one acre or more, to IDEM as well. The
IDEM submittal must include a proof of publication, verification that the
jurisdictional entity approved the plan, and a $100 fee. For Boone County
Surveyor's office, copies of the final, approved construction plans, stormwater
drainage technical report, stormwater pollution prevention plan for
construction sites (if the total disturbance is one acre or more), and post-
construction stormwater pollution prevention plan shall also accompany the
above-noted written notification and proof of publication. The number of
required copies varies from case to case and additional copies may be requested
by the Boone County Surveyor's office. A pre-construction meeting is required
to be held with the participation of the Boone County Surveyor's office and
other entities involved prior to any grading activity to ensure that
appropriate perimeter control measures have been implemented on the site and
the location of any existing tiles has been properly marked.
   (E)   Once construction starts, the project owner shall monitor construction
activities and inspect all stormwater pollution prevention measures to verify
compliance with this chapter and the terms and conditions of the approved
permit. Upon completion of construction activities, as-built plans must be
submitted to the Boone County Surveyor's office. A Notice of Termination (NOT)
shall be sent to the Boone County Surveyor's office once the construction site
has been stabilized and all temporary erosion and sediment control measures
have been removed. The Boone County Surveyor, or a representative, shall
inspect the construction site to verify the requirements for an NOT have been
met. Once the applicant receives a "verified" copy of the NOT, they must
forward a copy to IDEM if the total disturbance is one acre or more. Permits
issued under this scenario will expire five years from the date of issuance. If
construction is not completed within five years, the NOI must be resubmitted at
least 90 days prior to expiration.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 153.097 INFORMATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Specific projects or activities may be exempt from all or part of the
informational requirements listed below. Exemptions are detailed in the
applicability and exemptions of §§
153.025 et seq., §§
153.045 et seq., §§
153.065 et seq. and §§
153.080 et seq. If a project or activity is exempt from any or all requirements
of this chapter, an application should be filed listing the exemption criteria
met, in lieu of the information requirements listed below. This level of
detailed information is not required from individual lots, disturbing less than
one acre of land, developed within a larger permitted project site. Review and
acceptance of such lots is covered under §
153.065.
   (B)   The different elements of a permit submittal include a Draft Notice of
Intent (NOI), proof of publication of a public notice, construction plans, a
stormwater drainage technical report, a stormwater pollution prevention plan
for active construction sites, a post-construction stormwater pollution
prevention plan, and any other necessary supporting information. All plans,
reports, calculations, and narratives shall be signed and sealed by a
professional engineer or a licensed surveyor, registered in the State of
Indiana.
   (C)   Draft notice of intent. The NOI is a standard form developed by the
Indiana Department of Environmental Management which requires general project
information. As part of the Boone County Stormwater Management Permit
application package, the NOI form should be completed in full based on data and
information available at the time of application.
   (D)   An updated version of this form, accompanied by proof of publication
in a newspaper of general circulation in the affected area that notified the
public that a construction activity is to commence, will need to be resubmitted
later after the stormwater management permit is granted and at least 48 hours
prior to commencement of construction. The publication must include the
following language:
   "(Company name, address) is submitting an NOI letter to notify the Boone
County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor and the Indiana Department
of Environmental Management of our intent to comply with the requirements of
the Boone County Stormwater Management Ordinance, as well as the requirements
of 327 IAC 15-5 and 327 IAC 15-13, to discharge stormwater from construction
activities for the following project: (name of the construction project,
address of the location of the construction project, and Parcel Identification
Number). Run-off from the project site will discharge to (stream(s) receiving
the discharge(s))."
   (E)   Construction plans. Construction plan sheets (larger than 11 inches by
17 inches, but not to exceed 24 inches by 36 inches in size) and an
accompanying narrative report shall describe and depict the existing and
proposed conditions. Note that in order to gain an understanding of and to
evaluate the relationship between the proposed improvements for a specific
project section/phase and the proposed improvements for an overall multi-
section (phased) project, the detailed information requested herein for the
first section/phase being permitted must be accompanied by an overall project
plan that includes the location, dimensions, and supporting analyses of all
detention/retention facilities, primary conveyance facilities, and outlet
conditions. Construction plans need to include items listed in the application
checklist provided in the Boone County Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
   (F)   Stormwater drainage technical report. A written stormwater drainage
technical report must contain a discussion of the steps taken in the design of
the stormwater drainage system. Note that in order to gain an understanding of
and to evaluate the relationship between the proposed improvements for a
specific project section/phase and the proposed improvements for an overall
multi-section (phased) project, the detailed information requested herein for
the first section/phase being permitted must be accompanied by an overall
project plan that includes the location, dimensions, and supporting analyses of
all detention/retention facilities, primary conveyance facilities, and outlet
conditions. The technical report needs to include items listed in the
application checklist provided in the Boone County Stormwater Technical
Standards Manual.
   (G)   Stormwater pollution prevention plan for construction sites. For sites
with total disturbance of one acre or more, a stormwater pollution prevention
plan (SWPPP) associated with construction activities must be designed to, at
least, meet the requirements of this chapter. The SWPPP must include items
listed in the application checklist provided in the Boone County Stormwater
Technical Standards Manual. For land disturbances totaling less than one acre
but greater than 10,000 square feet, appropriate erosion and sediment control
measures that are consistent with the Boone County Technical Standards must be
designed and shown on the plans.
   (H)   Post-construction stormwater pollution prevention plan. For sites with
total disturbance of 10,000 square feet or more, a post-construction stormwater
pollution prevention plan must be designed to, at least, meet the requirements
of this chapter and must include the information provided in the Boone County
Technical Standards Manual. The post-construction stormwater pollution
prevention plan must include items listed in the application checklist provided
in the Boone County Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 153.098 REVIEW OF INDIVIDUAL WITHIN A PERMITTED PROJECT.
   (A)   For individual lots disturbing 10,000 square feet or more of total
land area, a formal review and issuance of an individual lot plot plan permit
will be required before a building permit can be issued. Similarly, for
individual lots disturbing less than 10,000 square feet of total land area,
developed within a larger permitted project, a formal review and issuance of an
individual lot plot plan permit will be required before a building permit can
be issued. All stormwater management measures necessary to comply with this
chapter must be implemented in accordance with permitted plan for the larger
project.
   (B)   The following information must be submitted to the Boone County
Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor, for review and acceptance, by the
individual lot operator, whether owning the property or acting as the agent of
the property owner, as part of a request for review and issuance of an
individual lot plot plan permit that must be obtained prior to the issuance of
a building permit.
      (1)   A site layout for the subject lot and all adjacent lots showing
building pad location, dimensions, and elevations, and the drainage patterns
and swales.
      (2)   Erosion and sediment control plan that, at a minimum, includes the
following measures:
         (a)   Installation and maintenance of a stable construction site
access;
         (b)   Installation and maintenance of appropriate perimeter erosion
and sediment control measures prior to land disturbance;
         (c)   Minimization of sediment discharge and tracking from the lot;
         (d)   Clean-up of sediment that is either tracked or washed onto
roads. Bulk clearing of sediment shall not include flushing the area with
water. Cleared sediment must be redistributed or disposed of in a manner that
is in compliance with all applicable statutes and rules;
         (e)   Adjacent lots disturbed by an individual lot operator must be
repaired and stabilized with temporary or permanent surface stabilization; and
         (f)   Self-monitoring program including plan and procedures.
      (3)   Certification of Compliance stating that the individual lot plan is
consistent with the stormwater management permit, as approved by the Boone
County Drainage Board for the larger project.
      (4)   Name, address, telephone number, and list of qualifications of the
trained individual in charge of the mandatory stormwater pollution prevention
self-monitoring program for the project site.
   (C)   The individual lot operator is responsible for installation and
maintenance of all erosion and sediment control measures until the site is
stabilized.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 153.099 CHANGES TO PLANS.
   Any changes or deviations in the detailed plans and specifications after
approval of the applicable stormwater management permit shall be filed with,
and accepted by, the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor
prior to the land development involving the change. Copies of the changes, if
accepted, shall be attached to the original plans and specifications.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 153.100 FEE STRUCTURE.
   (A)   Fee amount. As a condition of the submittal and the review of
development plans by Boone County, the applicant shall agree to pay the Boone
County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor the applicable fee, as set
by the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor with respect to
the review of all drainage submittals, preliminary plans, final plans,
construction plans and accompanying information and data, as well as pre-paid
inspection fees.
   (B)   Time of payment. After the meeting at which the Boone County Drainage
Board and/or Boone County Surveyor is scheduled to consider acceptance of the
applicant's final stormwater management plan, the Boone County Drainage Board
and/or Boone County Surveyor will furnish a written statement to the applicant
specifying the total amount due the Boone County Drainage Board in connection
with the review of the applicant's submittals, plans and accompanying
information and data, including the amount required to be paid by applicant for
review and pre-paid inspection fees.
   (C)   As a condition of acceptance of final drainage plans by the Boone
County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor, applicant shall pay to the
Boone County Drainage Board the sum set forth in said statement. The Boone
County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor may issue such a billing
statement before the project advances to the final acceptance stage, and such
payment is due by applicant upon receipt of said billing statement regardless
of whether the project is advanced to the final acceptance stage.
   (D)   The Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor shall
have the right to not accept the drainage improvements or to not approve the
advancement of any project for which the applicable fees have not been paid.
   (E)   Method of payment. Fees shall be paid by one of the following methods:
      (1)   Certified check;
      (2)   Cashier's check; or
      (3)   Money order.
   (F)   All checks shall be made payable to the:
                     Boone County Surveyor's Office
                     116 West Washington Street
                     Lebanon, IN 46052
   (G)   Refund of payment. Fees are refundable only if the Boone County
Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor determines that compliance by the
development to this chapter is not necessary.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 153.101 REQUIRED ASSURANCES.
   As a condition of approval and issuance of the permit, the Boone County
Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor shall require the applicant to
provide assurance in form of an irrevocable letter of credit or a bond when the
stormwater management plan has been accepted and before construction begins.
Said assurance will guarantee a good faith execution of the stormwater drainage
plan, the stormwater pollution prevention plan, the stormwater quality
management plan, and any permit conditions. The assurance shall be for an
amount equal to 110% of the total costs of all stormwater management measures
for the entire project. The above mentioned costs shall be based on an estimate
as prepared by a registered engineer or land surveyor. Said costs shall be for
the installation and ongoing monitoring and maintenance of erosion control
measures and the construction and ongoing monitoring and maintenance of storm
drainage infrastructure, detention/retention facilities, and stormwater quality
BMPs, as regulated under this chapter, until the construction is completed,
site is stabilized, and as-built plans are accepted by the Boone County
Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor. Assurances shall be for a minimum
of $5,000. Local governmental jurisdictions may require additional performance
and/or maintenance assurances. The intent of this assurance is not only to
complete the installation of storm drain infrastructure for the project, but
also to assure that adequate stormwater pollution prevention measures are
properly installed and maintained. If adequate assurances are set aside by the
project site owner for the overall project, proof of total assurance can be
submitted in place of an individual stormwater assurance.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 153.102 TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF PERMITS.
   (A)   In granting a stormwater management permit, the Boone County Drainage
Board and/or Boone County Surveyor may impose such terms and conditions as are
reasonably necessary to meet the purposes of this chapter. The project site
owner shall insure compliance with such terms and conditions. Non-compliance
with the terms and conditions of permits will be subject to enforcement as
described in §
153.115.
   (B)   The project site owner shall inform all general contractor,
construction management firms, grading or excavating contractors, utility
contractors, and the contractors that have primary oversight on individual
building lots of the terms and conditions of the stormwater management permit
and the schedule for proposed implementation.
   (C)   In the event that a project site is determined to impact or discharge
to a sensitive area or is located in an impact drainage area, the Boone County
Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor may require more stringent
stormwater quantity and quality measures than detailed in this chapter or in
the Indiana Stormwater Quality Manual.
   (D)   Determination of sensitive areas. Sensitive areas include highly
erodible soils, wetlands, threatened or endangered species habitat, outstanding
waters, impaired waters, recreational waters, and surface drinking water
sources. A listing of highly erodible soils, outstanding water, impaired water,
recreation water and surface drinking water sources can be found in §§
153.180 et seq. Any discharge from a stormwater practice that is a Class V
injection well shall meet the Indiana groundwater quality standards. If
wetlands are suspected on a site, a wetland delineation should be completed in
accordance with the methodology established by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
(COE). The presence of threatened or endangered species habitat will be
determined by the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor
during the permit review process. Special terms and conditions for development
determined to impact or discharge to any sensitive area shall be included in
the stormwater management permit.
   (E)   Determination of impact drainage areas. The following areas shall be
designated as impact drainage areas, unless good reason for not including them
is presented to the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor.
      (1)   A floodway or floodplain as designated by the most updated Boone
County Code dealing with floodplain regulation.
      (2)   Land within 75 feet of each bank of any ditch within the Boone
County's system.
      (3)   Land within 75 feet of the centerline of any drain tile or enclosed
conduit within the Boone County's system.
   (F)   The Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor is
authorized, but is not required, to classify certain geographical areas as
impact drainage areas. In determining impact drainage areas, the Boone County
Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor shall consider such factors as
topography, soil type, capacity of existing drains, and distance from adequate
drainage facility.
   (G)   Land that does not have an adequate outlet, taking into consideration
the capacity and depth of the outlet, may be designated as an impact drainage
area by the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor. Special
terms and conditions for development within any impact drainage area shall be
included in the stormwater management permit.
   (H)   Designated drainage areas served by regional facilities. The Boone
County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor is authorized, but is not
required, to classify certain geographical areas as designated drainage areas
that are or will be served by regional facilities, such as a regional pond. In
such cases, an Infrastructure Development Fee (IDF) rate may be established for
the designated drainage area. The basis for determining such a fee for a
proposed development or re-development within a designated drainage area will
be as detailed in the Boone County Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 153.103 CERTIFICATION OF AS-BUILT PLANS.
   (A)   After completion of construction of the project and before final
acceptance of the stormwater management plan (the issuance of a "verified"
NOT), a professionally prepared and certified 'as-built' set of plans (record
drawings) shall be submitted to the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone
County Surveyor for review. These as-built plans/record drawings must be
prepared and certified by the Engineer of Record, i.e., the company/engineer
who originally prepared the construction plans. Additionally, a digital copy of
the 'as-built' plans (record drawings) as well as finalized digital versions of
all analyses, models, manuals, and reports that are consistent with the as-
built conditions is required in a format accepted by the Boone County Drainage
Board and/or Boone County Surveyor that they can be electronically filed for
any future reference. These plans shall include all pertinent data relevant to
the completed storm drainage system and stormwater management facilities, and
shall include:
      (1)   Pipe size and pipe material;
      (2)   Invert elevations;
      (3)   Top rim elevations;
      (4)   Elevation of the emergency overflow (spillway) for ponds;
      (5)   Grades along the emergency flood routing path(s);
      (6)   Pipe structure lengths;
      (7)   BMP types, dimensions, and boundaries/easements;
      (8)   “As-planted” plans for BMPs, as applicable;
      (9)   Data and calculations showing detention basin storage volume;
      (10)   Data and calculations showing BMP treatment capacity; and
      (11)   Certified statement on plans stating the completed storm drainage
system and stormwater management facilities substantially comply with
construction plans and the stormwater management permit as approved by the
Boone County Drainage Board. (See certificate in Stormwater Technical Standards
Manual.)
   (B)   The property owner, developer, or contractor shall be required to file
a three-year maintenance bond or other acceptable guarantee with the Boone
County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor, prior to acceptance, in an
amount not to exceed 25% of the cost of the stormwater drainage system located
outside the public road right-of-ways, and in a form satisfactory to the Boone
County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor's attorney in order to
assure that such stormwater system installation was done according to standards
of good workmanship, that the materials used in the construction and
installation were of good quality and construction, and that such project was
done in accordance with the accepted plans, and this chapter. The bond or other
acceptable guarantee shall be in effect for a period of three years after the
date of the final project acceptance (issuance of a "verified" NOT) by the
Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor.
   (C)   To verify that all regulated drain tiles are functioning properly,
visual recordings (via closed circuit television) of such tile drains shall be
required, once following the completion of installation (including the
installation of all utility mains) and the second time before release of
maintenance bonds. These visual recordings will be scheduled by the Boone
County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor and paid for by the
developer. Notices shall be provided to the Boone County Drainage Board and/or
Boone County Surveyor within 72 hours following the completion of installation
and again at least 60 days prior to the expiration date of the maintenance bond
so that the noted recordings may be scheduled. Reports summarizing the results
of the noted visual recordings shall be reviewed and accepted by the Boone
County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor before the plat is
recommended for recording and again before maintenance bond would be
recommended to be released.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-20-2015)
Figure 1: Permit Approval Process
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1338.jpg]
 
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-20- 2015)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.115 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS ORDINANCE.
   In addition to the requirements of this chapter, compliance with the
requirements set forth in the local zoning ordinances is also necessary.
Compliance with all applicable ordinances of Boone County Drainage Board and/or
Boone County Surveyor as well as with applicable State of Indiana statues and
regulations shall also be required. Unless otherwise stated, all other
specifications referred to in this chapter shall be the most recent edition
available. Violations of the requirements of this chapter are subject to the
penalties listed below.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 153.116 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person found in violation of any provision of this chapter shall
be responsible for a civil infraction and subject to a maximum fine of $5,000
for a first offense, and a maximum of $10,000 for a subsequent offense, plus
costs, damages, and expenses. Each day such violation occurs or continues shall
be deemed a separate offense and shall make the violator liable for the
imposition of a fine for each day. The rights and remedies provided for in this
section are cumulative and in addition to any other remedies provided by law.
An admission or determination of responsibility shall not exempt the offender
from compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person who aids or abets a person in a violation of this chapter
shall be subject to the penalties provided in this section.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, SUBSEQUENT OFFENSE means a violation of
the provisions of this chapter committed by the same person within 12 months of
a previous violation of the same provision of this chapter for which said
person admitted responsibility or was adjudicated to be responsible.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 153.117 STOP WORK ORDER.
   (A)   In addition to the penalties listed above, if land disturbance
activities are conducted contrary to the provisions of this chapter or accepted
final stormwater management plans, the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone
County Surveyor may order the work stopped by notice in writing served on any
person engaged in the doing or causing of such work to be done, and any such
persons shall forthwith stop such work until authorized by the Boone County
Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor to proceed with the work. The Boone
County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor may also undertake or cause
to be undertaken, any necessary or advisable protective measures to prevent
violations of this chapter or to avoid or reduce the effects of noncompliance
herewith. The cost of any such protective measures shall be the responsibility
of the owner of the property upon which the work is being done and the
responsibility of any person carrying out or participating in the work.
   (B)   Any person who neglects or fails to comply with a stop work order
shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not
less than $1,000 or imprisonment for not more than three months, or both such
fine and imprisonment, and such person shall also pay such costs as may be
imposed in the discretion of the court. A permit reinstatement fee may also be
assessed by the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 153.118 FAILURE TO COMPLY OR COMPLETE.
   In addition to any other remedies, should any owner fail to comply with the
provisions of this chapter, the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County
Surveyor may, after giving notice and opportunity for compliance, have the
necessary work done, and the owner shall be required to promptly reimburse the
Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor for all costs of such
work.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 153.119 SUSPENSION OF ACCESS TO THE STORM DRAIN SYSTEM.
   (A)   Suspension due to emergency situations. The Boone County Drainage
Board and/or Boone County Surveyor may, without prior notice, suspend storm
drain system discharge access to a person when such suspension is necessary to
stop an actual or threatened discharge which presents or may present imminent
and substantial danger to the environment, or to the health or welfare of
persons, or to the storm drain system or Waters of the United States. If the
violator fails to comply with a suspension order issued in an emergency, the
Boone County Drainage Board may take such steps as deemed necessary to prevent
or minimize damage to the storm drain system or Waters of the United States, or
to minimize danger to persons.
   (B)   Suspension due to the detection of illicit discharge. Any person
discharging to the storm drain system in violation of this chapter may have
their storm drain system access terminated if such termination would abate or
reduce an illicit discharge. The Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone
County Surveyor will notify a violator of the proposed termination of its MS4
access. The violator may petition the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone
County Surveyor for a reconsideration and hearing.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 153.120 CORRECTIVE ACTION.
   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Boone County Drainage Board and/
or Boone County Surveyor from taking such other lawful action as may be
necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. All costs connected therewith
shall accrue to the person or persons responsible. Costs include, but are not
limited to, repairs to the storm drain system made necessary by the violation,
as well as those penalties levied by the EPA or IDEM for violation of the Boone
County NPDES permit, attorney fees, and other costs and expenses.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 153.121 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person to whom any provision of this chapter has been applied may
appeal in writing, not later than 30 days after the action or decision being
appealed from, to the Boone County Board of Commissioners the action or
decision whereby any such provision was so applied. Such appeal shall identify
the matter being appealed, and the basis for the appeal. The Boone County Board
of Commissioners shall consider the appeal and make a decision whereby it
affirms, rejects or modifies the action being appealed. In considering any such
appeal, the Boone County Board of Commissioners may consider the
recommendations of the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor
and the comments of other persons having knowledge of the matter.
   (B)   In considering any such appeal, the Boone County Board of
Commissioners may grant a variance from the terms of this chapter to provide
relief, in whole or in part, from the action being appealed, but only upon
finding that the following requirements are satisfied:
      (1)   The application of the chapter provisions being appealed will
present or cause practical difficulties for a development or development site;
provided, however, that practical difficulties shall not include the need for
the developer to incur additional reasonable expenses in order to comply with
the chapter; and
      (2)   The granting of the relief requested will not substantially prevent
the goals and purposes of this chapter, nor result in less effective management
of stormwater runoff.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-20-2015)
CHAPTER 154: STREETS AND ROADS
Section
Road Numbering and Naming
   
154.01   Purpose
   
154.02   Definitions
   
154.03   Property address numbering system
   
154.04   Property addressing
   
154.05   Responsibility for property addressing and road numbering
   
154.06   Naming of streets and roads
   
154.07   Requirements for obtaining street addresses
   
154.08   Incorporated cities and towns
   
154.09   Effective date
ROAD NUMBERING AND NAMING
§ 154.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter shall be to set standards for house numbering
and road naming in Boone County, Indiana, and establish the authority and
methods to be used when assigning street addresses to properties in the county.
These standards shall be used to establish residence locations which will be
used in the implementation of an Enhanced 911 emergency response system in
Boone County. It is intended to provide continuity, avoid duplication and
prevent general confusion regarding the location of a developed parcels of land
in the county.
(Ord. 93-4, passed 5-10-1993)
§ 154.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADDRESS PLANNING AUTHORITY. The Boone County Area Plan Commission shall
serve as the coordinating body in Boone County with the responsibility for
assigning street addresses within its jurisdiction. The agency shall coordinate
its addressing efforts with the Boone County Sheriff; local postmasters; and
large mailers in the county such as utilities, government and the like.
   BASE LINES. Existing recognizable lines which divide the county into
quadrants or sectors. The Second Principal Meridian, East SR 32, and Baseline
Road are base lines in Boone County.
   BLOCK INTERVAL. The hundred number interval is the distance between grid
lines or the point where the next highest block number designation is used.
   CUSTOMER (ADDRESSEE). A family, individual, residence, business or industry
which receives mail at a delivery point.
   FRONTAGE INTERVAL. The distance in foot frontage along a street, highway or
county road which is used to assign consecutive property numbers, beginning
from the nearest grid or base line. The address system used by Boone County
assumes a frontage interval of 12 feet.
   GRID LINES. Imaginary lines or actual county roads which are located a
specific distance from and perpendicular or parallel to base lines. These lines
indicate the point where block numbers change from 100 to the next higher
hundred. GRID LINES are used to standardize the numbering of parallel blocks at
the same distance from the base lines.
   LOT. A designated parcel, tract, development or area of land which either is
now being or will be used eventually for construction of a structure.
   PRIMARY ADDRESS NUMBER (CITY-TYPE ADDRESS). The numeric or alphanumeric
component of a city-type address which proceeds the street name. Example: 1234
E 2005.
   STRUCTURE. A residential home; apartment building; business or commercial
building; industrial or manufacturing building; or publicly owned building
which fronts onto a public street or road.
(Ord. 93-4, passed 5-10-1993)
§ 154.03 PROPERTY ADDRESS NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   (A)   Advantages of a property address numbering system. A street numbering
system and corresponding property addresses provide individual structures with
an exact geographic location in the county. City-type street/road addresses are
necessary in order to provide a structure with a specific and more accurate
identification for efficient mail delivery; to provide an easily identifiable
geographic reference point for quick dispatch of police, fire and emergency
rescue equipment; to provide utility companies with a permanent address record
for billing and service calls tied to a specific structure; and to provide ease
of location identification for friends, service vehicles or other individuals
trying to locate a specific structure or a Boone County street or road. A
numbering system should make it easy for anyone to find the location of a
county road or residential property in a short period of time and it will allow
for a systematic expansion of address numbers as community growth occurs.
   (B)   The grid coordinate system.
      (1)   Boone County has structured the naming of its road system and the
issuance of property addresses based on the Lyman/Purdue Street Numbering
System. The system is better known as the Grid Coordinate System. The system
utilizes two base lines which run at approximate right angles to each other to
divide the county into quadrants. Most of the county roads are numbered based
on their distance from the north-south and east-west base lines. In Boone
County the north-south base line consists of the Second Principal Meridian Line
which runs directly through the courthouse building.
      (2)   The east-west baseline consists of East SR 32 in the eastern half
of the county and Base Line Road in the western half of the county. Some
streets/roads have only common names and all angular, jogging or diagonal
streets/roads have been designated with common names. Examples: Pumpkinvine
Road, Hunt Club Road, Grassy Road, Elizaville Road, Darlington Road.
   (C)   County road names and numbers. Existing posted county street/road
numbers or names will be used to delineate an assumed distance in feet from a
base line or each other (grid lines) even though a true measurement to the road
is not exactly the distance stated on the road sign. EXAMPLE: County Road 500E
may not be exactly five miles distant from the Second Principal Meridian but
for purposes of street addressing the posted road sign will remain 500E and
address numbers located east of the posted road will start with the number 5
and designate the East 5000 block of addresses. All address measurements will
be taken from the middle of an intersection.
   (D)   Property numbering intervals. Street addresses are assigned in
increasing order from each base and grid line. In Boone County, 1,000 potential
property addresses exist for each 5,200 feet (one mile) of distance from the
base lines. There are approximately 50 address numbers that will be available
for each side of the street/road within each tenth of a mile. All of those
available numbers will probably not be needed, depending on the density of
development along a along the street/road. Therefore, addresses occur at each
12-foot interval and block numbers change every 528 linear feet along a street/
road. A specific street/road address is determined by measuring the number of
12-foot intervals between the nearest grid line or county street/road signpost
to the front entrance of a structure.
(Ord. 93-4, passed 5-10-1993)
§ 154.04 PROPERTY ADDRESSING.
   (A)   Assignment of official permanent property addresses. All residences;
commercial; industrial; and public structures located in Boone County shall be
assigned a permanent city-type street address. Structures located on the north
side of an east-west street/road and those located on the west side of a north-
south street/road shall have an even numbered property address. Structures
located on the south side of an east-west street/road and those located on the
east side of a north-south street/road shall have an odd number. Street
addresses are to be assigned based on a measurement of the distance from the
nearest grid line to the front entrance of the structure, not to side drives or
to other entrances. A structure shall always be addressed to the street/road in
which the front entrance faces.
   (B)   Determining a property address.
      (1)   An official street address shall contain no more than five digits
with the first digit, or the first two digits if the structure is located ten
or more miles from the north-south baseline, indicating the milepost or
distance from the base lines. The second or third digit shall indicate the
block number which will change each 528 linear feet. The last two digits
indicate the number of 12-foot intervals from the structure to the nearest
block or grid line.
      (2)   Example: A home is located 1,000 feet east of County Road 500E on
the north side of CR 4008. The address would start with the number 5. The
second number would be the block number and would consist of the number 1
(1000528=1+472). The final two digits would be 4 and 0 (472-12= 39.333 rounded
to an even 40). The final address of the structure would be 5140 E CR 400 S.
      (3)   Note: At the far western and far eastern portions of Boone County
where the distance from the base lines exceed ten miles (for example 1000E or
1100W), then each address will contain five digits and the first two numbers
will indicate the distance from the base line. Example: 11230 E. CR 100 N.
   (C)   Placement and size of address numbers.
      (1)   Once a property address has been assigned to a specific structure,
it shall be the responsibility of the property owner or resident to provide the
address number on the structure or on the mailbox or mailbox post in rural
areas. Numbers are to be placed on structures in a location which faces the
street upon which it is addressed. The first four or five numbers of the
address and the complete address if desired should be placed on the structure
near a main entry door or on a cornice, porch and the like located above the
main entry door. The letters should be located at least five feet above the
threshold on the right side of any entrance door. On rural mailboxes, the
numbers and lettering shall be located on the mailbox or the mailbox post.
Numbers and lettering shall be located on the side of the mailbox or the
mailbox post facing the postal route carrier. Numbers and lettering may be
placed on both sides of the mailbox or post if so desired by the customer. In
all situations property number lettering shall exceed two inches in vertical
height and the color of the letters shall contrast with the background of the
mailbox or mailbox post in order to be readable.
      (2)   Street address numbers and lettering should be placed in a visible
location on all residential, commercial, industrial and public structures on or
before January 1, 1994.
(Ord. 93-4, passed 5-10-1993)
§ 154.05 RESPONSIBILITY FOR PROPERTY ADDRESSING AND ROAD NUMBERING.
   (A)   Area Plan Commission responsibilities. In the unincorporated areas of
Boone County, the responsibility for the issuance of street addresses shall be
assigned to the staff of the Boone County Area Plan Commission. I.C. 36-7-4-405
grants a plan commission the power to prescribe a numbering system, assign
street numbers and approve the naming of all streets in platted subdivisions.
The Area Plan Commission shall issue and keep a permanent record of all issued
property addresses within its jurisdiction and share the addresses with local
postal authorities and E-911 personnel. Determination of county road or highway
names or changes in such names shall be the sole responsibility of the Boone
County Commissioners and the Boone County Highway Department. The Area Plan
Commission shall have final approval in the naming of streets in platted
subdivisions, mobile home parks, commercial or industrial business parks and
the like under its jurisdiction. Local incorporated communities shall have
final approval in the naming of roads and subdivision streets located within
their corporate boundaries.
   (B)   U.S. postal service responsibilities.
      (1)   Contrary to popular opinion, it is not the responsibility of the
U.S. Postal Service to assign property addresses in a political jurisdiction.
The role of the Postal Service is to serve as a consultant to the local
government agency responsible for property addressing. The Postal Service does
reserve the right to refuse to adopt a property address system when it is
determined that a system will prohibit the Postal Service from providing cost
effective service to the customer. Authority for approval of a property address
program must be granted by the Delivery, Distribution and Transportation
Department of the U.S. Postal Service.
      (2)   The Postal Service must adopt city-style addresses as approved by
the local addressing authority as soon as possible after the conversion from
rural routes, subject to current postal regulations. The initial customer
notification of a new address should be made by the local addressing authority
at its expense. The local postmaster shall join with the Boone County
Commissioners and the local addressing authority to send an initial
notification letter to the customer. The letter will inform the customer that
an address system change has been implemented by Boone County; that the
Customer is affected by this change; that Boone County and the Postal Service
support the change; that customers will soon will receive their new address by
mail from the addressing authority; that their mail should begin to reflect the
new address by a specific date; and that change of address cards are available
from the Postal Service to notify mailers to the customer. The Postal Service
shall be responsible for informing bulk mailers of the address conversions and
completing all internal procedures necessary to implement the address changes.
      (3)   Address lists or name and address information is provided by the
postal service to the local addressing authority for purposes of address
conversion only. Lists of names and address may not be legally provided by the
addressing authority to any other interest such as taxing authorities, mailers,
utilities and the like unless allowed by state or federal law.
(Ord. 93-4, passed 5-10-1993)
§ 154.06 NAMING OF STREETS AND ROADS.
   (A)   Street classifications. In Boone County collector streets are
designated with the titles of boulevard; parkway; U.S. highway; state road;
avenue; and drive. Connecting streets are designated with the titles of way;
loop; lane; and trail. Streets which end in a cul-de-sac or a dead end are
referred to as circle; place; or court.
   (B)   Naming of streets in public and private subdivisions. A land developer
may suggest street names and addresses in a development but may not insist on
their approval or implementation by the Boone County Area Plan Commission.
Private driveways shall not be given official street names nor shall they be
assigned official street addresses using the name of the private drive since
these streets/roads have not been approved for construction or accepted into
the Boone County roadway system by the Boone County Commissioners and do not
appear on official highway maps. Private driveways shall be assigned street
addresses on the nearest federal, state or county street/road.
(Ord. 93-4, passed 5-10-1993)
§ 154.07 REQUIREMENTS FOR OBTAINING STREET ADDRESSES.
   (A)   A person or business who submits an application to build a new
structure in Boone County shall shall submit a certified plot plan as is
normally required to obtain a building permit. Prior to issuance of a building
permit, the Area Plan Commission staff shall issue an official permanent
street/road address for the structure. It is this official address that will be
forwarded to postal officials, the Boone County Auditor and local utilities. No
other address shall be used for identification of the structure.
   (B)   In no case shall an individual or business be permitted to assign an
address to his, her or its property or a structure on that property. Addressing
is the sole responsibility of the Boone County Area Plan Commission and the
local incorporated cities and towns in Boone County. The postal services shall
only recognize addresses issued by these agencies.
(Ord. 93-4, passed 5-10-1993)
§ 154.08 INCORPORATED CITIES AND TOWNS.
   The Boone County Area Plan Commission and the Boone County Commissioners do
not have political jurisdiction over the implementation of numbering systems
within the incorporated cities and towns in Boone County. Numbering in these
communities shall be the responsibility of the local plan commission, town
board or city council. However, the Boone County Commissioners may require that
city-type addresses be implemented in these communities for purposes of
defining structures for E-911 identification. All structures in Boone County
shall be required to have city-type property addresses including those in
incorporated communities. The rural route and box system now in place in some
incorporated communities shall be eliminated and city-type addresses shall be
assigned to all structures in the communities by June 1, 1994. Communities
shall follow the existing address system now in place in the community, or
develop a system which utilizes north-south and east-west base lines as
described in §
154.03.
(Ord. 93-4, passed 5-10-1993)
§ 154.09 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   All structures in Boone County shall have their new addresses posted on
their structure, mailbox or mailbox post by January 1, 1994. Customers of the
Postal Service shall have until June 1, 1994, to communicate their new address
to all of their mailers. No mail will be forwarded to rural route and box
number type postal addresses in Boone County by the Postal Service after June
1, 1994.
(Ord. 93-4, passed 5-10-1993)
CHAPTER 155: HOUSING PROVISIONS
Section
   
155.01   Interpretation and enforcement
   
155.02   Legislative finding
   
155.03   Purposes
   
155.04   Scope
   
155.05   Title
   
155.06   Definitions
   
155.07   Responsibilities of owners and occupants
   
155.08   Minimum standards for basic equipment and facilities
   
155.09   Minimum standards for light and ventilation
   
155.10   Minimum thermal standards
   
155.11   General requirements relating to the safe and sanitary maintenance of
parts of dwelling units and premises thereof
   
155.12   Maximum density, minimum space, use and location requirements
   
155.13   Rooming houses, rooming units, dormitories, dormitory rooms
   
155.14   Designation of unfit dwellings and legal procedure of condemnation
   
155.15   Inspection of dwellings, dwelling units, rooming units and premises
§ 155.01 INTERPRETATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   The following general provisions shall apply in the interpretation and
enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 91-4, passed 7-15-1991)
§ 155.02 LEGISLATIVE FINDING.
   It is hereby found that there exist and may in the future exist, within
Boone County, Indiana, premises, dwellings, dwelling units, rooming units or
parts thereof, which by reason of their structure, equipment, sanitation,
maintenance, use or occupancy affect or are likely to affect adversely the
public health (including the physical, mental and social well-being of persons
and families), safety and general welfare. To correct and prevent the existence
of such adverse conditions, and to achieve and maintain the levels of
residential environmental quality as will protect and promote public health,
safety and general welfare, it is further found that the establishment and
enforcement of minimum housing standards are required.
(Ord. 91-4, passed 7-15-1991)
§ 155.03 PURPOSES.
   It is hereby declared that the purpose of this chapter is to protect,
preserve and promote the physical and mental health and social well-being of
the people, to prevent and control the incidence of communicable diseases, to
reduce environmental hazards to health, to regulate privately- and publicly-
owned dwellings for the purpose of maintaining adequate sanitation and public
health and to protect the safety of the people and to promote the general
welfare by legislation which shall be applicable to all dwellings now in
existence or hereafter constructed. It is hereby further declare that the
purpose of this chapter is to insure that the quality of housing is adequate
for protection of public health, safety and general welfare, including:
establishment of minimum standards for basic equipment and facilities for
light, ventilation and thermal conditions, for safety from fire and accidents,
for the use and location and amount of space for human occupancy and for an
adequate level of maintenance; determination of the responsibilities of owners,
operators and occupants of dwellings; and provision for the administration and
enforcement thereof.
(Ord. 91-4, passed 7-15-1991)
§ 155.04 SCOPE.
   The provisions fo this chapter shall apply uniformly to the construction,
maintenance, use and occupancy of all residential buildings and structures
where applicable, and shall apply uniformly to the alteration, repair,
equipment, use, occupancy and maintenance of all existing residential buildings
and structures, within the jurisdiction of Boone County, Indiana, irrespective
of when or under what code or codes such buildings or structures were
originally constructed or rehabilitated.
(Ord. 91-4, passed 7-15-1991)
§ 155.05 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Housing and
Environmental Standards Ordinance of Boone County, Indiana hereinafter referred
to as this chapter.
(Ord. 91-4, passed 7-15-1991)
§ 155.06 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement
of this chapter.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. A detached building or structure in a
secondary or subordinate capacity from the main or principal building or
structure on the same premises.
   APPROVED. Approved by the local or state authority having the administrative
authority.
   ASHES. The residue from the burning of combustible materials.
   ATTIC. Any story situated wholly or partly within the roof, and so designed,
arranged or built as to be used for business, storage or habitation.
   BASEMENT. A portion of the building located partly underground, but having
not more than one-half of its clear floor-to-ceiling height below the average
grade of the adjoining ground.
   BUILDING. A fixed construction with walls, foundation and roof, such as a
house, factory, garage and the like.
   BULK CONTAINER. Any garbage, rubbish and/or refuse container having a
capacity of two cubic yards or greater and which is equipped with fittings for
hydraulic and/or mechanical emptying, unloading and/or removal.
   CELLAR. A portion of a building located partly or wholly underground, and
having more than one-half of its clear floor-to-ceiling height below the
average grade of the adjoining ground.
   CENTRAL HEATING SYSTEM. A single system supplying heat to one or more
dwelling unit(s) or more than one rooming unit.
   CHIMNEY. A vertical masonry shaft of reinforced concrete, or other approved
non-combustible, heat-resisting material enclosing one or more flues, for the
purpose of removing products of combustion from solid, liquid or gaseous fuel.
   DILAPIDATED. A decayed or deteriorated state which shall render the
structure inadequate for the purpose or use for which it was originally
intended.
   DORMITORY. A building or any part thereof used for institutional living and
sleeping purposes by four or more persons.
   DWELLING. Any enclosed space wholly or partly used or intended to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking and eating; provided that, temporary housing, as
hereinafter defined, shall not be classified as a dwelling. Industrialized
housing and modular construction which conform to nationally accepted industry
standards and used or intended for use for living, sleeping, cooking and eating
purposes shall be classified as DWELLINGS. A mobile home, as hereinafter
defined, shall be classified as a DWELLING.
   DWELLING UNIT. A room or group of rooms located within a dwelling forming a
single habitable unit with facilities used or intended to be used for living,
sleeping, cooking and eating purposes.
   EGRESS. An arrangement of exit facilities to assure a safe means of exit
from buildings.
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making inaccessible
materials that may serve as their food; by poisoning, spraying, fumigating,
trapping or by any other recognized and legal pest elimination methods approved
by the Health Officer.
   FLUSH WATER CLOSET. A toilet bowl which is flushed with water which has been
supplied under pressure and equipped with a water sealed trap above the floor
level.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, serving and non-consumption of food.
   GRADE. The finished ground level.
   HABITABLE ROOM. A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms, water
closet compartments, laundries, furnace rooms, pantries, kitchenettes and
utility rooms of less than 50 square feet of floor space, foyers or connecting
corridors, stairways, closets, storage spaces and workshops, hobby and
recreation areas.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The Boone County Public Health Officer or his or her
authorized representative.
   HEATED WATER. Water heated to a temperature of not less than 120°F at the
outlet.
   HEATING DEVICE. All furnaces, unit heaters, domestic incinerators, cooking
and heating stoves and ranges and other similar devices.
   INFESTATION. The presence within or around a dwelling of any insects,
rodents or other pests.
   JUNK VEHICLE. Any vehicle which is no longer operable or which does not
display a current license.
   LEAD-BASED PAINT. Any paint containing more lead than the level established
by the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission as being the safe level of lead
in residential paint and paint products.
   MEANING OF CERTAIN WORDS. Whenever the words “dwelling”, “dwelling unit”,
“rooming units”, “premises”, “structure” are used herein, they shall be
construed as though they were followed by the words “or any part thereof”.
Words used in the singular include the plural, and the plural the singular, the
masculine gender includes the feminine and the feminine the masculine.
   MOBILE HOME. Any vehicle which is constructed to permit its being used as a
conveyance, either self-propelled or non-self-propelled, upon the public
streets and highways, and which is designed and constructed to permit its
occupancy as a dwelling or sleeping place for one or more persons and which has
no foundation other than wheels, jacks, skirting or other temporary support.
   MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any dwelling containing more than two dwelling units.
   OCCUPANT. Any individual, over one year of age, living, sleeping, cooking or
eating in or having possession of a dwelling unit or a rooming unit.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care, control or management of a
building, or part thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units are let.
   ORDINARY SUMMER CONDITIONS. A temperature 10°F below the highest recorded
temperature in Boone County for the prior ten-year period.
   ORDINARY WINTER CONDITIONS. A temperature 15°F above the lowest recorded
temperature in Boone County for the prior ten-year period.
   OWNER. Any one or more of the following:
      (1)   The owner or owners in fee simple or parcel of real estate
including the life tenant or tenants if any;
      (2)   The record owner or owners as reflected by the Boone County
Recorder’s Office;
      (3)   The purchaser or purchasers of the real estate under any contract
for the conditional sale thereof;
      (4)   The person or persons in control of the property as executor,
executrix, trustee, receiver or guardian of the owner; or
      (5)   Any person acting as agent, or property manager, for the owner
shall not be construed to be an owner within the terms of this chapter, but
shall be bound to notify the owner, by means of registered letter addressed to
the owner at his or her last known address, of any order or notice issued by
the Health Officer relating to the property of the owner.
   PERMISSIBLE OCCUPANCY. The maximum number of individuals permitted to reside
in a dwelling unit, rooming unit or dormitory.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, corporation, association, partnership,
cooperative or governmental agency.
   PLUMBING. All of the following supplied facilities and equipment: gas pipes,
gas burning equipment, water pipes, garbage disposal units, waste pipes, water
closets, sinks, installed dishwashers, lavatories, bathtubs, shower baths,
installed clothes washing machines, catch basins, drains, vents and any other
similar supplied fixtures, and the installation thereof, together with all
connections to water, sewer or gas lines.
   PREMISES. A platted lot or part thereof or unplatted lot or parcel of land
or plot of land, either occupied or unoccupied by any dwelling or non-dwelling
structure, and includes any such building, accessory structure, adjoining alley
easement or drainage way.
   PRIVACY. The existence of conditions which will permit an individual or
individuals to carry out an activity commenced without interruption or
interference, either by sight or sound by unwanted individuals.
   PROPERLY CONNECTED. Connected in accordance with all applicable codes and
ordinances of Boone County or the State of Indiana.
   RAT HARBORAGE. Any conditions or place where rats can live, nest or seek
shelter.
   RATPROOFING. A form of construction which will prevent the ingress or egress
of rats to or from a given space or building, or from gaining access to food,
water or harborage. It consists of the closing and keeping closed of every
opening in foundations, basements, cellars, exterior and interior walls, ground
or first floors, roofs, sidewalk gratings, sidewalk openings and other places
that may be reached and entered by rats by climbing, burrowing or other
methods, by the use of materials impervious to rat gnawing and other methods
approved by the Health Officer.
   REFUSE. All putrescible and non-putrescible solids including garbage,
rubbish, ashes and dead animals.
   REFUSE CONTAINER. A watertight container that is constructed of metal, or
other durable material impervious to rodents, that is capable of being serviced
without creating insanitary conditions; or such other containers as have been
approved by the Health Officer. Openings into the container such as covers and
doors shall be tight fitting.
   ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling or that part or any dwelling, containing one or
more rooming units and/or one or more dormitory rooms and in which persons
either individually or as families are housed with or without meals being
provided.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking
purposes.
   RUBBISH. Non-putrescible solid wastes consisting of either:
      (1)   Combustible wastes such as paper, cardboard, plastic containers,
yard clippings and wood; or
      (2)   Non-combustible wastes such as tin cans, glass and crockery.
   SAFETY. The condition of being reasonable free from danger and hazards which
may cause accidents or disease.
   SPACE HEATER. A self-contained heating appliance of either the convection
type or the radiant type and intended primarily to heat only a limited space or
area such as one room or two adjoining rooms.
   SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished by, provided by or under the control of the
owner, operator or agent.
   TEMPORARY HOUSING. Any tent, trailer or any other structure used for human
shelter which is designed to be transportable and which is not attached to the
ground, to another structure or to any utility system on the same premises for
more than 30 consecutive days.
   TOXIC SUBSTANCE. Any chemical product applied on the surface of or
incorporated into any structural or decorative material which constitutes a
potential hazard to human health at acute or chronic exposure levels.
   UNDEFINED WORDS. Words not specifically defined in this chapter shall have
the common definition set forth in a standard dictionary.
   WEEDS. Vegetation which as attained a height of 12 inches or more and which
constitutes a potential rat harborage or any other health or safety hazard.
(Ord. 91-4, passed 7-15-1991)
§ 155.07 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   No owner or other person shall occupy or let to another person any
dwelling or dwelling unit unless it and the premises are clean, sanitary and
fit for human occupancy.
   (B)   Every owner of a dwelling containing three or more dwelling units
shall maintain in a clean and sanitary condition the shared or public area of
the dwelling and premises thereof.
   (C)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall maintain in a
clean and sanitary condition that part or those parts of the dwelling, dwelling
unit and premises thereof that he or she occupies and controls.
   (D)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall store and dispose
of all his or her rubbish in a clean, sanitary and safe manner.
   (E)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall store dispose of
all his or her garbage, refuse and any other organic waste which might provide
food for insects and/or rodents in a clean, sanitary, safe manner. All garbage
cans and refuse containers shall be rat-proof, insect-proof, water-tight,
structurally strong with tight-fitting covers or similar closures; and shall be
maintained at all times in a clean sanitary condition.
   (F)   The total capacity of all provided garbage and/or refuse cans and bulk
storage containers shall be sufficient to meet the needs of the occupants of
the dwelling.
   (G)   Every owners of a dwelling containing three or more dwelling units
shall supply facilities or refuse containers for the sanitary and safe storage
and/or disposal of rubbish and garbage. In the case of single- or two-family
dwellings, it shall be the responsibility of each occupant to furnish such
facilities or refuse containers.
   (H)   The owners of a dwelling unit shall be responsible for providing and
hanging all screens whenever the same are required under the provisions of this
chapter or any rule or regulation adopted pursuant thereto. Maintenance or
replacement of screens once installed in any one season becomes the
responsibility of the occupant. The occupant’s responsibility shall be
exclusive to his or her dwelling unit.
   (I)   Every occupant of a dwelling containing a single dwelling unit shall
be responsible for the extermination of insects, and/or rats, on the premises;
and every occupant of a dwelling unit in a dwelling containing more than one
dwelling unit shall be responsible for the extermination whenever his or her
dwelling unit is the only one infested. Notwithstanding, the foregoing
provisions of this division, whenever infestation is caused by failure of the
owner to maintain dwelling in a ratproof or reasonable insect-proof condition,
extermination shall be the responsibility of the owner. Whenever infestation
exists in two or more of the dwelling units in any dwelling, or in the shared
or public parts of any dwelling containing two or more dwelling units,
extermination thereof shall be the responsibility of the owner.
   (J)   No buildings, vehicle, structure, receptacle, yard, lot, premises, or
part thereof, shall be construed, made, used, maintained or operated in any
manner causing or producing any health or safety hazard or permitted to become
a rat harborage or to become conducive to rat harborage.
   (K)   No buildings, vehicle, structure, receptacle, yard, lot, premises, or
part thereof, shall be construed, made, used, maintained or operated in any
manner causing or producing any health or safety hazard, or permitted to become
a mosquito harborage or to become conducive to mosquito harborage.
   (L)   No occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall accumulate rubbish,
boxes, lumber, scrap metal, junk vehicles or any other materials in such a
manner that may provide a rat harborage in or about any dwelling, dwelling unit
or its premises. Usable stored materials shall be stacked neatly and elevated
at least 18 inches above the ground or floor.
   (M)   No owner of a dwelling containing three or more dwelling units shall
accumulate or permit the accumulation of rubbish, boxes, lumber, scrap metal,
junk vehicles or any other materials in such a manner that may provide a rat
harborage in or about the shared or public areas of a dwelling or its premises.
Materials stored by the owner or permitted to be stored by the owner shall be
stacked neatly and elevated at least 18 inches above the ground or floor.
   (N)   No owner or occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall store, place
or allow to accumulate any materials which may serve as food for rats in a site
accessible to rats.
   (O)   Every owners of a dwelling containing three or more dwelling units
shall be responsible for cutting and removing all weeds on the premises. In the
case of single or two-family dwellings, it shall be the responsibility of each
occupant to cut and remove all weeds on the premises.
   (P)   Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall keep all supplied fixtures and
facilities therein in a clean, sanitary condition and shall be responsible for
the exercise of reasonable care in the proper use and operation thereof.
   (Q)   It shall be unlawful for any occupant of any dwelling unit, building
or structure of any kind whatever, to vacate the premises without his causing
to be removed therefrom and properly disposed of, all garbage or rubbish or
other objectionable waste of any kind.
   (R)   Every owner of a premises which does not include a vacant structure
shall maintain the premises in a safe and sanitary condition and shall remove
therefrom, and property dispose of, all garbage, rubbish and weeds.
   (S)   Every owner of a premises which does not include a structure shall
maintain the premises in a safe and sanitary condition and shall remove
therefrom, and properly dispose of, all garbage, rubbish and weeds.
   (T)   No person shall deposit or place any refuse or other hazardous
materials in or adjacent to any road, street, alley or other public place
unless it is in proper containers for collection.
   (U)   No personal shall deposit or place any refuse, junk vehicles or other
hazardous materials upon property owned by another without the approval of the
owner of the property.
   (V)   In every dwelling unit and/or rooming unit when the control of the
supplied heat is the responsibility of a person other than the occupant, a
temperature of at least 68°F shall be maintained in all habitable rooms,
bathroom and water closet compartments at a distance of 36 inches above the
floor level.
   (W)   Every owner of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall provide and maintain
the dwelling or dwelling unit, free from hazards to health due to the presence
of toxic substance, e.g. lead-based paint, as determined by the Health Officer.
   (X)   No owner or occupant shall apply a lead-based paint to any surface in
any dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house and/or rooming house and/or rooming
unit.
   (Y)   If, upon reinspection, the Health Officer or his or her designee
determines that abatement has not occurred so that the environmental public
nuisance continues to constitute a menace to the health and safety of the
people of Boone County, then the Health Officer or his or her designee may
enter upon the premises and abate the offending condition.
   (Z)   Any person who has been issued and received notice of an order
concerning code violations, substandard or hazardous health conditions on or
about real property subject to jurisdiction of health and housing standards
herein, pursuant to this chapter, shall:
      (1)   Disclose the order from Boone County Department of Public Health to
any person who may take or agrees to take a substantial property interest in
the property which is the subject of the order or orders written on the
conditions of subject property. This information shall be supplied to any
prospective transferee prior to the effective date of any transfer or agreement
to transfer a substantial property interest in the subject property; and
      (2)   Supply the following information to the Boone County Public Health
Department within five calendar days after there is any transfer or agreement
to transfer a substantial property interest in the subject property;
         (a)   The full name, address and telephone number of the person taking
a substantial interest in the subject property; and
         (b)   A true and exact copy of the legal instrument under which the
transfer or agreement to transfer the substantial property interest is
accomplished.
(Ord. 91-4, passed 7-15-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.08 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR BASIC EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES.
   No person shall occupy as owner, occupant or let to another for occupancy
any dwelling or dwelling unit, for the purpose of living, sleeping, cooking or
eating therein, which does not comply with the following requirements.
   (A)   Every dwelling unit shall have a room or portion of a room in which
food may be prepared and/or cooked, which shall have adequate circulation area
and which shall be equipped with the following:
      (1)   A kitchen sink in good working condition and properly connected to
a water supply system which is approved by the Health Officer and which
provides, at all times, an adequate amount of heated and unheated running water
under pressure, and which is connected to a sewer system approved by the Health
Officer;
      (2)   Cabinets and/or shelves for the storage of eating, drinking and
cooking equipment and utensils and of food that does not under ordinary summer
conditions require refrigeration for safe keeping; and a counter or table for
food preparation; the cabinets and/or shelves and counter or table shall be of
sound construction furnished with surfaces that are easily cleanable and that
will not impart any toxic or harmful effect to food; and
      (3)   A stove, or similar device, for cooking food; and a refrigerator,
or similar device, for the safe storage of food at temperatures less than 45°F,
but more than 32°F, under ordinary summer conditions. Both the stove and
refrigerator, or similar devices, shall be properly installed with all
necessary connections for safe, sanitary and efficient operation; provided that
the stove, refrigerator and/or similar devices need not be installed when a
dwelling unit is not occupied and when the occupant is expected to provide same
on occupancy, and that sufficient space and adequate connections for the safe
and efficient installation and operation of the stove, refrigerator and/or
similar devices are provided.
   (B)   Within every dwelling unit there shall be a non-habitable room which
affords privacy to a person within the room and which is equipped with a flush
water closet in good working condition. The flush water, closet shall be
connected to a water system that at all times provides an adequate amount of
running water under pressure to cause the water closet to be operated properly,
and shall be properly connected to a sewer system which is approved by the
Health Officer.
   (C)   Within every dwelling unit there shall be a lavatory sink. The
lavatory sink may be in the same room as the flush water closet, or, if located
in another room, the lavatory sink shall be located in close proximity to the
door leading directly into the room in which the water closet is located. The
lavatory sink shall be in good working condition and properly connected to a
water supply system which is approved by the Health Officer and which provides
at all times an adequate amount of heated and unheated running water under
pressure and which is properly connected to a sewer system approved by the
Health Officer. Water inlets for lavatory sinks shall be located above the
overflow rim of these facilities.
   (D)   Within every dwelling unit there shall be a room which affords privacy
to a person within the room and which is equipped with a bathtub or shower in
good working condition. The bathtub or shower may be in the same rooms as the
flush water closet or in another room and shall be properly connected to a
water supply system which is approved by the Health Officer and which provides,
at all times, an adequate amount of heated and unheated water under pressure,
and which is connected to a sewer system approved by the Health Officer. Water
inlets for bathtubs shall be located above the overflow rim of these
facilities.
   (E)   Where sewer facilities are not available within 100 feet of the lot
upon which a dwelling unit is located, a private sewage disposal system shall
be required. It shall be of a sanitary type construction approved by the Health
Officer.
   (F)   Every dwelling unit shall have at least two means of egress leading to
safe and open space at ground level. At least one mean of egress must have a
minimum head room of six feet, six inches. Every dwelling unit in a multiple
dwelling shall have immediate access to two or more approved means of egress
with a minimum headroom of six feet, six inches leading to safe and open space
at ground level, or as required by the laws of the State of Indiana. Bedrooms
located below the fourth floor shall be provided with an exterior door or
window of dimensions as to be used as a means of emergency egress.
   (G)   Access to or egress from each dwelling unit shall be provided without
passing through any other dwelling unit.
   (H)   Structurally sound hand rails shall be provided on any steps,
containing four risers or more. Porches, patios and/or balconies located more
than three feet higher than the adjacent area shall have structurally sound
protective guard rails or hand rails.
   (I)   No person shall let to another for occupancy any dwelling or dwelling
unit unless all exterior doors of the dwelling or dwelling unit are equipped
with functioning locking devices.
(Ord. 91-4, passed 7-15-1991)
§ 155.09 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR LIGHT AND VENTILATION.
   No person shall occupy as owner, occupant or let to another for occupancy
any dwelling or dwelling unit, for the purpose of living therein, which does
not comply with the following requirements.
   (A)   Every habitable room shall have at least one window or skylight facing
outdoors provided that if connected to a room or area used seasonally (e.g.
porch) then adequate daylight must be possible through this inter-connection.
The minimum total window or skylight area, measured between stops, for every
habitable room shall be at least 10% of the floor area of the room but if
light-obstruction structures are located less than three feet from the window
and extend to a level above that of the ceiling of the room, the window shall
not be deemed to face directly to the outdoors and shall not be included as
contributing to the required minimum total window area.
   (B)   (1)   Every habitable room shall have at least one window or skylight
facing directly outdoors which can be opened easily, or such other device as
will ventilate the room adequately, provided that is connected to a room or
area used seasonally then adequate ventilation must be possible through this
inter-connection. The total of openable window or skylight area in every
habitable room shall be equal to at least 45% of the minimum window area size
or minimum skylight type window size, as required herein, except where there is
supplied some other device affording adequate ventilation and approved by the
Health Officer.
      (2)   When facilities for interior climate control (heating, cooling and/
or humidity) are integral functions of structures containing dwelling units or
rooming units, the facilities shall be maintained and operated in a continuous
manner and in accordance with the designed capacity of the installed equipment.
During instances when the integral equipment is inoperative because of power or
mechanical failure, alternative provisions for fresh air ventilation of each
dwelling or rooming unit shall be provided.
   (C)   Every bathroom and water closet compartment, and non-habitable room
used for food preparation, shall comply with the light and ventilation
requirement for habitable rooms contained in this chapter, except that no
window or skylight shall be required in such rooms if they are equipped with a
ventilation system in working condition, which is approved by the Health
Officer.
   (D)   (1)   Where there is usable electric service readily available from
power lines which are not more than 300 feet away from a dwelling, every
dwelling unit and all public and common areas shall be supplied with electric
service, outlets and fixtures which shall be properly installed, shall be
maintained in good and safe working condition, and shall be connected to a
source of electric power in a manner prescribed by the ordinances, rules and
regulations of Boone County or the rules and regulations of the city or town in
which the dwelling unit is located.
      (2)   The minimum capacity of the services and the minimum number of
outlets and fixtures shall be as follows:
         (a)   Every dwelling unit shall be supplied with at least one 15-
ampere circuit and the circuit shall not be shared with another dwelling unit.
         (b)   Every habitable room shall contain at least two separate wall
type duplex electric convenience outlets or one duplex convenience outlet and
one supplied wall or ceiling type electric light fixture. No duplex outlet
shall serve more than two fixtures or appliances.
         (c)   Temporary wiring or extension cords shall not be used as
permanent wiring.
         (d)   Every non-habitable room, including water closet compartments,
bathrooms, laundry rooms, furnace rooms and public halls shall contain at least
one supplied ceiling or wall-type electric light fixture.
         (e)   All electric lights and outlets in bathrooms shall be controlled
by switches which are of such design as shall minimize the danger of electric
shock and the lights and outlets shall be installed and maintained so as to
minimize the danger of electric shock.
         (f)   Every public hall and stairway in every multiple dwelling shall
be adequately lighted by natural or artificial light at all times, so as to
provide in all parts thereof at least six footcandles of light at the tread or
floor level. Every public hall and stairway in structures containing not more
than two dwelling units may be supplied with conveniently located light
switches controlling an adequate lighting system which may be turned on when
needed instead of full-time lighting.
(Ord. 91-4, passed 7-15-1991)
§ 155.10 MINIMUM THERMAL STANDARDS.
   No person shall occupy as owner, occupant or let to another for occupancy
any dwelling unit for the purpose of living therein, which does not comply with
the following requirements.
   (A)   Every dwelling shall have heating equipment and appurtenances which
are properly installed, and are maintained in safe and good working condition,
and are capable of safely and adequately heating all habitable rooms, bathrooms
and water closet compartments in every dwelling unit located therein to a
temperature of at least 68°F at a distance of 36 inches above floor level under
ordinary winter conditions.
   (B)   No owner or occupant shall install, operate or use a heating device,
including hot water heating units, which employs the combustion of carbonaceous
fuel, which is not vented to the outside of the structure in an approved
manner, and which is not supplied with sufficient air to support continuously
the combustion of the fuel. All heating devices shall be constructed, installed
and operated in such a manner as to minimize accidental burns.
(Ord. 91-4, passed 7-15-1991)
§ 155.11 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO THE SAFE AND SANITARY MAINTENANCE OF
PARTS OF DWELLING UNITS AND PREMISES THEREOF.
   No person shall occupy as owner, occupant or let to another for occupancy
any dwelling or dwelling unit, for the purpose of living therein, which does
not comply with the following requirements.
   (A)   Every foundation, roof, floor, exterior and interior wall, ceiling,
inside and outside stair, every porch, and every appurtenance thereto, shall be
safe to use and capable of supporting the loads that normal use may cause to be
placed thereon; and shall be kept in sound condition and good repair. Every
inside and outside stair or step shall have uniform risers and uniform treads.
   (B)   Every foundation, roof and exterior wall, door, skylight and window
shall be reasonably weather-tight, water-tight and damp-free, and shall be kept
in sound condition and good repair. Floors, interior walls and ceilings shall
be sound and in good repair. All exterior wood surfaces, other than decay
resistant woods, shall be protected from the elements and decay by paint which
is not lead-based paint or by other protective covering or treatment. Walls
shall be capable of affording privacy for the occupants.
   (C)   Every premises shall be graded, drained, free of standing water and
maintained in a clean, sanitary and safe condition.
   (D)   Unless other provisions are made, gutters, leaders and down-spouts
shall be provided and maintained in good working condition so as to provide
proper drainage of storm water.
   (E)   Every window, exterior door and hatchway or similar device shall be
constructed to exclude insects during that portion of the year when there is a
need for protection against mosquitoes, files and flying insects.
      (1)   Every doorway used for ventilation and opening directly from a
dwelling unit to outside space shall have supplied properly fitting screens
with a self-closing device.
      (2)   Every window or other device with openings to outdoor space, used
for ventilation, shall be supplied with screens: except that such screens shall
not be required in rooms deemed by the Health Officer to be located high enough
as to be free from the insects and/or in rooms located in areas of Boone County
which are deemed by the Health Officer to have so few insects as to render
screens unnecessary.
   (F)   Every dwelling, multiple dwelling, rooming house or accessory
structure and the premises on which located shall be maintained in a rat-free
and ratproof condition.
      (1)   All openings in the exterior walls, foundations, basements, ground
and first floors and roofs which have 1/2-inch diameter or more opening shall
be ratproofed in an approved manner if they are within 48 inches of the
existing exterior ground level immediately below the openings, or if they may
be reached by rats from the ground by climbing unguarded pipes, wires,
cornices, stairs, roofs and other items such as trees or vines or by burrowing.
      (2)   All windows located at or near ground level used or intended to be
used for ventilation, all other openings located at or near ground level, and
all exterior doorways which might provide an entry for rats, shall be supplied
with adequate screens or such other devices as will effectively prevent the
entrance of rats into the structure.
      (3)   All sewers, pipes, drains or conduits and openings around the pipes
and conduits shall be constructed to prevent the ingress or egress of rats to
or from a building.
      (4)   Interior floors of basements, cellars and other areas in contact
with the soil shall be rat-proofed in a mariner approved by the Health Officer.
      (5)   Any materials used for rat-proofing shall be acceptable to the
Health Officer.
   (G)   All fences shall be maintained in good condition and shall not create
a harborage for rats. Wood materials shall be protected against decay by use of
paint which is not read-based paint or by other preservative material.
   (H)   Accessory structures present or provided by the owner, agent or
occupant on the premises of a dwelling shall be structurally sound, and be
maintained in good repair and free of insects and rats. The exterior of the
structures shall be made weather resistant through the use of decay-resistant
materials or the use of lead-free paint or other preservatives.
   (I)   Every plumbing fixture and all water and waste pipes shall be properly
installed and maintained in good sanitary working condition, free from defects,
leaks and obstructions.
   (J)   Every water closet compartment, bathroom and kitchen floor surface
shall be constructed and maintained so as to be reasonable impervious to water
and so as to permit the floor to be easily kept in a clean and sanitary
condition.
   (K)   Every plumbing fixture and pipe, every chimney, flue and smoke pipe,
and every other facility, piece of equipment or utility which is present in a
dwelling or dwelling unit, or which is required under this chapter, shall be
constructed and installed in conformance with the appropriate statutes,
ordinances and regulations of Boone County and the State of Indiana and shall
be maintained in a safe and satisfactory working condition.
   (L)   No owner, operator or occupant shall cause any service, facility,
equipment or utility which is required under this chapter to be removed from or
shut off from or discontinued for any occupied dwelling or dwelling unit let or
occupied by him or her; except for the temporary interruption as may be
necessary while actual repairs or alterations are in process, or during
temporary emergencies when discontinuance of service is approved by the Health
Officer.
(Ord. 91-4, passed 7-15-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.12 MAXIMUM DENSITY, MINIMUM SPACE, USE AND LOCATION REQUIREMENTS.
   No person shall occupy or let to be occupied any dwelling or dwelling unit,
for the purpose of living therein, unless there is compliance with the
requirements of this section.
   (A)   For the first occupant there shall be at least 150 square feet of
floor space and there shall be at least 100 square feet or floor space for
every additional occupant thereof; the floor space to be calculated on the
basis of total habitable room area.
   (B)   The ceiling height of any habitable room shall be at least seven feet;
except that in any habitable room under a sloping ceiling at least one half of
the floor area shall have a ceiling height of at least seven feet, and the
floor area of that part of such a room where the ceiling height is less than
five feet shall not be considered as part of the floor area in computing the
total floor area of the room for the purpose of determining the maximum
permissible occupancy.
   (C)   In every dwelling unit every room occupied for sleeping purposes by
one occupant shall contain at least 70 square feet of floor space for the first
occupant and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than one
occupant shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor space for each occupant
thereof.
   (D)   No dwelling or dwelling unit containing two or more sleeping rooms
shall have such room arrangements that access to a bathroom or water closet
compartment intended for use by occupants of more than one sleeping room can be
had only by going through another sleeping room; nor shall room arrangements be
such that access to sleeping room can be had only by going through another
sleeping room. A bathroom or water closet compartment shall not be used as the
only passageway to any habitable room, hall, basement or cellar or to the
exterior of the dwelling unit.
   (E)   No basement shall be used as a habitable room of a dwelling unit
unless:
      (1)   The floors and walls are impervious to leakage of underground and
surface run-off water and are insulated against dampness;
      (2)   Every window which is below the grade of the ground adjoining the
window shall have a light-well or area-way extending at least 36 inches out
from said window the entire depth and width of the window; and/or
      (3)   All standards and requirements which pertain to habitable rooms, as
contained in this chapter are met.
   (F)   No cellar shall be used as a habitable room of a dwelling unit.
(Ord. 91-4, passed 7-15-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.13 ROOMING HOUSES, ROOMING UNITS, DORMITORIES, DORMITORY ROOMS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a rooming house or dormitory or shall occupy
or let to another for occupancy any dormitory room and/or rooming unit in any
rooming house or dormitory, which is not in compliance with the appropriate
provisions of every section of this chapter. No owner or other person shall
occupy or let to another person any rooming unit or dormitory room unless it is
clean and sanitary, and complies with all applicable requirements of Boone
County.
   (B)   Whenever upon inspection of any rooming house, the Health Officer
finds that conditions or practices exist which are in violation of any
provision of this chapter, the Health Officer shall give notice in writing that
unless the conditions or practices are corrected within a reasonable period, to
be determined by the Health Officer, the operation of the premises as the
rooming house shall be discontinued, and, if the constituted governmental
agency, a recommendation that such license be revoked, for the protection of
public health, shall be given to the licensing governmental body or agency by
the Health Officer. At the end of the period, the Health Officer shall
reinspect the rooming house, and if he or she finds that the conditions or
practices have not been corrected, he or she shall give notice in writing to
the operator that the operations shall cease, and, if the rooming house,
operation is licensed by any duly constituted governmental agency, the Health
Officer shall recommend the immediate revocation of the license by the issuing
agency. Upon receipt of the notice from the Health Officer, the operator shall
immediately cease operation of the rooming house, and no person shall occupy,
for sleeping or living purposes, any rooming unit therein.
   (C)   At least one flush water closet, lavatory basin and bathtub or shower,
properly connected to a water and sewer system approved by the Health Officer
and in good working condition, shall be supplied for each six persons or
fraction thereof residing within a rooming house, including members of the
operator’s family wherever they share the use of the facilities provided:
      (1)   That in a rooming house where rooms are let only to males, flush
urinals may be substituted for not more than one-half the required number of
water closets and provided that there shall be at least one water closet.
      (2)   That all such facilities shall be so located within the dwelling as
to be reasonably accessible to all persons sharing the facilities and from a
common hall or passageway and provided that the facilities are not located more
than one floor above or below the rooming unit or units served.
      (3)   That every lavatory basin and bathtub or shower shall be supplied
with heated and unheated water under pressure at all times.
      (4)   That, if the rooming house has only one bathroom for use by the
occupants of the rooming units, the bathroom shall not be located below grade.
   (D)   The following provisions shall apply in all rooming houses and
dormitories.
      (1)   Cooking in dormitory rooms and rooming units is prohibited.
      (2)   Communal cooking and dining facilities in a rooming house are
prohibited, except as approved by the Health Officer in writing.
      (3)   All food service and dining facilities provided in a rooming house
or dormitory for the occupants of same shall comply with applicable food
service legislation.
      (4)   Access doors to rooming units, dormitory rooms, shall have
operating locks to insure privacy.
   (E)   Unless exempted by the Health Officer in writing, the operator of
every rooming house shall change supplied bed linen and towels therein at least
once a week, and prior to the letting of any room to any occupant, and the
operator shall be responsible for the maintenance of all supplied bedding in a
clean and sanitary manner.
   (F)   Every rooming unit shall comply with all requirements of this chapter
pertaining to a habitable room.
   (G)   Every rooming unit occupied by one person shall contain at least 80
square feet of floor space and every rooming unit occupied by more than one
person shall contain at least 60 square feet for each occupant thereof.
   (H)   Every rooming unit shall have immediate access to two or more approved
means of egress, with minimum head room of six feet, six inches, appropriately
marked, leading to a safe and open space at ground level or a required by the
appropriate statutes, ordinances, and regulations of Boone County and the State
of Indiana.
   (I)   Structurally sound handrails shall be provided on any steps containing
four risers or more. Porches, patios and/or balconies located more than three
feet higher than the adjacent areas shall have structurally sound protective
guard rails or hand rails.
   (J)   Access to or egress from each rooming unit shall be provided without
passing through any other rooming unit.
   (K)   The operator of every rooming house shall be responsible for the
sanitary maintenance of all walls, floors and ceilings, and for maintenance of
a sanitary condition in every other part of the rooming house; and shall be
further responsible for the sanitary maintenance of the entire premises where
the entire structure or building is leased or occupied by the operator.
   (L)   Every provision of this chapter which applies to rooming houses shall
also apply to hotels, except to the extent that any such provision may be found
in conflict with the laws of this state or with the lawful regulations of any
state board or agency.
(Ord. 91-4, passed 7-15-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.14 DESIGNATION OF UNFIT DWELLINGS AND LEGAL PROCEDURE OF CONDEMNATION.
   The designation of dwellings or dwelling units as unfit for human habitation
and the procedure for the condemnation and placarding of the unfit dwellings or
dwelling units shall be carried out in compliance with the following
requirements.
   (A)   Any dwelling or dwelling unit which shall be found to have any of the
following defects shall be condemned as unfit for human habitation and shall be
so designated and placarded by the Health Officer:
      (1)   One which is so damaged, decayed, dilapidated, unsanitary, unsafe
or vermin-infested that it creates a serious hazard to the health of the
occupants or of the public;
      (2)   One which lacks illumination, ventilation or sanitary facilities
adequate to protect the health of the occupants or of the public; and/or
      (3)   One which because of its general condition or location is
insanitary or otherwise dangerous to the health of occupants or of the public.
   (B)   Any dwelling or dwelling unit condemned as unfit for human habitation,
and so designated and placarded by the Health Officer shall be vacated within a
reasonable time, such time to be not less than 24 hours or more than 60 days as
ordered by the Health Officer.
   (C)   No dwelling or dwelling unit which has been condemned and placarded as
unfit for human habitation shall again be used for human habitation until
written approval is secured from and the placard is removed by the Health
Officer. The Health Officer shall remove the placard whenever the defect or
defects upon which the condemnation and placarding action were based have been
eliminated.
   (D)   No person shall deface or remove the placard from any dwelling or
dwelling unit which has been condemned as unfit for human habitation and
placarded as such, except as provided in division (C) above.
   (E)   Any person affected by any notice or order relating to the condemning
and placarding of a dwelling or dwelling unit as unfit for human habitation may
request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the Boone County
Board of Health under the procedure set forth herein.
(Ord. 91-4, passed 7-15-1991)
§ 155.15 INSPECTION OF DWELLINGS, DWELLING UNITS, ROOMING UNITS AND PREMISES.
   The Health Officer is hereby authorized and directed to make inspections to
determine the condition of dwellings, dwelling units and premises located
within Boone County, in order that they may perform their duty of safeguarding
the health and safety of the occupants of dwellings and of the general public.
For the purpose of making the inspections, the Health Officer is hereby
authorized to enter, examine and survey, at proper times upon presenting proper
credentials of identification, all dwellings, dwelling units, rooming units and
premises. The owner or occupant of every dwelling, dwelling unit and rooming
unit, or the person in charge thereof, shall give the Health Officer access to
the dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit and its premises, at proper times
for the purpose of the inspection, examination and survey. Every occupant of a
dwelling or dwelling unit shall give the owner thereof, or his or her agent or
employee, access to any part of the dwelling or dwelling unit, or its premises,
at all reasonable times for the purpose of making the repairs or alterations as
are necessary to effect compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 91-4, passed 7-15-1991)
CHAPTER 156: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
156.001   Effective date
   
156.002   Purpose
   
156.003   Objectives
   
156.004   Establishment of control
Subdivision Design
   
156.020   Conditions for approval
   
156.021   Density requirements
   
156.022   Open space requirements
Application and Procedures
   
156.035   Waiver authorization
   
156.036   Replats and amendments
   
156.037   Minor residential subdivisions
   
156.038   Major residential subdivisions
   
156.039   Commercial and industrial subdivisions
Performance and Maintenance Surety
   
156.055   Performance surety
   
156.056   Maintenance surety
Standards for Improvements
   
156.070   Drainage and erosion control
   
156.071   Lots
   
156.072   Streets
   
156.073   Utilities
   
156.074   Open space
   
156.075   Monuments and markers
   
156.076   Emergency warning sirens
   
156.077   Public uses in subdivisions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.001 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage by the appropriate legislative body.
   (B)   This chapter was passed by:
      (1)   Boone County Commissioners on 12-21-1998;
      (2)   Whitestown Town Board on                    ,1998; and
      (3)   Advance Town Board on                       ,1998.
(Ord. 98-26, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 156.002 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted for the purpose of adopting subdivision regulations
for the jurisdictional area of the APC. The regulation of land subdivision has
become widely recognized as a method of ensuring sound community growth and the
safeguarding of the interests of the home owner, the subdivider and the local
government. The citizens of Boone County need the assurance that residential
subdivisions will provide permanent assets to their community or neighborhood.
This chapter should be viewed, not as an end in itself, but as one tool or
technique for the shaping of urban oriented land use according to a
Comprehensive Plan for the development of Boone County as a whole. The planning
of a subdivision is the joint responsibility of the subdivider and the APC, the
former having the prime responsibility for the creation of desirable, stable
neighborhoods that become an integral part of the entire county. Subdivision
design and utilities can enhance or depreciate the character and potentialities
of the surrounding areas and stabilize or endanger the individual’s investment
in a home. The APC has the responsibility of helping the subdivider achieve a
high standard of excellence in the planning of his or her subdivision, and of
informing all subdividers of the minimum standards and requirements for
subdivision development within Boone County.
(Ord. 98-26, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 156.003 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of these subdivision regulations are to protect and promote
the public health, safety and general welfare, and to:
   (A)   Preserve prime farmland soils;
   (B)   Avoid scattered and uncontrolled subdivision of land that would result
in the unnecessary imposition of an excessive expenditure of public funds for
the supply of services that are a part of the community infrastructure;
   (C)   Establish reasonable standards and procedures for subdivisions and re-
subdivisions, in order to further the orderly layout and use of land, and to
ensure proper legal descriptions and monumenting of subdivided land;
   (D)   Prevent the pollution of air and water; provision of drainage
facilities and the safeguarding of the water table; and the encouragement of
wise use and management of natural resources in order to preserve the
integrity, stability, natural beauty and topography and the value of land; and
   (E)   Simplify land descriptions and avoid susceptibility to more than one
interpretation.
(Ord. 98-26, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 156.004 ESTABLISHMENT OF CONTROL.
   (A)   (1)   No plat or replat of a subdivision of land located within the
jurisdiction of the APC shall be recorded until it has been approved by the APC
or Plat Committee as appropriate, and such approval has been entered in writing
on the plat by the appropriate Chairperson and Director of the APC.
      (2)   In determining whether an application for approval of a primary
plat or a secondary plat of a subdivision shall be granted, the APC shall
determine that the plat is in accordance with the principles and standards
required in this chapter which shall be deemed as minimal; and whenever the
applicable requirements of other ordinances adopted by the appropriate
legislative body are higher or more restrictive, those requirements shall
control any application for plat approval.
   (B)   Before granting approval of any subdivision, the APC shall be
satisfied that the proposed subdivision meets the criteria set forth in all
other applicable ordinances including, but not limited to Chapters
152 and
153 and §§
150.01 et seq. of this code.
   (C)   Due consideration shall be given to the prevention of air and stream
pollution, proper treatment and disposal of refuse and other waste, and the
elimination of other blighting characteristics.
   (D)   Land may be considered by the APC to be unsuitable for the use by
reason of flooding or improper drainage, objectionable earth and rock
formations, topography or any other feature harmful to the health and safety of
potential residents and the community as a whole.
   (E)   No land shall be subdivided for residential use unless adequate access
to the land over approved streets or thoroughfares exists or will be provided
by the subdivider.
   (F)   No land shall be subdivided unless the intended use of the individual
lot is in conformance with
Chapter 157 of this code, now or hereafter adopted.
(Ord. 98-26, passed 12-21-1998)
SUBDIVISION DESIGN
§ 156.020 CONDITIONS FOR APPROVAL.
   (A)   The subdivision layout shall be of such a character that it protects
the health, safety and general welfare of the residents in the jurisdiction of
the APC.
   (B)   Considerations for approval, in addition to the other criteria and
requirements in this chapter include:
      (1)   Protection of all primary conservation areas;
      (2)   Preservation and maintenance of woodlands, existing fields,
pastures, meadows and orchards and creation of sufficient buffer areas to
minimize conflicts between uses, including residential and agricultural uses;
and
      (3)   Protection of wildlife habitat areas and sites of historic,
archaeological or cultural value.
(Ord. 98-26, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 156.021 DENSITY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Comprehensive Plan encourages housing development around existing
town centers where existing utilities, educational institutions and public
safety services are already in place.
   (B)   Therefore, development criteria have been established to limit
development density unless close to the appropriate infrastructure.
      (1)   Number of lots. The number of lots in any subdivision shall be as
indicated in the applicable Residential Use and Requirements Table of
Chapter 157 of this code. The number of acres used in determination of the
number of lots shall exclude areas designated as primary conservation areas. In
determination of lots, any fraction of less than 1/2 shall be disregarded,
while a fraction 1/2 or greater shall be counted as one lot.
      (2)   Industrial and commercial subdivisions. Lot size and number of lots
for commercial and industrial subdivisions shall be dictated by the private
market.
(Ord. 98-26, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 156.022 OPEN SPACE REQUIREMENTS.
   It is the desire of the Area Plan Commission to protect the natural,
historic and community resources in Boone County, by promoting open space
development within our jurisdiction. In preserving open space in subdivisions,
several objectives will be promoted, such as preserving green space for
recreation and aesthetic purposes, increasing future property values and
creating a sense of community and pedestrian movement.
   (A)   Residential subdivisions.
      (1)   Open space requirements for any subdivision shall be as indicated
in the following table, or the sum of all primary conservation areas and
bufferyards within a subdivision, whichever is greater. A minimum amount of
open space will not be required for residential subdivisions with less than 15
lots or multi-family developments with less than 15 units (see table below).
 
Minimum Open Space Requirements for Residential Subdivisions
Zoning District                   AG RE R1  R2  R3  R4  MF  LB  UB  GB  PB  AB
Single-family (15 lots or larger) -  -  10% 20% 30% 30% 30% 30% 30% 30% 30% 30%
Two-family and multi-family (15   -  -  -   30% 30% 30% 30% 30% 30% 30% 30% 30%
units or larger)
Mobile home parks                 -  -  50% 50% 50% 50% 50% -   -   -   -   -
 
      (2)   All areas designated as primary conservation areas shall be
designated as open space. In instances where combined primary conservation
areas and secondary conservation areas exceed the required percentage of open
space, all secondary conservation areas need not be designated as open space.
   (B)   Commercial and industrial subdivisions. Commercial and industrial
subdivisions shall be required to provide only sufficient open space as to meet
the bufferyard requirements.
(Ord. 98-26, passed 12-21-1998; Am. Ord. 2004-02, passed 2-9-2004)
APPLICATION AND PROCEDURES
§ 156.035 WAIVER AUTHORIZATION.
   Where the subdivider can show that a provision of this chapter would cause
unnecessary hardship if strictly adhered to and where, in the opinion of the
APC, because of topographical or other conditions peculiar to the site, a
departure may be made without destroying the intent of the provisions, the APC
may authorize a waiver. Any waiver must be requested at the time of primary
plat or secondary plat application. Any waiver thus authorized is required to
be entered in writing in the minutes of the APC and the reasoning on which the
departure was justified shall be set forth.
(Ord. 98-26, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 156.036 REPLATS AND AMENDMENTS.
   For any change in a map of an approved or recorded subdivision plat, if the
change affects any street layout shown on the map, or area reserved thereon for
public use, or any lot line, or if it affects any map or plan legally recorded
prior to the adoption of any regulations controlling subdivisions, the change
shall be approved by the APC by the same procedure, rules and regulations as
for a subdivision.
(Ord. 98-26, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 156.037 MINOR RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
IMAGES/0-0-0-46.jpg]
 
   (A)   Purpose. The division of a tract of land into four residential parcels
or less may be approved as a minor subdivision one time only. The minor
subdivision shall be subject to the same basic procedures as set forth in the
rules of procedure. The intent of this section is to eliminate unnecessary
requirements and reduce the time and effort required by major subdivision
plats. However, the intent of this section is not to circumvent good
subdivision practices, therefore, use of this procedure shall be limited to the
creation of three new parcels after November 1,1998.
      (1)   Applications for minor subdivisions. An applicant shall receive
approval one time on a parent tract allowing a minor residential subdivision
containing no more than four residential lots, any further subdividing requires
an application for zoning map amendment for the entire tract.
      (2)   Access. Minor subdivisions may utilize a private, shared driveway
as an alternate to development of a public street.
      (3)   Minor plat exemptions. The following subdivisions are exempt from
the requirements of this section if the Technical Advisory Committee reviews
and approves the plan. If the applicant disagrees with the TAC recommendation,
the petition must be presented to the APC as a minor plat.
         (a)   Agricultural sales. A subdivision where the resulting lots are:
            1.   Intended solely for agricultural uses;
            2.   Are at least 20 acres; and
            3.   Abut existing public ways.
         (b)   Two-lot subdivision. A subdivision resulting in only two
building lots where the parent lot, tract or parcel existed prior to January 1,
1999.
         (c)   Adjoining transfers. A subdivision resulting in the transfer or
sale of land between adjoining lot owners that does not create additional
building sites.
   (B)   Pre-application. From the standpoint of economy of time and money, it
is recommended that the subdivider consult early and informally with the
Director for advice and assistance. This will enable the subdivider to become
familiar with these and other regulations as they affect the area and will
prevent unnecessary and costly revisions.
   (C)   Concept plan. The concept plan is an optional part of any application
for primary plat approval of a minor residential subdivision. Its purpose is to
bring the conceptual proposal before the APC or the Plat Committee as
appropriate and general public for discussion. The concept plan shall be
prepared in accordance with standards set forth for major subdivisions.
   (D)   Primary and secondary plat. Application for primary and secondary plat
plans for minor subdivisions shall be in accordance with standards set forth
for major subdivisions with the exception that they may be heard simultaneously
by the APC or the Plat Committee as appropriate.
   (E)   Notice of public hearing. Once an application has met all
requirements, the Director shall set a date for a public hearing before the APC
or the Plat Committee as appropriate. Notice of public hearing shall be in
accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-706 and with established rules of procedure. The
cost of notification shall be borne by the applicant.
   (F)   Decision by the APC or Plat Committee as appropriate. Within 30 days
after application for approval of the secondary plat, the APC or the Plat
Committee as appropriate shall approve or disapprove it.
      (1)   Approval.
         (a)   If the APC or the Plat Committee as appropriate determines that
the plat complies with the standards of this chapter, it shall make written
findings of fact and a decision granting secondary approval to the plat.
         (b)   The secondary approval of a plat by the APC or the Plat
Committee as appropriate shall be certified on behalf of the APC by the
Chairperson of the APC or by the Chairperson of the Plat Committee as
appropriate and the Director who shall affix their signatures to the plat
original and all other relevant documents which also may require the
signatures.
         (c)   Approval by the APC or the Plat Committee as appropriate shall
be reported to the APC at the next public meeting.
      (2)   Disapproval.
         (a)   If the APC or the Plat Committee as appropriate disapproves the
secondary plat, it shall make written findings of fact and notify the applicant
in writing within ten days, stating the specific reasons for disapproval.
         (b)   This written notice shall be ratified by the APC and signed by
the Chairperson and Director of the APC.
      (3)   Appeals. Appeals of decisions made by the APC or the Plat Committee
as appropriate shall come before the APC for final decision and may be made by
either the applicant or remonstrator in accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-708.
(Ord. 98-26, passed 12-21-1998; Am. Ord. 2003-14, passed 7-14-2003; Am. Ord.
2009-07, passed 10-19-2009)
§ 156.038 MAJOR RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
IMAGES/0-0-0-49.jpg]
 
   (A)   Pre-application. From the standpoint of economy of time and money, it
is recommended that the subdivider consult early and informally with the
Director for advice and assistance. This will enable the subdivider to become
familiar with these and other regulations as they affect the area and will
prevent unnecessary and costly revisions.
   (B)   Concert plan. The concept plan is required as part of any application
for primary plat approval for major subdivisions. The applicant shall submit
the concept plan to a public meeting of the APC prior to the primary plat
hearing for the purpose of discussion and recommendations. The concept plan
shall be drawn at a scale of 50 feet to 1 inch, except that when the drawing at
that scale requires more than one sheet, the plan may be drawn at a scale of
100 feet to 1 inch. Sheets shall not exceed 24 inches by 36 inches in size. The
concept plan shall consist of a site analysis map and a site development map.
      (1)   Site analysis map. A location map which may be prepared by
indicating the required information by notation on available maps of an
appropriate scale. The purpose of the site analysis map is to indicate
consideration and respect for the unique features of a site. A site analysis
map shall include the following:
         (a)   Location of the proposed subdivision, including adjacent parcels
of land;
         (b)   Existing schools, parks, fire, police and emergency medical
(EMS) facilities that will serve the subdivision;
         (c)   Public thoroughfares that will serve the subdivision;
         (d)   Water and sewer services to serve the subdivision, if
applicable;
         (e)   Primary conservation areas;
         (f)   Secondary conservation areas;
         (g)   Location of streets and thoroughfares including those in
contiguous subdivisions or undeveloped property;
         (h)   Other unique features or characteristics of the site such as
views (to and from the site), impacts (by the subdivision or by surrounding
elements) and geographical features; and
         (i)   Indication of the resulting prime location for houses after site
analysis.
      (2)   Site development map. The site development map shall indicate the
proposed layout of the subdivision, including streets, lots, houses and common
areas. In coordination with a primary plat application, the primary plat may
act as the site development map.
      (3)   Notice of public meeting. A placard displaying the public meeting
date and relevant information for the concept plan will be posted on the
subject site in a prominent, visible location as the notice of public hearing.
The non-refundable cost of the placard shall be borne by the applicant at the
time of filing as noted in the fee schedule.
      (4)   Public meeting. The concept plan shall go before the APC for
presentation to and suggestions by the APC. While no official action shall be
taken, the APC shall mandate impact assessments to be performed prior to
application for primary plat.
      (5)   Impact assessment. As a result of concept plan review, the APC may
require that impact assessments be clone for discussion at the time of the
primary plat hearing. Impact assessment shall be performed by a qualified
professional with training, experience, and expertise in the field relevant to
the specific section of the study in which work shall be performed. The APC
shall mandate such studies at the expense of the applicant and of the
professional of choice of the APC. The assessment may include any of the
following: traffic and transportation; tax base; water and sewer service; fire,
police and emergency services; schools; parks. Any additional expense necessary
to ensure adequate information, reports or plans shall be met by the applicant.
   (C)   Primary plat.
      (1)   Application.
         (a)   A subdivider desiring approval of a primary plat of a
subdivision of any land lying within Boone County shall submit to the Director:
            1.   A written application for approval;
            2.   Ten copies each of the concept plan and primary plat;
            3.   Draft covenants and restrictions of the subdivision;
            4.   All impact assessments mandated by the APC;
            5.   A clear transparency at a scale of 1 inch = 400 feet to
overlay on aerial maps; and
            6.   A basic layout of the subdivision on a sheet not to exceed 11
inches by 17 inches.
         (b)   The application shall be in accordance with filing deadlines
predetermined by the APC before the meeting at which the APC is expected to
consider the application. The application shall be accompanied by an
application fee as indicated in the fee schedule. The Director shall surrender
the application fee to the Boone County Auditor. The application fee shall be
non-refundable. Of the application copies submitted, the Director shall forward
one copy to each of the following:
            1.   Boone County Surveyor;
            2.   Boone County Board of Health;
            3.   Natural Resource Conservation Service Soil Conservationist;
            4.   Applicable county, city or town engineer;
            5.   Applicable public utility which may be affected;
            6.   Applicable executive officer of any town or city;
            7.   Boone County Highway Department Superintendent;
            8.   Applicable School Superintendent; and
            9.   Applicable safety services.
         (c)   If the application is for a development plan approval and
includes any real estate located within two miles of an incorporated city or
town, one additional copy of all required plans shall be filed with the
Director. The Director shall distribute the additional plans to the applicable
town officials for review and comment in the same manner as the above listed
agencies.
         (d)   The above listed agencies, persons or town officials shall
forward any comments or recommendations concerning the plat to the Director
prior to the date of the meeting at which the APC is expected to consider the
application in accordance with the rules of procedure.
      (2)   Primary plat plans. The primary plat shall be required as part of
any application for primary plat approval. If applicable, the applicant shall
submit proof of secured public sewer and/or public water connection. The plat
shall be drawn at a scale of 50 feet to 1 inch, except that when the drawing at
that scale requires more than one sheet, the plat may be drawn at a scale of
100 feet to 1 inch. Sheets shall not exceed 24 inches by 36 inches in size. The
primary plat shall be prepared and certified by a land surveyor and/or a
professional engineer registered by the State of Indiana. A primary subdivision
plat shall be submitted showing the following, but not limited to:
         (a)   The proposed name of the subdivision;
         (b)   Names and addresses of the owner, subdivider and consulting
engineer, land surveyor or planning firm that prepared the plan;
         (c)   Legend and notes including the scale, north point and date;
         (d)   Tract boundary lines showing dimensions, bearings, angles and
references to section, township and range lines or corners;
         (e)   Existing zoning of the tract and all contiguous tracts
surrounding the proposed subdivision;
         (f)   All section and municipal corporate boundaries lying within or
contiguous to the tract;
         (g)   Topographic contours at typical intervals of one foot if the
general slope of the tract is less than 5%, or intervals of two feet if the
slope is in excess of 5%. The contours shall be referenced to mean sea level
elevations;
         (h)   Layout of lots, showing dimensions and numbers and square
footage of each lot;
         (i)   Building lines showing setback dimensions throughout the
subdivision;
         (j)   Parcels of land proposed to be dedicated or reserved for
schools, open space (indicating its use as park, playground, natural area or
other) or other public, semi-public or community purposes;
         (k)   Streets, rights-of-way and driveways within 500 feet on
adjoining the site of the proposed subdivision showing the names, roadway
widths, approximate gradients, types and widths of pavements, curbs, sidewalks
and horizontal curve radii;
         (l)   Existing and proposed easements including the location, width
and purpose of the easements;
         (m)   Location, size and capacity of any public sewer and/or water
utilities, if the facilities are available;
         (n)   Location of natural streams, regulated drains, floodplain,
pipelines, power lines and the like;
         (o)   A description of the surface drainage system to an approved
outlet, including data showing that the outlet is adequate to accommodate the
drainage requirements of the finished subdivision. Arrows designating the
general drainage of all streets and lots shall be included;
         (p)   Location of any sub-surface drainage required under
Chapter 51 of this code and any amendments thereto, showing the location of all
easements and all data pertaining to the size and capacity of the drainage;
         (q)   The boundaries and numbers of sections shall be shown if the
primary plat is to be divided into sections or phases of development;
         (r)   Protective covenants and restrictions which are properly
prepared and legally sound shall, subject to the approval of the APC; and
         (s)   Bufferyard, lighting and parking plans.
      (3)   Notice of public hearing. Once an application has met all
requirements, the Director shall set a date for a public hearing before the
APC. Notice of public hearing shall be in accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-706 and
with the rules of procedure established by the APC. The cost of notification
shall be borne by the applicant.
      (4)   Decision by the APC. Within 50 days of the public hearing
concerning an application for approval of a subdivision plat, the APC shall
notify the applicant in writing stating whether the primary plat is approved or
disapproved.
         (a)   Approval. If the APC determines that the primary plat complies
with the standards set forth in this chapter, it shall make written findings of
fact and a decision granting primary approval to the plat.
            1.   The APC may introduce such changes or revisions as are deemed
necessary to the best interest and general welfare of the community.
            2.   Approval of a primary plat by the APC signifies the general
acceptability of the layout submitted.
            3.   Approval of a primary plat shall be effective for a maximum
period of two years unless, upon application of the applicant the APC grants an
extension. The APC may extend approval of a primary plat to a maximum of four
years without further notice, public hearing or fees.
         (b)   Disapproval. If the APC disapproves a primary plat application,
the APC shall make written findings of fact and notify the applicant in
writing, stating the specific reasons for disapproval. This written notice
shall be signed by the Chairperson and Director of the APC.
            1.   The applicant shall be required to observe a six-month waiting
period before refiling a primary plat which has been disapproved by the APC.
            2.   The original applicant may submit a new application for
primary plat approval in accordance with established rules of procedure.
   (D)   Secondary plat.
      (1)   Application.
         (a)   After approval of the primary plat by the APC and fulfillment of
the requirements of this chapter, the applicant shall submit to the Director a
written application for secondary plat approval, ten copies each of the
secondary plat, construction plans, landscape plans, final covenants and
restrictions of the subdivision and all approved required state and federal
permits. The application shall be filed in accordance with filing deadlines
predetermined by the APC before the meeting at which the APC is expected to
consider the application. At the time of filing, the application shall be
accompanied by a non-refundable application fee as indicated in the fee
schedule. The Director shall surrender the application fee to the Boone County
Auditor.
         (b)   The Director shall forward one copy to each of the individuals
indicated in the previous section regarding primary plat application. Those
agencies or persons shall forward any comments or recommendations concerning
the plat to the Director prior to the date of the meeting at which the APC is
expected to consider the application for secondary plat approval.
      (2)   Secondary plat plans. The plat shall be drawn at a scale of 50 feet
to 1 inch, except that when the drawing at that scale requires more than one
sheet, the plat may be drawn at a scale of 100 feet to 1 inch. Sheets shall not
exceed 24 inches by 56 inches in size. The secondary plat shall be prepared and
certified by a land surveyor and/or a professional engineer registered by the
State of Indiana. The secondary plat may include all or only a part of the
primary plat which has received approval. The following information shall be
shown on the secondary plat, but not limited to:
         (a)   Name of subdivision and section number followed by the words
“Secondary Plat”;
         (b)   Accurate boundary lines, with dimension and angles, which
provide a legal survey of the tract, closing with an error of not more than one
foot in 5,000 feet;
         (c)   Accurate distances and directions to the nearest official
monument. Reference corners shall be accurately described on the plan;
         (d)   Accurate locations of all existing and recorded streets
intersecting the boundaries of the tract;
         (e)   Accurate metes and bounds description of the tract boundary;
         (f)   Source of title of the applicant to the land as shown by the
last entry in the books of the County Recorder;
         (g)   Street names;
         (h)   Complete curve data for all curves included in the plan;
         (i)   Street lines with accurate dimensions in feet and hundredths of
feet with angles to street, alley and lot lines;
         (j)   Lot numbers and dimensions including the square footage of each
lot;
         (k)   Accurate locations of easements for utilities and any
limitations on the semi-public or community use;
         (l)   Accurate dimensions and plans for any property to be dedicated
or reserved for open space or other public, semi-public or common use;
         (m)   Building lines and setback dimensions throughout the
subdivision;
         (n)   Location, type, material and size of all monuments and markers;
         (o)   Plans and specifications for the improvements required in this
chapter;
         (p)   Final protective covenants and restrictions which are properly
prepared and legally sound which shall be incorporated into the plat and
restrictions of all types which will run with the land and become covenants in
the deed for lots;
         (q)   Name and address of the owner and subdivider;
         (r)   North point, scale and date;
         (s)   Certification of dedication of streets and other public
property;
         (t)   Final landscaping, lighting or parking plans shall be
incorporated in the secondary plat design plans when requested by the Director
or the APC; and
         (u)   Certificate of approval by the APC.
      (3)   Construction plans. It shall be the responsibility of the
subdivider of every proposed subdivision to have prepared and certified by a
land surveyor and/or professional engineer registered in the State of Indiana,
a complete set of construction plans, including profiles, cross-sections,
specifications and other supporting data for all required public streets,
utilities and other facilities. The final construction plans shall be based on
preliminary plans which have been approved with the primary plat, and shall be
prepared, submitted and distributed in conjunction with the secondary plat. The
plans shall show the following.
         (a)   Construction plans shall be prepared for all required
improvements. Plans shall be drawn on standard 24-inch by 56-inch sheets at a
scale of no more than 1 inch equals 50 feet, and map sheets shall be of the
same size as the primary plat.
         (b)   Topographic contours at intervals of one foot if the general
slope of the tract is less than 5% or intervals of two feet if the slope
exceeds 57. Contours shall be referenced to mean sea level elevations.
         (c)   Profiles showing existing and proposed elevations along center
lines of all streets. Where a proposed street intersects an existing street or
streets, the elevation along the center line of the existing street or streets
within 100 feet of the intersection. Approximate radii of all curves, lengths
of tangents and central angles on all streets. Complete curve data for all
curves included in the plan.
         (d)   Where steep slopes exist, the APC may require that cross-
sections of all proposed streets at 100-foot stations shall be shown as
follows: on a line at right angles to the center line of the street, and the
elevation points shall be at the center line of the street, each property line,
points 25 feet inside each property line, edges of pavement, curbs, break
points and ditch lines.
         (e)   Plans and profiles showing the location and typical cross-
section of streets including curbs and gutters, sidewalks, mailboxes, rights-
of-way, drainage facilities, manholes and catch basins: the location, size and
invert elevations of existing and proposed sanitary sewers, storm water drains
and fire hydrants, showing connection to any existing or proposed utility
systems: the location of street trees, street lighting standards and street
signs: and exact location and size of all water, gas or other underground
utilities or structures.
         (f)   Location, size, elevation and other appropriate description of
any other existing physical and natural features or facilities including
features noted on the official maps of local government, trees with a diameter
of eight inches or more (measured four feet above ground level), the points of
connection to proposed facilities and utilities and the approximate high- and
low-water elevations of all ponds, lakes and streams. All elevations shall be
referred to the USGS datum plane.
      (4)   Public notice. Public notice for secondary plats shall be in
accordance with the rules of procedure established by the APC.
      (5)   Decision by the APC. Within 60 days after application for approval
of the secondary plat, the APC shall approve or disapprove it.
         (a)   Approval.
            1.   If the APC determines that the plat complies with the
standards of this chapter, it shall make written findings of fact and a
decision granting secondary approval to the plat. After necessary performance
surety has been posted, the secondary approval of a plat by the APC shall be
certified on behalf of the APC by the Chairperson and Director who shall affix
their signatures to the plat original and all other relevant documents which
also may require signatures.
            2.   One copy of the certified plat shall be forwarded to each the
following persons:
               a.   Boone County Surveyor;
               b.   Boone County Auditor and Recorder;
               c.   Appropriate public utility that may be affected;
               d.   Subdivider or applicant; and
               e.   File of the APC.
            3.   A plat of a subdivision may not be filed with the Boone County
Auditor and the Boone County Recorder may not record it, unless it has been
granted secondary approval by the APC and has been properly signed by the
Chairperson and Director of the APC. The filing and recording of the plat is
without legal effect unless approved by the APC.
            4.   No improvement location permit shall be issued by the
Director, or his or her agent, for any structure on any subdivision lots prior
to the following:
               a.   The recording of the subdivision by the County Recorder of
Boone County, Indiana, except for the purposes of public facilities;
               b.   Installation and completion of all improvements, including
grading, as shown on the development plans and approved by the APC, except that
in the case of an asphalt road surface, the installation of the final surface
coat may be postponed until the end of the maintenance period. The final coat
of asphalt shall be installed prior to acceptance of the road for public
maintenance;
               c.   Written certification from the Boone County Highway
Department and the Boone County Surveyor that improvements are complete; and
               d.   The release of necessary performance surety and the posting
of necessary maintenance surety.
         (b)   Disapproval. If the APC disapproves the secondary plat, it shall
make written findings of fact and notify the applicant in writing, stating the
specific reasons for disapproval. This written notice shall be signed by the
Chairperson and Director of the APC.
(Ord. 98-26, passed 12-21-1998; Am. Ord. 2004-02, passed 2-9-2004)
§ 156.039 COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   In creating commercial or industrial subdivisions, it is recognized that the
subdivider often faces unique problems of lot design not normally encountered
in residential subdivisions. For this reason, the initial emphasis of the APC
shall be upon street layout and lot arrangement.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
IMAGES/0-0-0-52.jpg]
 
   (A)   Pre-application. From the standpoint of economy of time and money, it
is recommended that the subdivider consult early and informally with the
Director for advice and assistance. This will enable the subdivider to become
familiar with these and other regulations as they affect the area and will
prevent unnecessary and costly revisions.
   (B)   Concert plan. Procedures for the concept plan shall in accordance with
standards set forth for major subdivisions.
   (C)   Primary plat. Procedures for the primary plat shall be in accordance
with standards set forth for major subdivisions, however, the subdivider need
show only two lots along with the street and block layout.
   (D)   Secondary plat. Procedures for the secondary plat shall be prepared in
accordance with standards set forth for major subdivisions and may be done in
one of two ways.
      (1)   Full plat. The subdivider may submit the secondary plat for the
entire subdivision and then amend the secondary plat as may be necessary.
      (2)   Individual lot. The subdivider may submit the secondary plat for
each lot which will include all necessary infrastructure serving the lot.
   (E)   Amendments. As prospective buyers or users express interest in lots
sized to their required specifications, the owner shall submit an amendment to
the approved recorded subdivision plat for consideration. Streets that have
been built by following an approved set of plans on the previously approved
secondary plat shall not have to be rebuilt because of the adoption of new
criteria by the APC. This shall also apply to storm drainage facilities within
the subdivision unless runoff characteristics have been changed by the newly
proposed improvements or by unauthorized existing improvements.
(Ord. 98-26, passed 12-21-1998)
PERFORMANCE AND MAINTENANCE SURETY
§ 156.055 PERFORMANCE SURETY.
   Before the plat is signed by the officers of the APC or is recorded, the
subdivider shall file a performance bond or irrevocable letter of credit with
the APC office and the appropriate legislative body.
   (A)   Letter of credit or bond. The performance bond or letter of credit
shall:
      (1)   Cover 100% of the installation costs of the streets, surface
swales, sub-surface and storm drainage systems and seeding/erosion control;
      (2)   Run to the appropriate legislative under whose jurisdiction the
subdivision is located;
      (3)   Be in an amount determined by the appropriate legislative body to
be sufficient to complete the improvements and installations in compliance with
this chapter. The subdividers engineer shall supply an estimate of the cost of
improvements and installations on the project to aid in determination of the
amount of surety. The engineer’s estimate, however, shall not be binding; and
      (4)   Be with surety satisfactory to the appropriate legislative body.
Comply with all statutory requirements and shall be satisfactory to the counsel
of the appropriate legislative body as to form, sufficiency and manner of
execution as set forth in these regulations.
   (B)   Completion period. The period within which required improvements must
be completed shall not in any event exceed two years from date of final
approval.
   (C)   Extension. The appropriate legislative body may, upon proof of
difficulty, extend the completion date set forth in the surety for a maximum
period of one additional year. The appropriate legislative body may, at any
time during the period of the surety, accept a substitution of principal or
sureties on the surety upon recommendation of counsel for the appropriate
legislative body.
   (D)   Responsibility of the subdivider. All required improvements shall be
made by the applicant, at his or her expense, without reimbursement by the
local government or any improvement district therein.
      (1)   In those cases where performance surety has been posted and
required improvements have not been installed within the terms of the
performance surety, the local government may thereupon declare the surety to be
in default and require that all the improvements be installed regardless of the
extent of the building development at the time the surety is declared to be in
default.
      (2)   Any money received from the surety or otherwise shall be used only
for making the improvements and installations for which the surety was
provided.
      (3)   The subdivider shall be required to maintain, at his or her
expense, a certified civil engineer or engineering firm on the job site to
manage the construction of the subdivision improvements. The on-site engineer
shall certify that the subdivision construction is in compliance with the
detailed construction plans submitted to the APC during the review of the
secondary plat. The on-site engineer shall submit weekly progress reports to
the Director during construction and should notify the Director, County
Engineer and other appropriate officials when important work has been scheduled
so that the county may conduct an inspection. A final report shall be submitted
to the APC and the appropriate legislative body by the engineer or his or her
firm. If the County Engineer finds, upon inspection, that any of the required
improvements have not been constructed in accordance with the local government
construction standards and specifications, the applicant shall be responsible
for completing the improvements. Wherever the cost of improvements is covered
by performance surety, the applicant and the bonding company shall be severally
and jointly liable for completing the improvement according to specifications.
      (4)   The appropriate legislative body shall not accept any of the
required improvements nor release the performance surety until the appropriate
officials have submitted a final inspection report. Such a report shall state
that all required improvements have been satisfactorily completed and that the
layout of all public improvements is in accordance with the construction plans
submitted by the subdivider’s engineer for the development. Only after this
step should the appropriate legislative body consider acceptance of the
improvements and the release of the performance surety.
   (E)   Inspections.
      (1)   Road inspection. It shall be the duty of the subdivider to notify
the county’s Highway Superintendent before any construction commences on the
curbs, gutters, public walks or roads in the subdivision, such that the
inspector may run any and all tests required during the construction period.
      (2)   Sewer and water inspection. It shall be the duty of the subdivider
to notify the Boone County Health Department, before any construction commences
such that the Sanitarian may run any and all tests required on the sewage
disposal and water supply facilities in the subdivision.
      (3)   Drainage inspection. It shall be the duty of the subdivider to
notify the Boone County Surveyor before commencing construction so that any and
all tests may be run on the drainage structures and the grading of the
subdivision during the entire construction period.
(Ord. 98-26, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 156.056 MAINTENANCE SURETY.
   Upon completion of all subdivision improvements and the release of the
performance surety and prior to acceptance of these improvements into the Boone
County maintenance system, the subdivider shall provide a three-year
maintenance bond or irrevocable letter of credit. Upon completion of all
infrastructure installation, the plans for the systems as built shall be filed
with the office of the APC.
   (A)   Letter of credit or bond. The maintenance bond or letter of credit
shall:
      (1)   Be in an amount equal to 20% of the cost of the improvements and
installations as indicated in establishment of the performance surety;
      (2)   Cover any necessary maintenance needed for the streets, surface
swales, sub-surface and storm drainage systems and seeding/erosion control
during the three-year maintenance period;
      (3)   Run to the appropriate legislative body, under whose jurisdiction
the subdivision is located; and
      (4)   Provide surety satisfactory to the appropriate legislative body.
   (B)   Responsibility of the subdivider.
      (1)   The subdivider shall warrant the workmanship and all materials used
in the construction, installation and completion of the improvements and
installations to be of good quality and have been constructed and completed in
a workmanlike manner in accordance with the standards, specifications and
requirements of this chapter and the satisfactory plans and specifications for
the subdivision by the APC.
      (2)   Any money received from the surety or otherwise shall be used only
for making the improvements and installations for which the surety was
provided.
   (C)   Inspections. Near the end of the three-year maintenance period and
before the maintenance surety is scheduled to expire, the Director shall
schedule an inspection of the subdivision. If the appropriate officials find,
upon inspection, that any of the required improvements are in need of repair,
he or she shall notify the Director, the appropriate legislative body and
subdivider of those items in need of repair, and he or she shall prepare a
report documenting the items. The subdivider shall be required to complete the
repairs and upon the satisfactory completion of the repairs may request that
the appropriate legislative body assume maintenance of all subdivision
improvements and release the maintenance bond. Until acceptance of the
subdivision improvements by the county, it shall be the responsibility of the
subdivider to maintain the subdivision to the standards of the county.
(Ord. 98-26, passed 12-21-1998)
STANDARDS FOR IMPROVEMENTS
§ 156.070 DRAINAGE AND EROSION CONTROL.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   In order to provide more suitable sites for building and other
uses, improve surface drainage and control erosion, the following requirements
shall be met.
      (2)   The locations, grading and placement of sub-grade (base) material
of all street, public driveway and public parking areas shall be accomplished
as the first work done on a development plan.
      (3)   All lots, tracts or parcels shall be graded to provide proper
drainage away from the buildings and dispose of it without ponding, and all
land within the development shall be graded to drain and dispose of surface
water without ponding, except where approved by the Boone County Drainage
Board. Around each permanent building foundation, there shall be a slope with a
minimum vertical fall of six inches for the area measured from the foundation
to a point ten feet from the building foundation or to the property line,
whichever is closer.
      (4)   All drainage provisions shall be of a design to adequately handle
the surface runoff and carry it to the nearest suitable outlet such as a curbed
street, storm drain or natural watercourse. Where drainage swales are used to
divert surface waters away from buildings, they shall be sodded or planted as
required and shall be of the slope, shape and size as to conform with the
requirements of the APC.
      (5)   Concentration of surface water runoff shall only be permitted in
swales or watercourses.
      (6)   Land alteration shall be accomplished in such a way that the grades
left at the time that the work is completed will be permanent and stable.
   (B)   Excavation and fills.
      (1)   Cuts and fills shall not endanger adjoining property.
      (2)   Fill shall be placed and compacted so as to minimize sliding or
erosion of the soil.
      (3)   Fills shall not encroach or impede flows on natural watercourses or
constructed channels.
      (4)   Fills placed adjacent to natural watercourses or constructed
channels shall have suitable protection against erosion during this period of
construction.
      (5)   Grading will not be done in such a way so as to divert water onto
the property of another land owner without the expressed consent of the
Director.
      (6)   During grading operations, necessary measures for dust control will
be exercised.
      (7)   Grading equipment will not be allowed to cross live streams.
Provision will be made for the installation of temporary or permanent culverts
or bridges.
   (C)   Sedimentation. Whenever sedimentation is caused by stripping,
vegetation, regrading or other development activities, it shall be the
responsibility of the applicant, person, corporation and/or other entity
causing the sedimentation to remove it from all adjoining surfaces, drainage
systems and watercourses and to repair any damage at his or her expense as
quickly as possible.
   (D)   Maintenance. Maintenance of all driveways, parking areas, drainage
facilities and watercourses within any development plan area is the
responsibility of the subdivider, provided that the facilities have not been
dedicated to the public and accepted by the appropriate authority for public
maintenance.
   (E)   Construction along waterways. It is the responsibility of the
applicant and any person, corporation or other entity doing any act on or
across a communal stream, watercourse or swale or upon the floodplain, floodway
or floodway fringe area of any watercourse during the period of development to
return these areas to their original or equal conditions upon completion of the
activities.
   (F)   Construction in/along drainage ways. No applicant or person,
corporation or other entity shall block, impede the flow of, alter, construct
any structure or deposit any material or thing, or commit any act which will
affect normal or flood flow in any communal stream or watercourse without
having obtained prior approval from the Boone County Drainage Board and/or the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources, Division of Water, whichever is
applicable.
   (G)   Design, installation and maintenance. The design, installation and
maintenance of the required drainage facilities and erosion and sediment
control measures shall be in accordance with the standards and specifications
set forth in the
Chapter 153 of this code.
   (H)   Plan approval. The approval of plans and specifications for the
control of erosion and sedimentation shall be concurrent with the approval of
the development and shall become a part thereof.
   (I)   Grading/clearing.
      (1)   Permission for clearing and grading prior to the approval of the
development plan may be obtained under temporary easements or other conditions
satisfactory to the Director.
      (2)   In the event the subdivider proceeds to clear and grade prior to
the approval of the subdivision or development plan, without satisfying
conditions specified herein, the jurisdictional agency having authority over
the approval of the subdivision or development plans may revoke the approval of
all plans and a suit for an injunction may be instituted by the APC to halt
further construction until development plans are approved.
      (3)   Topsoil shall not be removed from residential lots or used as
spoil, but shall be redistributed so as to provide at least adequate cover on
the lots. No cut trees, timber, debris, earth, rocks, stones, soil, junk,
rubbish or other waste materials of any kind shall be buried in any land, or
left deposited on any lot or street in the subdivision.
   (J)   Limitations to urban development.
      (1)   Land which exhibits severe limitations to urban development due to
flooding, inadequate drainage, poor soils or other features likely to be
harmful to the safety, welfare and general health of future residents, shall
not be subdivided, unless adequate remedies to overcome the limitations are
formulated by the subdivider and approved by the APC and other appropriate
public agencies.
      (2)   Land which exhibits very severe limitations to urban development,
such as floodplains and very poorly drained organic (muck) soils, characterized
by seasonal high water tables at or near the surface, ponding or frequent to
occasional flooding, shall not be platted for urban development or used for
non-agricultural structures.
   (K)   Storm water sewer system.
      (1)   The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with an adequate storm
water sewer system in accordance with the
Chapter 153 of this code. When the surface drainage is adequate, easements for
the surface drainage shall be provided. Curbs and gutters along streets are
required, however, if the APC finds it necessary to waive this requirement, a
shallow swale with its low point at least three inches below the elevation of
the subgrade of the pavement shall be installed. In this case, one of the
following types of improvements shall be furnished at driveway crossings:
         (a)   A corrugated metal pipe, at least 12 inches in diameter and 14
feet in length to be placed where required for each driveway; or
         (b)   A proper length vertical curve concrete pavement, 24 feet in
length, 12 feet minimum width, and six inches thick, designed to meet INDOT
Standard Specifications so as not to create a hazard to the under parts of
automobiles, at the entrance of each driveway.
      (2)   Upon completion of the storm sewer installation, the plans for the
system as built shall be filed with the APC and the Boone County Surveyor.
      (3)   When the County Sanitarian requires that lots on septic systems in
a subdivision be served by a sub-surface drainage system the APC may require
that where, at all possible, the outlet tiles for the sub-surface drainage
system shall be installed at a proper depth parallel to the streets. The tile
system would serve the dual purpose of providing an outlet for the sub-surface
drainage system and would also drain excess water from under the street
pavement.
(Ord. 98-26, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 156.071 LOTS.
   (A)   Subdivision lots shall be in accordance with the standards set forth
in
Chapter 157 of this code.
   (B)   The Boone County Sanitarian may require lots larger than required to
adequately address septic concerns.
      (1)   The lot size, width, depth, shape, grade location and orientation
shall be in proper relation to street and block design and to existing and
proposed topographical conditions.
      (2)   All lots shall abut on a street.
      (3)   Side lines of lots shall be at approximately right angles to
straight streets and on radial lines on curved streets. Some variation from
this requirement is permissible, but pointed or very irregular lots should be
avoided.
      (4)   Double frontage lots should not be platted, except that, where
desired along interstates, arterials, major collectors or minor collectors,
lots may face on a local street and back on the thoroughfares. In that event a
bufferyard of no less than Bufferyard D of the Zoning Ordinance shall be
provided along the back of each lot.
      (5)   Building lines shall conform to the provisions of
Chapter 157 of this code.
      (6)   Corner lots shall be sufficiently larger than interior lots to
allow maintenance of building lines on both streets. A corner lot shall include
a vision clearance space between three feet and 12 feet above the established
grade at the street corner which is free from any kind of obstruction to
vision. The vision clearance space shall occupy the triangular space at the
street corner which is above a diagonal line connecting two points measured 15
feet equidistant from the street corner along each property line.
      (7)   Whenever possible, unit shopping centers, based upon sound
development standards, should be designed in contrast to the platting of lots
for individual commercial use.
      (8)   Lots abutting a watercourse, drainage way, channel or stream,
outside of the area designated as open space shall have additional minimum
width or depth as required to provide an adequate building site and afford the
minimum usable area required by
Chapter 157 of this code for front, rear and side yards.
      (9)   The following paragraph shall be required as a provision of the
restrictive covenants of all final plats to which they apply:
“No driveway on any corner lot shall enter the adjoining street at a point
closer than 75 feet to the intersection of the street right-of-way lines, or in
the case of a rounded property corner, from the intersection of the street
right-of-way lines extended.”
      (10)   Lots shall not derive access exclusively from an arterial, major
collector or minor collector. Where driveway access from an arterial, major
collector or minor collector may be necessary for several adjoining lots, the
APC may require that the lots be served by a shared driveway in order to limit
possible traffic hazards on the street. Because of their limited nature, shared
driveways are not required to meet public roadway requirements.
      (11)   In order to provide extended flexibility in design, road frontage
requirements may be reduced by up to 20% on up to 20% of all lots in a
subdivision.
      (12)   In order to preserve agricultural ground, minor subdivisions in
the AG District should be laid out in a cluster design. This is best
accomplished by contiguously grouping the lots in such a manner so as to
consume the least amount of land possible given the constraints of the
landscape. Minor subdivisions plats must locate and arrange the residential
lots so as to protect, to the maximum extent possible, that portion of the
tract preserved for agricultural use.
      (13)   Depth and width of any lot shall not exceed a 3 to 1 depth to
width ratio.
      (14)   Adverse environmental regulations:
         (a)   No land shall be subdivided that is found to be unsuitable for
subdividing by reason of flooding, ponding, poor drainage, adverse soil
conditions, adverse geological formations, unsatisfactory topography or other
conditions likely to be harmful to the public health, safety or general
welfare, unless the unsuitable conditions are to the satisfaction of the
county.
         (b)   No subdivision containing land located in a floodway or a flood
hazard area shall be approved by the Area Plan Commission without the approval
of IDEM. No lot shall be located so as to include land located within a
floodway or flood hazard area unless the lot is the size and shape that it will
contain a buildable area not within the floodway or flood hazard area, suitable
for development as allowed by the zoning ordinance for zone in which the lot is
located.
      (15)   All residential subdivisions must depict an arrangement of
residential lots so as to reduce, the maximum extent feasible, any nuisance or
conflict between residential and agricultural uses, both within the tract and
in relation to adjoining and nearby tracts and to demonstrate compatibility of
the proposed minor plat and existing agricultural uses.
      (16)   All lots in the Agricultural District must design the lot
configuration to take into account the minimum spacing between newly
constructed dwellings. The minimum spacing between residential dwellings is 140
feet. This minimum space shall provide an aesthetic reprieve from new
residential development going into a rural area. Within the 140-foot buffer, no
permanent structures can be built. The applicant must provide a provision in
the covenants, conditions and restrictions which describes the obligation of
the developer to meet the requirements of the spacing buffer.
   (C)   An aesthetic design reprieve shall be placed on developing minor plats
in the Agricultural District. The minimum spacing buffer shall be measured from
the nearest property line requiring a spacing distance between minor plats
equally sharing the 300’ reprieve not less than 1/2 of the 300’ reprieve per
developer. Within the minimum spacing buffer, no permanent structures can be
built. The applicant must provide a provision in the future covenants,
conditions, and restrictions for any developing minor plat which describes the
obligation of the developer to meet the requirements of the minimum spacing
buffer.
(Ord. 98-26, passed 12-21-1998; Am. Ord. 2006-07, passed 5-8-2006; Am. Ord.
2009-07, passed 10-19-2009)
§ 156.072 STREETS.
   (A)   Private roadways.
      (1)   Minor subdivisions. Boone County hereby finds the unobstructed,
safe and continuous access to lots for residential purposes is necessary and
determines that is in the best interest of the county in the protection of the
public health, safety and welfare to regulate the construction, improvement,
extension, relocation, and use of private roads and easements providing access
to existing and future lots.
         (a)   Private roadways may be constructed to serve lots in minor
subdivisions. The owners of each lot parallel to the roadway shall own, as
tenants in common, an undivided interest in the private roadway.
         (b)   Access. Minor subdivisions may utilize a private, shared
driveway as an alternate to development of a public street. All residential
lots utilizing a private access driveway for access shall have frontage on a
public road. The minimum width of that frontage is 100 feet in width.
         (c)   Clear vision areas at intersections or private access driveways
shall comply with the Boone County Highway Department Standards.
         (d)   Private access driveways will be constructed so as to protect
against or minimize soil erosion and prevent damage to the lakes, streams,
wetlands and the natural environment of the county.
         (e)   Private access driveways will be designed and constructed with
adequate width, surface, and grade to ensure safe passage and maneuverability
of private vehicles, police, fire, ambulance, and other safety vehicles.
         (f)   Private access driveways will be allowed to cross over a legal
drain upon approval by the Boone County Drainage Board. No private access
driveway will be able to run parallel within a legal drainage easement.
         (g)   All private access driveways will not be located in any
floodplain areas, regulated drainage easements, utility easements and other
such designed easements.
         (h)   Private access driveways will not adversely affect the long term
development policies of the county.
      (2)   Major subdivisions. Private roadways are not permitted in any type
of major subdivisions.
   (B)   Gravel roads. Public gravel roads, in general, will not be improved by
the county in order to mitigate impacts resulting from increased population or
subdivision.
   (C)   Abandonment. No public roadway shall be abandoned or vacated unless in
accordance with state law.
   (D)   Lines of right-or-way. For the purposes of establishing lot lines,
street right-of-way lines shall be considered as the front line of lots and
tracts bordering the street.
   (E)   Street classifications. Streets in Boone County are classified as
interstate, arterial, major collector, minor collector and local. For the
purposes of subdivision development, local roads shall be further classified
and defined as follows:
      (1)   Subcollector. Subcollectors operate as the principal traffic artery
within subdivision development. Subcollectors commonly carry relatively high
volumes and convey traffic from collectors and other county roads outside of
the development. Subcollectors are designed to promote the free flow of
traffic. Parking along a subcollector shall be prohibited and road cuts shall
be minimized.
      (2)   Feeder. Feeders convey traffic from access streets to
subcollectors, collectors and other county roads. Feeders commonly carry a
relatively low volume of traffic. Feeders may be used for road frontage and
access to lots.
      (3)   Access. Access streets convey traffic from the subdivision lot to
feeders or subcollectors. Access streets commonly carry no through traffic and
include short streets, often ending in a cul-de-sac. Access streets are
designed to serve a limited number of dwellings or establishments.
   (F)   Considerations for street classification. In classification of
streets, the following shall be considered: As noted in
Table 4, APT shall be determined according to Trip Generation, developed by the
Institute of Transportation Engineers. In the instance that a use is not
indicated, the applicant shall either propose, to the satisfaction of the
Director, a similar but indicated use, or provide sufficient private
information regarding the use as to provide an accurate estimate of average
daily traffic including but not limited to:
      (1)   Density and lot width;
      (2)   Abutting land use;
      (3)   Availability of off-street parking;
      (4)   Proximity of residential to commercial (or commercial to
residential) development and other services; and
      (5)   Public service such as trash collection, snow removal and public
safety.
 
Traffic Volume According to Street Classification
Class                      ADT Range
Access                     0 to 200
Feeder                     201 to 1,000
Subcollector               1,001 to 3,000
Collector (minor or major) 3,001 to more
 
   (G)   Layout. The street layout shall provide adequate vehicular and
pedestrian access to all lots and parcels of land within the subdivision and
where streets cross other streets, jogs shall not be created. Streets shall
conform to the following principles and standards.
      (1)   Proposed streets shall be adjusted to the contour of the land so as
to produce usable lots and streets of reasonable gradient.
      (2)   Residential street systems may be designed to minimize through
traffic movement, but certain proposed streets, where appropriate, shall be
extended to the boundary line of the tract to be subdivided so as to provide
for normal circulation of traffic within the vicinity.
      (3)   Wherever there exists a dedicated or platted portion of a street
adjacent to the proposed subdivision, the remainder of the street to the
prescribed width shall be platted within the proposed subdivision.
      (4)   Residential street patterns shall provide reasonably direct access
to the primary circulation system.
      (5)   Local circulation systems and land development patterns shall not
conflict with the efficiency of bordering thoroughfares.
      (6)   Widths of thoroughfares shall conform to the widths set forth in
Appendix 2, Street Design Characteristics.
      (7)   The minimum right-of-way of residential streets or cul-de-sacs
shall be 50 feet. All cul-de-sacs longer than 600 feet shall terminate in a
right-of-way with a minimum diameter of 100 feet and minimum roadway diameter
of 95 feet.
      (8)   The center lines of streets should intersect as nearly at right
angles as possible.
      (9)   At intersections of streets, property line corners shall be rounded
by arcs of at least 20 feet radii or by chords of the arcs.
      (10)   If the smaller angle of intersection of two streets is less than
60 degrees, the radius of the arc at the intersection of property lines shall
be increased as deemed advisable by the APC.
      (11)   Intersections of more than two streets at one point shall be
avoided.
      (12)   Street jogs with centerline off-sets of less than 125 feet shall
not be permitted when intersecting an access or feeder road or 250 feet when
intersecting a subcollector or collector road.
      (13)   Where parkways or special types of streets are involved, the APC
may apply special standards to be followed in their design.
      (14)   Whenever the proposed subdivision contains or is adjacent to a
railroad right-of-way, arterial, major collector or minor collector, frontage
or access road to be built in such a manner as to provide adequate and safe
access, parking and loading to the site while minimizing road cuts.
      (15)   A temporarily dead-ended street shall be permitted in any case in
which a street is proposed to be and should logically be extended, but is not
yet constructed. An adequate easement for a turn-around shall be provided for
any such temporary dead-end street which extends 200 feet or more in length.
The easement shall be automatically vacated to abutting property owners when
the dead-ended street is legally extended.
      (16)   In subdivisions that adjoin or include existing streets that do
not conform to the minimum right-of-way dimensions as established in
Appendix 2, Street Design Characteristics, the subdivider shall dedicate
additional width along either one or both sides, of the streets of inadequate
width so as to bring them up to standards, provided the area to be used for
widening is owned by the subdivider or under his or her control.
      (17)   Horizontal visibility on curved streets and vertical visibility on
all streets must be maintained along the center line as follows:
         (a)   Arterials and major collectors: 500 feet;
         (b)   Minor collectors: 300 feet; and
         (c)   Local streets: 200 feet.
      (18)   Curvature measure along the center line shall have a minimum
radius as follows:
         (a)   Arterials and major collectors: 500 feet;
         (b)   Minor collectors: 300 feet; and
         (c)   Local streets: 200 feet.
      (19)   Between reversed curves of arterials, major collectors and minor
collectors, there shall be a tangent of not less than 100 feet and on local
streets such tangent shall be not less than 40 feet.
      (20)   Maximum grades for streets shall be as follows:
         (a)   Arterials, major collectors and minor collectors: not greater
than 6%.
         (b)   Local streets: not greater than 870.
         (c)   The minimum grade of any street gutter shall not be less than
0.57.
   (H)   Street names. No street names may be used which will duplicate, or be
confused with, the names of any existing streets unless the proposed streets
are the logical extension of continuation of, or obviously in alignment with an
existing platted street, in which case the proposed streets shall bear the
names of the existing streets. The APC shall have final authority to approve
names for all streets.
   (I)   Subdivisions bordering existing streets. Whenever a proposed
subdivision borders an existing street, the APC may require the reconstruction
or widening of the street as a condition of plat approval. Additional
dedication of right-of-way may also be required.
   (J)   Site lines, access, bridges and culverts.
      (1)   Site lines. The following paragraph shall be required as a
provision of the restrictive covenants of all secondary plats to which they
apply:
“No fence, wall, hedge, tree or shrub planting which obstructs sight lines and
elevations between three and 12 feet above the street shall be placed or
permitted to remain on any corner lot within the triangular area formed by the
street right-of-way lines and a line connecting a point 40 feet from the
intersection of the street lines, or in the case of a rounded property corner
from the intersection of the street right-of-way lines extended.”
      (2)   Access. At the intersection of any proposed local street and
arterial, major collector or minor collector, acceleration and deceleration
lanes shall be provided.
      (3)   Bridges and culverts. All bridges and culverts shall be constructed
in accordance with applicable engineering standards as approved by the Boone
County Highway Department.
   (K)   Installation. Streets shall be completed to grades shown on plans,
profiles and cross-sections, provided by the subdivider, and prepared by a
registered professional engineer and approved by the APC.
      (1)   The streets shall be graded, surfaced and improved to the
dimensions required by such plans, profiles and cross-sections and the work
shall be performed in the manner prescribed in Standard Specifications for Road
and Bridge Construction and Maintenance (current issue) of the State of Indiana
Department of Transportation and construction standards of this chapter and the
Boone County Highway Department. References in the following paragraphs refer
to the INDOT Standard Specifications.
      (2)   The street pavement shall be of Portland cement concrete or a
flexible asphalt concrete pavement in accordance with design standards noted in
Appendix A, Street Design Characteristics. Acceptable pavement alternatives are
also available in
Appendix A. All concrete pavement and flexible asphalt pavement mix designs
shall meet or exceed all minimum INDOT Standard Specifications. A gradation
report of all materials used in the mix designs and the mix design shall be
furnished to the Boone County Highway Department. Recycled asphalt pavement
(RAP) shall not exceed 10% of base or binder mix designs. No RAF will be
allowed in the asphalt surface mix design.
      (3)   No asphalt base, binder or surface layer shall be placed until air
temperature is 45 degrees and rising as in accordance with INDOT standards and
Boone County Highway Department requirements. An asphalt emulsion tack coat is
required on the full face of any curb and in between the base or binder and
surface layer. Before any surface layer can be applied, it should be cleaned to
the approval of the Boone County Highway Inspector.
      (4)   The asphalt contractor shall have an adequate supply of equipment
on the job site approved by the Highway Inspector.
      (5)   Compaction of all pavement shall be in accordance with INDOT
Standards Specifications.
      (6)   All stone aggregates used shall meet or exceed INDOT Standard
Specifications and shall be a Class A Type “O” aggregate. A gradation report of
the material dated no more than five days prior to delivery of material to the
subdivision shall be supplied to the Boone County Highway Department prior to
placement of stone material. If the stone does not have enough moisture in it
to get adequate compaction, then the contractor shall have a water truck
available to apply a sufficient amount of water needed to obtain the required
compaction. All stone bases shall be compacted by a minimum ten-ton vibratory
roller. Each stone base shall be inspected by the Boone County Highway
Inspector before the next course can be applied.
      (7)   Under drains shall be required under both sides of streets and
shall be located as indicated in
Appendix A, Street Design Characteristics, and shall discharge into a storm
drainage system. A gradation report for stone or gravel shall be provided to
the Boone County Highway Department and the Boone County Surveyor prior to
placement of material.
Typical Cross Sections of Pavement Options, Location and Thickness as noted in
Appendix A, Street Design Characteristics
 Location
Typical Cross Sections of Pavement Options, Location and Thickness as noted in
Appendix A, Street Design Characteristics
                                    Location
Major collector, curb and gutter
Standard                            1
Full depth bituminous alternate     2
Minor collector, curb and gutter
Standard                            3
Full depth bituminous alternate     4
Subcollector                        5
Feeder
Typical                             6
Alternate with shoulder             7
Access
Typical                             8
Alternate with reduced right-of-way 9
 
      (8)   Subcollector streets for commercial or industrial development shall
be required to meet all specifications for residential collector streets while
feeder or access streets shall be required to meet all specifications for
residential subcollector streets.
      (9)   Where an arterial, major collector or minor collector is located
within a subdivision as established by this chapter, the subdivider shall
construct the street pavement in accordance with
Appendix A, Street Design Characteristics.
      (10)   Prior to placing the street surface, adequate drainage for the
street shall be provided by the subdivider. Culvert drainage pipe, when
required, shall be concrete pipe or a similar type not less than 12 inches in
diameter approved by the APC. Upon the completion of the street improvements,
plans and profiles as built shall be filed with the APC. Longitudinal sub-grade
drainage shall be provided below the depth of the sub-grade.
      (11)   Before any performance bond covering a street installation is
released, the APC, the appropriate legislative body or county’s Highway
Superintendent may request that core borings of the street be done at the
subdivider’s expense. Gores shall be sent to the county’s Highway
Superintendent and/or an independent testing laboratory for analysis. The
subdivider may request permission of the APC and the appropriate legislative
body to delay the installation of the 1-1/2-inch surface layer of asphalt until
the binder layer of asphalt has had a sufficient time period to prove its
durability under the stress of heavy construction traffic. The subdivider shall
be required to submit a separate performance bond to cover the cost of the
installation of the 1-1/2-inch surface layer of asphalt.
   (L)   Block standards.
      (1)   Block length and width or acreage within bounding streets shall be
such as to accommodate all requirements of this chapter in the District in
which the subdivision is to be located, and to provide convenient access,
circulation control and safety of traffic. Blocks that are unreasonably large
or small shall not be approved.
      (2)   Blocks shall not exceed 1,200 feet in length. In the design of
blocks longer than 800 feet, the APC may specify the provision of pedestrian
crosswalks or interior trails near the center of the block, or wherever would
be most useful to facilitate pedestrian circulation to a school, park,
recreation area, shopping center or other significant neighborhood destination.
   (M)   Curbs and gutters. The APC shall require curb and gutter to be
installed on each side of the street surface. The curb and gutter shall be
constructed according to the following specifications.
      (1)   Curb and gutters shall be placed on a well compacted aggregate base
that extends approximately one foot outside the back of the curb.
      (2)   All gutters and curbs shall be constructed in accordance with
Appendix A, Street Design Characteristics.
      (3)   All materials in the curb mix shall meet or exceed INDOT Standard
Specifications Class A Concrete and a gradation report for all materials shall
be furnished to the Highway Inspector prior to installation.
      (4)   No concrete curb mix shall be placed below air temperatures of 40
degrees.
   (N)   Sidewalks.
      (1)   Sidewalks shall be required on both sides of any collector,
subcollector, feeder or access street upon which development occurs. The
Director, Plat Committee or APC may allow a minimum 5-foot wide asphalt trails
as an alternate.
      (2)   Sidewalks shall be constructed of Class A Portland Cement Concrete
in accordance with
Appendix 2, Street Design Characteristics,
      (3)   When possible, trails should be provided within the subdivision and
should complement the sidewalk system. Trails shall be comprised of asphalt and
shall maintain a minimum width of five feet.
   (O)   Street signs. The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with
standard county or town street signs at the intersection of all streets.
      (1)   Stop signs shall be constructed of 30-inch by 30-inch High
Intensity 3M sheeting. Stop signs shall be mounted on flanged u-channel sign
posts, shall weigh three pounds per foot and extend 12 feet in length.
      (2)   Speed limit signs shall be constructed on Engineer Grade 3M
sheeting and be mounted on flanged u-channel sign posts which shall weigh three
pounds per foot and extend 12 feet in length.
      (3)   All street name signs are to be constructed on 9-inch aluminum
plate high intensity sheeting. Street signs shall be green with 6-inch white
letters and a white border. All street signs are to be mounted on tubular sign
posts, 12 feet in length.
      (4)   All mounting brackets shall be provided by the Highway Department.
      (5)   All street signs shall conform with the Indiana Manual on Traffic
Control Devices Guide Signs for Conventional Roads.
   (P)   Street lights. Street lights may be required to be installed at
intersections throughout the subdivision and the installations shall conform to
the requirements of the public utility providing the lighting.
   (Q)   Rights-of-way.
      (1)   Permanent structures. No permanent decorative signs or permanent
objects of any kind such as sprinkler heads or fencing of any kind shall be
permitted within the public right-of-way.
      (2)   Trees and shrubs.
         (a)   Trees and shrubs shall be permitted in the public right-of-way
in accordance with a landscape plan approved by the APC during the secondary
plat process. The plan shall be developed by an urban forester, arborist or
landscape architect. In development of any landscape plan that includes trees
or shrubs in the public right-of-way, consideration shall be given to mature
height and spread; potential damage to sidewalks, street under-drains, curbs
and street pavements by root systems; maintenance requirements; tolerance to
pruning; and adaptability to the specific street environment, including heat,
glare, snow and salt. Tree selection shall consider vertical clearance of
branches sufficient to allow adequate room visually and physically for vehicles
passing underneath.
         (b)   Shrubs shall be low growing and salt tolerant.
         (c)   The location of trees and shrubs at intersections shall permit
clear sight distance two feet to six feet above the street and 100 feet in any
direction of an intersection.
         (d)   Vegetation shall be selected with consideration for low
maintenance requirements and shall have a minimal amount of leaf and fruit
litter. All vegetation and its continued maintenance shall be the
responsibility of the homeowner or homeowners’ association.
(Ord. 98-26, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 156.073 UTILITIES.
   (A)   Design standards. Underground installation of communication and
electric utilities is encouraged and may be required. The installations are
encouraged to be placed in the public road right-of-way and within dedicated
utility easements.
   (B)   Sewage disposal.
      (1)   Sanitary sewer system. The subdivider shall provide the subdivision
with a complete sewer system, which shall connect with an existing approved
public sewer utility and have a documented commitment by that public utility to
provide sewer service, The plans for the installation of a sanitary sewer
system shall be provided by the subdivider and approved by the Indiana State
Board of Health (Refer to Regulation H.S.E.-14, I.S.B.H.). All public utility
installations shall be designed and installed at least to the standards and
specifications as permitted by law of an incorporated area if within two miles
of the development.
      (2)   Private sewage disposal. When an approved sanitary sewer outlet is
not available, a private sewage disposal system on individual lots may be
utilized. The system shall consist of a septic tank and tile absorption field
or other approved sewage disposal system, when laid out in accordance with the
minimum standards of the Boone County Board of Health, in accordance with
Ordinance Number 1975-1, Boone County, Indiana, and all amendments thereto. In
the case of private sewage disposal the subdivider shall provide evidence that
the facility can feasibly be installed and function on the site.
   (C)   Water. The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with a complete
water supply system, which shall be connected to an existing approved public
water utility, except that when no such supply is available, the subdivider
shall provide one of the following:
      (1)   A complete community water supply system to be provided in
accordance with the minimum requirements of the Indiana State Board of Health.
The plans for the installation of water main supply systems shall be provided
by the subdivider and approved by the Indiana State Board of Health; and
      (2)   An individual water supply on each lot in the subdivision in
accordance with the minimum requirements of the Boone County Board of Health.
In the case of private water supply the subdivider shall provide evidence that
the facility can feasibly be installed and function on the site.
   (D)   Utility easements. Where easements for utilities shall be provided,
the easements shall have minimum width of 20 feet, and where located along lot
lines, 1/2 the width shall be taken from each lot. In the case of lots
extending to the boundary of the lands platted and not adjoining another plat,
the full width of the easements shall be provided on the peripheral lots.
Before determining the location of easements, the plan shall be discussed with
the local public utilities to assure their proper placing for the installation
of the services.
(Ord. 98-26, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 156.074 OPEN SPACE.
   (A)   Design standards.
      (1)   Recreation. In no case shall more than 50% of the total open space
provided be utilized for active recreation, in order to preserve a reasonable
proportion of natural areas on the site.
      (2)   Ponds. Detention/retention ponds may be included as part of the
open space area, as may land within easements for underground pipelines and
high-tension power lines, provided that no more than 25% of all open space
areas within the subdivision shall be used for these purposes. Waiver from this
requirement may be requested at the time of primary or secondary plat
application.
   (B)   Ownership. Open space areas may be owned and managed by a homeowners’
association, a recognized land trust or conservancy or a public entity.
      (1)   Offer of dedication. Dedication of open space may be made to any
public or private agency interested in accepting the responsibility for
continued management. Dedication shall take the form of fee simple ownership.
The accepting entity may, but shall not be required to accept open space. Any
entity accepting open space and its continued management may require the
posting of financial surety to ensure structural integrity of the improvements
as well as the functioning of the improvements for a term not to exceed three
years from the date of acceptance of dedication. The amount of financial surety
shall not exceed 20% of the actual cost of installation of the improvements.
      (2)   Homeowners’ association. The open space and associated facilities
shall be held in common ownership by a homeowners’ association. In such case,
the association shall be formed and operated under the following minimum
provisions.
         (a)   The subdivider shall provide a description of the association,
including its bylaws, covenants, restrictions and methods for maintaining the
open space.
         (b)   Membership in the association is mandatory for all purchasers of
homes therein and their successors. The conditions and timing of transferring
control of the association from subdivider to homeowners shall be identified.
         (c)   The association shall be responsible for maintenance of
insurance and payment of taxes on open space, enforceable by liens placed by
the county on the association. The association may place liens on the homes or
house lots of its members who fail to pay their association dues in a timely
manner, if provided for in the covenants and restrictions.
         (d)   The members of the association shall share equitably the costs
of maintaining and developing the open space.
         (e)   In the event of a proposed transfer, within the methods
permitted in this chapter, of open space land by the homeowners’ association,
or of the assumption of maintenance of open space land by a public or private
agency, notice of the action shall be given to all property owners within the
subdivision.
         (f)   The association shall obtain adequate staff to administer common
facilities and properly and continually maintain the open space.
         (g)   The homeowners’ association may lease open space lands to any
qualified person, or corporation, for operation and maintenance of open space
lands, but such a lease or agreement shall provide:
            1.   That the residents of the subdivision shall, at all times,
have access to the open space lands and facilities (except open space lands
used for agricultural purposes); and
            2.   That the open space to be leased shall be maintained for the
purposes set forth in this chapter.
         (h)   Any lease shall be subject to the approval of the board of the
association and any transfer or assignment of the lease shall be further
subject to the approval of the board of the association.
      (3)   Dedication of easements. A public agency may, shall not be required
to, accept easements for public use of any portion of open space land and
facilities, title of which is to remain in ownership by the homeowners’
association provided that the land and facilities are available to the general
public and that a satisfactory maintenance agreement is reached between the
subdivider or homeowners’ association and the public agency.
      (4)   Transfer of easements. An owner may transfer easements to a
private, non-profit organization, among whose purposes it is to conserve open
space and natural resources provided that the conveyance contains appropriate
provisions for proper reverter or retransfer in the event that the organization
becomes unwilling or unable to continue to carry out its functions and that a
maintenance agreement acceptable to the board of the association is entered
into by the subdivider and the organization.
      (5)   Maintenance. The owner of the open space shall be responsible for
maintaining operation, maintenance and physical improvements to open space
lands and facilities, through use of annual dues, special assessments or other
financial capacity. A homeowners’ association shall be authorized under its
bylaws to place liens on the property of residents who fall delinquent in
payment of the dues or assessments.
      (6)   Failure to maintain. Failure to adequately maintain the open space
in reasonable order and condition in accordance with recorded covenants and
restrictions, constitutes a violation of this chapter subject to any and all
enforcement measures authorized by this chapter necessary to obtain compliance.
In the event that the association or any successor organization shall, at any
time after establishment of a subdivision containing open space, fail to
maintain the open space in reasonable order and condition in accordance with
recorded covenants and restrictions, the APC may serve written notice upon the
owner of record, setting forth the manner in which the owner of record has
failed to maintain the open space. If no association is functioning, each
homeowner shall be individually and jointly liable for the assessed cost of
maintenance.
(Ord. 98-26, passed 12-21-1998; Am. Ord. 2004-02, passed 2-9-2004)
§ 156.075 MONUMENTS AND MARKERS.
   Monuments and markers shall be placed so that the center of the pipe or
marked point shall coincide exactly with the intersection of lines to be
marked, and shall be set so that the top of the monument or marker is level
with the finished grade.
   (A)   Monuments. Monuments shall be of stone, pre-cast concrete or concrete
poured in place with minimum dimensions of 4 inches by 30 inches set vertically
in place. They shall be marked on top with iron or copper dowel set flush with
the top of the monument, or deeply scored on top with a cross. Monuments shall
be set:
      (1)   At the intersection of lines forming angles in the boundary of the
subdivision, provided that not more than eight monuments shall be required;
and/or
      (2)   At the intersection of the center lines of all streets and also at
the center points of all cul-de-sac turnarounds.
   (B)   Markers. Markers shall consist of iron pipes or steel bars at least 30
inches long, and not less than 5/8 inches in diameter. Markers shall be set:
      (1)   At the beginning and ending of all curves along street property
lines;
      (2)   At all points where lot lines intersect curves, either front or
rear; and
      (3)   At all angles in property lines of lots. At all lot corners not
established by monuments.
(Ord. 98-26, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 156.076 EMERGENCY WARNING SIRENS.
   (A)   In those areas of the county where the APC and the Boone County
Emergency Management Agency determines that adequate coverage by the county’s
emergency warning siren system does not exist for a proposed major subdivision
and where the APC and the Boone County Emergency Management Agency determines
it necessary for public safety, developers of new major subdivisions shall be
required to furnish and install an emergency warning siren that meets the
specifications of the Boone County Emergency Management Agency or its
successors.
   (B)   The location for or placement of the emergency warning siren and the
extent/radius of its coverage area shall be determined by the APC during the
review of the primary plat and based upon coverage deficiencies identified by
the Boone County Emergency Management Agency.
   (C)   Emergency warning sirens shall be located within platted easements
dedicated to the county, or in common areas of the subdivision, with a
maintenance easement dedicated to the county.
   (D)   Following its acceptance by the APC and the Boone County Emergency
Management Agency, all future maintenance, repair or replacement of emergency
warning sirens shall be the responsibility of the county.
(Ord. 2003-19, passed 9-15-2003)
§ 156.077 PUBLIC USES IN SUBDIVISIONS.
   Where sites for schools, fire prevention, law enforcement, day care or other
public uses indicated by the applicant, such shall be reserved for a negotiated
period of time, not to exceed five years, following the date of the final
approval of the plan. In the event a government agency or other entity
concerned passes a resolution expressing its intent to acquire the land for its
intended purpose, the reservation period shall be extended for not more than
one additional year.
(Ord. 2004-02, passed 2-9-2004)
CHAPTER 157: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
157.001   Title
   
157.002   Interpretation
   
157.003   Non-interference with greater restrictions otherwise imposed
   
157.004   Purpose
   
157.005   Definitions
   
157.006   Districts
   
157.007   Authorized uses and requirements
   
157.008   Certain district requirements adopted by reference
Property Development Standards
   
157.020   Use
   
157.021   Accessory structures
   
157.022   Temporary uses
   
157.023   Lots
   
157.024   Conversions
   
157.025   Buildings relocated
   
157.026   Building height
   
157.027   Yards
   
157.028   Restrictions along streams
   
157.029   Flood protection
   
157.030   Bulk storage
   
157.031   Outside storage
   
157.032   Lighting
   
157.033   Parking and loading requirements
   
157.034   Bufferyards
   
157.035   Home occupations
   
157.036   Requirements for industrial uses
   
157.037   Manufactured homes
   
157.038   Signs
   
157.039   Radio communications
   
157.040   Conditional use standards
Restricted Uses
   
157.050   Minimum lot area for restricted uses
   
157.051   Setbacks for restricted uses
   
157.052   Minimum distance between residential districts and restricted uses
   
157.053   Bufferyards for restricted uses
   
157.054   Bufferyards abutting residential uses for restricted uses
   
157.055   Entrances for restricted uses
   
157.056   Cell towers and wireless communications facilities
   
157.057   Minor subdivisions in the AG district
   
157.058   Airport uses
   
157.059   Minor and major residential subdivision in the RE district
   
157.060   Confined feeding operations
   
157.061   Machine shop requirements
Development Plan
   
157.070   Generally
   
157.071   Establishment of control
   
157.072   Water and sewer connection
   
157.073   Determination of open space
   
157.074   Determination of number of units
   
157.075   Procedures, application and approval
   
157.076   Minor developments
   
157.077   Soil survey, drainage, erosion and sediment control
   
157.078   Principles and standards of design
   
157.079   Ownership and maintenance of open space
   
157.080   Standards for improvements and installation
   
157.081   Street right-of-way
   
157.082   Waiver of requirements
   
157.083   Inspections
   
157.084   Density incentives
   
157.085   Open space incentives
   
157.086   Findings
Planned Unit Developments
   
157.100   Purpose and general regulations
   
157.101   Requirements and standards
   
157.102   Application and procedures
Non-Conforming Uses
   
157.120   Generally
   
157.121   Non-conforming lots of record
   
157.122   Non-conforming structures
   
157.123   Non-conforming uses of land
   
157.124   Non-conforming districts
Improvement Location Permit
   
157.140   Applicability
   
157.141   Certificate of occupancy
   
157.142   Documentation
   
157.143   Industrial uses; certificate of compliance
   
157.144   Expiration and renewal of improvement location permit
Administration and Enforcement
   
157.160   Chapter administration
   
157.161   The Area Plan Commission
   
157.162   Area Boards of Zoning Appeals
   
157.163   Zone maps
   
157.164   Complaints
   
157.165   Enforcement
   
157.166   Severability and effective date
Adult Entertainment Businesses
   
157.180   Generally
   
157.181   Intent
   
157.182   Prohibitions
   
157.183   Measurement of distances
   
157.184   Exterior display
   
157.185   Continuation of non-conforming uses
Overlay Districts
   
157.200   Purpose
   
157.201   Intent
   
157.202   Authority
   
157.203   Zoning Map
   
157.204   U.S. Highway 421 - Michigan Road Corridor Overlay District
   
157.205   I-65 Interstate 65 South Corridor Overlay District
   
Appendix A: Fee Schedule
   
Appendix B: Plant Materials Recommended for Bufferyards
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 157.001 TITLE.
   An ordinance for the development through zoning of the area within the
jurisdiction of the Area Plan Commission of Boone County, Indiana. This chapter
may be cited as the Zoning Ordinance of Boone County, Indiana.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 157.002 INTERPRETATION.
   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, they shall be
held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public health,
safety, comfort, morals, convenience and general welfare. It is not the intent
of this chapter, nor would it be the result of this chapter, that any usage of
land existing at the time or prior to the passage of this chapter which was
illegal or unlawful under former zoning ordinances or regulations should become
legal or lawful under the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 157.003 NON-INTERFERENCE WITH GREATER RESTRICTIONS OTHERWISE IMPOSED.
   It is not the intention of this chapter to interfere with, or abrogate, or
annul any easements, covenants, or other agreements between parties, nor to
interfere with, or abrogate, or annul any ordinances, other than those
expressly repealed hereby, rules, regulations or permits previously adopted or
issued, and not in conflict with any of the provisions of this chapter, or
which shall be adopted or approved, except, that where this chapter imposes a
greater restriction upon the use of buildings or land, or upon the height of
buildings, or requires larger open spaces or greater lot area per family, than
are required or imposed by the easements, covenants or agreements between
parties, or by such ordinances, rules, regulations or permits, the provisions
of this chapter shall control.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 157.004 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of these regulations is to protect and promote the public
health, safety and general welfare of the residents in the jurisdiction of the
APC, and to:
   (A)   Guide future growth and development in accordance with the
comprehensive planning process;
   (B)   Protect the character and the social and economic stability of all
parts of the area and encourage;
   (C)   Orderly and beneficial development of all parts;
   (D)   Protect and conserve the value of land, buildings and other
improvements upon the land and minimize the conflicts among the uses of land or
buildings;
   (E)   Avoid scattered and uncontrolled subdivision of land that would result
in the unnecessary imposition of an excessive expenditure of public funds for
the supply of services that are a part of the community infrastructure; and
   (F)   Preserve prime farmland soils.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 157.005 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms or words used herein shall be
interpreted or defined as follows. (Words used in the present tense include the
future tense. The term “shall” is always mandatory.)
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A subordinate building or structure detached from but
located on the same lot as a principal building which does not alter or change
the character of the premises. Public utility communications, electric, gas,
water and sewer lines, their supports and incidental equipment, and public
telephone booths shall be considered accessory uses even though no principal
building exists on the premises.
   ACCESSORY USE (see also HOME OCCUPATION). A use that:
      (1)   Is clearly incidental and customarily found in connection with a
principal building or use;
      (2)   Is subordinate to and serves the principal use;
      (3)   Is subordinate in area, extent or purpose to the principal use
served;
      (4)   Contributes to the comfort, convenience or necessity of occupants,
business or industry of the principal use served; and/or
      (5)   Is located on the same lot as the principal use served.
   ACT. Area Planning Law of the State of Indiana, as defined by I.C. 36-7-4-
102.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment having as a preponderance of its stock in
trade or its dollar volume in trade, books, magazines, periodicals or other
printed matter, or photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes,
slides, tapes, records or other forms of visual or audio representations which
are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, theater, restaurant or similar
establishment which features live performances by topless and/or bottomless
dancers, go-go dancers, exotic dancers, strippers or similar entertainers,
where the performances are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on
specified sexual activities or by exposure of specified anatomical areas and/or
which regularly feature films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or
other photographic reproductions which are distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on specified sexual activities or by exposure of specified anatomical
areas for observation by patrons.
   ADULT DRIVE-IN THEATER. An open lot or part thereof, with appurtenant
facilities, devoted primarily to the presentation of motion pictures, films,
theatrical productions and other forms of visual productions, for any form of
consideration, to persons in motor vehicles or on outdoor seats in which a
preponderance of the total presentation time is devoted to the showing of
materials distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual
activities or by exposure of specified anatomical areas for observation by
patrons.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS. An adult bookstore, adult motion picture
theater, adult mini motion picture theater, adult motion picture arcade, adult
cabaret, adult drive-in theater, adult live entertainment arcade or adult
service establishment.
   ADULT LIVE ENTERTAINMENT ARCADE. Any building or structure which contains or
is used for commercial entertainment where the patron directly or indirectly is
charged a fee to view from an enclosed or screened area or booth a series of
live dance routines, strip performances or other gyrational choreography which
performances are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified
sexual activities or by exposure of specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT MINI MOTION PICTURE THEATER. Any building or structure which contains
or is used for commercial entertainment where the patron directly or indirectly
is charged a fee, with a capacity of more than five, but less than 50, persons,
used for presenting films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or similar
photographic reproductions in which a preponderance of the total presentation
time is devoted to the showing of materials which are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to
specified sexual activities or by exposure of specified anatomical areas for
observation by patrons therein.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or
invited where coin or slug-operated or electronically, electrically or
mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors or other
image-producing devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer persons
per machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. Any building or structure which contains or is
used for commercial entertainment where the patron directly or indirectly is
charged a fee, with a capacity of 50 or more persons used for presenting films,
motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or similar  photographic reproductions
in which a preponderance of the total presentation time is devoted to the
showing of materials which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons therein.
   ADULT SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT. Any building, premises, structure or other
facility or any part thereof, under common ownership or control which provides
a preponderance of services involving specified sexual activities or display of
specified anatomical areas.
   AGRICULTURAL BUILDING. A structure utilized for the conduct of farming
operations but not including dwellings used for human occupancy.
   AGRICULTURE PURPOSES. Generally, the utilization of land for the following
activities;
      (1)   Tillage of soil in the production of crops;
      (2)   Production or maintenance of hay and pasture crops;
      (3)   Husbandry or production of livestock or poultry, and horses, and
their products, excluding dogs and other small animals commonly kept as
household pets;
      (4)   Growing of trees for the production of timber or timber products,
erosion control and other purposes commonly found in agricultural areas; and
      (5)   The science or art of horitcultural processes, by which land is
used for cultivating fruits, vegetables, ornamental plants and other
activities.
   AIRCRAFT. Any contrivance used or designed for transporting a cargo and/or
passengers more than five feet above the ground.
   AIRPORT/HELIPORT. Any area which is used or intended to be used for the
taking off and landing of aircraft and any appurtenance areas which are used or
intended to be used for airport buildings or facilities, including open spaces,
taxiways and tie-down areas. Private owner-occupied and used grass-strips shall
be excluded from this definition.
   ALLEY. A right-of-way other than a street, road, crosswalk, designed to
provide a secondary means of access for the special accommodation of the
property it reaches.
   ANIMAL DAY-CARE FACILITY. Any facility in which four or more dogs or other
small animals that are commonly kept as household pets, which are at least
three months old, and where the primary use of the facility is to care for
those animals during the daytime hours. Over-night boarding of the animals at
the facility is prohibited.
   APC. The Area Plan Commission of Boone County, Indiana.
   APPLICANT. The owner or owners of real estate who makes application to the
APC or BZA for action by the commission affecting the real estate owned
thereby.
   AUTOMATIC CAR WASH. A building, or portion thereof, where automobiles,
trucks or other self-powered vehicles are washed by mechanical devices of any
type.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR. Any building, premises and land in which or upon which a
business, service or industry involving the maintenance, servicing or repair of
vehicles is conducted or rendered.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. Any building, structure or land used primarily
for the dispensing or sale of any automobile fuels, oils or accessories. This
includes lubrication and replacement or installation of minor parts or
accessories, but does not include major repair work such as motor replacement,
transmission replacement, body and fender repair or spray painting.
   AUTOMOTIVE, MOBILE HOME, TRAVEL TRAILER, FARM IMPLEMENT and CONSTRUCTION
MACHINERY SALES AREA. An open area other than a street or public right-of-way,
used for the display, sale or rental of new or used motor vehicles, mobile
homes, travel trailers, farm implements and construction machinery.
   BED AND BREAKFAST. A residential building, or portion thereof, other than a
motel, apartment hotel or hotel, containing lodging rooms for accommodation of
five or more persons who are not members of the keeper’s family and where
lodging or meals or both are provided by prearrangement and for definite
periods and for compensation.
   BLOCK. An area that abuts a street and lies between two intersecting streets
or barriers such as railroad rights-of-way or watercourses.
   BOOK STORE. A business established for the retail trade of books, magazines
or similar literature, excluding adult or sexually oriented materials.
   BUFFERYARD. A unit of yard together with the planting thereon required to
separate land uses from each other.
   BUILDING. Any enclosed structure designed or intended for the support,
enclosure, shelter or protection of persons, animals or property of any kind
and includes any structure.
   BUILDING AREA. The horizontal projected area of the buildings on a lot or
premises, excluding open areas or terraces, unenclosed porches not more than
one story high, and architectural features that project no more than two feet.
   BUILDING COMMISSIONER. The employee or officer of the APC who is empowered
to inspect and approve improvement location permits, and to act as the agent of
the Director in any other matter concerning the enforcement of this chapter.
   BUILDING, DETACHED. A building having no structural connection with another
building.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance measured from the lot ground
level to the highest point of the roof for a flat roof; to the deck line of a
mansard roof; and to the mean height between eaves and ridges for gable, hip
and gambrel roofs.
   BUILDING LINE. The line that establishes the minimum permitted distance on a
lot between the front line of a building and the street right-of-way line.
   BUILDING PERMIT. A document signed by the Director or the Building Inspector
which certifies that a proposed use meets the requirements of the Boone County
Zoning Ordinance and all other codes which may be applicable.
   BUILDING, PRIMARY. A building in which the primary use of the lot or
premises on which it is located is conducted, including a building that is
attached to such a building in a substantial way, such as by a roof. With
respect to residential uses, the PRIMARY BUILDING shall be the main dwelling.
   BUSINESS. The engaging in the purchase, sale, barter or exchange of goods,
wares, merchandise or services, the maintenance or operation of offices, or
recreational and amusement enterprises for profit.
   BZA. The Boone County Area Board of Zoning Appeals of the Area Plan
Commission of Boone County, Indiana, or the Board of Zoning Appeals of any
incorporated city or town under the jurisdiction of the Area Plan Commission of
Boone County, Indiana, whichever the case may be.
   CAMPING GROUNDS. A parcel of land used or intended to be used for temporary
occupancy by campers, recreational vehicles, travel trailers, mobile homes,
tents and the like.
   CEMETERY. Land used for the burial of the dead and dedicated for cemetery
purposes, including columbariums, crematories, mausoleums and mortuaries when
operated in conjunction with and within the boundary of the cemetery.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. A certificate stating that the occupancy and use
of land or a building or structure referred to therein complies with the
provisions of this chapter.
   CHURCH or TEMPLE. A building, together with its accessory buildings and
uses, where persons regularly assemble for religious purposes and related
social events and which buildings, together with accessory buildings and uses,
is maintained and controlled by a religious body organized to sustain religious
ceremonies and purposes.
   CLEAN FILL SITE. A facility or site specifically designed and restricted to
the disposal, processing and/or reclamation of off-site generated,
uncontaminated and untreated stone, bricks or concrete; road demolition waste
materials; natural growth including tree limbs and grass clippings; sawdust
from untreated natural wood; and other items not included in the above
definition if subsequently approved by the Boone County Solid Waste Management
District and the Indiana Department of Environmental Management. CLEAN FILL
SITES shall be classified into one of the following types:
      (1)   Long term permitted clean fill disposal site;
      (2)   Temporary permitted clean fill disposal site;
      (3)   Long term permitted clean fill processing site;
      (4)   Temporary permitted clean fill processing site; and
      (5)   Temporary permitted clean fill land reclamation site.
   CLINIC. A building used for the care, diagnosis and treatment of sick,
ailing, infirm or injured persons, and those who are in need of medical and
surgical attention, but which building does not provide board, room or regular
hospital care and services.
   CLUB. A building or portion thereof or premises owned or operated by a
person or group for a social, literary, political, educational or recreational
purpose primarily for the exclusive use of members and their guests excluding
adult or sexually oriented activities. This does not include any use or
activity rendering a service usually and ordinarily carried out as a business
including restaurants or food service.
   COMMERCIAL CLASSIFICATIONS. These shall be obtained from the latest edition
of the Standard Industrial Classification Manual, Executive Officer of the
President, Bureau of the Budget.
   COMMERCIAL FERTILIZER OPERATION. A large scale commercial operation where
the primary business is the sale, transfer, or storage of mass quantities of
anhydrous ammonia, fertilizer or similar chemical occurs on the property.
   COMMERCIAL MESSAGE. Any sign wording, logo or other representation that,
directly or indirectly, names, advertises or calls attention to a business,
product, service or other commercial activity.
   COMMITMENT. A covenant concerning the use or development of a parcel of real
property which is made in writing by the owner of that parcel, either
voluntarily or in accordance with an order or request of the APC or the
appropriate legislative body.
   COMMON SPACE. An area that is held in common by a homeowners’ association, a
recognized land trust or conservancy or a public entity and is not located in
rights-of-way.
   COMPOSTING. The biological treatment process by which microorganisms
decompose the organic component of vegetative matter and other types of organic
material; the compost may be used as:
      (1)   A soil conditioner;
      (2)   A cover material for a solid waste landfill; and
      (3)   Another use approved by the Boone County Solid Waste Management
District and the Indiana Department of Environmental Management.
   COMPOSTING/DIGESTER FACILITY. A specific type of composting facility.
   COMPOSTING FACILITY. A solid waste processing facility specifically designed
and operated for the express purpose of composting.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The Boone County Comprehensive Plan approved by the
Board of County Commissioners on July14, 1997, as amended.
   CONDOMINIUM. Ownership in common with others of a parcel of land and certain
parts of a building thereon which would normally be used by all the occupants,
such as yards, foundations, basements, floors, walls, hallways, stairways,
elevators and all other related common elements, together with individual
ownership in fee of a particular unit or portion of the building, which
building shall be the same as DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY.
   CONFINED FEEDING OPERATION. As defined in I.C. 13-11-2-40:
      (1)   Any confined feeding of 300 or more cattle, 600 or more swine or
sheep and 30,000 or more fowl;
      (2)   Any animal feeding operation where the operator elects to come
under the Act;
      (3)   Any animal feeding operation that violates Chapter 214 of the Act
of 1943 as determined by the Water Pollution Control Board of the State of
Indiana; or
      (4)   As defined by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management
latest revisions or amendments.
   CONSERVATION AREA. Designated open space further defined as PRIMARY and
SECONDARY CONSERVATION AREAS. PRIMARY CONSERVATION AREAS include wetlands,
lands that are generally inundated, land within the 100-year floodplain, and
slopes exceeding 25%. SECONDARY CONSERVATION AREAS typically include natural
resources such as forests, meadows, farm fields, wildlife habitat and water
quality protection or other reasons.
   CONSERVATION EASEMENT. An easement granting a right or, interest in real
property that is appropriate to retaining land or water areas predominately in
their natural, scenic, open or wooded condition retaining such areas as
suitable habitat for fish, plants or wildlife, or maintaining existing land
uses.
   CONSTRUCTION/DEMOLITION SITE. A solid waste land disposal facility, or site,
designed and operated to accommodate large volumes of solid waste, having
minimal potential for ground water contamination. Further, in the Boone County
Solid Waste Management District, a construction/ demolition site is to be
specifically designed and restricted to the disposal, processing and/or
reclamation of only construction or demolition waste to include bricks;
concrete; stone; glass; wallboard; lumber; roofing materials; other items which
are affixed to the structure being constructed or demolished including plumbing
fixtures; wiring and non-asbestos insulation; and other items not included in
the above definition if subsequently approved by the Boone County Solid Waste
Management District and the Indiana Department of Environmental Management.
   CONVENIENCE STORE. A small store that is open for long hours and sells a
variety of goods, especially gasoline, food and drink, cleaning materials, and
newspapers or magazines.
   COOPERATIVE. A building or land in which an individual owns stock in a
corporation with the right through a proprietary lease to occupy a portion of
the land or part of the building, which building shall be the same as DWELLING,
MULTI-FAMILY.
   COUNTY. The County of Boone, Indiana.
   DAY CARE CENTER. A commercial facility or single-family home licensed and/or
regulated by the Indiana Department of Public Welfare for the care and/or
education of human beings. A DAY CARE CENTER shall not be considered a home
occupation.
   DECIBEL. A unit of measurement of the intensity of loudness of sound.
   DEVELOPER. Any person engaged in developing a lot or group of lots or
structures thereon for use or occupancy.
   DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A specific plan for the development of real property that:
      (1)   Requires approval by the APC under I.C. 36-7-4-1400 series:
      (2)   Includes a site plan;
      (3)   Satisfies the development requirements specified in the ordinance
regulating the development; and
      (4)   Contains the plan documentation and supporting information required
by the ordinance regulating development.
   DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENT.
      (1)   Development standards plus any additional requirements specified
herein, which must be satisfied in connection with the approval of a
development plan.
      (2)   As relates to §§
157.070 et seq., a requirement:
         (a)   For development of real property in a zoning district for which
a development plan is required; and
         (b)   That conforms to I.C. 36-74-1405.
      (3)   As relates to planned unit development a requirement:
         (a)   For development of real property in a planned unit development
district that must be met; and
         (b)   That conforms to I.C. 36-7-4-1508.
   DIRECTOR. The Executive Director of the Boone County Area Plan Commission
who has the power to enforce this chapter, and is responsible for the
performance of any duties or functions required by the Area Plan Commission of
Boone County, Indiana, under I.C. 36-7-4.
   DISTRICT. A section of the jurisdictional area for which uniform regulations
governing the use, height, area, size and intensity of use of buildings and
land, and open spaces about buildings, are herein established.
   DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT. An establishment selling foods, frozen desserts or
beverages to consumers, the establishment being designed, intended or used for
the consumption of such items on the premises outside of the building in which
they were prepared.
   DRIVEWAY, PRIVATE. A privately controlled and maintained accessible ingress
and egress extending from a public right-of-way or private road easement to one
or two lots to access buildings or structures.
   DRIVEWAY, PRIVATE ACCESS. A privately controlled and maintained easement,
designed and maintained in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, that
provides the means of access and frontage pursuant to the underlying zoning
district for more than two and less than four abutting residential lots. The
term ACCESS DRIVE shall be synonymous to the terms streets, avenue, place, way,
lane or boulevard.
   DRUG STORE. A store where the primary business is the filling of medical
prescriptions and the sale of drugs, medical devices and supplies, and non-
prescription medicines but where non-medical products may be sold as well.
   DWELLING. A building or part of a building that is used primarily as a place
of abode, but not including a hotel, motel, lodging house, boarding house, bed
and breakfast or mobile home, as defined in this chapter.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A residential building designed for or occupied by
three or more families, with the number of families in residence not exceeding
the number of dwelling units provided.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached residential dwelling unit designed for
and occupied by one family only.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A detached residential building containing two
dwelling units designed for occupancy by not more than two families.
   DWELLING UNIT. A room or group of rooms designed and equipped exclusively
for use as living quarters for only one family and its household employees,
including provisions for living, eating, sleeping and cooking. The term shall
include mobile and manufactured homes, but shall not include recreational
vehicles.
   EASEMENT. An authorization or grant by a property owner to specific persons,
the general public, corporations, utilities and the like, for the purpose of
providing services or access to the property.
   ESTABLISHMENT OF AN ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS. Any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any such business as a new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not an adult
entertainment business, to any of the adult entertainment businesses defined
herein;
      (3)   The addition of any of the adult entertainment businesses defined
herein to any other existing adult entertainment business; or
      (4)   The relocation of any such business.
   FAMILY. One or more persons living as single housekeeping unit, but not
including a group occupying a hotel, motel, club, nursing home, dormitory,
fraternity or sorority house.
   FARM. An area comprising 20 acres or more which is primarily adapted, bu
reason or nature, for the use for agricultural purposes.
   FARM BUILDING. A structure on a farm which hosts agricultural storage of
livestock, poultry, grain, feed, hay, farm machinery or other similar non-
residential purposes.
   FENCE. A partition including entrance and exit gates, designed and
constructed for enclosure or screening.
   FILLING OR SERVICE STATION. The same as AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION.
   FLOOD or FLOODWATER. The water of any river or stream which is above the
bank and/or outside the channel and banks of the river or stream.
   FLOOD HAZARD AREA. Any floodplain, floodway, floodway fringe or any
combination thereof which is subject to inundation by the peak discharge from a
100-year frequency flood event. The area shown as Zone A on the flood hazard
boundary maps of Boone County and incorporated areas.
   FLOOD PLAIN. The area adjacent to a stream or river which is subject to
inundation by flood waters, including the floodway fringe and the regulatory
floodway.
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE. The elevation of the lowest point around the
perimeter of a building at which floodwater may enter the interior of the
building.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those areas adjacent to the
channel which are expected to carry and discharge the peak flow of the 100-year
frequency rainfall event.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. That portion of the floodplain which lies outside the
floodway which may also be inundated by the peak flow of the 100-year frequency
rainfall event.
   FLOOR AREA, NET. The sum in square feet computed from the outside dimensions
of the structure. It does not include crawl space, unusable attic area,
unenclosed porches or patios, elevator shafts, display windows and the like.
   FOOD PROCESSING. The preparation, storage or processing of food products.
   FRATERNITY, SORORITY OR STUDENT HOUSING. A building used as group living
quarters for a student body or religious order as an accessory use for a
college, university, boarding school, convent, monastery or other similar
institutional use.
   FRONTAGE. The distance at which a property or properties is located along a
dedicated street or road.
   GARAGE, PARKING. Any garage, other than private garage, for the parking of
vehicles.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL. A structure that is accessory to a residential
building and that is used for the parking and storage of vehicles owned and
operated by the residents thereof and that is not a separate commercial
enterprise available to the general public.
   GARAGE, TRUCK REPAIR. A building, other than a parking garage or private
residential garage, used for the care, repair or equipment of trucks, over one
ton, or where the vehicles are parked or stored for remuneration, hire or sale.
   GEOMETRIC CENTER. The center point of the smallest rectangle that will
encompass the entire site.
   GRADE. The slope of a road, street or other public way, specified in terms
of percentage.
   GROSS FLOOR AREA. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several
floors of a building or structure from the exterior face of exterior walls, or
from the centerline of a wall separating two buildings, but excluding any space
where the floor-to-ceiling height is less than six feet.
   GROUND FLOOR AREA. Same as FLOOR AREA, NET except computed for ground floor
only.
   GROUP RESIDENTIAL FACILITY. A facility licensed by the State of Indiana,
that provides a home-like setting to the developmentally disabled and/or the
mentally ill who need the benefits of a group living situation as an
alternative to hospitalization or institutionalization.
   HELIPORT. See AIRPORT.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. A waste or combination of wastes that, because of its
quantity; concentration; or physical, chemical and/or infectious
characteristics; may:
      (1)   Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or
increase in serious irreversible, or incapacitating reversible illness: or
      (2)   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or
the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or
otherwise managed.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE LANDFILL. A facility approved by the EPA and sited by the
State of Indiana for the disposal of hazardous wastes as defined elsewhere in
this ordinance.
   HEALTH CLUB. A place of business with equipment and facilities for
exercising and improving physical fitness.
   HOME CATERING. The business of providing perishable items in a residence for
future transport to an off-site location for purchase.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An accessory use that by custom has been carried on
entirely within a dwelling unit, and is incidental and subordinate to the
dwelling use and that shall not occupy more that 30% of the gross floor area or
700 square feet, whichever is less, of the dwelling units used. In connection
with such use, there is to be no stock or trade of commodities sold on the
premises. Such use shall be carried on by the occupants of the dwelling unit
with not more that one nonresident employee, and shall not in any manner change
the residential character of the building.
   HOTEL or MOTEL. A building or group of buildings in which lodging is
provided and offered to the public for compensation and which is open to
transient guests, in contradiction to a boarding house or lodging house.
   IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT. A permit stating that the proposed erection,
construction, enlargement or moving of a building or structure referred to
therein complies with the provisions of the Zoning Ordinance.
   INCINERATOR. An engineered apparatus or solid waste processing facility
designed for the burning of solid waste under the effect of controls of
temperature, retention time, air and other combustion factors.
   INDUSTRIAL, GENERAL. Manufacturing, processing, extraction, heavy repairing,
dismantling, storage or disposal of equipment, raw materials, manufactured
products or wastes, in which operations, other than transportation, may be
performed in either open or closed areas.
   INDUSTRIAL PARK. A tract of land that is planned and developed as a
distinctive unit featuring landscaped open spaces and well designed structures
to be used for research, offices, experimental and testing laboratories, light
industrial, storage and distribution facilities, and for necessary uses to the
convenience of employees, and is controlled by an organization guaranteeing the
continued maintenance of all commonly used areas and installations.
   INOPERATIVE MOTOR VEHICLE. Any automobile, truck, semi-trailer, school bus,
recreational vehicle and the like that lacks a motor, drive train, wheels,
axles, transmission and the like; also a vehicle which does not carry a current
year state registration or license tag.
   INSTITUTION. Any home, orphanage or other facility maintained or conducted
by a group of persons, a firm, association, corporation or governmental body
engaged in receiving and caring for dependent, neglected, handicapped or
permanently disabled persons, or children in danger of becoming delinquent or
in operating for gain a private business of boarding children who are
unattended by parents or guardians, or persons in loco parentis.
   INTERNET SALES (ELECTRONIC COMMERCE). The use of computer technologies to
conduct general business communication and sales transactions over the
internet. As most restrictively defined, electronic commerce is the buying and
selling of goods and services, and the transfer of funds, through digital
communications.
   JUNK YARD. Any lot, parcel or tract of real estate, platted or unplatted, at
which personal property is or may be salvaged for reuse, resale or reduction or
similar disposition and is owned, possessed, collected, accumulated, dismantled
or assorted, including but not limited to used or salvaged base metal or
metals, their compounds or combinations, used or salvaged rope, bags, paper
matter; and property used for the dismantling, wrecking, storage, sale or
clumping of two or more inoperative motor vehicles or their parts. This shall
not include tractors, combines, pickers, discs, plows or other similar farm
machinery that is owned by a farm operator and is used for parts replacement
for machinery currently being used in the farming operation.
   JURISDICTIONAL AREA. The unincorporated area of Boone County, Indiana, and
participating incorporated areas.
   KENNEL, SMALL. Any lot or premises on which there are located four to 25
runs, cages, pens and/or animal housing units for dogs or other small animals
that are commonly kept as household pets which are at least three months old
and where the primary use of the facility is to breed and/or board the animals,
whether on a temporary or long-term basis. All animals must be licensed in
accordance with county regulations.
   KENNEL, LARGE. Any lot or premises on which there are located 26 to 50 runs,
cages, pens and/or animal housing units for dogs or other small animals that
are commonly kept as household pets, which are at least three months old, where
the primary use of the facility is to breed and/or board the animals, whether
on a temporary or long-term basis. All animals must be licensed in accordance
with county regulations.
   KENNEL, UNLIMITED. Any lot or premises on which there are located more than
50 runs, cages, pens and/or animal housing units for dogs or other small
animals that are commonly kept as household pets, which are at least three
months old, where the primary use of the facility is to breed and/or board the
animals, whether on a temporary or long-term basis. All animals must be
licensed in accordance with county regulations.
   LANDSCAPE CONTRACTOR. A person, partnership or corporation involved in the
business of growing, storing, planting, installing and otherwise caring for
live-trees, shrubs, flowers and the like.
   LANDSCAPE EASEMENT. An area located in a subdivision that may be privately
owned, but is reserved to provide greenspace and bufferyards. Restrictions for
landscape easements will reflect those of regulated drain easements.
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The Boone County Board of Commissioners or the appropriate
legislative body of the incorporated areas of Boone County.
   LIFE CARE FACILITY. A facility for the housing and care of elderly residents
which may or may not contain on-site health care facilities.
   LIGHT INDUSTRY. Manufacturing, processing, extraction, heavy repairing,
dismantling, storage or disposal of equipment, raw materials, manufactured
products or wastes, in which all operations, other than transportation, are
performed entirely within enclosed buildings and for which all loading and
unloading facilities are enclosed.
   LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAY. A highway to which abutting properties are denied
access.
   LOADING AND UNLOADING BERTHS. The off-street area required for the receipt
or the distribution, by vehicles, of material or merchandise.
   LOT. A platted parcel or tract of land of at least sufficient composition to
meet minimum zoning requirements and provide such yards and other open spaces
as are hereby required.
   LOT AREA. The area of horizontal plan bounded by the vertical planes through
front, side and rear lot lines.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot at the junction of or abutting two or more intersecting
streets. CORNER LOTS have two frontyard setbacks and two side yard setbacks.
   LOT COVERAGE. The total ground area within the lot or project covered by the
primary structure, plus any accessory structures (including decks, patios,
swimming pools, garages, carports and storage sheds), excluding driveways,
sidewalks, fences and walls not attached in any way to a roof.
   LOT DEPTH. The average horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines.
   LOT, FLAG. A lot with access provided to the majority of the lot by means of
a narrow corridor.
   LOT, GROUND LEVEL. For buildings having walls adjoining one street only, the
elevation of the sidewalk at the center of the wall adjoining the street. For
buildings having walls adjoining more than one street, the average of the
elevation of the sidewalk at the center of all walls adjoining the streets. Any
wall approximately parallel to and not more than five feet from a street is to
be considered as adjoining the street.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot or through lot.
   LOT LINE. A line dividing one lot from another lot or from a street or
alley.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. Any property line separating the lot from a street; or on a
flag lot, the interior lot line most parallel to and nearest the street from
which access is obtained.
   LOT LINE, REAR. Any property line which is not intersecting and most distant
from and most closely parallel to the front lot line. A lot bounded by only
three lot lines will not have a rear lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot boundary line not a front lot line or rear lot line.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot whose existence, location and dimensions have been
legally recorded or registered in a deed or on a plat recorded in the office of
the County Recorder, provided that the lot meets the requirements for lots in
the district in which it was located at the time of recording.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot having frontage on two parallel or approximately
parallel street.
   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between side lot lines, measured at the
required front setback line.
   LOW LEVEL NUCLEAR WASTE. Radioactive byproduct materials generated by
laboratory, hospital and industrial research and commercial production as
defined by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended and administered by the
Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
   MACHINE SHOP. A commercial business for the primary purpose of
manufacturing, compounding, assembly, or treatment of articles or merchandise
from previously prepared materials. Types of permitted MACHINE SHOPS include
blacksmith shops, cabinet or carpenter shops, electric motor rebuilding,
machine shops, sheet metal shops, welding shops, plumbing shops and the like.
      (1)   MACHINE SHOP, LARGE. A large machine shop is determined by the
scale and extent of the number of employees and/or total square footage of the
building not to exceed 55,000 square feet. The number of employees may range
between 10 and 25 permissible at one shift performing work on-site.
      (2)   MACHINE SHOP, SMALL. A small machine shop is determined by the
scale and extent of the number of employees and/or total square footage of the
building not exceed 30,000 square feet. The number of employees permissible at
one shift is ten performing work on-site.
   MAJOR RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION. The division of a lot, tract or parcel of
land into five or more residential lots, tracts, parcels or other divisions of
land for sale, development or lease.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. As defined in I.C. 22-12-1-16, a dwelling unit (as
defined in P.I. 312), designed and built in a factory which bears a seal
certifying that it was built in compliance with the Federal Manufactured
Housing Construction and Safety Standards Law, and certified by the State of
Indiana. The MANUFACTURED HOME shall be constructed after January 1, 1931,
classified as residential design, and exceed 750 square feet of occupied space,
and exceed 12 feet in width. Occupied space does not include porches, terraces,
garages, pull-out or expansion rooms.
   MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A parcel of land platted for subdivision
according to all requirements of the Comprehensive Plan, Zoning Ordinance and
Subdivision Control Ordinance, designed or intended for lots to be conveyed by
deed to individual owners for residential occupancy primarily by manufactured
homes.
   MANUFACTURED HOUSING CONSTRUCTION AND SAFETY STANDARDS CODES. Title VI of
the 1974 Housing and Community Development Act (42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq.), as
amended (previously known as the Federal Mobile Home Construction and Safety
Act), rules and regulations adopted thereunder (including information supplied
by the home manufacturer, which has been stamped and approved by a Design
Approval Primary Inspection Agency, an agent of the U.S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development pursuant to HUD rules), and regulations and
interpretations of said code by the Indiana Department of Fire and Safety, all
of which became effective for mobile/manufactured home construction on June 15,
1976.
   MASSAGE. Any method of pressure on or friction against, or stroking,
kneading, rubbing, tapping, pounding, vibrating or stimulating of the external
parts of the human body with the hands or with the aid of any mechanical
electrical apparatus or appliances with or without such supplementary aids as
rubbing alcohol, liniments, antiseptics, oils, powder, creams, lotions,
ointment or other such similar preparations commonly used in the practice of
massage, under such circumstances that it is reasonably expected that the
person to whom the treatment is provided or some third person on his or her
behalf will pay money or give any other consideration or any gratuity
therefore. However, MASSAGE, as used in this chapter, shall not apply to the
activity of any person who is registered or licensed by the United States
Government or any agency thereof, by the State of Indiana or any agency
thereof, by Boone County or any agency thereof, or registered or licensed by
any agency or association authorized to so register or license by any statute
or ordinance of the United States, the State of Indiana or Boone County, while
the person so registered or licensed is performing the services for which the
registration or license was issued and during the period of time the
registration or license is in effect.
   MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT. Any establishment having a source of income or
compensation derived from the practice of massage as herein defined and which
has a fixed place of business where any person, firm, association or
corporation engages in, or carries on any of the activities as defined in a
massage.
   MAXIMUM DENSITY. A unit of measurement which represents the maximum number
of units per acre of land on the aggregate total land to be developed,
exclusive of rights-of-way of perimeter streets, floodway areas, and areas
designated as primary conservation areas or other non-developable areas.
   MINERAL EXTRACTION. Activities including mining or quarrying, and the
removal of earth materials.
   MINOR RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION. The division of a lot, tract or parcel of
land into two to four residential lots, tracts, parcels or other divisions of
land for sale, development or lease.
   MOBILE HOME. As defined in I.C. 16-41-27-4, a detached transportable
structure designed to be used as a single-family residential dwelling with all
of the following characteristics:
      (1)   Certified in a factory and fabricated to the standards outlined in
Indiana Public Law 135, pursuant to state law;
      (2)   Designed to be transported after fabrication on its own wheels; and
      (3)   Arriving at the site where it is to be occupied as a dwelling
complete, including the major appliances and ready for occupancy, except for
minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations, location on foundation
supports, connection to the utilities and the like.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. As defined in I.C. 16-41-27-5, any parcel or tract of land
licensed and registered under provisions of the Mobile Home Commission Act,
being Act 419 of the Public Acts of 1976, as amended, under the control of any
person upon which three or more occupied mobile homes are harbored on a
continual or non-recreational basis, or which is offered to the public for that
purpose, regardless of whether a charge is made therefor, together with any
building structure, enclosure, street, equipment or facility used or intended
for use incident to the harboring or occupancy of mobile homes.
   MOBILE HOME, TEMPORARY. The temporary placement of a mobile home for one of
the following purposes:
      (1)   Temporary residence for persons intending to build a permanent
residence on the same property within two years;
      (2)   Temporary residence of a mobile home adjacent to the permanent
residence of one who is able to provide care or in need of care; and
      (3)   Temporary use of a mobile home, trailer or van as a contractor’s
office, watchperson’s shelter or tool and equipment storage on the project site
and only during the period of construction.
   MULTI-UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A development which contains three or more
residential units.
   NIGHT CLUB. An establishment dispensing liquor and/or meals and in which
music, dancing or entertainment is conducted, excluding adult or sexually
oriented activities.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. Lots, structures, uses of land and/or zoning districts
which were lawful before this chapter was amended, but which would be
prohibited, regulated or restricted under the terms of this chapter or future
amendments.
   NUCLEAR WASTE. Radioactive fuel elements, assemblies and the like generated
by utility companies; military, industrial and commercial production as defined
by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 as amended and administered by the Nuclear
Regulatory Commission. Any radioactive material whether gaseous, liquid or
solid and associated carrier materials whether gaseous, liquid or solid which
has been declared de minimus and no longer under control of the NRC. The
material may or may not be designated hazardous by the EPA.
   NURSING HOME. A facility licensed by the State of Indiana which provides
nursing and health care services on a continuing basis to persons of all ages
who may require medical treatment but not hospitalization.
   OPEN BURNING. The combustion of any matter in the open or in an open dump.
   OPEN DUMP. The consolidation of solid waste from one or more resources or
the disposal of solid waste at a single disposal site that does not fulfill the
requirements of a sanitary landfill or other land disposal method as prescribed
by law or regulations, and that is established and maintained without cover and
without regard to the possibilities of contamination of surface or sub-surface
water resources.
   OPEN SPACE. Common space that provides light and air and is designed for
environmental, scenic or recreational purposes. Cropland, forested areas or
pastureland qualifies as open space. OPEN SPACE may include turf areas,
decorative plantings, walkways, active and passive recreation areas,
playgrounds, wooded areas and wetlands. Recreational facilities located on the
grounds of public schools may qualify as open space, provided that there are no
barriers (i.e. fences, walls and the like) between the grounds and residential
properties. OPEN SPACE shall comprise primary conservation areas, secondary
conservation areas and bufferyards. OPEN SPACE shall not include areas devoted
to public or private streets or rights-of-way.
   ORPHANAGE. An institution for the care of children whose parents are
incapacitated or deceased.
   OVERLAY DISTRICT. A zoning district that encompasses one or more underlying
zones and that imposes additional requirements above that required by the
underlying zone.
   PARENT LOT, TRACT OR PARCEL. The lot, tract or parcel of land for which
approval is sought to subdivide it into at least two lots, tracts, parcels or
other divisions of land for sale, development or lease.
   PARKING AREA. Any public or private area, under or outside of a building or
structure, designed and used for parking and maneuvering motor vehicles
including garages, private driveways and legally designated areas of public
streets.
   PARKING SPACE. A space other than on a street or alley designed for use or
used for the temporary parking of a motor vehicle.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, firm, partnership, association or
organization, or any other group that acts as a unit.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A district established to allow development of an
area of land as a single entity for a number of uses conforming to an approved
development plan, which may not correspond with number of units, bulk, type of
use, density, open space, parking, signage, landscaping or other standards
required by other ordinances; a zoning district for which a PUD ordinance is
required.
   PLANT NURSERY. Land, buildings, structures or a combination thereof for the
storage, cultivation, transplanting of live trees, shrubs or plants offered for
retail or wholesale sale on the premises including products used for gardening
and landscaping.
   PLAT. A map or chart indicating the subdivision or re-subdivision of land
intended to be filed for record.
   PLAT COMMITTEE. In accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-701(e), a sub-committee
created by the Plan Commission to hold hearings on minor residential
subdivisions and replats on behalf of the APC in accordance with the rules of
procedure of the APC.
   PRIMARY CONSERVATION AREAS. This category includes wetlands, lands that are
generally inundated (under ponds, lakes or creeks), land within the 100-year
floodplain, and slopes exceeding 25%.
   PRIME FARMLAND. Land that has the best combination of physical and chemical
characteristics for producing food, feed, forage, fiber and oilseed crops and
is also available for these uses (land cannot be urban built-up land or water).
It has the soil quality, growing season and moisture supply needed to
economically produce sustained high yields or crops when treated and managed,
including water management, according to acceptable farming methods. In
general, PRIME FARMLANDS have an adequate and dependable water supply from
precipitation or irrigation, a favorable temperature and growing season,
acceptable acidity or alkalinity, acceptable salt and sodium content, and few
or no rocks. They are permeable to water and air. PRIME FARMLANDS are not
excessively erodible or saturated with water for a long period of time, and
they either do not flood frequently or are protected from flooding. These areas
are defined and illustrated on the map important farmlands as defined in 1975
by Cartographic Division, Soil Conservation Service, USDA, of Boone County,
Indiana as amended.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The main use of land or structures as distinguished from a
secondary or accessory uses.
   PRIVATE SCHOOL. A private primary, grade, high or preparatory school or
academy not supported by public tax dollars.
   PROFESSIONAL OFFICE CENTER. A building or group of buildings housing
professional offices and appropriate associated and accessory uses.
   PUBLIC SEWER UTILITY. A municipal or public sewage disposal service which
has been issued a final order by the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission
(IURC) granting a certificate of territorial authority (CIA) to the utility and
maintains the CTA in good standing with the IURC.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. A municipal or public utility service which has been issued
a final order by the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission granting an
applicable certificate to the utility and maintains the certificate in good
standing with the IURC.
   PUBLIC UTILITY INSTALLATIONS. The erection, construction, alteration,
operation or maintenance of buildings, power plants, substations, water and
sewage treatment plants, pumping stations, and other similar public service
structures by a public utility, railroad or by a municipal or other
governmental agency.
   PUBLIC WATER UTILITY. A municipal or public water utility service which has
been issued a final order by the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission (IURC)
granting a certificate of necessity and convenience (CNC) to the Utility and
maintains the CNC in good standing with the IURC.
   PUD. Planned Unit Development.
   PUD DISTRICT. A zoning district for which a PUD District Ordinance is
adopted.
   PUD DISTRICT ORDINANCE. A zoning ordinance that does the following:
      (1)   Designates one or more parcels for real property as a PUD District;
      (2)   Specifies uses or range of uses permitted in the PUD District;
      (3)   Expresses in detailed terms the development requirements that apply
in the PUD district;
      (4)   Specifies the plan documentation and supporting information that
must be supplied before an improvement location permit may be issued for
development of real property in the PUD District;
      (5)   Specifies any limitation applicable to a PUD District; and
      (6)   Meets the requirements of the I.C. 36-7-4-1500 series.
   RECOVERY. Obtaining materials or energy for commercial or energy for
commercial or industrial use from solid waste or hazardous waste.
   RECREATION AREA. An area designated, designed and equipped for the conduct
of sports and leisure-time activities.
   RECREATION FACILITY, INDOOR. A place primarily designed and equipped for the
conduct of sports and leisure-time activities indoors.
   RECREATION FACILITY, OUTDOOR. An area primarily designed and equipped for
the conduct of outdoor sports and leisure-time activities. Such facility may be
either public or private.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV). A vehicle designed as a temporary living quarters
for recreation, camping or travel, either with their own motor power or mounted
or towed by another powered vehicle.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK. Any lot or land upon which two or more
recreational vehicle sites are located, established or maintained for occupancy
by recreational vehicles of the general public as temporary living quarters for
recreation or vacation purposes.
   RECYCLING. A process by which materials that would otherwise become solid
waste are collected, separated or processed, and converted into materials or
products for reuse or sale.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROFILE. A longitudinal profile along the thread of a
stream showing the maximum water surface attained by the regulatory flood.
   RESOURCE RECOVERY. The processing of solid waste into commercially valuable
materials or energy.
   RESOURCE RECOVERY FACILITY. A solid waste processing facility designed and
operated for the express purpose of processing solid waste into commercially
valuable materials or energy.
   RESOURCE RECOVERY SYSTEM. A solid waste management system which provides for
collection, separation, recycling and recovery of solid and/or non-hazardous
wastes including the disposal of non-recoverable waste residues.
   RESTRICTED WASTE SITE. A solid waste land disposal facility designed and
operated to accommodate specific types of waste as specified in state law.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by
transportation facilities, public utilities or other special public uses.
   RINGLEMAN NUMBER. The number of the area on the Ringleman Chart that most
nearly approximates the light observing capacity of smoke. The RINGLEMAN CHART
is described in the U.S. Bureau of Mines Information Circular 6888, on which
are illustrated graduated shades of gray for use in estimating smoke density.
Smoke below the density of Ringleman No. 1 shall be considered as no smoke or
Ringleman No. 0.
   ROAD FRONTAGE. The distance measured along the property line that divides a
lot from a right-of-way, and between the points of intersection of the side lot
lines and right-of-way.
   ROADSIDE PRODUCE STAND. A temporary structure designed or used for the
display or sale of agricultural and related products.
   SANITARY LANDFILL. A solid waste land disposal facility designed to
accommodate general types of solid waste as elsewhere defined in this chapter,
excluding waste regulated by state law, and operated by spreading the waste in
thin layers, compacting it to the smallest practical volume, and covering it
with cover material at the end of each working day. This definition does not
include a clean fill site, or a construction/demolition site, which are defined
elsewhere in the chapter.
   SECONDARY CONSERVATION AREAS. This category shall typically include all or
part of the following kinds of resources: woodlands; aquifer recharge areas;
poorly drained soils; significant wildlife habitat areas; prime farmland;
historic, archaeological or cultural features listed (or eligible to be listed)
on national, state or county registers or inventories; scenic views into the
property from existing public roads; or other features unique to the site.
SECONDARY CONSERVATION AREAS, therefore, typically include forest, meadows,
pastures, farm fields, part of the ecologically connected matrix of natural
areas significant for wildlife habitat, water quality protection or other
reasons.
   SEPTIC SYSTEM, PRIVATE. A septic tank, filtration field and sub-surface
drainage if required, which are located on an individual lot. Installations of
such a system shall be based on the requirements of the Boone County Sewage
Disposal and Drainage Ordinance as administered by the Boone County Health
Department.
   SERVICES INVOLVING SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES or DISPLAY OF SPECIFIED
ANATOMICAL AREAS. This phrase, as used in the definition of ADULT SERVICE
ESTABLISHMENT, means and includes any combination of two or more of the
following activities:
      (1)   The sale or display of books, magazines, periodicals or other
printed matter, or photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes,
slides, tapes, records or other forms of visual or audio representations which
are characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas;
      (2)   The presentation of films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides
or similar photographic reproductions which are distinguished or characterized
by an emphasis upon the depiction or description of specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons;
      (3)   The operation of coin or slug-operated or electronically,
electrically or mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines,
projectors or other image producing devices to show images to five or fewer
persons per machine at any one time and where the images so displayed are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas;
      (4)   Live performance by topless and/or bottomless dancers, go-go
dancers, exotic dancers, strippers or similar entertainers, where such
performances are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; and
      (5)   The operation of a massage establishment.
   SETBACK LINE. A line established by this chapter defining the limits of a
yard in which no building or structure may be located except as may be excluded
in the chapter.
   SHARED DRIVEWAY. A single driveway that serves two to four adjacent lots
pursuant to access easements.
   SIGN. Any object, device, display or structure, or part thereof situated
outdoors or indoors, which is used to advertise, identify, display, direct or
attract attention to an object, person, institution, organization, business,
product, service, event or location by any means, including words, letters,
figures, design, symbols, fixtures, colors, illumination or projected images.
For purposes of this chapter, the following signs are defined:
      (1)   ANIMATED SIGN. Any sign that uses movement or change of lighting to
depict action or create a special effect or scene.
      (2)   BANNER. Any sign of lightweight fabric or similar material that is
permanently mounted to a pole or a building by a permanent frame at one or more
edges. National flags, state or municipal flags or the official flag of any
institution or business shall not be considered banners.
      (3)   BUILDING MARKER. Any sign indicating the name of a building and
date and incidental information about its construction, which sign is cut into
a masonry surface or made of bronze or other permanent material.
      (4)   BUILDING SIGN. Any sign attached to any part of a building, as
contrasted to a freestanding sign.
      (5)   CANOPY SIGN. Any sign that is a part of or attached to an awning,
canopy or other fabric, plastic or structural protective cover over a door,
entrance, window or outdoor service area. A marquee is not a CANOPY.
      (6)   FLAG. Any fabric, banner or bunting containing distinctive colors,
patterns or symbols, used as a symbol of a government, political subdivision or
other entity.
      (7)   FREESTANDING SIGN. Any sign supported by structures or supports
that are placed on, or anchored in, the ground and that are independent from
any building or other structure.
      (8)   INCIDENTAL SIGN. A sign, generally informational, that has a
purpose secondary to the use of the lot on which it is located, such as “no
parking”, “entrance”, “loading only” and other similar directives. No sign with
a commercial message legible from a position off the lot on which this sign is
located shall be considered INCIDENTAL.
      (9)   MARQUEE. Any permanent roof-like structure projecting beyond a
budding or extending along and projecting beyond the wall of the building,
generally designed and constructed to provide protection from the weather.
      (10)   OFF-PREMISES SIGN. Directs attention to a business, commodity,
service or entertainment conducted, sold or offered at a location other than
the premises on which the sign is located.
      (11)   PORTABLE SIGN. Any sign not permanently attached to the ground or
other permanent structure or a sign designed to be transported, including, but
not limited to, signs designed to be transported by means of wheels; signs
converted to A- or one-frames; menu and sandwich board signs; balloons used as
signs; umbrellas used for advertising; and signs attached to or painted on
vehicles parked and visible front the public right-of-way, unless the vehicle
is used in the normal day-to-day operations of the business.
      (12)   PROJECTING SIGN. Any sign affixed to a building or wall in such a
manner that its leading edge extends more than six inches beyond the surface of
the building or wall.
      (13)   RESIDENTIAL SIGN. Any sign located in a residential district that
contains no commercial message except advertising for goods or services legally
offered on the premises where the sign is located, if offering the service at
the location conforms with all requirements of this chapter.
      (14)   ROOF SIGN. Any sign erected and considered wholly on an over the
roof of a building, supported by the roof structure and extending vertically
above the highest portion of the roof.
      (15)   ROOF SIGN, INTEGRAL. Any sign erected or constructed as an
integral part of a normal roof structure of any design, such that no part of
the sign extends vertically above the highest portion of the roof and such that
no part of the sign is separated from the rest of the roof by a space of more
than six inches.
      (16)   SUSPENDED SIGN. A sign that is suspended from the underside of a
horizontal plane surface and is supported by the surface.
      (17)   TEMPORARY SIGN. Any sign that is used only temporarily and is not
permanently mounted.
      (18)   WALL SIGN. Any sign attached parallel to, but within six inches
of, a wall, painted on the wall surface of or erected and confined within the
limits of an outside wall of any building or structure, which is supported by
the wall or building, and which displays only one sign surface.
   SITE PLAN. A plan prepared to scale, and other material showing accurately
and with complete dimensions, the boundaries of a site and the location of all
buildings, structures, uses and principal site development features, interior
vehicular and pedestrian access proposed for a specific parcel of land.
   SMOKE UNIT. The number obtained when the smoke density in Ringleman number
is multiplied by the time of emission in minutes. For the purpose of this
calculation, a Ringleman density reading shall be made at least once a minute
during the period of observation. Each reading shall then be multiplied by the
time in minutes during which it is observed. The products so computed shall
then be added to give the total number of smoke units observed during the
entire observation period.
   SOLID WASTE. Garbage; refuse; sludge from a waste treatment plant, water
supply treatment plant or air pollution control facility; or other discarded
materials including solid, liquid, semi-solid or contained gaseous material
resulting from industrial, commercial, mining or agricultural operations or
from community activities. However, the term solid waste does not include:
      (1)   Solid or dissolved materials in domestic sewage or solid or
dissolved materials in irrigation return flows or industrial discharges, which
are point sources subject to permits under § 402 of the Water Pollution Control
Act Amendments (33 U.S.C. § 1342);
      (2)   Source, special nuclear or by-product material as defined by the
Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. §§ 2011 et seq.); or
      (3)   Manures or crop residues returned to the soil at the point of
generation as fertilizers or soil conditioners as part of a total farm
operation (F.L. 145-1985, § 90).
   SOLID WASTE PROCESSING FACILITY. A solid waste facility upon which is
located a solid waste incinerator, transfer station, solid waste baler, solid
waste shredder, resource recovery system, composting facility, garbage grinding
facility and other facilities, or recycling facilities, not included in the
above definition if subsequently approved by the Boone County Solid Waste
Management District and the Indiana Department of Environmental Management.
   SOLID WASTE TRANSFER STATION. A facility for the collection, separation,
compaction, processing and storage of solid waste until the waste can be
transported or transferred to a sanitary landfill or other facility approved
and licensed for the disposal of solid wastes by the State of Indiana.
   SPECIAL EXCEPTION. The authorization of a use, designated as being permitted
in the District concerned if it meets special conditions, and upon application,
is specifically authorized by the BZA.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. This phrase means and includes any of the
following:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breasts below a point immediately above the
top of the areola; or
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. This phrase means and includes any of the
following:
      (1)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
      (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy;
      (3)   Fondling or other erotic touchings of human genitals, pubic
regions, buttocks or female breasts;
      (4)   Flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual relationship;
      (5)   Masochism, erotic or sexually oriented torture, beating or the
infliction of pain;
      (6)   Erotic touching, fondling or other such contact with an animal by a
human being; or
      (7)   Human excretion, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal
irrigation as part of or in connection with any of the activities set forth in
divisions (1) through (6) above.
   STABLE, PRIVATE. An accessory building in which horses are kept for private
use and not for remuneration, hire or sale.
   STABLE, PUBLIC. An accessory building in which horses are kept for
commercial use including boarding, hire, riding, show or sale.
   STATE. The State of Indiana.
   STORY. That part of a building between the surface of a floor and the
ceiling immediately above; or if there is a floor above, the portion of a
building between the surface of any floor and the surface of the next floor
above. A basement shall not be counted as a STORY.
   STREET (ROAD). A right-of-way established for or dedicated to the public use
which affords the principal means of access to abutting properties.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders or any
substantial change in the exterior walls or roof.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected which requires location on the
ground or attachment to something having a location on the ground.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person having an interest in land that is the subject of an
application for subdivision. Also, a person submitting an application for
subdivision.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of a lot, tract or parcel of land into two or more
lots, tracts, parcels or other divisions of land for sale, development or
lease.
   SUBDIVISION, MAJOR RESIDENTIAL. The division of a lot, tract or parcel of
land into five or more residential lots, tracts, parcels or other divisions of
land for sale, development or lease. The parent lot, tract or parcel of land
counts as one of the subdivided lots, tracts, parcels or other subdivisions of
land for the purpose of determining whether the application for approval is to
be treated as a major or minor residential subdivision.
   SUBDIVISION, MINOR RESIDENTIAL. The division of a lot, tract or parcel of
land into two to four residential lots, tracts, parcels or other divisions of
land for sale, development or lease. The parent lot, tract or parcel of land
counts as one of the subdivided lots, tracts, parcels or other subdivisions of
land for the purpose of determining whether the application for approval is to
be treated as a major or minor residential subdivision.
   SWIMMING POOL. A self-contained body of water at least 18 inches in depth
used for recreational purposes. The body of water may exist in a metal tank,
plastic lined or masonry structure located either above or below ground level.
SWIMMING POOLS may be either public or private in use. A private pool is
considered as an accessory use.
   THOROUGHFARE. See STREET.
   THOROUGHFARE PLAN. The portion of the Boone County Comprehensive Plan and
Zoning Map indicating the existing and proposed location of interstate
highways, primary arterials, secondary arterials, feeders and local roads and
streets and right-of-ways within the jurisdiction of the APC.
   TOWN. The incorporated constituent areas under the jurisdiction of this
chapter.
   TRADE OR BUSINESS SCHOOL. A secretarial or business school or college when
not publicly owned or not owned or conducted by or under the sponsorship of a
religious, charitable or non-profit organization, or a school conducted as a
commercial enterprise for teaching music, dancing, barbering, hair dressing,
drafting or industrial or technical arts.
   TRANSFER STATION. A solid waste processing facility at which solid waste is
transferred from a vehicle or a container to another vehicle or container for
transportation, but shall not include neighborhood recycling collection centers
or transfer activities at generating facilities.
   TRUCK SERVICE CENTER. A commercial trucking operation which provides areas
for fueling, parking, and usually food and other necessary services to long-
haul trucks. Truck stops are usually located on or near a busy road and consist
(at the very least) of a diesel grade fueling station with bays wide and tall
enough for modern tractor/trailer rigs and have a large enough parking area to
accommodate from five to over a hundred trucks or other heavy vehicles.
   USE. The specific purposes for which land or a building is designated,
arranged, intended or for which it is or may be occupied or maintained.
   VARIANCE. A modification of the specific requirements of this chapter for
the purpose of assuring that no property, because of special circumstances
applicable to it, shall be deprived of privileges commonly enjoyed by other
properties in the same vicinity and district.
   VETERINARY ANIMAL HOSPITAL or CLINIC. A facility where the primary use is
for a licensed veterinarian and his or her supervised staff to the care,
diagnose and treat sick, ailing, infirm or injured animals, and those in need
of medical or surgical attention. Temporary boarding as an accessory use is
allowed.
   VIDEO STORE. A business where videos and associated visual home
entertainment products are sold, rented or otherwise distributed, excluding
sexually oriented material.
   WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY. Any towers, poles, antennas or other
structures intended for use in connection with transmission or receipt of radio
or television signals, or any other spectrum-based transmissions/receptions.
   YARD. A space on the same lot with principal building, open, unoccupied and
unobstructed by structures, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the full width of the lot, unoccupied
other than by steps, walks, terraces, driveways, lamp posts and similar
structures, the depth of which is the perpendicular distance between the street
right-of-way line and the front setback line.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot between the
rear of the main building and the rear lot line the depth of which is the
perpendicular distance between the rear lot line and the rear setback line.
   YARD SALE. Garage sales, rummage sales, yard sales and the like shall mean
the sale of personal property from a residentially occupied site, provided that
the sale shall not extend beyond three consecutive days and further that they
may be conducted to a maximum of four times in a calendar year.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard extending across the full length of the lot, unoccupied
other than by steps, walks, terraces, driveways, lamp posts and similar
structures, the depth of which is the perpendicular distance between the side
lot line and the side setback line.
   ZONE MAP. The map or maps that are a part of the zoning ordinance and
delineate the boundaries of zone districts and any amendments thereto of the
jurisdictional area of the APC.
   ZONING ORDINANCE (CHAPTER). The Boone County Zoning Ordinance enacted by the
APC on October 6,1976, and as amended. It is a regulatory measure designed to
encourage high standards of development and to foster the most efficient use of
land within the county.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998; Am. Ord. 2001-4, passed 2-12-2001; Am. Ord.
2002-15, passed - -2002; Am. Ord. 2003-8, passed 4-7-2003; Am. Ord. 2004-01,
passed 2-9-2004; Am. Ord. 2004-07, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2006-6, passed 5-6-
2006; Am. Ord. 2012-02, passed 3-5-2012)
§ 157.006 DISTRICTS.
   The jurisdiction area is hereby classified and divided into districts
designated in
Table 1, Land Use Districts.
Table 1, Land Use Districts
Table 1, Land Use Districts
Conservation and Agriculture Districts
                                          This district is established to
C   Conservation                          emphasize the conservation of
                                          existing natural resources.
                                          This district is established to
                                          restrict non-agriculturally related
AP  Agricultural Preservation             land uses. Residential development
                                          may occur at a substantially
                                          decreased rate than other districts.
                                          The Agricultural Zoning District is
                                          intended to maintain the rural and
                                          scenic qualities of Boone County by
                                          preserving farm land and significant
                                          open lands while allowing landowners
                                          a reasonable return on their
                                          holdings. It is further intended to
                                          provide for controlled rural
                                          residential growth beyond the limits
                                          of the urban service districts of the
                                          City of Lebanon, while maintaining
                                          the viability of existing Boone
                                          County agricultural activities,
                                          providing for farming opportunities
                                          for future farmers, allowing current
                                          farmers to realize the monetary value
                                          of their land, protecting historic,
AG  General Agricultural                  scenic or environmentally sensitive
                                          areas, and ensuring that rural
                                          residential growth can be adequately
                                          served by public roadways, fire and
                                          police protection, and public
                                          schools, without requiring unplanned
                                          and/or inordinate public
                                          expenditures. To achieve this intent,
                                          the Agricultural District is
                                          designated to (a) minimize the loss
                                          of farm lands and significant open
                                          lands to residential uses through the
                                          establishment of contiguous parcels
                                          of non-residential acres, and (b)
                                          maximize the clustering of rural
                                          residential lots on the least number
                                          of acres located on existing farm
                                          lands and significant open lands.
                                          This district is established to
                                          maintain and conserve a rural,
                                          country-like atmosphere and to
                                          encourage equestrian uses rather than
                                          residential uses. Residential
                                          development may occur but is
RE  Rural Equestrian                      secondary to the rural equestrian
                                          purpose of this district. Further,
                                          the lot area requirements of this
                                          district are more restrictive than
                                          established residential districts;
                                          typically at a density of 1 home per
                                          3 acres.
Residential Districts
                                          This is a low density suburban
                                          residential district. The lot area
                                          and minimum floor area requirements
R1  Low Density Single-Family Residential are larger than the other residential
                                          districts. Development in this
                                          district is typically at a density of
                                          less than 1 home per 2 acres.
                                          This is a low density single-family
                                          district which could include two-
                                          family dwellings by development plan
                                          approval. This district is primarily
                                          suited for suburban residential
R2  Low Density Single-Family and Two-    development in areas contiguous to
    Family Residential                    the urban centers of the county.
                                          Development in this district
                                          typically ranges from 50 homes per
                                          acre (without public water and public
                                          sewer) to 1.75 homes per acre (with
                                          public water and public sewer).
                                          This is a medium density single-
                                          family district which may include
                                          two- family dwellings by development
                                          plan approval. Development in this
R3  Medium Density Single-Family and Two- district typically ranges from 1.75
    Family Residential                    homes per acre to 3 homes per acre.
                                          ln this district, residential
                                          development at these densities
                                          requires connection to public water
                                          and public sewer utilities.
                                          This district is established for high
                                          density single-family dwellings and
                                          may include two-family dwellings by
                                          development plan approval. Single and
                                          two-family development in this
                                          district typically ranges from3 homes
R4  High Density Single- and Two-Family   per acre to 4.25 homes per acre. Two-
    Residential                           family development typically ranges
                                          from 7 units per acre to 12 units per
                                          acre. In this district, single and
                                          two-family development at these
                                          densities requires connection to
                                          public water and public sewer
                                          utilities.
                                          This is a high density multi-family
                                          district. Development in this
                                          district is typically at a density of
MF  High Density Multi-Family Residential 7 to 12 dwelling units per acre.
                                          Development in this district requires
                                          connection to public water and public
                                          sewers.
Commercial Districts
                                          This district is designed to include
                                          airports and heliports and all other
                                          facilities and uses appropriate and
AZ  Airport Zone                          common with the taking off and
                                          landing of aircraft along with the
                                          storage and servicing of the
                                          aircraft.
                                          This district is designed and located
                                          in neighborhoods to accommodate the
                                          primary needs of that locality. This
LB  Local Business                        district would place convenience and
                                          necessity facilities close to
                                          consumers in limited areas close to
                                          residences.
                                          This district is established as a
                                          buffer generally between commercial
PB  Professional Business                 and residential districts permitting
                                          selected business and professional
                                          uses having limited contact with the
                                          public.
                                          This district is designed to address
                                          the needs of existing and future
                                          downtown development. This district
UB  Urban Business                        carries virtually all of the
                                          characteristics of the GB District
                                          but without setbacks, bufferyards or
                                          other design requirements common to
                                          suburban development.
                                          This district is designed to include
                                          central business districts in
GB  General Business                      established urban places. This
                                          district would be used for most types
                                          of business and service uses.
                                          This district is established to
                                          include areas adjacent to interstate
AB  Accommodation Business                interchanges and is designed to serve
                                          the needs of the public traveling on
                                          these major thoroughfares.
Industrial Districts and PUDs
                                          This district is established to
                                          accommodate light industrial uses in
I1  Light Industry                        which all operations, including
                                          storage of materials would be
                                          confined within a building, and would
                                          include warehousing operations.
                                          This district is established for
                                          types of industrial uses requiring
I2  General Industry                      both enclosed and unenclosed spaces
                                          for storage, manufacturing and
                                          fabricating.
                                          This district is established to
                                          encourage improved land development
                                          and building site design, to
                                          encourage and allow a variety of
PUD Planned Unit Development              innovative uses, building types and
                                          arrangements, to allow development of
                                          land areas so planned, located or
                                          situated as to merit and justify
                                          consideration as a PUD district.
 
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998; Am. Ord. 2004-7, passed - -2004; Am. Ord. 2006-
6, passed 5-6-2006; Am. Ord. 2009-07, passed 10-19-2009)
§ 157.007 AUTHORIZED USES AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Authorized uses.
      (1)   The uses permitted in the districts established by this chapter are
shown in Table 2, Authorized Uses. Where the district column is marked with an
“X”, the use is permitted. Where the district column is marked with an “S”, the
use may be permitted only as a special exception. Where a District column is
marked with a "SD", the use may only be permitted only after an approval of
special exception/development plan by both the Board of Zoning Appeals (BZA)
and the Area Plan Commission (APC). All land use classifications denoted with
an "SD" would be required to adhere to the conditional use standards of this
chapter. An "SD" classification requires special exception approval by the
Board of Zoning Appeals (BZA) and the development plan by the Area Plan
Commission (APC). Where the district column is marked with a “D”, the use may
be permitted only after approval of a development plan by the APC.
      (2)   Where a district column is marked with an “SW”, the use may be
permitted by special exception approval from the BZA subject to the issuance of
a license or operating permit as approved by the Boone County Solid Waste
Management District. Where a district column is marked with an “XW”, the use is
permitted by right in the zoning district but is subject to the issuance of a
license or operating permit as approved by the Boone County Solid Waste
Management District.
      (3)   For uses not listed, the Director shall attempt to determine if the
requested use is similar to a permitted use. If the proposed use is determined
to be similar to a permitted use, the permit shall be issued. If the Director
determines that the use is not similar, then the application shall be denied.
In case of uncertainty, the Director may refer the request for clarification or
classification to the BZA for consideration in accordance with the provisions
of the section on uses not listed under the duties of the Board of Zoning
Appeals.
To view Tables 2-6 in PDF format, click HERE
Table 2, Authorized Uses
Use C AP AG RE R1 R2 R3 R4 MF AB LB GB UB PB I1 I2 AZ
Table 2, Authorized Uses
Use                           C AP AG RE R1 R2 R3 R4 MF AB LB GB UB PB I1 I2 AZ
Education
Art and music schools                                         X  X  X
Colleges and universities                S  S  X  X  X
Elementary and secondary           D     X  X  X  X  X     X  X  X  X
schools
Junior colleges and technical            S  S  X  X  X
institutes
Libraries and information          D     X  X  X  X  X           X  X
centers
Trade or business school                                      X  S  S  X
Non-Industrial Farm, Agricultural, Animal-Related Uses
Animal day care facility           SD                      SD SD       SD SD
@ Commercial greenhouse         S  X                          X        X  X
Kennel, small                      SD                      SD SD       SD SD
Kennel, large                      SD                                  SD SD
Kennel, unlimited                  SD                                  SD SD
@ Roadside produce stand        S  X                       X  X        X  X
@ Sale barn for livestock       S  X                                   S  X
@ Veterinary animal hospital                                  X  X  X  X  X
Farm                            X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X     X  X  X
Hay, grain and feed stores    X X  X                       X  X        X  X
Landscape contractor            S  S                       S  S        S  S
Plant nursery                   S  X                       X  X        X  X
Government
@ Penal or correctional                                       S        S  S
institutions
@ Police, postal or fire           D     X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X
station
Municipal or government            D     S  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X
buildings
Publicly-owned park or        X X  D     X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X
recreational facility
Industrial Uses
@ Anhydrous ammonia or
similar liquefied fertilizer    SD SD                                  SD SD
storage and distribution
@ Auction sales yard                                          S        S  X
(excluding livestock)
@ Commercial facility for
breeding non-farm fowl and      X  X                                   S  X
animals
@ Confined feeding              X  X
@ Contractors storage                                                  S  X
@ Industry, general                                                       X
@ Junk yard                                                            S  X
@ Light industrial park                                                X  X
@ Liquefied petroleum gas,                                             S  X
bottled gas dealers
@ Manufacturing, use or                                                S  S
storage of explosives
@ Mineral extraction            S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S
@ Open material storage                                                S  X
@ Petroleum tank farm                                                  S  X
@ Slaughter house               S  S                                   S  X
@ Truck freight terminal                                               X  X
@ Warehouse (general)                                         S        X  X
@ Warehouse (grain storage)     S  S                          S        S  X
@ Wholesale produce terminal       S                          S        X  X
Farm product processing food                                  X  X     X  X
processing
Fuel dealers                                                  SD       SD SD
Light industry                                                X        X  X
Linen supply                                                  S        X  X
Machine shop, large                S                                   S  S
Machine shop, small                S                                   S  S
Warehousing, storage or            *     *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *     *  *  *
recycling of hazardous waste
Warehousing, storage or
recycling of radioactive           *     *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *     *  *  *
waste
Wholesale business                                            X        X  X
Non-Profit Membership Organizations
Business associations                                         X  X  X  X  X
Charitable institutions                                       X  X  X  X  X
Church or temple                X  D     X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X
Civic, social, religious,
political or fraternal             D                          X  X  X  X  X
organizations
Recreation, Amusement, Tourism
@ Fairgrounds                      X                                   X  X
@ Golf and country clubs                 X  X  X  X  X                 X  X
@ Golf driving range and                                X     X        X  X
miniature golf course
@ Hotel or motel                                        X     X  X     X
@ Outdoor recreation facility   S  S                                   S  S
@ Outdoor shooting range,       S  S                                   S  X
public or private
@ Public camp ground or         S  S                       S        S  S  S
recreational vehicle park
@ Race track                                                           S  X
@ Stable, private               X  X  X  X  X  S                       X  X
@ Stadium, coliseum                                                    X  X
@ Theater, outdoor                 S                    S     X        X  X
Bed and breakfast                  SD    SD SD SD SD SD SD SD SD SD
Billiard and pool                                             X  X
establishments
Bowling alleys                                                X  X     X
Dance halls, studios and                                      X  X
schools
Indoor recreation facility                                    X     X  X  X
Lodge or private club                                         X  X     X
Motion picture theater                                        X  X
Museum and art gallery                                        X  X  X
Public golf course                          X  X  X  X  X              X  X
Seasonal hunting and fishing    X  D
lodge
Skating                                                       X        X
Stable, public                     X  S                       X        X  X
Residential
@ Day care center               SD SD             SD SD    SD SD SD SD SD SD
@ Minor residential                S  S  X  X  X  X     X  X  X  X  X  S  S
subdivision
@ Mobile home park                       D  D  D  D
Customary home occupation       X  X  S  S  S  S  S  S  X  X  X  X  X  X  X
(accessory use)
Domestic crafts                 X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X
Assorted fabric services        X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X
excluding dry cleaner
Woodworking services            X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X
Hair grooming, home catering    X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X
and internet sales
Law, medicine, architecture,    X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X
engineering, accounting
Academic and cultural arts      X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X
tutoring
Consultation only - insurance
office, planning, real          X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X
estate, notary public,
manufacturer's agent
Dwelling - multi-family                              D     D  D  D  D
Dwelling - single-family           S  X  X  X  X  X     X  X  X  X  X  S  S
Dwelling - two-family                       D  D  D     D  D  D  D  D
Farm seasonal worker housing    X  X                                   X  X
Fraternity, sorority or                           D  D        D
student housing
Group residential facility                  S  X  X  X     X  X  X     S
Major residential subdivision         S  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  S  S
Nursing home                                      D  D     D  D     D  D
Orphanage                                      D  D  D              D
Temporary mobile home           X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X     X  X
Retail Trade: Food Stores
@ Drive-in restaurant/fast                              SD SD SD SD
food
Cafeteria, restaurant                                   X  X  X  X           S
Candy, nut and confectionary                            X  X  X  X
Carry out restaurant                                    S  S  X  X
Dinner theater                                                X  X
Fruits and vegetables                                   X  X  X  X
Grocery, bakery, meat and
fish, dairy products, health                               X  X  X
foods
Night club                                              X     X  X
Tavern                                                     S  X  X
Retail Trade: General Merchandise
@ Shopping center                                          D  D  D
Antique store                                              S  X  X
Apparel shop, shoes, custom                                X  X  X
tailoring
Bait sales                                                 X  X  X
Bicycle shops                                              X  X  X
Boat sales                                                    X  S
Book and stationary store                                  X  X  X  S
Camera and photographic                                       X  X
supply
China, glassware, metalware                                S  X  X
Department store                                              X  X     X
Drapery, curtain and                                       S  X  X
upholstery
Drug store                                                 S  X  X  S
Electrical supply store                                       X  X     X  X
Farm and garden supply                                        X  X     X     X
Farm implements and equipment                                 X        X  X
sales
Floor coverings                                            S  X  X
Florists, furriers                                         X  X  X
Gift, novelty and souvenir                              S     X  X
shops
Hardware or variety store                                  X  X  X        X
Hobby, toy and game shops                                     X  X
Household appliances,                                      S  X  X
furniture
Jewelry store                                                 X  X
Liquor store                                               SD SD SD
Lumber and building materials                                 X        S  X
dealer
Monument sales                                                X  X     X
Music and video stores                                     S  X  X
News dealers                                            X  X  X  X
Paint, glass and wallpaper                                    X  X     X
store
Pet shops                                                     X  X
Plumbing, heating and air                                     X  X     X  X
conditioning dealer
Sporting goods                                                X  X
Studio business                 S  S     S  S  S  S  S     X  X  X  X
Tobacco stores                                             X  X  X
Services: General
Accounting, auditing and                                      X  X  X  X  X
bookkeeping service
@ Adult entertainment                                                     S
businesses
Advertising agencies                                          X  X  X
Agricultural credit                                        X  X  X  X
institutions
Attorney services                                          X  X  X  X
Auto license bureaus                                       X  X  X  X
Banks and branch banks                                     X  X  X  X  X
Blueprinting and photocopying                              S  X  X     X
Bond and mortgage company,
savings and loan, installment                              X  X  X  X
sales, finance
Clothing rental                                               X  X
Coin-operated laundry and                                  X  X  X
dry-cleaning
Collection agencies                                           X  X  X
Commercial testing                                            X        X  X
laboratories
Counselor-at-law                                           X  X  X  X
Detective agencies and                                        X  X  X
protective services
Diaper service                                                X  S     X
Disinfecting and                                              X  X
exterminating services
Dressmaking                                                X  X  X
Electrical repair shop                                     S  X  X     X  X
Engineering and architectural                                 X  X  X  X  X
service
Insurance agents, brokers and                              X  X  X  X
service
Newspaper publishing                                          X  X  X  X
Private employment agencies                                   X  X  X
Professional office                                        X  X  X  X  X
Real estate service                                           X  X  X  X
Reupholster and furniture                                  S  X  X     X  X
repair
Shoe repair                                                X  X  X
Stenographic service                                          X  X  X
Stock brokers and dealers                                  X  X  X  X
Tailoring and pressing shops                               X  X  X     X
Temporary help supply                                         X  X  X
services
Watch, clock and jewelry                                   S  X  X
repair
Services: Medical
@ Convalescent homes                              D  D              D
@ Clinic                                                   X  X  X  X
@ Hospitals                                       X  X     X        X
Blood banks                                                   X  X  X
Life care facility                                X  X              X  X
Medical and dental                                            X  X  X
laboratories
Medical office                                             X  X  X  X
Services: Personal
@ Cemetery or crematory         X  X                                   X  X
Barber shop, beauty shop                                   X  X  X  X
Mortuary                                                      X  X  X
Photographic studio                                           X  X
Reducing and health salons                                    X  X     X
Solid Waste Land Disposal Facilities
@ Compost/digester facility     SW SW                                  SW SW
@ Composting facility           XW XW XW XW XW XW XW XW SW SW SW    XW SW SW
@ Construction/ demolition         SW                                  SW SW
site
@ Incinerator                   SW SW                                  SW SW
@ Resource recovery facility    SW SW
@ Sanitary landfill,               SW                                  SW SW
privately owned
@ Sanitary landfill, publicly      XW                                  XW XW
owned
@ Transfer station              SW SW                                  XW XW
Landfill, hazardous waste or       *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *     *  *  *
radioactive waste
Long-term permitted clean          XW XW XW SW          SW SW XW    XW XW XW
fill disposal site
Long-term permitted clean          XW XW XW SW          SW SW XW    XW XW XW
fill processing site
Restricted waste site              SW *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *     *  *  *
Temporary permitted clean          XW XW XW XW XW XW XW XW XW XW    XW XW XW
fill disposal site
Temporary permitted clean          XW XW XW XW XW XW XW XW XW XW    XW XW XW
fill land reclamation site
Temporary permitted clean          XW XW XW XW XW XW XW XW XW XW    XW XW XW
fill processing site
Utilities, Transportation, Communications
@ Airport or heliport              S                                   S  S  X
@ Public water wells, water
stations, filtration plants,  S X  X     X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X
reservoirs and storage tanks
@ Telephone exchange or       S S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S  X  X  X  X  X  X
public utility station
@ Wireless communication        S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S
facility
Mass transit station               X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X
Off-premises signs                                      X     X        X  X
Radio or television station                                   X     X  X  X
or studio
Transmission lines for        S X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X
utilities
Vehicle Dealers, Repair and Services
@ Automatic car wash                                    SD SD SD SD    SD SD
@ Parking lot                                           X  X  X  X  X  X  X
@ Truck service center                                  SD    SD SD    SD SD
Automobile body shop and                                      S  S     S  X
painting
Automobile or motorcycle                                      X  X     X  X
sales
Automobile parts supply                                       X  X     X
Automobile repair, service                              X  S  X  X     X  X
station
Mobile home, travel trailer,                                  X  S     X  X
camper sales and service
Parking garage                                                X  X  X  X  X
Passenger car rental                                    S     X  X     X  X
Storage and dismantling of                                                X
disabled vehicles
Tire, battery and accessory                             S  S  X  X     X
dealers
Truck sales, rental, leasing,                                 X        X  X
repair
 
   (B)   Single-family residential use and requirements.
Table 3, Residential Uses and Requirements - Single Family
 AG RE R1 R2 R3 R4 LB U5 GB FS A5
Table 3, Residential Uses and Requirements - Single Family
                   AG    RE    R1    R2    R3   R4   LB   U5   GB   FS    A5
Maximum height of  35    35    35    35    35   35   35   35   35   35    35
buildings
Minimum ground floor area
—One-story 1,200 1,200 1,200 1,200 1,200 900  900  900  900  900  1,200 900
—Multi-story     900   900   900   900   750  750  750  750  750  900   750
Minimum acres required per dwelling unit
Minimum acreage on 2     3     2     2     2    2    2    2    2    2     2
well/septic
Minimum acreage on 2     3     1     0.6   0.33 0.23 0.23 0.23 0.23 0.23  0.23
utilities
Maximum lot        50%   50%   60%   60%   70%  70%  70%  70%  70%  70%   70%
coverage
Minimum structure width: 18 feet in all districts.
Minimum lot area: 5,000 square feet in all districts with public sewers. Two
acres in all districts without public sewers and 3 acres in the RE District,
with or without public.
Public water and public sewer connection: respired in all districts for lots
that are less than 1 acre in size.
Utility connection: required for major residential subdivisions with 15 lots
or more.
Road frontage: 45 feet in all districts (in subdivisions, up to 20% of total
lots may reduce road frontage by up to 20%).
Minimum front yard: 20 feet in all districts (not applicable: to flag lots).
Minimum rear yard for primary structures: 20 feet in all districts.
Minimum rear yard for accessory structures: 5 feet in all districts.
Minimum side yard: 5 feet in all districts, except the Agricultural District.
Number of parking spaces per lot: 2 in all districts.
Minimum spacing between dwellings created in the Agricultural District: 140
feet.
 
   (C)   Two-family and multi-family dwelling residential uses and
requirements.
Table 4, Residential Uses and Requirements - 2-Family and Multi-Family
Dwellings
 R2 R3 R4 MF LB UB GB PB AB
Table 4, Residential Uses and Requirements - 2-Family and Multi-Family
Dwellings
                  R2   R3  R4   MF  LB   UB   GB   PB   AB
Maximum Density*  *Subject to modification pursuant to development incentives
(units per acre)  contained in §§
                  157.070 et seq.
—Two-family     1.75 3   4.25 NA  4.25 4.25 4.25 4.25 4.25
dwellings
—Multi-family   NA   NA  NA   7   20   20   20   20   12
dwellings
Maximum height of 35   35  50   50  50   50   50   50   50
buildings
Minimum ground floor area (per dwelling unit)
—1-story        900  700 700  700 700  500  500  700  700
—Multi-story    450  400 400  400 400  350  350  400  400
Minimum front yard in all districts: 20 feet.
Minimum side and rear yard in all districts: 10 feet.
Number of parking spaces per dwelling unit in all districts: 2.
Public water and public sewer connection required in all districts for all
development.
 
   (D)   Mobile home parks residential uses and requirements.
Table 5, Residential Uses and Requirements - Mobile Home Parks
 R1 R2 R3 R4, MF
Table 5, Residential Uses and Requirements - Mobile Home Parks
                                        R1    R2  R3  R4, MF
Units per acre                          2     4   6   6
Minimum lot area in all districts: 5 acres.
Minimum area per unit in all districts: 4,000 square feet.
Minimum ground floor area (square feet) 1,000 900 900 900
Minimum front yard: 20 feet in all districts.
Minimum side and rear yard: 10 feet in all districts.
Minimum distance between buildings (primary and/or accessory): 10 feet in
all districts.
Minimum distance from building to road (feet): 20 feet in all districts.
Number of parking spaces (per dwelling unit): 2 in all districts
Public water and public sewer connection required in all districts: yes.
 
   (E)   Commercial, industrial and other noon-residential requirements.
 
Table 6, Commercial, Industrial and Other Non-Residential Requirements
                            AG, R1, R2, R3, R4, MF AB LB GB UB PB CR I1 I2 IR
Maximum height of buildings 25                     35 35 75 75 35 25 75 75 35
Minimum road frontage       45                     45 45 45 NA 45 45 45 45 45
Minimum front yard          20                     20 20 20 NA 20 20 20 20 20
Minimum side yard           10                     10 10 10 NA 10 10 10 10 10
Minimum rear yard           10                     10 10 10 NA 10 10 10 10 10
 
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998; Am. Ord. 2001-4, passed 2-12-2001; Am. Ord.
2002-5, passed 5-6-2002; Am. Ord. 2002-15, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2003-17, passed
8-11-2003; Am. Ord. 2003-21, passed 10-20-2003; Am. Ord. 2004-01, passed 2-9-
2004; Am. Ord. 2004-7, passed - -2004; Am. Ord. 2005-19, passed 8-22-2005; Am.
Ord. 2006-6, passed 5-6-2006; Am. Ord. 2007-21, passed 10-9-2007; Am. Ord.
2012-02, passed 3-5-2012; Am. Ord. 2019-02, passed 2-19-2019)
§ 157.008 CERTAIN DISTRICT REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Due to the size of the material, provisions for the following districts have
been adopted by reference, but are incorporated herein as if set out in full:
   (A)   The I-65 Overlay District;
   (B)   The Golf Club of Indiana Planned Unit Development;
   (C)   The U.S. 421 Overlay District; and
   (D)   The I-65 Planned Unit Development.
(Ord. 99-10, passed 11-22-1999; Ord. 2003-6, passed 3-24-2003; Ord. 2004-10,
passed 7-14-2004; Ord. 2005-05, passed 3-14-2005)
Editor’s note:
   Two copies of the provisions adopted by reference in this section are
available for public inspection at the office of the Town Clerk-treasurer
during regular business hours.
PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
§ 157.020 USE.
   No building or land shall be used, and no building shall be erected,
reconstructed or structurally altered, which is used for any purpose other than
a use which is permitted and specified in a district in which such building or
land is located, and which is in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 157.021 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   Accessory structures shall be permitted in all zoning districts provided the
following requirements have been met.
   (A)   Accessory structures shall not be erected prior to the primary
structure, except structures which classify as farm buildings, as stated under
the definitions section of this chapter.
   (B)   Accessory structures shall be clearly subordinate in height, area,
bulk extent and purpose to the primary structure.
   (C)   The following accessory structures are permitted in all districts and
may be installed in any required yard without an ILP: landscape vegetation,
swing sets, children’s tree houses, bird baths, bird houses, curbs, fences,
lamp posts, mail boxes, name plates, parking spaces, utility installations for
local services, retaining walls, walks, drainage installations, housing for
domestic pets provided it is not for profit and does not constitute a kennel as
defined in this chapter.
   (D)   Any accessory structure which is classified as a farm building, as
determined by this chapter, shall be only required to secure an ILP.
   (E)   Wireless communications facilities are permitted in all districts and
may be installed without an ILP provided they are co-located upon an existing
or pre-approved wireless communication facility, or they are no taller than 15
feet and visually integrated or camouflaged against a structure other than
another antenna.
   (F)   The following accessory structures are permitted in all zoning
districts and require an application for an ILP certifying that all applicable
requirements of the chapter have been met.
      (1)   Buildings such as garages, carports, enclosed patios, bath houses,
gazebos, cabanas, greenhouses, storage sheds, stables and other structures over
50 square feet in area;
      (2)   Home occupation structures in accordance with this chapter;
      (3)   In-ground swimming pools subject to a 5-foot high fence placement
around the pool area and/or a mechanical pool cover over the pool;
      (4)   Signs as set forth in this chapter; and
      (5)   Antennas and amateur radio towers over 30 feet in height measured
from the roofline.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998; Am. Ord. 2006-6, passed 5-6-2006)
§ 157.022 TEMPORARY USES.
   Temporary uses shall be permitted in all zoning districts subject to
approval by the Director based on the decision that the use will not
detrimentally affect the health, welfare, safety or morals of the neighborhood
under consideration for the use.
   (A)   The following are general provisions which must be met before
approval.
      (1)   The duration of a permit is stated herein; however, the Director
may renew the permit for a use in 30-day increments if so requested.
      (2)   Temporary uses shall be subject to all of the regulations of the
applicable zoning district.
      (3)   Adequate access and off-street parking facilities shall be
provided.
      (4)   Public address systems shall not be used in areas of concentrated
residential development.
      (5)   Flood lights and other lighting shall be directed upon the premises
and shall not be detrimental to adjoining properties.
      (6)   Signs shall not flash or blink or resemble traffic and emergency
warning signals.
      (7)   Upon termination, the lot shall be put in a clean condition devoid
of trash and remnants of the temporary use.
   (B)   The following are permitted temporary uses subject to the issuance of
an improvement location permit and a certificate of occupancy.
      (1)   Temporary office; and
      (2)   Model home or model apartment.
   (C)   The following are permitted temporary uses subject to the issuance of
an improvement location permit.
      (1)   Incidental signs on the same property, necessary for the sale,
rental or lease of property;
      (2)   Announcement signs necessary to explain the character of a building
enterprise for a maximum of 18 months;
      (3)   Mobile homes, as emergency shelters when needed until construction
or emergency ends; and
      (4)   Other uses deemed temporary by the BZA subject to all conditions
the BZA may deem necessary.
   (D)   The following are permitted temporary uses which do not require an
improvement location permit or certificate of occupancy.
      (1)   Parking area designated for a special event for a maximum of 30
days; and
      (2)   Other uses deemed temporary by the BZA subject to all conditions
the BZA may deem necessary.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 157.023 LOTS.
   Every primary structure hereafter erected shall be located on an individual
lot which fronts on a street or private drive. No building or structure shall
hereafter be erected or located on a lot unless the lot conforms with lot area
regulations of the district in which it is located or in accordance with the
non-conforming uses section of this chapter.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998; Am. Ord. 2006-6, passed 5-6-2006)
§ 157.024 CONVERSIONS.
   Structures originally designed for occupancy by two families or less
converted to occupancy by more than two families shall secure an improvement
location permit. The structures shall show no evidence of change to indicate
the extra dwelling units. All fire escapes or stairways leading to a second or
higher floor shall be completely enclosed within the converted building.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 157.025 BUILDINGS RELOCATED.
   No buildings or structures shall be moved from one lot or premises to
another unless the building conforms to the regulations of the district to
which the building shall be moved and an improvement location permit has been
secured.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 157.026 BUILDING HEIGHT.
   All buildings hereafter shall comply with the height regulations of the
district in which it is located, with the exception of the following.
   (A)   A farm building may be erected or changed to any height necessary for
its operation; however, any new structure regardless of height shall secure an
ILP.
   (B)   Spires and church steeples may be erected or changed to any height
that is not otherwise prohibited.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998; Am. Ord. 2006-6, passed 5-6-2006)
§ 157.027 YARDS.
   (A)   Architectural features (cornices, chimney, cave, sill, canopy or
similar feature) or open platforms, porches or landings may extend into a
required side or rear yard not more than two feet, and may project into a
required front yard not more than three feet.
   (B)   In the case of a through or corner lot, any property line abutting a
street shall be considered a front property line and the setback from that line
shall conform to the front yard setback regulations of that district. Corner
lots shall have two front yard setbacks and two side yard setbacks.
   (C)   Where 2,570 or more of the lots in a block are occupied by buildings,
the average setbacks of the buildings determine the front yard setback in the
block. If there are no other buildings within 330 feet of the proposed building
in either direction, then the standard setback for the district shall apply.
   (D)   Front yard setback lines established in recorded subdivisions
establish the front yards in such subdivisions, provided that after the
adoption of this chapter, no subdivision shall be platted with building setback
lines less than the required front yard of the district in which it is located.
   (E)   One-half of an alley, abutting the rear or side of a lot may be
included in the rear yard setback or side yard setback, respectively, but the
alley space shall not be included for loading and unloading berths.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 157.028 RESTRICTIONS ALONG STREAMS.
   (A)   No permanent structures may be erected, and if erected in violation of
this section, no such structure may be used if the location is within 75 feet
of the center line of any legal tile ditch, or within 75 feet of the existing
top edge of any legal open ditch as determined by the Boone County Surveyor.
   (B)   (1)   No authorization of a use, under this chapter, includes the
authority to discharge liquid or solid wastes into public waters except as
permitted under the Stream Pollution Control Law (Acts 1943, Chapter 214, as
amended).
      (2)   Plans and specifications for proposed public or district sewage or
other waste treatment and disposal facilities must be approved by the Stream
Pollution Control Board of the State of Indiana, except when connecting to a
public sewer utility.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998)
Cross-reference:
   Storm Drainage, Erosion and Sediment Control, see
Chapter 153 of this code
§ 157.029 FLOOD PROTECTION.
   Structures shall be permitted in accordance with federal and state
requirements and
Chapter 152 of this code pertaining to construction in flood hazard areas.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 157.030 BULK STORAGE.
   In any district, structures, buildings or above ground tanks used for bulk
storage of flammable or explosive liquids, gases or other materials shall not
be located closer than 50 feet to the property line. Additional information
regarding evidence of safety measures may be required in order to determine the
public safety therein.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 157.031 OUTSIDE STORAGE.
   A landscape contractor located in an agricultural district may store
equipment and materials used in the business on the property as long as the
equipment and non-plant materials are stored in an enclosed structure and no
retail sales occur on the property.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 157.032 LIGHTING.
   In any district, outdoor lighting, where provided, shall be shall be of a
design and size that is harmonious with the design of the building, the type of
land use and the type of adjacent land uses. If external spot or flood lighting
is used, the light source should be shielded and restrained in such a manner so
as not to illuminate or intrude on surrounding properties. Excessive
brightness, flashing lights and brilliant colors are not permitted.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 157.033 PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   To reduce traffic problems and hazards by eliminating unnecessary
on-street parking and loading. Every use of land, except those located in the
UB District, must include on-premises parking and loading sufficient for the
needs normally generated by the use, as provided by this section.
      (2)   Off-street parking spaces shall be used only for the parking of
vehicles of occupants, patrons, visitors or employees and shall not be used for
any kind of loading, sales, servicing or continuous storage of vehicles for
more than 48 hours.
      (3)   Automotive vehicles or trailers of any type without plates in an
inoperable condition so as to be deemed dead storage shall be prohibited in
residential districts other than in completely enclosed buildings and shall not
be parked or stored in any district unless specifically authorized under the
terms of this chapter.
      (4)   Space allotted to loading berths and loading areas shall not be
used to satisfy parking space requirements.
   (B)   Non-conforming parking, enlargement or alteration of existing
structure.
      (1)   No use lawfully established prior to the effective date of this
section shall be required to provide and maintain the parking and loading
requirements of this section, provided that parking and loading spaces required
by any previous ordinance pursuant to state statutes shall be continued and
maintained.
      (2)   For any nonconforming use which is hereafter damaged or partially
destroyed, and which is lawfully reconstructed, re-established or repaired,
parking and loading facilities equivalent to those maintained at the time of
the damage or partial destruction shall be restored and continued in operation,
provided, however, it is not necessary to restore or maintain parking or
loading facilities in excess of those required by this chapter for equivalent
new uses.
      (3)   When the intensity of use of any building, structure or premises
shall be increased through the addition of dwelling units, floor area, beds,
seating capacity or other unit of measurement, parking and loading facilities
shall be provided for such increase in intensity of use.
      (4)   When the existing use of a building, structure or premises shall be
changed or converted to a new use permitted by this chapter, parking and
loading facilities shall be provided as required for the new use.
      (5)   Parking and loading facilities in existence on the effective date
of this section shall not be reduced below or if already less than, shall not
be further reduced below, the requirements for a new use under this section.
   (C)   Design flexibility.
      (1)   Due to particularities of any given development, the inflexible
application of required parking spaces may result in parking and loading spaces
in excess of need. Upon the written request of the applicant, the Director may
authorize a reduction of required parking spaces not to exceed 10%. Approval of
reduction of required parking spaces by the Director shall be in writing and
shall include justification for allowing the reduction.
      (2)   Upon written request by the applicant, up to 25% of the dedicated
parking area may remain unpaved and in greenspace until such time as the need
for maximum parking is determined. This decision and determination shall be at
the discretion of the Director. The decision shall be ratified by or appealed
to the APC. The greenspace shall not be counted toward required parking
landscaping or bufferyards.
   (D)   Required parking spaces.
      (1)   In determination of required parking spaces, any fraction of less
than 1/2 shall be disregarded, while a fraction 1/2 or greater shall be counted
as one parking space.
      (2)   For uses not specified in this section or the instance requirements
for an adequate number of spaces is unclear, the number of spaces shall be
determined by the administrative official on the basis of similar requirements,
the number of persons served or employed and the capability of adequately
serving the visiting public. The determination may be reviewed by the APC or
appealed to the BZA.
      (3)   Unless noted in accordance with this section, the number of
required automobile parking spaces shall be considered the minimum allowable
number of spaces for any particular use.
Table 7, Parking Requirements
Use Required Parking
Table 7, Parking Requirements
Use                                     Required Parking
College, university, trade or business  1 per 3 students and employees
schools
Elementary or junior high school        3 per classroom
High school                             6 per classroom
Government uses, library, information   1 per 250 square feet
center
Commercial greenhouse                   1 per 3 employees, plus 1 per 125
                                        square feet of sales area
Veterinary animal hospital, kennel      1 per 3 animal spaces (cages or pens)
Automobile sales, repair or service     1 per 200 square feet of gross floor
station                                 area, plus 1 per employee, plus 1 per
                                        1,000 square feet
Commercial facility for raising non-    1 per 3 employees, plus 1 per 125
farm fowl and animals                   square feet of sales area
Industrial uses, confined feeding,      1 per 2 employees
slaughter house, warehouse, wholesale
Golf and country clubs                  3 per golf hole
Outdoor recreation facility             5 per acre
Non-profit membership organizations,    1 per 5 seats
stadium, coliseum, theater
Hotel, motel, bed and breakfast         1 per sleeping room
Bowling alleys                          4 per lane
Lodge or private club                   1 per 800 square feet of gross floor
                                        area
Stable, public                          1 per 5,000 square feet of lot area
Day care center                         1 per 6 children, plus 1 per 2
                                        employees
Residential dwellings                   2 per dwelling unit
Group residential facility, nursing     1 per 4 residents
home
Retail trade: eating and drinking       1 per 3 seats
establishments
Retail trade: general merchandise,      1 per 200 square feet of gross floor
services: general, medical and personal area
Trailer or farm implement sales area    1 per 1,000 square feet of lot and
                                        floor area
Convalescent home                       1 per 4 residents
                                        1 per 4 beds, plus 1 per doctor, plus 1
Hospital                                per 3 employees, plus 1 per hospital
                                        vehicle
Medical office, clinic                  1 per 2 employees, plus 3 per doctor
Cemetery, crematory or mortuary         1 per 2 employees, plus 1 per 6 seats
Mass transit station                    1 per 2 employees, plus 1 per 4 public
                                        seats
 
   (E)   Joint use. Nonresidential uses, within the same and/or separate
structures, may provide joint parking provided the total number of spaces is
not less than the sum of requirements for the various uses. To the extent that
developments with joint parking operate at different times, the parking spaces
may be credited to both uses.
   (F)   Satellite parking.
      (1)   Parking shall be required on site, except as provided in this
section; however, the BZA may grant satellite parking to any non-residential
use by special exception. At least part of the parking must be within 300 feet
of the proposed use.
      (2)   A site development plan must accompany any such application for
special exception and must include the following:
         (a)   Adjacent streets, alleys and lots;
         (b)   All uses to be served including the location, use and number of
parking spaces provided;
         (c)   A layout drawn to scale indicating aisles, driveways, entrances,
exits, turn-off lanes, parking spaces, setbacks, drainage facilities,
landscaping, lighting, pavement and identification signs including location,
size and design;
         (d)   All satellite parking shall be developed, maintained and used in
accordance with the approved site development plan and all other requirements;
and
         (e)   Any change or other modification of uses served or number or
parking spaces shall require amendment and re-approval by the BZA.
   (G)   Bicycle parking. Nonresidential uses located in the LB, GB or PD
Districts containing 30 or more automobile spaces shall provide bicycle parking
facilities at the rate of one bicycle parking space per ten parking spaces, up
to a maximum of 20 bicycle parking spaces. Bicycle racks shall be installed to
support the frame of the bicycle.
   (H)   Dimensions of parking spaces.
      (1)   Each parking space shall contain a rectangular area nine feet wide
and 19 feet long, exclusive of pedestrian passageways, access drives, aisles,
ramps or landscaped areas.
      (2)   In parking areas containing ten or more parking spaces, up to 20%
of the spaces may contain a rectangular area only 7-1/2 feet wide and 15 feet
long. The spaces shall be conspicuously designated as reserved for small or
compact cars.
      (3)   Parking areas set aside for parallel parking shall contain a
rectangular area nine feet wide and 22 feet long.
      (4)   Parking aisle widths shall conform to the following table.
 
Aisle Width
Parking Angle   0° 30°45°60°90°
One-Way Traffic 13' 11' 13' 18' 24'
Two-Way Traffic 19' 20' 21' 23' 24'
 
      (5)   Each loading space shall be of a size not less than that required
for parking space, but scaled larger to delivery vehicles expected to be used.
      (6)   Driveways shall be a minimum ten feet for one-way traffic and 18
feet for two-way traffic, except that a 10-foot driveway is permissible for
two-way traffic when the driveway is not longer than 50 feet and provides
access to a maximum of five parking spaces.
   (I)   General design.
      (1)   Nonresidential parking or loading areas along the street-front
should be minimized. When possible, parking or loading areas should be placed
to the rear of the structure. All parking or loading areas shall be designed
with appropriate means of movement and shall be so arranged that movement can
proceed safely without posing a danger to pedestrians or other vehicles. No
parking area shall be so designed as to require backing into a public street,
public or private pedestrian access way or from a public alley.
      (2)   All parking or loading spaces shall be designed, arranged and
regulated as to open directly upon an aisle or driveway without obstruction.
      (3)   All parking areas shall be striped and channelized as appropriate.
Parking spaces shall be marked and access lines clearly defined, including
directional arrows to guide internal movement and directional signs as
necessary.
      (4)   All parking or loading areas shall be maintained in good condition
and free of weeds, dirt, trash and debris.
      (5)   Parking spaces shall be provided with bumper guards or wheel stops
so located that no part of a parked vehicle will extend beyond the boundary of
the parking area.
      (6)   No more than 15 parking spaces shall be permitted in a continuous
row.
      (7)   All parking areas consisting of more than 60 spaces shall provide
separate pedestrian walkways. The walkways should generally be oriented
perpendicular to and between parking bays.
         (a)   One walkway can serve as a collector for up to four rows of
parking spaces.
         (b)   The walkway should be a minimum of four feet wide, allowing an
additional 30 inches on each side for overhanging of vehicles.
         (c)   All walkways should be constructed to be clearly defined through
the use of material, landscaping or other form of delineation.
      (8)   Any use which fronts upon and utilizes access to a primary or
secondary arterial shall provide and utilize a common frontage or access lane
for the purpose of access, parking and loading.
      (9)   Required parking spaces may be open to the sky or enclosed in a
structure. Parking structures shall be treated as any major structure and shall
be subject to all applicable structural requirements of this chapter and the
issuance of an improvement location permit.
      (10)   Parking structures shall be designed to be architecturally
compatible with their surroundings, including appearance, size, scale, building
materials and bulk.
      (11)   All parking areas shall conform to state and federal requirements
regarding handicap accessibility.
   (J)   Surface. All parking or loading areas for five or more automobiles
shall be developed in accordance with the following standards:
      (1)   Parking and loading areas shall be graded and surfaced with an all
weather paving material such as asphalt, concrete or other material that will
provide equivalent protection against potholes, erosion and dust. However, a
gravel surface may be used for a period not exceeding one year after the date
of granting the occupancy permit where ground conditions are not immediately
suitable for permanent surfacing as specified in this section.
      (2)   All areas shall be striped and channelized as appropriate. Parking
stalls shall be marked and the access lines clearly defined, including
directional arrows to guide internal movement.
   (K)   Landscaping. Parking lots should be effectively landscaped with trees
and shrubs to reduce the visual impact of glare, headlights and parking lot
lights from the public right-of-way and from adjoining properties. In addition,
parking lots should be adequately shaded to reduce the amount of reflected
heat.
      (1)   Perimeter bufferyard. Parking or loading areas abutting any street-
front or residential use shall provide a perimeter Bufferyard E for parking and
Bufferyard G for loading areas or that required for the proposed use in the
bufferyard section of this chapter, whichever is greater.
      (2)   Interior landscaping. Interior landscaping shall be comprised of
one canopy tree and three shrubs for every 2,000 square feet of parking area.
The following alternatives may be considered in design of the parking area.
         (a)   A continuous landscape strip between every four rows of parking.
The strip should be a minimum of eight feet in width to accommodate a row of
shrubs and canopy trees.
         (b)   Large planting islands of greater than 600 square feet to be
located throughout the parking area and planted with canopy trees, shrubs and
ground cover. The islands may be located at the end of parking rows.
         (c)   Planting islands a minimum of nine feet wide between every ten
to 15 spaces. Each planting island should include a minimum of one canopy tree.
         (d)   Planting islands along pedestrian walkways. The plantings should
serve to clearly delineate the pedestrian access and provide for adequate shade
along the walkway.
      (3)   Maintenance. Maintenance of landscaping for parking and loading
areas shall be in accordance with the bufferyard section of this chapter.
      (4)   Lighting. Lighting provided to illuminate off-street parking areas
shall be so arranged, shielded and directed upon the parking area in such a
manner as to not reflect or cause glare into adjacent properties or interfere
with street traffic.
      (5)   Loading and unloading.
         (a)   Uses, except those that do not receive or transport goods in
quantity by truck delivery, shall be provided loading berths. Each loading and
unloading berth must include a 12-foot by 45-foot loading space with a 14-foot
height clearance.
         (b)   Loading and unloading berths must he a minimum distance from the
nearest residential use in accordance with the following table.
Table 8, Loading Berth Requirements and Distance from Residential Uses
 Required Berths Berth Distance from Residential Uses (feet)
Table 8, Loading Berth Requirements and Distance from Residential Uses
                                                                                  Berth
                                                                                  Distance
                                                                 Required Berths  from
                                                                                  Residential
                                                                                  Uses (feet)
Retail department store, wholesale storage, warehousing or other business use
—3,000 to 15,000 square feet gross floor area                  1
—Each 15,000 square feet or additional fraction of gross floor 1 additional
area
Office building
—25,000 to 100,000 square feet gross floor area                1
—100,000 to 550,000 square feet gross floor area               2
—Each 200,000 or additional fraction of gross floor area       1 additional
Industrial use                                                   100
—Less than 15,000 square feet gross floor area                 1                100
—15,000 to 40,000 square feet gross floor area                 2                100
—40,000 to 100,000 square feet gross floor area                3                100
—Each 40,000 or additional fraction of gross floor area        1 additional     100
Commercial facility for breeding and raising non-farm fowl and   1                100
animals
Commercial greenhouse (15,000 square feet or less)               1                50
Commercial greenhouse (more than 15,000 square feet)             2                50
Hospital (200 beds or less)                                      1                50
Hospital (200 to 500 beds)                                       2                50
Hospital (more than 500 beds)                                    3                50
Stadium or coliseum                                              2                50
Airport                                                          Same as          100
                                                                 “Industrial”
Mineral extraction, borrow pit, topsoil) removal and their       Same as          300
storage areas                                                    “Industrial”
Outdoor commercial recreational enterprise                       Same as          50
                                                                 “Industrial”
Truck freight terminal                                           Same as          100
                                                                 “Industrial”
 
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 157.034 BUFFERYARDS.
   (A)   The bufferyard is a unit of yard together with the planting thereon.
Both the amount of land and the type and amount of planting specified for each
bufferyard requirement are designed to minimize nuisances between adjacent land
uses. The planting units required of bufferyards have been calculated to ensure
that they do, in fact, function as buffers.
   (B)   Bufferyards shall be required to separate land uses from each other in
order to eliminate or minimize potential nuisances such as dirt, litter, noise,
glare of lights, signs and unsightly building or parking areas, or to provide
spacing to reduce adverse impacts of noise, odor or danger from fires or
explosions.
   (C)   Proposed uses in any district that are specifically agricultural, as
defined under agriculture, are exempt from providing bufferyards unless
otherwise specified.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
IMAGES/0-0-0-58.jpg]
 
      (1)   Location, maintenance, planting size and landscape plan.
         (a)   Bufferyards shall be located on the outer perimeter of a lot or
parcel, extending to the lot or parcel boundary line. Bufferyard plantings
shall not be located on any portion of an existing or dedicated public or
private street right-of-way or drainage and utility easement.
         (b)   All plant material that dies must be replaced within six months
so as to maintain the approved bufferyard and landscape plan.
         (c)   Deciduous trees are to be a minimum of two inches in diameter or
eight feet tall at the time of planting. Evergreen trees shall be a minimum of
five feet tall at the time of planting.
         (d)   Any existing plant material which otherwise satisfies the
requirements of this section may be counted toward satisfying all such
requirements.
         (e)   The following plant material substitutions shall satisfy the
requirements of this section.
            1.   In all bufferyards evergreen, canopy or evergreen understory
trees may be substituted for deciduous canopy trees without limitation.
            2.   In all bufferyards, evergreen or conifer shrubs may be
substituted for deciduous shrubs without limitation. A landscape plan shall be
submitted with each applicable application. The plan shall be a site plan drawn
to scale showing the location, type, size and category of each plant unit used.
      (2)   Determination of bufferyard requirements.
         (a)   To determine the type of bufferyard required between two
adjacent parcels, the following procedure shall be followed:
            1.   Identify the zoning district of the proposed land use by
referring to the horizontal column of the
Table 7, Bufferyard Requirements;
            2.   Identify the zoning district of the adjacent parcels by
referring to the vertical column of the
Table 7, Bufferyard Requirements; and
            3.   Determine the bufferyard required on each boundary of the
subject parcel by referring to the
Table 7, Bufferyard Requirements, and then to the options for that bufferyard.
         (b)   The required bufferyards constitute the total bufferyard
required between the adjacent land uses. Any of the alternatives for the
required bufferyard shall satisfy the requirement of buffering between adjacent
land uses.
      (3)   Bufferyard requirements.
         (a)   Bufferyard requirements are stated in terms of the width of the
bufferyard and the number of plant units required per 100 linear feet of
bufferyard. The requirements of a bufferyard may be satisfied by any of the
alternatives illustrated. The “plant unit multiplier” is a factor by which the
basic number of plant material required for a given bufferyard is determined
given a change in the width of that yard. The product of the plant unit
multiplier and the required plant units determines the respective number of
plant units required per 100 linear feet of the bufferyard alternative. Any
fraction less than 1/2 shall be disregarded, while a fraction 1/2 or greater
shall be counted as one plant unit. The quantity and type of plant materials
required by each bufferyard are specific and identified in
Appendix B. The specifications of each bufferyard and its alternatives are
illustrated in this section. Each alternative depicts the total bufferyard
located between two parcels.
         (b)   Whenever a wall, fence or berm is required within a bufferyard,
these are shown as “Fence/Berm” in the following table, wherein their
respective specifications are also shown. Whenever a wall is required in
addition to a berm, the wall shall be located between the berm and the higher
intensity use, in order to provide maximum sound absorption.
         (c)   If the development on the adjoining use is existing, planned or
deed-restricted for solar access, understory trees may be substituted for
canopy trees where canopy trees would destroy solar access.
         (d)   If the development borders a jurisdictional boundary outside
that of this chapter, the bufferyard used shall be based on the district most
comparable to that of this chapter, at the discretion and approval of the
Director.
         (e)   The exact placement of required plants and structures shall be
the decision of each user except that the following requirements shall be
satisfied.
            1.   Evergreen (or conifer) plant materials shall be planted in
clusters rather than singly in order to maximize their chances of survival.
            2.   Berms with masonry walls required of Bufferyard J and K
options are intended to buffer more significant nuisances from adjacent uses
and, additionally, to break up and absorb noise, which is achieved by the
varied heights of plant materials between the wall and the noise source.
            3.   When berms with walls are required, the masonry wall shall be
closer than the berm to the higher intensity use.
            4.   Within a bufferyard, a planting area at least five feet wide
containing 15% of the total plant requirements (based on the multiplier = 1)
shall be located between the masonry wall and the higher intensity class use.
These plants shall be chosen to provide species and sizes to reduce noise in
conjunction with the wall.
         (f)   All bufferyard areas shall be live vegetation and seeded with
lawn or prairie grasses unless the ground cover is already established.
         (g)   Bufferyards may contain natural water amenities or areas
established for drainage provided that planting requirements are still
satisfied.
      (4)   Use of bufferyards. A bufferyard may be used for passive
recreation. It may contain pedestrian, bike or equestrian trails, provided that
no plant material is eliminated, the total width of the bufferyard is not
reduced and all other regulations of the chapter are met. In no event, however,
shall permanent structures be permitted in bufferyards including ice skating
rinks, stables, swimming pools and tennis courts.
      (5)   Ownership of bufferyards. Bufferyards may remain in the ownership
of the original developer of a land use, or they may be subjected to deed
restrictions and subsequently be freely conveyed, or they may be transferred to
any consenting grantees, such as adjoining landowners, a park or forest
preserve, or an open space or conservation group, provided that any such
conveyance adequately guarantees the protection of the bufferyards for the
purposes of this chapter.
      (6)   Excess bufferyards. Where the bufferyard required between a land
use and vacant land turns out to be greater than that bufferyard which is
required between the first use and the subsequently developed use, the
following uses apply:
         (a)   The subsequent use may provide 1/2 of the buffer required. The
existing use may expand its use into the original buffer area, provided that
the resulting total bufferyard between the two uses meets the bufferyard
requirements.
         (b)   The existing use may enter into agreements with abutting land
owners to use its existing buffer to provide some or all of the required
bufferyard of both land uses. The total buffer shall equal the requirements.
Provided that such an agreement can be negotiated, the initial use may provide
the second use some or all of its required bufferyard and/or extra land on
which it might develop. The existing use may reduce its excess buffer by
transferring part or all of the excess buffer to the adjoining land owner to
serve as its buffer. Any remaining excess buffer area may be used by the
existing use for expansion of that use or for transfer by it to the adjoining
land owner to expand that adjoining use.
Table 9, Bufferyard Requirements
Adjacent District District of Proposed Use
Table 9, Bufferyard Requirements
Adjacent District District of Proposed Use
                  C AP AG R1 R2 R3 R4, MF PB   LB   GB   UB AB   I1   I2   PUD
C                 - -  -  -  -  -  -      -    -    -    -  -    -    -    @
AP                - -  Ag Ag Ag Ag Ag     Ag   Ag   Ag   Ag Ag   Ag   Ag   @
AG                - -  Ag Ag Ag Ag Ag     A/B* A/C* A/E* -  A/G* A/H* A/I* @
R1                - -  Ag B  C  D  D      D    E    G    -  I    J    K    @
R2                - -  Ag C  B  D  D      D    E    G    -  I    J    K    @
R3                - -  Ag D  C  B  B      D    E    G    -  I    J    K    @
R4, MF            - -  Ag D  C  B  B      D    E    G    -  I    J    K    @
PB                - -  A  D  D  D  D      A    A    B    -  C    C    C    @
LB                - -  A  E  E  E  E      A    A    A    -  C    C    C    @
GB                - -  A  G  G  G  G      A    A    A    -  C    C    D    @
UB                - -  A  H  H  H  H      D    C    A    -  A    B    C    @
AB                - -  A  I  I  I  I      E    D    C    -  A    A    B    @
I1                - -  A  J  J  J  J      E    D    C    -  B    A    A    @
I2                - -  F  K  K  K  K      F    E    D    -  C    A    A    @
PUD               @ @  @  @  @  @  @      @    @    @    @  @    @    @    @
* In areas abutting an existing residential use or agricultural use, the more
restrictive bufferyard shall apply.
- No bufferyard required.
@ As determined by APC.
 
                                              Plant Units
Bufferyard Class  Bufferyard Width Plant Unit Required per 100 Required Fence/
and Alternatives  (feet)           Multiplier Linear Feet      Berm
                                     Plant Units Required per 100 Linear
Bufferyard     Bufferyard Plant Unit Feet                                 Required
Class and      Width      Multiplier Canopy Understory        Evergreens/ Fence/
Alternatives   (feet)                Trees  Trees      Shrubs Conifers    Berm

Ag (no
plantings
permitted in
the 30 feet
closest to
agricultural
zoning)
             1 40.0       -          -      -          -      -           -
                                     1      1          0      0
             1 5.0        1.0        1      1          0      0           -
A            2 7.5        0.8        0      1          0      0           -
             3 10.0       0.6        0      1          0      0           -
             4 12.5       0.4        0      0          0      0           -
                                     1      2          0      0
             1 10.0       1.0        1      2          0      0           -
B            2 15.0       0.8        1      2          0      0           -
             3 20.0       0.6        1      1          0      0           -
             4 25.0       0.4        0      1          0      0           -
                                     1      2          3      0
             1 10.0       1.0        1      2          3      0           -
C            2 15.0       0.8        1      2          2      0           -
             3 20.0       0.6        1      1          2      0           -
             4 25.0       0.4        0      1          1      0           -
                                     2      4          6      0
             1 15.0       1.0        2      4          6      0           -
D            2 20.0       0.8        2      3          5      0           -
             3 25.0       0.6        1      2          4      0           -
             4 30.0       0.4        1      2          2      0           -
                                     3      6          9      0
             1 10.0       0.9        3      5          8      0           F1
E            2 20.0       1.0        3      6          9      0           -
             3 25.0       0.8        2      5          7      0           -
             4 30.0       0.6        2      4          5      0           -
                                     5      10         15     0
             1 10.0       0.8        4      8          12     0           F3
F            2 15.0       0.9        5      9          14     0           F2
             3 20.0       1.0        5      10         15     0           -
             4 25.0       0.8        4      8          12     0           -
             5 30.0       0.6        3      6          9      0           -
                                     4      6          24     12
             1 15.0       0.7        3      4          17     8           F3
G            2 20.0       0.8        3      5          18     9           F4
             3 25.0       1.0        4      6          24     12          -
             4 30.0       0.8        3      5          19     10          -
             5 40.0       0.6        2      4          14     7           -
                                     5      8          30     15
             1 20.0       0.8        3      5          18     9           F5
H            2 30.0       1.0        5      8          30     15          F4 or B2
             3 40.0       0.8        4      6          24     12          F3 or B1
             4 50.0       0.6        3      5          18     9           -
                                     6      9          36     18
             1 25.0       0.6        4      5          22     11          F6
I            2 30.0       0.8        5      7          29     14          F5
             3 40.0       1.0        6      9          36     18          F4 or B2
             4 50.0       0.8        5      7          29     14          F3 or B1
             5 75.0       0.6        4      5          22     11          -
                                     8      12         48     24
             1 30.0       0.6        5      7          29     14          BW2
J            2 40.0       0.8        6      10         38     19          F6 or
                                                                          BW1
             3 50.0       1.0        8      12         48     24          B3 or F5
             4 75.0       0.8        6      10         38     19          B2 or F4
                                     10     15         60     30
             1 50.0       0.6        6      9          36     18          BW3
K            2 75.0       8.0        80     120        480    240         BW2
             3 100.0      1.0        10     15         60     30          BW1 or
                                                                          F6
             4 125.0      0.8        8      12         48     24          B3 or F5
 
Fence, Berm and Wall Requirements
  Height (feet) Material
Fence, Berm and Wall Requirements
           Height (feet) Material
Fences
 F1        3.7           wood picket
 F2        4.0           wood rail
 F3        6.0           wood stockade
 F4        8.0           wood stockade
Fences
 F5        6.0           masonry wall
 F6        8.0           masonry wall
Berms
 B1        4.0           earth
 B2        5.0           earth
 B3        6.0           earth
Berm Walls Berm Wall
 BWI       4.0  6.0      earth berm and masonry wall
 BW2       5.0  7.0      earth berm and masonry wall
 BW3       6.0  8.0      earth berm and masonry wall
 
 
                                   Plant Units Required per 100 Linear
Bufferyard   Bufferyard Plant Unit Feet                                 Required
Class and    Width      Multiplier Canopy Understory        Evergreens/ Fence/
Alternatives (feet)                Trees  Trees      Shrubs Conifers    Berm

D                                  2      4          6      0
1            15.0       1.0        2      4          6      0           -
2            20.0       0.8        2      3          5      0           -
3            25.0       0.6        1      2          4      0           -
4            30.0       0.4        1      2          2      0           -
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
IMAGES/0-0-0-61.jpg]
 
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 157.035 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   General. A home occupation shall be permitted when the occupation
conducted on residentially used premises is considered customary and
traditional, incidental to the principal use of the premises as a residence,
and not construed as a business. Permitted home occupations shall not adversely
affect the residential character of the its district or interfere with the
reasonable enjoyment of adjoining properties. Permitted home occupations shall
be of a personal service nature limited to domestic crafts and professional
service.
 
Table 10, Permitted Types of Home Occupations
Permitted    Domestic crafts, dressmaking, millinery, sewing, weaving, tailoring, ironing,
uses         washing, custom home furnishings work, carpentry work, furniture repair, hair
             grooming.
Permitted
uses, but    Law, medicine, architecture, engineering, accounting, planning, real estate,
limited      insurance, notary public, manufacturer’s agent, clergy, photography, tutoring.
advice and
consultation
             Real estate office, insurance office, clinic, doctor’s office, dress shop,
Prohibited   millinery shop, funeral home, bed and breakfast, instructional studios for more
uses         than one student at a time, day care center, animal hospital, kennel, trailer
             rental and all uses associated with vehicle dealers, repair and services.
 
   (B)   Standards.
      (1)   The primary use of the primary structure or dwelling unit shall
remain residential and the operator of the home occupation shall remain a
resident in the dwelling unit.
      (2)   A home occupation and all activities and materials related to such
occupation may be permitted in a single accessory structure provided that the
structure is subordinate to the primary residence in terms of height, setback,
area and bulk and compatible with the primary residence in terms of materials.
      (3)   The operator conducting the home occupation shall be the sole
entrepreneur and he or she shall not employ any other person other than a
member of the immediate family and one non-family member.
      (4)   No structural additions, enlargements or exterior alterations
changing the residential appearance to a business appearance shall be
permitted.
      (5)   No more than 25% of the floor area of any one story of the dwelling
unit shall be devoted to the home occupation.
      (6)   Outside storage of machinery, equipment or materials shall not be
permitted.
      (7)   No additional and separate entrance incongruent with the
residential structural design shall be constructed for the purpose of
conducting the home occupation.
      (8)   No provision for more than two extra off-street parking or loading
facilities, other than the requirements and permitted facilities of the zone
district, shall be permitted. No part of a minimum required setback distance
shall be used for off-street parking or loading facilities, and no additional
driveway to serve the home occupations shall be permitted.
      (9)   No display of goods or external evidence of the home occupation
shall be permitted, except for signs in accordance with §
157.038 hereof.
      (10)   No stock in trade or commodities, other than those prepared,
produced or created on the premises by the operator of the home occupation,
shall be kept or sold on the premises.
      (11)   No electrical or mechanical equipment shall interfere with local
radio communications and television reception or cause fluctuation in line
voltage off the premises.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 157.036 REQUIREMENTS FOR INDUSTRIAL USES.
   The following performance standards shall apply to all industrial uses, in
addition to the previous requirements.
   (A)   Smoke.
      (1)   No industry in the I1 District may emit more than ten smoke units
per hour per stack or smoke in excess of Ringleman No. 2. However, once during
any 24-hour period, for soot blowing, process purging and fire cleaning, each
stack may emit an additional ten smoke units, and during that period it may
emit smoke up to arid including Ringleman No. 3.
      (2)   No industry in the I2 District may emit more than 30 smoke units
per hour per stack or smoke in excess of Ringleman No. 2. However, once during
any 24-hour period, for soot blowing, process purging and fire cleaning, each
stack may emit an additional ten smoke units, and during that period it may
emit smoke up to and Including Ringleman No. 3.
   (B)   Odor. No industrial use in any district may release an odor that is
detectable at the lot line.
   (C)   Toxic materials. No gases or fumes toxic to persons or injurious to
property shall be permitted to escape beyond the building in which it occurs.
   (D)   Glare and heat. No industrial use may cause heat at the property line
so intense as to be a public nuisance or hazard. No glare shall be seen from
any street or residential area.
   (E)   Vibration. No intense vibration shall be created or maintained by any
industrial use so as to be noticeable beyond the boundary lines of the tract on
which it is located.
   (F)   Noise and sound. At no boundary line of any residential or business
district may the sound level of any industrial use (excluding background noises
produced by sources not under the control of this chapter such as the operation
of motor vehicles) exceed 70 decibels. Noise is to be muffled so as not to be
objectionable due to intermittence, frequency or shrillness.
   (G)   Exceptions. Divisions (A) through (F) above, inclusive, do not apply
to:
      (1)   Site preparation or construction, maintenance, repair, alterations
or improvements of buildings, structures, equipment or other improvements on or
within the lot lines;
      (2)   The operation of motor vehicles or other facilities for the
transportation of personnel, materials or products; and
      (3)   Safety or emergency warning signals or alarms necessary for the
protection of life, limb or property.
   (H)   Special restrictions. Any industrial operation or activity must, in
addition to the above, conform with any applicable acts of the state and
federal government. Where the requirements of this chapter are more
restrictive, they shall take precedence. All relevant federal and state permits
or approvals are required prior to issuance of an improvement location permit.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 157.037 MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   (A)   Permanent placement. Manufactured homes shall be permitted provided
the following requirements and limitations are met.
      (1)   All zoning regulations pertaining to the individual site shall be
met.
      (2)   The minimum area of a structure shall conform with the square
footage requirements established in
Table 3, Residential Uses and Requirements.
      (3)   The structure shall be attached and anchored to a permanent
foundation in conformance with the appropriate building code and with
manufacturer’s installation specifications.
      (4)   The entire area between the floor joists of the structure and the
underfloor grade shall be completely enclosed with a permanent perimeter
enclosure constructed in accordance with the terms of the appropriate building
code; the manufacturer’s installation specifications; and requirements set
forth by the Indiana Administrative Building Council.
      (5)   The structure shall possess all necessary building, water and
sewage disposal permits prior to placement of the structure upon the lot.
      (6)   The wheels, axles and hitches shall be removed.
      (7)   The structure shall be covered with an exterior material
customarily used on site-built structures.
      (8)   The roof of the structure shall be shingled and pitched, rather
than flat; in areas outside of a mobile home park, manufactured homes shall
have a width no less than 18 feet to be considered compatible with surrounding
conventional construction.
   (B)   Temporary residential occupancy.
      (1)   During construction. In all zoning districts, a permit may be
issued for the temporary placement and occupancy of a manufactured or mobile
home outside of a mobile home park, to a person intending to build a permanent
residence on the property. The temporary permit is for a period of two years
and may be renewed for an additional one-year period if construction of the
dwelling has started, but has not been completed.
      (2)   Health issue. A permit may also be issued to an applicant whose own
health or the health of another necessitates care, and where the facts show
that an unnecessary hardship would occur if not permitted to locate a
manufactured or mobile home adjacent to the residence of one who is able to
provide care or in need of the care. The permit would be for the lifetime of
the person needing care and is renewable every fourth year from the date of
issuance.
      (3)   Regulations. The following regulations shall apply to the temporary
occupancy of a manufactured or mobile home:
         (a)   The structure is to be located on the same property as an
existing residence or located on property on which a permanent residence is
intended to be built within two years.
         (b)   The structure should be served by the same address, water supply
and sewage facilities serving the existing residence or the residence under
construction, subject to the approval of the Boone County Board of Health.
         (c)   The structure shall remain on its wheels and shall not be placed
on a permanent foundation.
         (d)   Applicable front, side and rear yard regulations of the district
in which it is located are to be observed.
         (e)   Occupancy of the structure is restricted to relatives, persons
employed in the care of the property owner (employed on the premises of the
property owner) or the owner of the property who intends to construct a
permanent residence.
         (f)   The structure used for temporary occupancy shall have a ground
floor area greater than 500 square feet.
         (g)   The manufactured or mobile home shall be tied down as per the
requirements of the One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code or the manufacturer’s
recommendation.
         (h)   The perimeter of the manufactured or mobile home shall be
completely enclosed except for access and ventilation openings. The perimeter
enclosure may consist of skirting materials installed in accordance with the
manufacturer’s installation specifications and secured as necessary to provide
stability, minimize vibrations, minimize susceptibility to wind damage and to
provide adequate insulation to protect exposed piping. Perimeter enclosures
other than skirting shall meet requirements of the One- and Two-Family Dwelling
Code and the requirements set forth by the Indiana Administrative Building
Council.
      (4)   Temporary non-residential occupancy. Mobile homes, trailers or vans
may be utilized as contractor’s offices, watchperson’s shelters or tool and
equipment storage on the project site and only during the period of
construction.
      (5)   Permanent residential occupancy. Mobile homes may be permanently
occupied when located in a mobile home park. The mobile home park shall have an
approved development plan and be developed in accordance with the requirements
of this chapter. Mobile homes for permanent occupancy shall meet the standards
in
Table 5, as well as the following requirements.
         (a)   Driveways shall be provided on the site where necessary for
convenient access to service entrances of buildings, to delivery and collection
points for refuse and other material, and elsewhere as needed.
         (b)   Resident parking shall be provided either on the trailer site or
in common parking facilities, and shall be designed so as not to interfere with
pedestrian walkways and to allow adequate space for visitor parking either
along the street or in common parking areas.
         (c)   Walkways:
            1.   Where possible, walkways leading to frequently used public
facilities should be through interior areas removed from the vicinity of
streets. Public pedestrian sidewalks should be at least four feet in width and
paved with a suitable material for use in all weather conditions.
            2.   Individual walkways shall be provided from a public walkway,
street or parking area to the individual mobile home stands. These walkways
shall be at least one and one-half feet in width and should be paved with a
suitable material for use in all weather conditions.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 157.038 SIGNS.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is:
      (1)   To encourage the effective use of signs as a means of communication
in the county;
      (2)   To maintain and enhance the aesthetic environment and the county’s
ability to attract sources of economic development and growth;
      (3)   To minimize the possible adverse effect of signs on nearby public
and private property; and
      (4)   To enable the fair and consistent enforcement of these sign
restrictions.
   (B)   A sign may be located only in conformance with the requirements of
this chapter. Signs and advertising structures may be permitted in the
districts where such uses are permitted after having secured an improvement
location permit approving the proposed sign except when not required by this
section.
      (1)   State requirements. Signs and advertising structures are also
subject to the requirements of The Highway Advertising Control Act of 1967, as
amended. All signs and advertising structures shall conform to the provisions
of the Act. Should this chapter and the Act be in conflict, the requirements of
the more restrictive shall apply.
      (2)   Local requirements. Signs and advertising structures may be subject
to local ordinances of incorporated cities or towns in the jurisdictional area
of this chapter. Should the two be in conflict, the requirements of the more
restrictive shall apply.
      (3)   Signs allowed with and without permits. Signs shall be allowed on
private property in accordance with
Table 11, Sign Regulations. The letter “X” means the sign is allowed without a
permit in the appropriate zoning districts. The letter “P” means the sign is
allowed only with permit approval in the appropriate zoning districts. Special
conditions may apply in some cases. If an “X” or “P” is not present, the sign
is not allowed in the zoning district under any circumstances. Although
permitted under the previous paragraph, a sign designed by a “P” or “X” in
Table 11, Sign Regulations, shall be allowed only if:
         (a)   The sum of the area of all signs on the lot conforms with the
maximum permitted sign area (as determined by the formula for the zoning
district in which the lot is located);
         (b)   The size, location and number of signs on the lot conform with
the requirements which establishes permitted sign dimensions by sign type and
with any additional limitations; and/or
         (c)   The characteristics of the sign conform with the requirements
and with any additional limitations listed in
Table 11.
      (4)   Design, construction and maintenance of signs. All signs shall be
designed, constructed and maintained in accordance with the following
standards:
         (a)   All signs shall comply with applicable provisions of the Uniform
Building Code and the Electrical Code.
         (b)   Except for banners, flags and window signs conforming in all
respects with the requirements of this chapter, all signs shall be constructed
of permanent materials and shall be permanently attached to the ground,
building or another structure by direct attachment to a rigid wall, frame or
structure.
         (c)   All signs shall be maintained in good structural condition, in
compliance with all building and electrical codes, and in conformance with this
chapter.
      (5)   Permits for signs in the public right-of-way. No signs shall be
allowed in the public right-of-way, except for the following:
         (a)   Permanent signs. Permanent signs shall be in accordance with the
conditions of
Table 11, Sign Regulations. The permitted permanent signs include public signs
erected by or on behalf of a governmental body, public transit company or
public utility.
         (b)   Emergency signs. Emergency warning signs erected by a
governmental agency, a public utility company or a contractor doing authorized
or permitted work within the public right-of-way.
         (c)   Other signs forfeited. Any sign installed or placed on public
property, except in conformance with the requirements of this section, shall be
forfeited to the public and subject to confiscation. In addition to other
remedies hereunder, the county shall have the right to recover from the owner
or person placing such a sign the full costs of removal and disposal of the
sign.
      (6)   Signs exempt from regulation under this chapter. The following
signs shall be exempt from regulation under this chapter:
         (a)   Any public notice or warning required by a valid and applicable
federal, state or local law, regulation or ordinance;
         (b)   Any sign inside a building, not attached to a window or door,
that is not legible from a distance of more than three feet beyond the lot line
of the lot or parcel on which the sign is located;
         (c)   Works of art that do not include a commercial message;
         (d)   Commercial murals on barns, silos and the like;
         (e)   Holiday lights and decorations with no commercial message;
         (f)   Traffic control signs on private property, such as stop, yield
and similar signs, the face of which meet the Department of Transportation
standards and which contain no commercial message of any sort.
         (g)   Temporary campaign signs displayed for not more than one month
before and two days after the election is held.
      (7)   Signs prohibited under this chapter. All signs not expressly
permitted under this chapter or exempt from regulation hereunder are prohibited
in the county. Such signs include, but are not limited to: beacons, pennants,
strings of lights not permanently mounted to a rigid background and inflatable
signs and tethered balloons.
      (8)   General permit and inspection procedures. The following shall be
procedure for locating or modification of all sign permits under this chapter.
         (a)   Applications. All applications for sign permits shall be
submitted on an application form published by the APC. One application may
include multiple signs on the same lot, however a separate permit will be
issued and a separate fee will be collected for each sign.
         (b)   Site plan. For any lot on which the owner proposes to erect one
or more signs requiring a permit, the owner shall submit a site plan containing
the following:
            1.   A plot plan of the lot, at such scale as may be reasonably
required;
            2.   Location of buildings, parking lots, driveways and landscaped
areas on the lot;
            3.   Computation of the total sign area for all signs, the height
of each sign and the number of signs; and
            4.   An accurate indication on the plot plan of the proposed
location of each present and future sign of any type, whether requiring a
permit or not. Incidental signs need not be shown.
         (c)   Fees. Upon the issuance of a permit, the applicant shall provide
all applicable fees, as established in
Appendix A of this chapter.
         (d)   Computations.
            1.   Computation of area of individual signs. The area of a sign
face (which is also the sign area of a wall sign or other sign with only one
face) shall be computed by means of the smallest shape that will encompass the
extreme limits of the sign, but not including any supporting framework, bracing
or decorative fence or wall when the fence or wall otherwise meets zoning
ordinance regulations and is clearly incidental to the display itself.
            2.   Computation of area of multi-faced signs. The sign area for a
sign with more than one face shall be computed by adding together the area of
all sign faces.
            3.   Computation of height. The height of a sign shall be computed
as the distance from the base of the sign at normal grade to the top of the
highest attached component of the sign. Normal grade shall be construed to be
the lower of existing grade prior to construction or the newly established
grade after construction, exclusive of any filling, berming, mounding or
excavating solely for the purpose of locating the sign. In cases in which the
normal grade cannot reasonably be determined, sign height shall be computed on
the assumption that the elevation of the normal grade at the base of the sign
is equal to the elevation of the nearest point of the crown of a public street
or the grade of the land at the principal entrance to the principal structure
on the zone lot, whichever is lower.
            4.   Computation of maximum total permitted sign area for a lot.
The permitted sum of the area of all individual signs on a lot shall be
computed by applying the formula contained in
Table 8, Sign Regulations, to the road frontage, building frontage or wall
area, as appropriate, for the zoning district in which the lot is located. Lots
fronting on two or more streets are allowed the permitted sign area for each
street frontage. However, the total sign area that is oriented toward a
particular street may not exceed the portion of the lot’s total sign area
allocation that is derived from the lot, building or wall area frontage on that
street.
         (e)   Inspection.
            1.   A final inspection of each permit for a new sign or
modification of an existing sign will be performed six months after the
issuance of the permit or earlier if owner requests.
            2.   If the construction is not substantially complete at the time
of inspection, the permit shall lapse and become void.
            3.   If the construction is complete and in full compliance with
this chapter and with the Building and Electrical Codes, a permanent label
identifying the sign and permit number shall be affixed.
            4.   If the construction is substantially complete but not in full
compliance with this chapter and applicable codes, the owner or applicant shall
be notified of the deficiencies and shall be given an additional 50 days from
the date of inspection for the deficiencies to be corrected.
            5.   If the deficiencies are not corrected by the date, the permit
shall lapse.
            6.   If the construction is then complete, a permanent label
identifying the sign(s) and applicable permit number shall be affixed.
         (f)   Lapse of a sign permit. A continuing sign permit shall lapse
automatically if the business or activity on the premises is discontinued for a
period of 180 days or more.
      (9)   Non-conforming signs and signs without permits. Except as otherwise
provided herein, the owner of any lot or other premises on which exists a sign
that does not conform with the requirements of this chapter, a previous
applicable ordinance or for which there is no valid sign permit issued under a
previous ordinance shall be obligated to remove the sign.
         (a)   Non-conforming existing signs, permits and terms. A sign that
would be permitted under this chapter only with a sign permit, but which was in
existence at the time this chapter went into effect, and which was constructed
in accordance with the ordinance and other applicable laws in effect on the
date of its construction, but which by reason of its size, height, location,
design or construction is not in conformance with the requirements of this
chapter, shall be classified as a non-conforming sign. A change in the
information on the face of an existing non-conforming sign is allowed. However,
any non-conforming sign shall either be eliminated or made to conform with the
requirements of this section upon proposed expansion of the sign.
         (b)   Lapse of permit for a non-conforming sign. A permit for a non-
conforming sign shall lapse and become void under the same circumstances as
those under which any other sign permit may lapse and become void.
      (10)   Violations. Any of the following shall be a violation of this
chapter and shall be subject to the enforcement remedies and penalties provided
by this chapter, and by state or federal law:
         (a)   To install, create, erect or maintain any sign in a way that is
inconsistent with any plan or permit governing the sign or the zone lot on
which the sign is located;
         (b)   To install, create, erect or maintain any sign requiring a
permit without such a permit;
         (c)   To install, create, erect or maintain any sign in a way that is
inconsistent with any plan or permit governing such sign or the zone lot on
which sign is located;
         (d)   To fail to remove any sign that is installed, created, erected
or maintained in violation of this chapter, or for which the sign permit has
lapsed; or
         (e)   To continue any such violation. Each such day of a continued
violation shall be considered a separate violation when applying the penalty
portions of this of this chapter.
      (11)   Enforcement and remedies. A violation of this section shall be
considered a violation of the zoning ordinance and shall be enforced
accordingly.
Table 11, Sign Regulations
 AG R1 R2 R3, R4, MF LB PB GB, UB AB I1, I2
Table 11, Sign Regulations
                                                 R3,            GB,      I1,
                                        AG R1 R2 R4,  LB   PB   UB   AB  I2
                                                 MF
Number of signs permitted
—Per lot                              1  1  1       1
—Per lot per linear feet of road                    1/        1/10 1/  1/200
frontage                                              200            200
Lighting
—Animated, exposed bulbs or neon
—Internal/external illumination                     X(k) P    P    P   P
Regulations for freestanding signs
Regulations
—Maximum combined area (square feet)  6  6  6  12   40   40   80   160 80
—Maximum height (feet)                5  5  5  5    12   12   12   36  12
                                                                (h)
—Setback (feet)(j)                    2  2  2  2    2    5    5(h) 10  10
Type permitted
—Residential(a)                       P  P  P  P
—Incidental(b)                                 X(b) X(b) X(b) X    X   X
—Off-premises(l)                                              P    P   P
—Other                                P        P    P    P    P    P   P
Regulations for all other signs
Regulations
—Maximum area (square feet)           2  2  2  2    10
—Maximum wall area(%)                                    10%  15%  15% 20%
Type Permitted
—Banner(b), canopy, projecting(f)                        P    P    P   P
—Building marker(d)                      X  X  X    X    X    X    X   X
—Incidental(b)                                 X(e) X(e) X(b) X    X   X
—Marquee(f), roof-integral, temporary                         P    P
(h)
—Residential(a)                          P  P  P
—Suspended(f)                                       P
—Wall                                               P    P    P    P   P
Flag(g)                                 X  X  X  X    X    X    X    X   X
Signs in the PUD District shall meet the requirements of the district most
comparable.
X = Allowed without a sign permit.
P = Allowed only with sign permit.
(a)    No commercial message allowed on sign, except for a commercial message
drawing attention to an activity legally offered on the premises.
(b)    No commercial message of any kind allowed on sign if THE message is
legible from any location off the lot on which the sign is located.
(c)    Only address and name of occupant allowed on sign.
(d)    May include only building name, date of construction or historical data
on historic site; must be cut or etched into masonry, bronze or similar
material.
(e)    No commercial message of any kind allowed on sign.
(f)    If such a sign is suspended or projects above a public right-of-way,
the issuance and continuation of a sign permit shall be conditioned on the
sign owner obtaining and maintaining in force liability insurance for such a
sign in such form and such amount as the Director may reasonably from time to
time determine, provided that the amount of liability insurance shall be at
least $500,000 per occurrence per sign.
(g)    Flags of the United States, the state, the city, foreign nations having
diplomatic relations with the United States, and any other flag adopted or
sanctioned by an elected legislative body of competent jurisdiction, provided
that such a flag shall not exceed 60 square feet in area and shall not be
flown from a pole the top of which is more than 40 feet in height. These flags
must be flown in accordance with protocol established by the Congress of the
United States for the Stars and Stripes. Any flag not meeting any one or more
of these conditions shall be considered a banner sign and shall be subject to
regulation as such.
(h)    Maximum sign height is 12 feet, and minimum setback is 5 feet; however,
in no case shall the actual sign height exceed the actual sign setback from
any adjacent lot that is zoned and used for residential purposes. For example,
if the sign is set back 7 feet from such a lot, it may be no more than 7 feet
high.
(i)    Must be 1,000 from any other off-premises sign on the same side of the
road, measured along the right-of-way.
(j)    In addition to the setback requirements on this table, signs shall be
located such that there is at every street intersection a clear view between
heights of 3 feet and 10 feet in a triangle formed by the corner and points on
the curb 30 feet from the intersection or entranceway.
(k)    No direct light or significant glare from the sign shall be cast onto
any adjacent lot that is zoned or used for residential purposes.
 
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 157.039 RADIO COMMUNICATIONS.
   (A)   Title. The title of this section of the general provision shall be:
“Radio Communications Ordinance”.
   (B)   Purpose.
      (1)   The purpose of this section is to provide minimum standards to
insure a reasonable degree of reliable emergency services communications from
within certain buildings and structures located within the county between
public safety users and emergency communication centers.
      (2)   It is the responsibility of the County Communications Center to get
the signal to and from the building site.
      (3)   At the time of application for the (ILP) improvement location
permit, the building owner or designated tenant shall submit the required site
plans and receive approval from the County Sheriff’s Office or their designated
appointee. Failure to comply with the radio communications requirements shall
be grounds for APC to deny the ILP application. Furthermore, the approved bi-
directional amplifiers (BDA) must be installed to the satisfaction of the
County Sheriff’s Office or designated appointee prior to the County Area Plan
Inspectors approving any type of certificate of occupancy. If the owner or
tenant finds an issue with the above requirements, a written appeal may be
taken in the manner set forth in the county’s Code of Ordinances.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ANTENNA. Device designed to convert electrical signals from a cable to
electro-magnetic radiation in the air.
      BATTERY. An electrochemical storage device consisting of either Nickel
Metal Hydride (NiMH), Nickel Cadmium (NiCad), or Lead (Pb).
      BUILDING. Any structure, enclosed or open, public or private.
      BUILDING AMPLIFIER. Any system which is designed to receive a radio
signal outside of the building and radiate it throughout the building and
conversely, receive a radio signal generated within the building and re-radiate
a signal outside of the building.
      COUNTY or MUNICIPALITY. County of Boone.
      FCC. Federal Communications Center.
      OWNER. Building owner.
      PUBLIC SAFETY SERVICES. Those services including, but not limited to
police, fire, EMS, and public works departments.
      SUFFICIENT STRENGTH. A minimum received radio signal level of 95 dBm
measured either at the public safety radio infrastructure site, or received in
the field by a public safety radio user.
      TALK-OUT. The ability of a public safety radio network infrastructure
site to transmit a radio signal of sufficient strength as to be clearly
received by a public safety radio user in the field.
      TALK-BACK. The ability of a public safety radio user located in the field
to transmit a radio signal of sufficient strength as to be clearly received by
a public safety radio network infrastructure site.
   (D)   Radio coverage.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided, no person shall erect, construct, or
modify any building or structure or any part thereof, or cause the same to be
done which inhibits or degrades adequate radio coverage for public safety
services. A certificate of occupancy may not be issued for any building or
structure which fails to comply with this requirement.
      (2)   The frequency range which must be supported shall be 806-870 MHz,
or as otherwise established and required in writing by the county as being
necessary for public safety purposes.
      (3)   For the purposes of this section, adequate radio coverage shall
include the following:
         (a)   A minimum signal strength of -95 dBm available in 90% of the
area of each floor of the building when transmitted from the closest public
safety radio network site (PSRNS).
         (b)   A minimum signal strength of -95 dBm received at the closest
PSRNS when transmitted from 90% of the area of each floor of the building.
         (c)   A 90% reliability factor.
   (E)   Amplification system allowed.
      (1)   Buildings and structures shall be equipped with any of the
following, in order to achieve adequate radio coverage.
         (a)   A radiating cable system;
         (b)   An internal multiple antenna system with FCC type accepted (CFR
Part 47,90.219) bi-directional amplifiers as needed to encompass the frequency
range stated above or frequency range subsequently established by the county;
or
         (c)   A system that has been approved by the county as being capable
of providing amplification to meet the requirements of this section.
      (2)   The system shall be capable of operating on an independent battery
and/or generator system for a period of at least 12 hours without external
power input.
         (a)   The battery system shall automatically charge in the presence of
external power input.
         (b)   If a battery standby system is used, these batteries shall be
replaced, and disposed of properly by the owner, once every 24 months after
initial system installation.
         (c)   Documentation shall be retained and made available for immediate
inspection to assure that batteries have been replaced in accordance to this
section.
      (3)   There shall be no connectivity between the amplification system and
fire alarm system.
      (4)   In the event that a signal booster is employed:
         (a)   It shall be fully encased within a dust and water resistant case
with a NEMA 4 rating or better.
         (b)   It shall have a four-hour safety survivability rating or
greater.
         (c)   It shall be painted red and bear the lettering as follows: Boone
County Emergency Communications Center Equipment.
      (5)   All proposed building amplifier systems must provide the following
information to the County Emergency Communications Center:
         (a)   A building blueprint showing name and address of contractor,
name of owner and occupant, location, including street address, point of
compass, full height cross section or schematic diagram including structural
member information if required for clarity and including ceiling construction
and method of protection for non-metallic piping, location of partitions,
location of fire walls, occupancy class and use of each area or room, a graphic
representation of the scale used on all plans.
         (b)   Make, type, model, and size of all cable, amplifiers, antennas,
batteries, and the like (specification sheets).
         (c)   Drawings indicating the locations of the amplification equipment
and associated antenna systems, cables, antennas, hangers, sleeves, braces,
methods of securing cables, which includes a view showing building access to
the equipment.
         (d)   Schematic drawings of the electrical, backup power, antennas
system and any other associated equipment relative to the amplification
equipment including panel locations and labeling.
   (F)   Owner responsibility. It shall be the responsibility of the owner of a
building or structure which currently holds a certificate of occupancy or
allows the building or structure to be used for any purpose other than
construction, to be in compliance with this section.
   (G)   Inadequate radio coverage.
      (1)   The owner of any building or structure found to have inadequate
public safety radio coverage must submit to the County Emergency Communications
Center for approval a plan to correct the radio coverage deficiency.
      (2)   This plan must be submitted within 90 days from the date the radio
coverage is found to be inadequate.
      (3)   The approved plan must be put into place by the owner within 120
days after the plan has been approved by the County Emergency Communications
Center.
   (H)   Existing buildings and structures. Any building or structure existing,
under construction, or for which a building permit application is pending, or
has been approved as of the effective date of this section, shall not be
required to comply with the provisions of this section unless the building has
been modified, altered, or repaired and the costs of same exceeds 50% of the
assessed value of the existing building and are made within any 12 month period
or the usable floor area is expanded or enlarged by more than 50%.
   (I)   Evaluation process.
      (1)   The evaluation process for determining the need for in-building
amplification is conducted in a minimum of two phases: pre-construction and
acceptance/implementation.
      (2)   Pre-construction phase.
         (a)   Before the construction of the new building, basic information
can be gathered to begin the process of determining the need, type and actual
implementation of augmentation to the radio system. In most cases, the
following information must be known to properly design and cost estimate an in-
building radio system.
         (b)   New building information.
            1.   Type/size of building—single story, multi-level, square
footage, number of stories.
            2.   Orientation of building—above/below ground, line of sight.
            3.   Construction of the outer and inner walls—plaster, drywall,
brick, sheet metal.
            4.   Proposed equipment locations—equipment rooms, cableways,
conduits.
            5.   Building location—longitude and latitude coordinates.
            6.   Local building code requirements and special requirements.
            7.   Building blueprints and drawings.
      (3)   (a)   Existing system information—to be supplied by County
Emergency Communications Center.
            1.   Public safety radio network site location nearest to
construction locations.
            2.   Donor channel frequency—specific digital channel to enhance
radio coverage.
            3.   Grade of service required to meet coverage requirements.
            4.   Type of subscriber unit.
            5.   Number of channels and their frequencies.
            6.   Signal strength of donor site at the building locations.
         (b)   With the information above, the following steps can establish
the potential need for a building amplifier.
      (4)   Needs determination—signal strength measurements.
         (a)   At the planned construction site, measure (or have measured) the
signal strength of the donor control channel.
         (b)   If the signal strength of the donor is -95 dBm or less on the
outside of the building, the probability of additional in-building coverage is
high.
         (c)   If the signal strength of the donor is greater than -95 dBm,
determine the expected signal strength of the donor by subtracting the sum of
the interior losses due to walls, doors, and windows from the ambient signal
outside the building. (See Table 1)
         (d)   If a signal strength of -95 dBm or greater is calculated at the
inner most point of the building, an in-building system may not be required.
         (e)   If a signal strength is calculated at -95 dBm or less, an in-
building system is warranted.
         (f)   To determine signal strengths for specific areas and evaluate
the impact of the proposed building on existing structures, consult the latest
County Emergency Communications District RF Survey Report.
         (g)   If determined that an in-building amplification system is
required for either the proposed site or existing structures impacted by the
proposed construction, provide placeholder in budget for cost of communication
system based on results of the above.
   (J)   Acceptance test procedures.
      (1)   Acceptance testing for an in-building radio amplification system is
required, upon completion of installation of the system. It is the owner’s
responsibility to have the radio amplifier system functionally tested to ensure
adequate two-way coverage provided on each floor of the building is in
compliance with requirements as set forth in this section.
      (2)   A minimally acceptable test plan shall require that each floor of
the building be divided into a grid of approximately 20 equal areas. A maximum
of two nonadjacent areas will be allowed to fail the test.
      (3)   In the event that three of the areas fail the test, in order to be
more statistically accurate, the floor may be divided into 40 equal areas. In
such event, a maximum of four nonadjacent areas will be allowed to fail the
test. After the 40 area tests, and if the system continues to fail, the owner
shall repair, replace, alter, or upgrade the system to meet the coverage
requirements of this section.
      (4)   Talk-out and talk-back testing from the building site to the County
Public Safety Radio Network shall use a three watt portable transceiver with
out-speaker/microphone.
      (5)   A test location approximately in the center of a grid area will be
selected for the test, then the radio will be keyed with a voice message used
to verify two-way communication to and from the outside of the building.
      (6)   Once the test location has been selected, use of another test
location within the grid area will not be permitted. Each test location will
also require the capture of the actual signal strength (measured in units of
dBm) at that location.
      (7)   Signal strength testing instruments are to be recently calibrated
(within the past 12 months prior to testing) and of a frequency selective type
incorporating an antenna similar to the ones used on the hand-held
transceivers.
      (8)   The gain values of all building amplifiers shall be measured and
the results kept on file with the owner so that building amplifier performance
measurements can be verified each year during the annual tests.
      (9)   In the event that the measurement results become lost, the owner
will be required to rerun the coverage acceptance test to reestablish the gain
values.
   (K)   Annual tests.
      (1)   Once an in-building radio amplifier system is installed, the
building owner shall test all active components of the system including but not
limited to amplifier, power supplies, and back-up batteries, a minimum of once
every 12 months.
      (2)   Amplifiers shall be tested to ensure that the gain is the same as
it was upon initial installation and acceptance.
      (3)   Back-up batteries and power supplies shall be tested under load for
a period of one hour to verify that they will operate during an actual power
outage.
      (4)   All other radio signal radiating components shall be checked to
determine that they are operating within the manufacturer’s specifications for
the intended purpose.
   (L)   Five year test.
      (1)   In addition to the annual test, the owner shall perform a radio
coverage test a minimum of once every five years to ensure that the radio
system continues to meet the requirements of the section at the time of
original implementation.
      (2)   The procedure set forth above shall apply to such tests.
   (M)   Qualifications of testing personnel.
      (1)   All tests shall be conducted, documented, and witnessed by a person
in possession of a current FCC general radiotelephone operator license or a
manufacturer-authorized maintenance agent for the County Emergency
Communications Center radio system.
      (2)   All test records shall be retained at the inspected premises by the
owner and a copy submitted to the County Emergency Communications Center and
the county within 30 days of when the test has been conducted.
      (3)   In the event the test results fail to comply with the minimum
requirements of the County Emergency Communications Center and the county,
appropriate repairs shall be made and additional tests conducted until tests
meet the minimum requirements.
   (N)   Inspections.
      (1)   County Emergency Communications Center and county personnel (or
their representative), after providing reasonable notice to the owner or his or
her representative, shall have the right to enter onto the property to conduct
field verification to be certain that the required minimum level of radio
coverage is present.
      (2)   The cost associated with this activity is the responsibility of the
owner.
      (3)   Repairs or upgrades needed to correct identified amplifier system
shortfalls, to bring failed systems into compliance with the technical and
functional requirements of this section, are the responsibility of the owner.
   (O)   Property owner maintenance responsibilities.
      (1)   Upon verification of coverage testing results as outlined above,
the owner shall be responsible for maintenance of the system.
      (2)   A copy of the owner’s Maintenance Contract shall be provided to the
County Emergency Communications Center with the name of contractor, who will
supply a 24-hour, seven-day emergency repair response within two hours after
notification by either the County Emergency Communications Center and the
county or the owner.
      (3)   The Maintenance Contract shall also contain appropriate information
as to the contact personnel with phone numbers.
      (4)   The owner shall also be responsible for making any repairs,
replacement or upgrades to the systems as directed by the County Emergency
Communications Center, should the system fail or no longer work in the future.
   (P)   Exemptions.
      (1)   This section shall not apply to the following buildings provided
they do not make use of any metal construction or any underground storage or
parking areas.
      (2)   Any new building which is reviewed and determined by area plan
staff or designated appointee to be utilized in a noncommercial capacity and
does not necessitate the need for radio communications for the duration of the
building regardless of future ownership.
      (3)   For purposes of this section, parking structures and stairwells are
included in the definition of “building” and stair shafts and elevators are
included in the definition of “all parts of a building”.
   (Q)   Authority.
      (1)   The Fire Chief or his or her authorized designee from that
jurisdiction shall render interpretations of this code and make and enforce
rules and regulations in order to carry out the application and intent of its
provisions.
      (2)   The Fire Chief or his or her authorized designee in that
jurisdiction shall make and enforce rules and supplemental regulations in order
to carry out the application and intent of its provisions. The Fire Chief or
his or her authorized designee shall require additional safeguards consisting
of special systems suitable for the protection of the hazard involved.
Therefore, the County Emergency Communications Center requires that public
safety radio amplification system shall be installed within certain buildings
and structures within the county to provide for emergency communications to and
from the Emergency Communications Center.
   (R)   Scope. This section covers all new construction or building remodels
in the county after the effective date.
(Ord. 2010-04, passed 4-5-2010)
§ 157.040 CONDITIONAL USE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Scope. This section provides a set of procedures and standards for
conditional uses of land or structures which, because of their unique
characteristics, require special consideration in relation to the welfare of
adjacent properties and the community as a whole. The regulations and
standards, herein, are designed to allow, on one hand, practical latitude for
the applicant, but at the same time maintain adequate provision for the
protection of the health, safety, convenience, and general welfare of the Boone
County Community. For purposes of this section, all conditional land uses
within the various districts are subject to the conditions and standards of
this chapter.
   (B)   Application and review procedures.
      (1)   An application shall be submitted through the Area Plan Commission
office, accompanied by:
         (a)   The payment of a fee as established by the legislative body;
         (b)   A completed application form, as provided by the APC; and
         (c)   A complete site plan in ten copies.
      (2)   Applications for special exception/development plan "SD" land use
shall be submitted at least 30 days prior to the next Area Plan Commission
meeting at which the application is to be considered.
      (3)   The completed application, along with the required site plan, shall
be forwarded to the Area Plan Commission at its next scheduled meeting.
      (4)   Any of the listed conditional uses shall require special exception
by the Board of Zoning Appeals after a public hearing. Upon approval of the
BZA, the Area Plan Commission (APC) shall hold a public hearing on the
application, providing notice of such hearing is in accordance with the Indiana
Law. The Area Plan Commission shall then review the application and such other
information available to it through the public hearing or from any other
sources, including recommendations or reports from the APC staff, engineer, or
other party, and shall approve, approve with conditions, or deny the request,
and incorporate the basis for the decision and any conditions which should be
imposed.
      (5)   No petition for special exception/development plan "SD" approval,
which has been disapproved, shall be resubmitted for a period of one year from
the date of disapproval, except as may be permitted after learning of new and
significant facts or conditions which might reasonably result in favorable
action upon resubmittal.
      (6)   A special exception approved pursuant to this section shall be
valid for two years from the date of approval. Each development shall be under
construction within two years after the date of approval of the special
exception, except as noted below.
         (a)   The Area Plan Commission may grant one six-month extension of
such time period, provided the applicant requests the extension prior to the
date of the expiration of the conditional land use approval.
   (C)   Standards for granting special exception/development plan approval.
Approval of a special exception/development plan "SD" proposal shall be based
on the determination that the proposed use will be consistent with the
conditional use standards of this chapter. The "SD" application will comply
with all standards of this chapter.
      (1)   Primary standards.
         (a)   The conditional land use shall comply with the provisions of
this chapter.
         (b)   Compliance with the standards in this section.
      (2)   Additional standards.
         (a)   Protection of the public health, safety, and general welfare.
The establishment and maintenance of the conditional use shall not be
detrimental to the public health, safety, or general welfare.
         (b)   Compatibility with surrounding uses. The proposed development
shall be located, designed, maintained and operated to be compatible with the
existing or intended character of that zoning district and adjacent districts.
In determining whether this requirement has been met, consideration shall be
given to:
            1.   The location and screening of vehicular circulation and
parking areas in relation to surrounding development.
            2.   The location and screening of outdoor storage, outdoor
activity or work areas, and mechanical equipment in relation to surrounding
development.
            3.   The hours of operation of the proposed use. Approval of a
conditional land use may be conditioned upon operation within specified hours
considered appropriate to ensure minimal impact on surrounding uses.
            4.   The bulk, placement, and materials of construction of the
proposed use in relation to surrounding uses. Any proposed building shall be
compatible with the predominant type of building in the particular district in
terms of size, character, location or proposed use.
            5.   Proposed landscaping and other site amenities. Additional
landscaping over and above the requirements of this chapter may be required as
a condition of approval of a conditional land use.
            6.   Hours of operation shall be compatible with the surrounding
neighborhood.
      (3)   Detrimental effects. The proposed conditional land use shall not
involve any activities, processes, materials, equipment, or conditions of
operation, and shall not be located or designed so as to be detrimental or
hazardous to persons or property or to public health, safety, and welfare. In
determining whether this requirement has been met, consideration shall be given
to the level of traffic, noise, vibration, smoke, fumes, odors, dust, glare,
and light.
      (4)   Impact of traffic. The location of the proposed conditional land
use within the zoning district shall minimize the impact of the traffic
generated by the proposed use. In determining whether this requirement has been
met, consideration shall be given to the following:
         (a)   Proximity and access to major thoroughfares and other public
streets.
         (b)   Estimated traffic generation by the proposed use.
         (c)   Proximity and relation to intersections.
         (d)   Adequacy of driver sight distances.
         (e)   Location of and access to off-street parking.
         (f)   Required vehicular turning movements.
         (g)   Provisions for pedestrian traffic.
      (5)   Adequacy of public services. The proposed conditional land use
shall be located so as to be adequately served by essential public facilities
and services, such as highways, streets, police and fire protection, drainage
systems, water and sewage facilities, and schools, unless the proposal contains
an acceptable plan for providing necessary services or evidence that such
services will be available by the time the conditional land use is established.
      (6)   Protection of site characteristics. The conditional use shall
preserve and incorporate the site's important architectural, natural and scenic
features into the development design. The conditional land use shall be
designed, constructed, operated and maintained so as to be harmonious and
appropriate in appearance, with the existing or intended character of the
general vicinity and that such a use will not change the essential character of
the area in which it is proposed.
      (7)   Compatibility with natural environment. The proposed conditional
land use shall be compatible with the natural environment and conserve natural
resources and energy, and cause minimal adverse environmental effects. The
conditional land use shall not involve uses, activities, processes, materials,
and equipment or conditions of operation that will be detrimental to any
persons or property in the vicinity, or the general welfare, by reason of
excessive effects of traffic, noise, smoke, fumes, glare, or odors or other
effects determined relevant by the Area Plan Commission.
      (8)   Compatibility with the Master Plan and intent of zoning ordinance.
The proposed conditional land use shall be consistent with the general
principles and objectives of the Boone County Comprehensive Plan and shall
promote the intent and purpose of this chapter and of the use district.
   (D)   Conditional use requirements per individual land use.
      (1)   Animal day care/kennel operation.
         (a)   Kennel, small/animal day care. Where the subject property is
located in the Agricultural District, the outer most edge of the facility,
including the parking lot and runs, must be at least 500 feet from the property
line. Where the subject property is located in an Industrial or Commercial
District, the outer most edge of the facility, including the parking lot and
runs, must be at least 500 feet from the nearest Agricultural or Residential
Zoning District boundary.
         (b)   Kennel, large/animal day care. Where the subject property is
located in an Agricultural District, the outer most edge of the facility,
including the parking lot and runs, must be at least 1,000 feet from the
property line. Where the subject property is located in an Industrial or
Commercial District, the outer most edge of the facility, including the parking
lot and runs must be at least 1,000 feet from the nearest Agricultural or
Residential Zoning District boundary.
         (c)   Kennel, unlimited. Where the subject property is located in an
Agricultural District, the outer most edge of the facility, including the
parking lot and runs, must be at least 1,500 feet from the property line. Where
the subject property is located in an Industrial or Commercial District, the
outer most edge of the facility, including the parking lot and runs, must be at
least 1,500 feet from the nearest Agricultural or Residential Zoning District
boundary.
         (d)   Principal use. All principal use activities, other than outdoor
dog runs or exercise areas, shall be conducted within a totally enclosed
building.
         (e)   Dumpsters. Any dumpsters used by a kennel/animal day care shall
be enclosed on four sides with an opaque fence equipped with a lockable gate
and shall not be visible from lot lines. Any disposal of bio-hazardous waste
shall be in conformance with state and local requirements.
         (f)   Noise. Any activities shall not generate a noise level of
greater than 60 decibels for more than four hours in any 24-hour period at any
property line.
      (2)   Automotive car wash; either self-serve or automatic.
         (a)   All washing activities must be carried on within a building.
         (b)   Vacuuming activities may not be conducted in any required yard.
         (c)   Sufficient space shall be provided to accommodate all vehicle
queuing on the property, so no vehicles are required to wait on an adjoining
street to enter the site.
      (3)   Commercial anhydrous ammonia or similar liquefied fertilizer
storage distribution.
         (a)   Minimum separation standards from existing residential use:
 
Nominal Capacity of Tank Litres  Min. Distance From Tank to Residential
(Gallons)                        Buildings (Feet)
500 to 2,000 gallons             250 feet
2,000 to 20,000 gallons          500 feet
20,000 to 30,000 gallons         750 feet
30,000 to 100,000 gallons        1,000 feet
Over 100,000 gallons             1,250 feet
 
      (4)   Bed and breakfast establishments.
         (a)   The establishment shall be inspected and comply with all the
applicable regulations of the Boone County Health Department.
         (b)   The establishment shall be located on property with direct
access to a paved public road.
         (c)   Such uses shall only be established in a detached single-family
dwelling.
         (d)   The lot on which the establishment is located shall meet the
minimum lot size requirements of the zone district.
         (e)   The total number of guest rooms in the establishment shall not
exceed seven, plus one additional guest room for each 10,000 square feet or
fraction thereof by which the lot area of the use exceeds one acre, not to
exceed a total of ten guest rooms.
         (f)   Exterior refuse storage facilities beyond what might normally be
expected for a detached single family dwelling shall be screened from view on
all sides by a six-foot solid, decorative fence or wall.
         (g)   Accessory retail or service uses to a bed-and-breakfast
establishment shall be prohibited, including but not limited to gift shops,
antique shops, restaurants, bakeries, and other similar uses.
         (h)   Meals may be served only to the operator's family, employees,
and overnight guests.
      (5)   Day care centers. Each child day-care center shall comply with the
following requirements.
         (a)   Outdoor play space. A child day-care center shall provide an
outdoor play space as follows:
            1.   Minimum size. The total area of the outdoor play space shall
be a minimum of 75 square feet per child.
            2.   Location on site. No outdoor play space shall be within 25
feet of a residential structure on an butting lot.
            3.   Screening fence. A wall or fence shall surround the outdoor
play area. The minimum height of the wall or fence shall be equivalent to the
maximum height of a wall or fence in the zoning district in which the site is
located or six feet, whichever is less. If a fence with perforations through
more than 50% of the surface area is provided, vertical landscaping shall be
provided to screen the outdoor play area from adjacent properties.
         (b)   Parking. Parking shall not be located in an existing front or
corner side setback unless located on a driveway leading to a covered parking
space.
         (c)   Loading area. The location and design of passenger loading and
unloading areas shall be reviewed and approved by Area Plan Commission staff.
         (d)   Refuse storage. A refuse storage area shall be provided in
compliance with §
157.031.
         (e)   Outdoor lighting. Outdoor lighting shall comply with §
157.032.
         (f)   Hours of operation.
            1.   The allowable hours of operation in residential zoning
districts shall be established by the conditional use permit required for the
use.
            2.   Outdoor activities may only be conducted between the hours of
7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. in residential zoning districts and 6:00 a.m. and 7:00
p.m. in non-residential zoning districts.
      (6)   Convenience stores.
         (a)   Public access to the site shall be located at least 100 feet
from any public or private street intersection and not less than 50 feet from
the nearest part of any other driveway, as measured from the nearest right-of-
way line to the nearest edge of said access.
         (b)   Any principal building shall be generally compatible, with
respect to materials and color, with the surrounding neighborhood.
         (c)   The parking and maneuvering areas of the site shall be fenced
and screened from the view of any abutting Residential District or use by a
decorative fence or wall, or a landscaped equivalent.
         (d)   No mechanical rooms or loading area shall be located nearer than
50 feet to any Residential District or use property line.
      (7)   Drive-in restaurant/fast food restaurant.
         (a)   Location requirements for restaurants with drive-through
service. A fast food restaurant with drive-through service shall not be closer
than 500 feet from the following uses: a park and recreation facility; a public
or private school; any residential use or any another fast food restaurant with
drive-through service. The distance requirement shall be measured from site-to-
site.
         (b)   Additional application materials. In addition to the standard
application requirements for a conditional use permit, an applicant for a
restaurant with a drive-through business shall submit a litter clean-up plan, a
parking and circulation plan, and a site plan that includes: driveway
locations, placement of audible equipment (if this type of equipment will be
used), landscaping, light standards, sign locations, and trash enclosures. A
litter clean-up plan shall address litter clean-up on-site and off-site and
shall include, but not be limited to, a litter pick-up schedule and a map of
the clean-up area.
         (c)   Findings required for approval. The approval of a drive-through
business shall require that the BZA first make all of the following findings,
in addition to those required for a conditional use permit.
         (d)   Driveway cuts. The design and construction of the drive-through
facilities shall minimize the number of driveway cuts.
         (e)   Stacking.  Sufficient stacking capacity for the drive-through
portion of the operation shall be provided to ensure that traffic does not
extend into the public right-of-way with a minimum of ten stacking spaces.
Stacking spaces shall be located so as not to interfere with vehicular
circulation and egress from the property by vehicles not using the drive-
through facility.
         (f)   Parking. In addition to parking space requirements, at least
three parking or waiting spaces shall be provided, in close proximity to the
exit of the drive-through portion of the operation, to allow for customers
waiting for delivery of orders.
         (g)   Paved areas. Any paved area shall have minimum side and rear
yard setback of 20 feet.
         (h)   Viewshed. The parking and maneuvering areas of the site shall be
fenced and screened from the view of any abutting Residential District or use
by a decorative fence or wall, or a landscaped equivalent.
         (i)   Noise. Outdoor speakers for the drive through facility shall be
located in a way that minimizes sound transmission toward neighboring property
and uses.
      (8)   Liquor store. Standards for all sales operations. Proposed on- and
off-site alcoholic beverage sales operations shall be designed, constructed,
and operated to:
         (a)   Avoid contributing to an undue proliferation of alcoholic
beverage sales businesses in an area where additional ones would be
undesirable, with enhanced consideration given to the area's function and
character, problems of crime and loitering, and traffic problems and capacity;
         (b)   Avoid any adverse impact on adjacent or nearby parks (e.g.,
public parks or recreation centers), playgrounds (e.g., public or parochial),
religious facilities, or schools (e.g., public, parochial, or private
elementary, junior high, or high schools) and residential uses or districts by
adhering to the minimum of 1,000 foot setback which is measured site to site.
(Am. Ord. 2012-02, passed 3-5-2012)
RESTRICTED USES
§ 157.050 MINIMUM LOT AREA FOR RESTRICTED USES.
   (A)   A lot on which one of the following uses is located may not be smaller
in area that the area prescribed for that use on the following table.
   (B)   For uses not listed, the requirements of the district in which the use
is located shall apply.
Use Minimum Lot Area
Use                                                Minimum Lot Area
Airport                                            80 acres
Penal or correctional institution
Sanitary landfill, privately or publicly owned     50 acres
Junk yard                                          10 acres
Auction sales yard (excluding livestock)
Cemetery or crematory
Composting facility
Compost/digester facility
Construction/demolition site
Hospital
Incinerator                                        5 acres
Mobile home park
Resource recovery facility
Public camp ground or recreational vehicle park
Slaughter house
Stable, private on residential lot
Warehouse (general)
Transfer station
Commercial facility for breeding non-farm fowl and
animals                                            3 acres
Kennel
Heliport
Hotel or motel                                     1 acre
Golf driving range and miniature golf course
Day care center                                    110 square feet/child
 
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 157.051 SETBACKS FOR RESTRICTED USES.
   The following uses are subject to the special setbacks which shall include
necessary bufferyards prescribed by the following table (in feet). If a use
does not appear, or if a figure does not appear for a particular use, the
standard setback and bufferyard for the district shall apply.
Use Front Side Rear
Use                                                           Front Side Rear
Sanitary landfill, privately or publicly owned                300   300  300
Anhydrous ammonia or similar liquid fertilizer storage and
distribution
Liquefied petroleum gas, bottled gas dealers
Commercial facility for breeding non-farm fowl and animals
Construction/demolition site
Incinerator
Junk yard
Resource recovery facility                                    100   100  100
Sanitary landfill, privately or publicly owned petroleum tank
Farm
Stable, private on residential lot
Sale barn for livestock
Slaughter house
Warehouse (grain storage)
Transfer station
Composting facility
Compost/digester facility                                     100   50   50
Public water wells, water stations, filtration plants,
reservoirs and storage tanks
Public camp ground or recreational vehicle park               100   40   40
 
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 157.052 MINIMUM DISTANCE BETWEEN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS AND RESTRICTED USES.
   The following uses may not he located closer to residential districts than
1,320 feet, which will include necessary bufferyards. This distance shall be
measured from the property line of the following uses. Similarly, residential
development shall not be placed closer than the distance listed in the table
below including necessary bufferyards:
 
1,320 Feet Distance Required Between Residential Districts and the Following
Restricted Uses
Airports
Anhydrous ammonia or similar liquid fertilizer storage and distribution
Confined feeding
Junk yard
Manufacturing, use or storage of explosives
Penal or correctional institution
 
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998; Am. Ord. 2004-07, passed - -2004)
§ 157.053 BUFFERYARDS FOR RESTRICTED USES.
   The following uses shall provide the bufferyards as respectively prescribed
by the table below at the discretion of the BZA and shall meet the size
requirements specified within five years after installation.
Use Enclosure
Use                                      Enclosure
Auction sales yard (excluding livestock) Bufferyard E
Private in-ground swimming pool          Fence F3
Airport or heliport                      Bufferyard E, plus required fencing
Slaughter house
Outdoor recreation facility              Bufferyard E, plus Fence F2
Automatic car wash
Junk yard                                Bufferyard E, plus Fence F3
Day care center
Veterinary animal hospital
Theater, outdoor                         Bufferyard E, plus Fence F4
 
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 157.054 BUFFERYARDS ABUTTING RESIDENTIAL USES FOR RESTRICTED USES.
   Bufferyards shall be installed to block the following restricted uses from
adjacent residential uses. Screen plantings shall be effective during all
seasons and shall meet the size requirements specified within five years after
installation. The requirements of this section may be waived by the BZA.
 
Use                                         Bufferyard
Clinic, golf and country clubs, general
industry, hospital, police, postal or fire  Bufferyard E
station
Commercial facility for breeding non-farm
fowl and animals, mineral extraction,
sanitary landfill (privately- or publicly-  Bufferyard E, plus required fencing
owned telephone exchange or public utility
station
Light industrial park, public camp ground
or recreational vehicle, park, public       Bufferyard E, plus Fence F2
stable, public or private outdoor shooting
range
Cemetery or crematory, composting facility,
compost/digester Facility, construction/
demolition site, drive-in restaurant
incinerator, kennel, resource recovery      Bufferyard E + Fence F3
facility, shopping center, stadium,
coliseum, truck freight terminal, warehouse
(grain storage), transfer station,
wholesale produce terminal
Race track                                  Bufferyard E + Fence F4
 
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 157.055 ENTRANCES FOR RESTRICTED USES.
   This section limits the number of entrances to a primary or secondary
street. However, it does not apply to entrances for emergency use only. As used
in this section, the term ENTRANCE means a passageway generally 30 feet wide
from premises to thoroughfare by which vehicles enter or leave.
Category Uses Limited to One Entrance Uses Limited to Two Entrances
                                                                                       Uses Limited
Category     Uses Limited to One Entrance                                              to Two
                                                                                       Entrances
Solid waste  Composting facility, compost/digester facility, construction/demolition
land         site, incinerator, sanitary landfill, privately or publicly owned,
disposal     resource recovery facility, transfer station
facilities
             Commercial facility for breeding non-farm fowl and animals contractor’s
             storage light industrial park, junk yard, open material storage, mineral
Industrial   extraction, slaughter house, truck freight terminal, warehouse (grain
             storage), wholesale produce terminal, manufacturing, use or storage of
             explosives
Agriculture  Commercial greenhouse, roadside produce stand, sale earn for livestock
                                                                                       Fairgrounds,
                                                                                       outdoor
Amusement/   Golf and country club, golf driving range, miniature golf course, public  recreation
recreation   camp ground, race track, private stable, shooting range, outdoor theater  facility,
                                                                                       stadium,
                                                                                       coliseum
Residential  Day care center
Governmental Penal or correctional institution, parking lot
                                                                                       Airport,
                                                                                       heliport,
                                                                                       automatic
                                                                                       car wash,
Other        Kennel, veterinary animal hospital, truck service center                  cemetery or
                                                                                       crematory,
                                                                                       hotel or
                                                                                       motel,
                                                                                       recreational
                                                                                       vehicle park
 
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 157.056 CELL TOWERS AND WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES.
   All wireless communications facilities shall be required to comply with the
following standards.
   (A)   Co-location.
      (1)   New facility. To place a new facility, the applicant must prove
that co-location is not possible based on the height of the proposed tower.
         (a)   Towers less than 150 feet tall must prove that co-location is
not possible within 1/2-mile radius of the proposed tower location.
         (b)   Towers 150 feet tall or greater must prove that co-location is
not possible within one-mile radius of the proposed tower location.
      (2)   Future co-location. The applicant must provide written agreement to
permit other providers to attach antenna or other communications apparatus to
the facility which do not interfere with the primary purpose of the tower.
Proposed facility must provide sufficient space and support to accommodate
additional antenna.
         (a)   Towers less than 150 feet tall must provide space and support to
accommodate one additional antenna.
         (b)   Towers greater than 150 feet tall and less than 175 feet tall
must provide space and support to accommodate two additional antenna.
         (c)   Towers 175 to 200 feet tall must provide space and support to
accommodate three additional antenna.
   (B)   Height. The proposed facility shall not exceed height limitations
based on the zoning district in which it is proposed.
      (1)   Towers shall not exceed 150 feet in Districts RE, R1, R2, R3, R4,
MF, UB and PB.
      (2)   Towers shall not exceed 200 feet in Districts AB, AG, AS, LB, GB,
I1 and I2.
   (C)   Setbacks and bufferyards. The proposed facility shall meet the setback
requirements based on the height of the tower.
      (1)   Towers less than 150 feet shall have minimum front, side and rear
setbacks of 50 feet.
      (2)   Towers 150 feet or greater shall have minimum front, side and rear
setbacks of 50 feet, plus two feet per each foot of tower exceeding 150 feet.
      (3)   Setbacks for a facility which utilizes guy wires shall begin from
the point at which the wires meet the ground.
      (4)   Regardless of height, towers require Bufferyard H, plus required
fencing.
   (D)   Design standards.
      (1)   The proposed facility shall be designed to blend into the
surrounding environment through the use of color and camouflaging architectural
treatment.
      (2)   The proposed facility shall be a monopole or of similar design.
      (3)   Proposed accessory structures and additional accessory structures
shall be architecturally designed to blend with the surrounding area through
materials and design features.
   (E)   Lighting. The proposed facility shall not be lighted, except as
required to meet applicable local, state and federal lighting regulations.
   (F)   Removal. The applicant must provide written agreement to remove the
facility after 180 days of discontinued use.
   (G)   Advertising. No signs or other forms of advertising are permitted on
the proposed facility.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 157.057 MINOR SUBDIVISIONS IN THE AG DISTRICT.
   (A)   Application for minor subdivision is brought before the Board of
Zoning Appeals and considered a restricted use for the purpose of thorough
review on a site-by-site basis. A variance may be requested from the
requirements of
Table 3 and any other sections of this chapter at the written request of the
applicant at the time of filing for special exception before the BZA.
   (B)   The following procedures and restrictions shall be considered.
      (1)   Approval. Minor subdivision approval shall be in accordance with
the applicable section of
Chapter 156 of this code.
      (2)   Driveways. In order to prevent strip-lot development and preserve
rural character, new driveways for minor subdivisions in the AG District shall
be in accordance with
Table 3 of this chapter. Lots in minor subdivisions shall share a common
driveway cut when possible.
      (3)   Cluster design. In order to preserve agricultural ground, minor
subdivisions in the AG District shall be laid out in a cluster design. This is
best accomplished by contiguously grouping the lots in such a manner so as to
consume the least amount of land possible given the constraints of the
landscape.
      (4)   Buffering. In order to protect residential uses from agricultural
activities and vice-versa, the perimeter of the minor subdivision shall have
Bufferyard Ag.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 157.058 AIRPORT USES.
   (A)   The following uses and facilities are considered to be appropriate and
common for the safe and efficient take-off and landing of aircraft and are
hereby permitted with any airport or heliport.
   (B)   However, if a runway is extended, or direction of a runway is changed,
the owners shall petition the Area Plan Commission for approval.
      (1)   Runways with a maximum 60,000-pound weight limit;
      (2)   Storage hangars;
      (3)   Service hangars;
      (4)   Landing lights;
      (5)   Taxi-ways;
      (6)   On-premise illuminated signs (See
Table 11);
      (7)   Terminals/offices;
      (8)   One on-site employee residence;
      (9)   Terminal navigational aids;
      (10)   Tie-downs;
      (11)   Weather gauge instruments;
      (12)   Beacons;
      (13)   Fuel storage tanks and pumping systems;
      (14)   Flight school;
      (15)   Meeting facilities; and
      (16)   Employee break room/kitchenette.
(Ord. 2004-07, passed - -2004)
§ 157.059 MINOR AND MAJOR RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION IN THE RE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Minor and major residential subdivision are permitted by way of
special exception in the RE Rural Equestrian District. A major residential
subdivision shall contain a minimum parcel size of 50 acres. In order to
protect residential uses from horses, which may be boarded or stabled in the
Rural Equestrian District, and vice versa, commitments shall be required for
minor and major subdivisions by the Board of Zoning Appeals at the time of
special exception approval in accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-921. Such commitments
must be recorded with the office of the Boone County Recorder prior to the
issuance of an ILP.
   (B)   Commitments mandated by the BZA may include, but are not limited to
the following:
      (1)   The applicant for this special exception acknowledges and/or agrees
that agricultural uses, including animal husbandry and the boarding, stabling
and recreational uses of horses, are permitted in the surrounding area.
Accordingly, no agricultural or agri-business operation, animal husbandry
operation, or the boarding, stabling or recreational uses of horses in the RE
district shall become a nuisance. Further, that the applicant waives any
objection or remonstrance to the continuation of such agricultural or agri-
business, animal husbandry or horse use in the surrounding area so long as such
operation does not cause a nuisance as defined under Indiana law.
      (2)   That the declaration of covenants, conditions and restrictions
approved and recorded for the residential subdivision shall not restrict and in
fact shall permit the boarding, stabling and recreational use of horses to be
maintained as a private stable on lots of three acres or more.
(Am. Ord. 2007-21, passed 10-9-2007)
§ 157.060 CONFINED FEEDING OPERATIONS.
   Any proposed confined feeding operation (CFO) must be located 1,320 feet
away from the property line of any adjacent existing or approved residential
use. Conversely, any future residential use must be located 1,320 feet away
from the property of any existing or approved confined feeding operation (CFO).
(Am. Ord. 2012-02, passed 3-5-2012)
§ 157.061 MACHINE SHOP REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Minimum setback from residential land uses.
      (1)   New machine shops. The minimal distance required from newly
constructed buildings from any established residential land uses is 2,640 feet
(½ mile) measured from nearest property line of subject machine shop to the
nearest property line of adjoining residential property.
      (2)   New residential uses. All future single family dwellings shall be
located a minimum of 2,640 (½ mile) measured from the nearest property line of
the residential property to the nearest property line of an existing machine
shops and/or approved properties with the future intent of building a small or
large machine shop.
   (B)   Minimum property development setbacks from property lines. Where the
subject property is located in Agricultural District, the outer most edge of
any newly constructed machine shop facilities, including all buildings and
parking lots, must be 250 feet from the property lines. Existing structures
which existed prior to this amendment for machine shops are exempt from the
setback requirements of 250 feet, any future additions to pre-existing
structures would be required to adhere to minimum of the enacted ordinance
requirements adjacent to agricultural buffer which is 40 feet.
   (C)   Minimum acreage in the Industrial Zoning Districts. Five acres.
   (D)   Public safety considerations. The manufacturing, fabricating,
processing, or assembling processes shall not create any danger to the health
or safety in surrounding areas, and shall not create any objectionable noise,
vibration, smoke, dust, odor, heat and/or glare. All waste generated from the
performance of work shall be properly disposed of according to the Indiana
Department of Environmental Management (IDEM).
   (E)   Outside storage of materials and performance of work. All storage of
materials and work shall be conducted within an enclosed building.
   (F)   Noise levels. The performance of work shall not create an "A" weighted
sound pressure level in excess of 45 decibels measured from the property line
(LQA10) (excluding loading/unloading, transportation or ancillary activities).
In the event, a noise concern is submitted by a surrounding property owner, an
acoustical engineer/audiologist shall measure the noise generated by the
facility with the use of an audiometer or similar equipment and present the
findings to the Boone County Area Plan Commission.
(Ord. 2019-02, passed 2-19-2019)
DEVELOPMENT PLAN
§ 157.070 GENERALLY.
   (A)   Approval of a development plan by the APC shall be required in any
zoning district where:
      (1)   The district column in the Authorized Uses table is marked with a
“D”;
      (2)   Any application for PUD; and
      (3)   Any request to develop a subdivision utilizing the density
incentives provided for in this section.
   (B)   The purpose of development plan approval shall be to:
      (1)   Provide residential multi-unit development under common, private
ownership and PUD the same creative opportunities and guiding standards
afforded under
Chapter 156 of this code; and
      (2)   Provide for a review of proposals requesting density incentives for
compatibility with surrounding land uses, while prompting and protecting public
health, safety and general welfare in accordance with the comprehensive plan.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
IMAGES/0-0-0-64.jpg]
 
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998; Am. Ord. 2001-5, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 157.071 ESTABLISHMENT OF CONTROL.
   (A)   The APC, in accordance with the I.C. 36-7-4-1400 series, shall have
sole authority regarding preliminary and final approval of development plans.
   (B)   In cases of PUD which require both development plan and subdivision
approval, the development plan may act as both, upon written request by the
applicant and written agreement by the Director.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998; Am. Ord. 2001-5, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 157.072 WATER AND SEWER CONNECTION.
   All applications for development plan approval shall require public water
and public sewer connection to public utilities.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998; Am. Ord. 2001-5, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 157.073 DETERMINATION OF OPEN SPACE.
   (A)   Open space requirements for any development plan, except that required
for PUD, shall be comprised of primary conservation areas and secondary
conservation areas as described in
Chapter 156 of this code.
   (B)   The minimum percentage of land designated as open space in a PUD shall
be as follows:
      (1)   In a single-family, two-family or multi-family development plan as
specified in
Table 3 and
Table 4, as applicable; and
      (2)   In a PUD, no less than 30% for residential uses and 20% for all
other uses.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998; Am. Ord. 2001-5, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 157.074 DETERMINATION OF NUMBER OF UNITS.
   (A)   This subchapter shall not be applicable to PUD except, when
appropriate, as a guide and source of comparison.
   (B)   The number of units permitted on any site shall be as indicated in
Tables
3,
4 and
5, as appropriate. The number of acres used in determination of the number of
units shall exclude rights-of-way of perimeter streets, floodway areas and
areas designated as primary conservation areas or other non-developable areas.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998; Am. Ord. 2001-5, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 157.075 PROCEDURES, APPLICATION AND APPROVAL.
   Procedures, application and approval of development plan shall be in
accordance with
Chapter 156 of this code regarding major subdivisions with the following
alterations and additions:
   (A)   Applicants for development plan approval shall file for preliminary
development plan approval and final development plan approval in the manner of
primary plan and secondary plat approval required for subdivision development.
   (B)   Multi-unit developments, with the possible exception of PUDs, which do
not include development of lots, shall include delineation of spaces for
location of structures in accordance with this section.
   (C)   During application for preliminary development plan, the Director
shall forward one copy of the preliminary development plan to those agencies
required by
Chapter 156 of this code. Any comments or recommendations by these persons
shall be forwarded to the Director prior to the date of the meeting at which
the APC is expected to consider recommendation for the application.
   (D)   In the case of PUD, the concept plan may include a bubble map. The
purpose of this map is to indicate the general layout of a PUD as derived from
the site analysis map, providing a relationship between included uses. In the
case of a PUD with a number of different uses, general bubbles such as single-
family residential, retail commercial and light industry will suffice. In the
case of PUD with limited uses, more detailed bubbles such as grocery store and
two- to four-bedroom homes shall be appropriate.
   (E)   Creation of the preliminary development plan should include, if
applicable, a layout of uses, indicating the percentage of total land area,
dimensions and approximate square footage of each area.
   (F)   Creation of the final development plan should include, if applicable,
a detailed layout of uses, including the percentage of total land area,
dimensions, square footage of each area and a list of permitted uses by right
or special exception in each area.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998; Am. Ord. 2001-5, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 157.076 MINOR DEVELOPMENTS.
   Unlike subdivisions, there shall be no delineation between minor and major
developments requiring development plan approval.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998; Am. Ord. 2001-5, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 157.077 SOIL SURVEY, DRAINAGE, EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL.
   Development plan approval shall be in accordance with the applicable section
of
Chapter 156 of this code.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998; Am. Ord. 2001-5, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 157.078 PRINCIPLES AND STANDARDS OF DESIGN.
   Development plan approval shall be in accordance with the applicable section
of the Subdivision Control Ordinance with the following alterations and
additions.
   (A)   When appropriate, lot standards shall apply to a PUD and shall act as
a guide in determination of lot standards in each PUD District Ordinance.
However, as appropriate, the concepts behind such lot standards shall generally
apply to all applications requiring development plan approval.
   (B)   When possible, open space areas should be connected within the
development and interconnected with other potential or existing open space
areas outside of the development. While not required, dedication of open space
for public use, particularly in instances of opportunity for interconnection
with other open space areas, is encouraged.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998; Am. Ord. 2001-5, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 157.079 OWNERSHIP AND MAINTENANCE OF OPEN SPACE.
   Development plan approval shall be in accordance with the applicable section
of
Chapter 156 of this code.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998; Am. Ord. 2001-5, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 157.080 STANDARDS FOR IMPROVEMENTS AND INSTALLATION.
   Development plan approval shall be in accordance with the applicable section
of
Chapter 156 of this code.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998; Am. Ord. 2001-5, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 157.081 STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Development plan approval shall be in accordance with the applicable section
of
Chapter 156 of this code.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998; Am. Ord. 2001-5, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 157.082 WAIVER OF REQUIREMENTS.
   Development plan approval shall be in accordance with the applicable section
of
Chapter 156 of this code.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998; Am. Ord. 2001-5, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 157.083 INSPECTIONS.
   Development plan approval shall be in accordance with the applicable section
of
Chapter 156 of this code.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998; Am. Ord. 2001-5, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 157.084 DENSITY INCENTIVES.
   (A)   Single-family development in the RE, R1, R2, R3 and R4 districts; two-
family development in the R2, R3 and R4 districts; and multi-family development
in the MF district shall be eligible to apply for development plan approval to
request a waiver of development requirements to increase the maximum density of
a development in accordance with the following table:
 
Maximum Density for Single-, Two- and Multi-Family Developments by
District Using Density Incentives
                                   RE   R1   R2   R3   R4   MF
Without public water public sewer  0.50 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
With public water and public sewer 3.05 3.25 4.50 5.75 7.00 12.00
 
   (B)   Density incentives may be requested pursuant to the aggregate total of
units/acre increase specified in the following table:
Table 12, Density Incentives
Issue Unit/Acre Increase
Table 12, Density Incentives
                                                                                  Unit/
Issue                                                                             Acre
                                                                                  Increase
Proximity
   Within 1 mile of an incorporated area and within 1 mile of public water and 1.00
public sewer utilities with agreement to provide services to the site
   Within 1 mile of a public water and public sewer utilities with agreement to0.50
provide services to the site
   Other                                                                       0.00
Distance of geometric center to paved road
   Direct access                                                               0.25
   1 mile or less                                                              0.00
   Greater than 1 mile                                                         -0.50
Distance of geometric center to fire protection facilities*
   Less than 2 miles                                                           0.50
   2 to 5 miles                                                                0.00
   Greater than 5 miles                                                        -0.50
Distance of geometric center to emergency treatment facilities*
   Less than 2 miles                                                           0.50
   2 to 5 miles                                                                0.00
   Greater than 5 miles                                                        -0.50
Distance of geometric center to elementary school*
   Less than 1/2 mile                                                          0.50
   1/2 mile to 1 mile                                                          0.25
   Greater than 1 mile                                                         0.00
Percent of project site comprised of prime farmland and zoned AG or AF
   Less than 25%                                                               0.00
   25% to 50%                                                                  -1.25
   Greater than 50%                                                            -2.50
*In the case of new fire protection facilities, emergency treatment facilities and
elementary schools, incentives are granted upon agreement to utilize by service provider.
 
   (C)   The APC may approve a development plan and thereby grant a waiver to
increase maximum density in compliance with this section only upon finding
that:
      (1)   The proposed density is no greater than 0.50 dwelling units per
acre of an adjacent residential development (if any).
      (2)   The proposed density is no greater than 2.0 dwelling units per acre
of a residential development located within 660 feet of the boundary of the
property included in the development plan (if any).
      (3)   If the geographic center of the subject property included in the
development plan is located within two miles of an incorporated area, all water
or sewer installations shall be designed and installed at least to the
standards and specifications as permitted by law of an incorporated area if
within two miles of the development.
      (4)   In the case of new fire protection facilities, applicant has
obtained a binding, written agreement from the applicable service provider.
      (5)   In the case of emergency treatment facilities, applicant has
obtained a binding, written agreement from the service provider.
      (6)   In the case of elementary schools, applicant has obtained a written
agreement from the service provider to utilize.
      (7)   Required bufferyards are increased by one letter level for each one
unit per acre, or part thereof, of increase in maximum density proposed to
insure compatibility with surrounding development.
   (D)   All findings specified above for the approval of a development plan
for single-, two- and multi-family density bonuses shall be reduced to writing
and signed by the Chairperson and the Director of the APC and retained as a
part of the permanent record of the determination.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998; Am. Ord. 2001-5, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 157.085 OPEN SPACE INCENTIVES.
   (A)   All developments shall be eligible for an open space reduction as set
forth in the following Table of Open Space Incentives.
Table 13, Open Space Incentives
Issue Percentage Reduction*
Table 13, Open Space Incentives
Issue                               Percentage Reduction*
Proximity of geometric center to existing population centers
—Within 1 mile of incorporated are5%
—Other                            0%
Dedication of recreation areas for public use
—Yes                              5%
—No                               0%
Open space connects to adjacent open spaces or land zoned (C) Conservation
—Yes                              5%
Open space connects to adjacent open spaces or land zoned (C) Conservation
—No                               0%
* Unless otherwise specified to be greater, at no time shall open space be
reduced to below 25%
 
   (B)   The APC may approve a development plan and thereby grant a waiver to
reduce required open space in compliance with this section only upon finding
that:
      (1)   Total open space reductions shall not reduce open space below 25%
for the project.
      (2)   Open space reductions have not affected any primary conservation
areas.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998; Am. Ord. 2001-5, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 157.086 FINDINGS.
   (A)   The APC shall adopt written findings of fact in support of all
determinations made regarding a development plan approval.
   (B)   The findings shall be reduced to writing and signed by the President
and Director of the APC and retained as a part of the permanent record of the
determination.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998; Am. Ord. 2001-5, passed 1-2-2001)
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
§ 157.100 PURPOSE AND GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. This section is adopted pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-1500 et seq.,
as amended, and is intended to permit the creation of mixed-use planned unit
development districts in accordance with the area planning law of the Indiana
Code. Such districts are for the purpose of providing the opportunity to design
and master plan a development comprising a mixture of land uses, densities and
standards. Developers of a planned unit development (PUD) will be offered
flexibility in design and development; however, a PUD shall not compromise the
purposes of this subchapter and shall give due consideration to the
comprehensive plan.
   (B)   Platting. The platting requirements applicable to any particular
parcel zoned as a PUD District shall be specified in the PUD district ordinance
applicable to such parcel.
   (C)   Improvement location permits. No improvement location permit shall be
issued for any structure in any portion of a PUD District unless and until:
      (1)   Any required administrative approvals for that portion; and
      (2)   Approval by the Area Plan Commission (the “APC”) of any required
secondary subdivision plat for that portion.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998; Am. Ord. 2001-5, passed 1-2-2001; Am. Ord.
2004-05, passed 3-15-2004)
§ 157.101 REQUIREMENTS AND STANDARDS.
   (A)   Minimal acreage. The parcel of real estate made the subject of and
covered by a PUD district ordinance must be at least 1,000 acres in size.
   (B)   Ownership. At the time of filing and until the enactment of a PUD
district ordinance, the real estate made the subject of and covered by the PUD
district ordinance must be under single ownership or control.
   (C)   Type of uses. All land uses within the PUD district shall be limited
to the uses specified in the approved PUD district ordinance rezoning the
particular land to the PUD district.
   (D)   Standards.
      (1)   The standards applicable to each PUD district shall be governed
entirely by the provisions in the approved PUD district ordinance rezoning the
particular land to the PUD district; provided, however, that the APC, in making
its recommendation to the legislative body with respect to a PUD district
ordinance, at its discretion, may require compliance with the following:
Zoning districts, existing in the Boone County Zoning Ordinance (the “zoning
ordinance”), shall be assigned to different areas within the subject real
estate. These assigned zoning districts may differ from those applied to the
subject real estate at the time of the filing of the application to change the
zoning to the planned unit district. The standards of the assigned underlying
zoning districts shall be applicable in the designated area, except to the
extent changes to such standards are approved during the approval procedure
specified below in §
157.102.
      (2)   Also, unless clearly stated otherwise or varied or modified in the
PUD district ordinance, any existing or future overlay district regulations
shall apply to that part of the PUD district within such overlay district.
   (E)   Utilities.
      (1)   All uses within a PUD shall be connected to water and sewer
services and shall not be on well and septic.
      (2)   Unless clearly stated otherwise in the PUD district ordinance, all
new utility facilities, including telephone, cable and electrical systems, but
excluding high voltage electrical transmission lines that are impracticable to
be underground (as determined by the applicable service provider and approved
by the Technical Advisory Committee), constructed within the PUD after the
effective date of the PUD district ordinance are required to be underground.
         (a)   This includes distribution as well as transmission systems.
         (b)   Appurtenances to these systems that can be screened may be
excepted from this requirement if the APC finds that such exemption will not
violate the intent or character of the proposed PUD.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998; Am. Ord. 2001-5, passed 1-2-2001; Am. Ord.
2004-05, passed 3-15-2004)
§ 157.102 APPLICATION AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Application.  
      (1)   The application for a PUD shall be submitted to the APC Office on a
form approved by the APC.
      (2)   The application shall contain both a written statement specifying
the intentions of the applicant respecting the proposed land use of the PUD and
a plan or other drawing.
      (3)   Also, the application shall contain a scale drawing, not less than
17" x 21" nor more than 30" x 36", showing the location of the proposed PUD in
respect to surrounding properties. This drawing shall include details, as
required by the APC, of the land uses within 300 feet of the PUD boundaries.
   (B)   Procedures. A PUD district ordinance shall be adopted and amended by
the following procedures:
      (1)   The legislative body shall adopt and amend PUD district ordinances
in the same manner as a zone map change. The adoption and amendment of a PUD
district ordinance is a legislative act.
      (2)   A PUD district ordinance may employ written text, a plan or other
drawing, or any combination in specifying the permitted uses and development
requirements that apply to the PUD district.
      (3)   A PUD district ordinance shall express development requirements in
either general terms or detailed terms. At the initial public hearing, the APC
shall make a finding as to whether the PUD district ordinance expresses
development requirements in either general or detailed terms, and also as to
which process (division (B)(4) or division (B)(5)) shall be followed.
      (4)   If the PUD district ordinance expresses development requirements in
detailed terms, a secondary review of the PUD district ordinance is not
required. However, the PUD district ordinance shall specify any plan
documentation or supporting information (if any) that must be supplied before
an improvement location permit may be issued for development of real estate
within the PUD district.
      (5)   If the PUD district ordinance expresses development requirements in
general terms, a secondary review of the PUD district ordinance, which shall
specify any plan documentation or supporting information (if any) that must be
supplied in connection with the secondary review, is required according to the
following procedures:
         (a)   The APC shall hear and consider all secondary reviews during a
noticed public hearing.
         (b)   The approval of the secondary review shall be by an affirmative
vote of the APC.
         (c)   The secondary review may be on a section or phase of the real
estate made the subject of and covered by the PUD district ordinance.
         (d)   If the APC denies the secondary review, the legislative body may
review and affirm, revise or modify that decision.
      (6)   The secondary review referred to herein shall not occur until after
the APC certifies the proposed PUD district ordinance (which expresses
development requirements in general terms or detailed terms) to the legislative
body pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-605, and after the PUD district ordinance is
adopted by the legislative body pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-608.
      (7)   Upon adoption of a PUD district ordinance expressing development
requirements in either general terms or detailed terms, the real estate covered
by and made the subject to the PUD district ordinance shall be rezoned to the
PUD district per the terms of the PUD district ordinance, and shall be
identified on the zoning maps of the county by a “PUD” designation.
   (C)   PUD district ordinance amendments. The legislative body hereby retains
jurisdiction over and does not delegate the authority to approve amendments to
the PUD district ordinance adopted by the legislative body.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998; Am. Ord. 2001-5, passed 1-2-2001; Am. Ord.
2004-05, passed 3-15-2004)
NON-CONFORMING USES
§ 157.120 GENERALLY.
   (A)   Within the districts established by this chapter or by amendments that
may later be adopted, there exist individually or in combination the following,
which were lawful before this chapter was passed or amended, but which would be
prohibited, regulated or restricted under the terms of this chapter or future
amendments. It is the intent of this chapter to permit these non-conforming
uses to continue until they are removed, but not to encourage their survival.
It is further the intent of this chapter that non-conforming uses shall not be
enlarged upon, expanded or extended, nor be used as grounds for adding other
structures or uses which are prohibited elsewhere in the same district. Illegal
uses existing at the time this chapter is enacted shall not be validated by
virtue of its enactment:
      (1)   Non-conforming lots;
      (2)   Non-conforming structures;
      (3)   Non-conforming uses of land; and
      (4)   Non-conforming districts.
   (B)   Non-conforming uses are declared by this chapter to be incompatible
with permitted uses in the districts in which the uses are located. A non-
conforming use of a structure, a non-conforming use of land or a non-conforming
use of a structure and land in combination shall not be extended or enlarged
after passage of this chapter by attachment on a building or premises of
additional signs intended to be seen from off the premises, or by the addition
of other uses of a nature which would be generally prohibited in the district
in which the use is located.
   (C)   To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to
require a change in the plans, construction or designated use of any building
or development on which actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the
effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter and upon which actual
building construction has been carried on diligently. Where demolition or
removal of an existing building has been substantially begun prior to
rebuilding, the demolition or removal shall be deemed to be actual
construction, provided that the work shall be carried on diligently. Actual
construction is hereby defined at a minimum as having a valid improvement
location permit upon passage of this chapter on 12-21-1998.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 157.121 NON-CONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD.
   In any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted, a single-
family dwelling and customary accessory buildings may be erected on any single
lot of record after the effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter
notwithstanding limitation imposed by other provisions of this chapter. The lot
must be in separate record and not of continuous frontage with existing lots.
This provision shall apply even though the lots fail to meet the requirements
for area or width, or both, that are generally applicable in the district
provided that yard dimensions and requirements other than those applying to
area or width, or both, of the lot shall conform to the regulations for the
district in which the lot is located. The lot of record must meet all of the
previous requirements for building lots for single-family dwelling units in the
appropriate districts as follows.
 
Table 14, Single-Family Requirements for Non-Conforming Lots of Record
           AG     RE    R1     R2     R3     R4     LB     GB     PB     I1, I2
Minimum lot area (square feet unless otherwise noted)
—With    24,000 3     24,000 12,000 6,000  12,000 6,000  6,000  12,000 14,000
sewers            acres
—Without 37,500 3     43,560 30,000 30,000 30,000 30,000 30,000 30,000 30,000
sewers            acres
Minimum lot depth to width ratio for lots 10 acres or less in all districts: 3:
1
Minimum road frontage: lots less than 5 acres require 75 feet of road frontage.
Lots 5 acres and above require 100 feet of road frontage.
 
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 157.122 NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   Where a lawful structure exists at the effective date of adoption or
amendment of this chapter that could not now be built under the terms of this
chapter by reason of restrictions on area, lot, height, its location on the
lot, or other requirements concerning the structure, the structure may be
continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following
provisions.
   (A)   No such non-conforming structure may be enlarged or altered in a way
which increases its non-conformity, but any structure or portion thereof may be
altered to decrease its non-conformity.
   (B)   Should the non-conforming structure or non-conforming portion of
structure be destroyed by any means to the extent of more than 50% of the area
of the building immediately prior to the damage, it shall not be reconstructed
except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Should the structure be moved for any reason, it shall thereafter
conform to the regulations for the district in which it is located after it is
moved.
   (D)   A non-conforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a
building which were manifestly arranged or designed for the use at the time of
adoption or amendment of this chapter, but no such use shall be extended to
occupy any land outside the building.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 157.123 NON-CONFORMING USES OF LAND.
   Where, at the time of adoption of this chapter, lawful uses of land exist
which would not be permitted by the regulations imposed by this chapter, the
uses may be continued so long as they remain otherwise lawful, provided:
   (A)   No such non-conforming uses shall be enlarged or increased nor
extended to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective
date of adoption or amendment of this chapter;
   (B)   No such non-conforming uses shall be moved in whole or in part to any
portion of the lot or parcel other than that occupied by such uses at the
effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter;
   (C)   If any such non-conforming uses of land are discontinued or abandoned
for any reason for more than one year, any subsequent use of the land shall
conform to the regulations specified by this chapter for the district in which
the land is located; and
   (D)   No additional structure not conforming to the requirements of this
chapter shall be erected in connection with the non-conforming use of land.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 157.124 NON-CONFORMING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   At the time of adoption of this chapter, some zoning districts may no
longer be listed in this chapter.
   (B)   Unless otherwise noted, property zoned under these districts will
continue to be zoned as such until such time as the property is rezoned to a
conforming district.
   (C)   Non-conforming districts, their restrictions and permitted uses
include:
      (1)   R5-High Density, Multi-Family Residential. Permitted uses include
all uses currently permitted in the R4 and MF Districts by right, special
exception and with development plan approval as listed.
      (2)   CR-Commercial Reserve. Uses in the underlying zoning districts of
the CR District areas shall be permitted in accordance with the current use
table by right, special exception and with development plan approval as listed.
      (3)   SC-Shopping Center. Uses in the underlying zoning districts of the
SC District areas shall be permitted in accordance with the current use table
by right, special exception and with development plan approval as listed.
      (4)   IR-Industrial Reserve. Uses in the underlying zoning districts of
the IR District areas shall be permitted in accordance with the current use
table by right, special exception and with development plan approval as listed.
Industrial development currently permitted in the I1 District would be
permitted in this district only by special exception and with a minimum tract
of 20 acres.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998)
IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT
§ 157.140 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   (1)   The Director, or his or her agent, shall be responsible for the
issuance of all improvement location permits for any alteration to the
condition of land, or structures thereon, within the jurisdictional area of the
APC.
      (2)   Any persons making the alterations must obtain an improvement
location permit for the alterations from the APC prior to the start of any
construction.
   (B)   The filing fee for an improvement location permit is shown on
Appendix A of this chapter, which is hereby established as a part of this
section.
   (C)   Fences under six feet in height shall not require an improvement
location permit.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 157.141 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   No land shall be occupied or used and no building hereafter erected,
altered or reconstructed shall be occupied or used, in whole or in part, for
any purpose whatsoever, until a certificate of occupancy has been issued by the
Director, or his or her agent, stating that the use complies with all of the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The certificate of occupancy shall be issued within five days of the
completion of the improvements authorized by the improvement location permit,
provided the improvements are in compliance with all provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 157.142 DOCUMENTATION.
   Upon application for an improvement location permit, the applicant must
furnish the following information.
   (A)   The applicant must furnish two copies of a dimensioned site plan drawn
to scale and certified by a registered land surveyor. One copy will be retained
in the permanent file and the second will be returned with stamp of approval to
the applicant. The site plan must contain the following:
      (1)   The owners name and address;
      (2)   The legal description of the property including bearing notations
and lengths;
      (3)   Existing and proposed structures on the property including wells,
sewage facilities and finger systems;
      (4)   Existing and proposed elevations of the building site including the
proposed elevation of the first floor of the structure;
      (5)   All easements required hereby or any other ordinance of the county,
or by any act of the legislature of the State of Indiana;
      (6)   All adjacent streets including all required easements thereto and
also the location and size of ingress and egress points from the property; and
      (7)   All required bufferyards, parking, signs and restricted use
requirements.
   (B)   The applicant shall show written approval of the proposed structure
and site plan from any developer or homeowner’s association having jurisdiction
over the site and structure per covenants and restrictions.
   (C)   The applicant shall present written approval of the proposed structure
from any agency, commission, board or other department of the State of Indiana
having jurisdiction over the proposed structure prior to issuance of the
improvement location permit.
   (D)   The applicant shall present written approval of the proposed water and
sewage facilities from the Boone County Health Board and, when applicable,
written approval of the driveway from the Boone County Highway Department.
   (E)   The applicant shall submit two complete sets of construction plans for
the proposed improvements. The plans must be certified by the Building
Inspector as meeting all building and mechanical codes required by local or
state law prior to issuance of the improvement location permit.
   (F)   As a condition of issuing an improvement location permit, the Director
or his or her agent, may require the relocation of any structure or of any
entrance or exit, or the inclusion of an entrance or exit not shown on the
plan, if the requirement is necessary in the interest of the public welfare.
   (G)   An improvement location permit for a special exception may not be
issued until the application has been approved by the BZA.
   (H)   Any application which requires physical encroachment upon another’s
property to meet drainage requirements shall provide a notarized letter of
agreement to allow encroachment from those owners upon whose property
encroachment must occur.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 157.143 INDUSTRIAL USES; CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   If an application for an improvement location permit relates to a light or
general industrial use, it must be accompanied by a certificate of compliance,
subscribed by a registered professional engineer of the State of Indiana,
stating that the use will meet the performance standards established by this
chapter.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 157.144 EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL OF IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT.
   (A)   General. If a person to whom an improvement location permit has been
issued fails to complete construction within 24 months after the permit is
issued, or fails to comply with the approved plan upon which the permit was
issued, the improvement location permit shall be null and void.
   (B)   Extension. The Director may grant one 12-month extension upon any
improvement location permit at the written request of the applicant stating the
need for the extension.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 157.160 CHAPTER ADMINISTRATION.
   The provision of this chapter shall be administered and enforced by the
Director of the APC. The Director may be assisted by the staff of the APC. The
Director shall have final authority on all matters of administration and
enforcement subject to the guidance of the APC and BZA. Appeal from the
decisions of the Director may be made to the BZA. Recourse from the decision of
the BZA shall be to the courts through procedures provided by law.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 157.161 THE AREA PLAN COMMISSION.
   (A)   Establishment. The APC is established, with membership as provided by
I.C. 36-7-4-200 Series.
   (B)   Organization. At the first meeting of the calendar year, the APC shall
elect from among its members a Chairperson and a Vice-Chairperson as per
established rules of procedure. Consistent with state law, it may appoint and
fix the compensation of a secretary and such employees as it considers
necessary to discharge its duties.
   (C)   Rules of procedure. The APC shall supervise and make rules for the
administration of the affairs of the APC and prescribe uniform rules pertaining
to investigations and hearings.
   (D)   Meetings and records. The APC, or Plat Committee as appropriate, shall
hold a public hearing after the receipt of an application for a change of
zoning, minor plat, primary plat, secondary plat or a change in development
plan from the applicant or their agent in accordance with the established rules
of procedure. Meetings of the APC shall be open to the public. Before holding
the required public hearing, applicant must be in compliance with the
established rules of procedure.
   (E)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   Subdivisions. The APC and Plat Committee as appropriate shall
render decisions regarding subdivisions in accordance with
Chapter 156 of this code and rules of procedure.
      (2)   Development plan. The APC shall render decisions regarding
development plans in accordance with the development plan section of this
chapter.
      (3)   Planned unit developments. In addition to requirements for
development plan, the APC shall render recommendation regarding PUD District
Ordinance to the appropriate legislative body in accordance with the PUD
section of this chapter.
      (4)   Proposals to change the zone maps incorporated into the ordinance.
The following procedure applies to a proposal to change the zone maps (whether
by incorporating an additional map or by amending or deleting a map)
incorporated by reference into this zoning ordinance.
         (a)   The proposal may be initiated either:
            1.   By the APC;
            2.   By a petition signed by property owners who own at least 50%
of the land involved; and/or
            3.   By the appropriate legislative body; however, if the
appropriate legislative body initiates the proposal, it shall require the APC
to prepare it.
         (b)   The APC or petitioners shall prepare the proposal so that it is
consistent with applicable state law.
         (c)   In considering the proposal, both the APC and the appropriate
legislative body shall pay reasonable regard to:
            1.   The Comprehensive Plan;
            2.   Current conditions and the character of current structures and
uses in each district;
            3.   The most desirable use for which the land in each district is
adapted;
            4.   The conservation of property values throughout the
jurisdictional area; and
            5.   Responsible development and growth.
         (d)   The APC shall give notice and hold a public hearing on the
proposal in accordance with its rules of procedure.
         (e)   Whenever the APC deems it advisable they may permit or require
the owner of a parcel of real property to make a commitment subject to the
rules prescribed for commitments in this section. By permitting or requiring a
commitment, the APC does not become obligated to recommend or not recommend the
adoption of the proposal.
         (f)   Within ten business days after the APC determines its
recommendation, the APC shall certify the proposal to the appropriate
legislative body with a favorable recommendation, an unfavorable recommendation
or no recommendation from the APC.
         (g)   The appropriate legislative body shall vote on the proposal
within 90 days after the APC certifies the proposal. The appropriate
legislative body’s consideration of the proposal is governed by I.C. 36-7-4-
605.
         (h)   During the time when the proposal is being considered by the
appropriate legislative body, the owner of a parcel of land may make a new
commitment or modify the terms of a commitment made when the proposal was
before the APC. No further action of the APC is required for a new commitment
to be effective. If a commitment made when the proposal was before the APC is
modified and the effect of the modification is to make the commitment more
stringent, no further action of the APC is required for the modified commitment
to be effective. However, if the effect of such a modification is to make the
commitment less stringent, then the modified commitment must be ratified by the
APC to be effective. A commitment made or modified under this provision is
subject to the rules prescribed for commitment in this section.
         (i)   If the proposal is adopted, the APC shall update the zone maps
that it keeps available with this chapter and the County’s Code of Ordinances.
         (j)   Unless the proposal provides for a later effective date, the
updated zone maps contained in the proposal take effect when the proposal is
duly adopted.
      (5)   Proposals to amend or partially repeal the text of the ordinance.
The following procedure applies to a proposal to amend or partially repeal the
text (not zone maps) of this chapter.
         (a)   The proposal may be initiated by either the APC or the
appropriate legislative body; however, if the appropriate legislative body
initiates the proposal, it shall require the APC to prepare it.
         (b)   The APC shall prepare the proposal so that it is consistent with
applicable state law.
         (c)   In considering the proposal, both the APC and the appropriate
legislative body shall pay reasonable regard to:
            1.   The Comprehensive Plan;
            2.   Current conditions and the character of current structures and
uses in each district;
            3.   The most desirable use for which the land in each district is
adapted;
            4.   The conservation of property values throughout the
jurisdictional area; and
            5.   Responsible development and growth.
         (d)   The APC shall give notice and hold a public hearing on the
proposal in accordance with its rules of procedure. The APC, in its discretion,
may also give notice and hold hearings at other places within the county where
the distribution of the population or diversity of interests of the people
indicate that the hearings would be desirable.
         (e)   Within ten business clays after the APC determines its
recommendation, the APC shall certify the proposal to the appropriate
legislative body with a favorable recommendation, an unfavorable recommendation
or no recommendation from the APC.
         (f)   The appropriate legislative body shall vote on the proposal
within 90 clays after the APC certifies the proposal. The appropriate
legislative body’s consideration of the proposal is governed by I.C. 36-7-4-
607.
         (g)   If the proposal is adopted, the APC shall print the amendments
to the Zoning Ordinance in book or pamphlet form, or arrange for them to be
included in the county’s Code of Ordinances.
         (h)   Unless the proposal provides for a later effective date, the
amendments contained in the proposal take effect when the proposal is duly
adopted, except for any provision prescribing a penalty or forfeiture for a
violation, which may not take effect until the APC complies with the applicable
notice and filing requirements described in I.C. 36-7-4-610.
         (i)   The Director shall verify the completeness of the application
and the date of verification shall be noted on the application.
         (j)   The APC shall send a copy of the application to the following
agencies for their review and comments.
            1.   Boone County Health Department;
            2.   Superintendent of the affected school district;
            3.   The official, or officials, responsible for municipal street
facilities and water and sewer utilities;
            4.   The applicable safety service agencies; and
            5.   Boone County Soil and Water Conservation District.
      (6)   Adoption or amendment of Comprehensive Plan.
         (a)   Adoption or amendment of the Comprehensive Plan shall be in
accordance with Indiana Planning Law and established rules of procedure.
         (b)   The APC shall give notice and hold public hearings, one of which
hearings shall be held in each participating city and in each of the townships
within the county. At least ten days prior to the date set for the first
hearing, the APC shall publish a schedule of all such meetings in accordance
with its rules of procedure.
   (F)   Rules governing commitments.
      (1)   Form. A commitment must be substantiated by the form set forth in
the APC’s rules of procedure, and must identify any specially affected persons
or class of specially affected persons who may enforce the commitment. A
commitment must authorize its recording by the Director in the Office of the
Boone County Recorder.
      (2)   Recording; copies. A commitment shall be recorded in the Office of
the Boone County Recorder and takes effect upon the adoption of the proposal to
which it relates. Following the recording of a commitment, the Director shall
return the original recorded commitment to the owner and shall retain a copy of
the recorded commitment in the APC’s file.
      (3)   Persons bound. Unless it is modified or terminated by the APC in
accordance with this section, a recorded commitment is binding on the owner of
the parcel, a subsequent owner of the parcel and any other person who acquires
interest in the parcel. An unrecorded commitment is binding on the owner of the
parcel who makes the commitment. An unrecorded commitment is binding on a
subsequent owner of the parcel or a person acquiring an interest in the parcel
only if the subsequent owner or the person acquiring the interest has actual
notice of the commitment.
      (4)   Modification or termination by APC. Except for a commitment
modified or automatically terminated in accordance with this section, a
commitment may be modified or terminated only by a decision of the APC made at
a public hearing after notice of the hearing has been given under the APC’s
rules of procedure.
      (5)   Rezone proposals; automatic termination. A commitment made in
accordance with this section automatically terminates if after the adoption of
the proposal to which it relates to the zone map applicable to the parcel is
changed or the parcel is designated as a PUD District under this chapter.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 157.162 AREA BOARDS OF ZONING APPEALS.
   (A)   Establishment. The Area BZA is established, with membership as
provided by I.C. 36-7-4-902(d). In addition, it is hereby recognized that the
Whitestown BZA, which was duly established under the Advisory Planning Law and
continued in existence under the Area Planning Law, continues as the BZA with
exclusive jurisdiction within Whitestown pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-901.
   (B)   Organization. At the first meeting of the calendar year, the BZA shall
elect from among its members a Chairperson and a Vice-Chairperson as per
established rules of procedure. Consistent with Indiana Planning Law, it may
appoint and fix the compensation of a secretary and such employees as it
considers necessary to discharge its duties.
   (C)   Rules of procedure. The BZA shall supervise and make rules for the
administration of the affairs of the BZA and prescribe uniform rules pertaining
to investigations and hearings.
   (D)   Meetings and records. The BZA shall hold a public hearing after the
receipt of an application for a variance, special exception or appeal from an
applicant or their agent in accordance with the established rules of procedure.
Before holding the required public hearing, applicant must act in accordance
with the established rules of procedure. Meetings of the BZA shall be open to
the public. The BZA shall keep minutes of its meetings, keep records of all
examinations and other official actions, make any findings in writing and
record the vote of each member on each question. Minutes and records shall be
filed in the office of the BZA and made available to the public. A majority of
the members of the BZA shall constitute a quorum. No action of the BZA is
official unless concurred by a majority of the membership of the BZA.
   (E)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   Variance. The BZA shall authorize in specific cases such variances
from the terms of this chapter as will not be contrary to the public interest,
where owing to special conditions fully demonstrated on the facts presented, a
literal enforcement of this chapter will result in an unnecessary hardship, and
so that the spirit of this chapter shall be observed and substantial justice
done. The BZA may grant a Variance with respect to specific property if, after
a hearing, the BZA finds that the variance is warranted per Indiana Planning
Law.
         (a)   The BZA shall not grant a variance from a use district or
classification.
         (b)   When in the public interest, the Director may consider and
render decisions on applications involving minor deviations from the provisions
of the ordinance, limited to the following.
            1.   Lot area requirements may be reduced by not more than 10% of
that required in the District.
            2.   Yard requirements may be reduced by permitting portions of a
building or structure to extend into and occupy not more than 10% of the area
of a required yard.
            3.   Maximum building heights may be increased by not more than
10%.
         (c)   The following standards shall apply for evaluating variances as
established by I.C. 36-7-4-918.5:
            1.   The variance will not be injurious to the public health,
safety, morals and general welfare of the community.
            2.   The use or value of the area adjacent to the property included
in the variance will not be affected in a substantially adverse manner.
            3.   The strict application of the terms of this chapter will
continue the usual and unnecessary hardship as applied to the property for
which the variance is sought because.
      (2)   Special exception. The BZA shall hear and determine special
exceptions to the terms of this chapter upon which the BZA is required to act.
The BZA may require that impact studies be performed at the expense of the
applicant prior to deciding upon the special exception.
         (a)   The special exceptions listed in the districts (see
Table 2, Authorized Uses), and their accessory buildings and uses may be
permitted by the BZA in the districts indicated therein, in accordance with the
procedures set forth in this section. Uses listed as special exceptions in the
conservation district must be approved by the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources prior to application for special exception by the BZA.
         (b)   Upon receipt of an application for a special exception, the
Director may refer the application to the APC for investigation as to the
manner in which the proposed location and character of the special exception
will affect the master land use plan. The APC shall report the results of its
study to the BZA within 90 days following receipt of the application. If no
such report is filed with the BZA within the time period, or, if no report is
requested by the Director, then the BZA shall proceed to process the
application. The BZA shall then proceed with a hearing on the application in
the manner prescribed in this chapter. Following the hearing, and upon an
affirmative finding by the BZA that the applicant meets the requirements and
criteria established by Indiana Manning Law and this chapter, the BZA shall
order the Plan Director to issue an improvement location permit.
         (c)   An existing use which is listed herein as a special exception,
and which is located in a district in which the special exception may be
permitted, is a conforming use. Any expansion of the special exception
involving the enlargement of the buildings, structures or land area devoted to
the use shall be subject to the procedures described in this section.
         (d)   The following standards shall apply for evaluating special
exceptions as established by I.C. 36-7-4-918.2:
            1.   The establishment, maintenance or operation of the special
exception will not be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety,
morals or general welfare.
            2.   The special exception will not be injurious to the use and
enjoyment of other property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes already
permitted.
            3.   The establishment of the special exception will not impede or
substantially alter the normal and orderly development and improvement of
surrounding property for uses permitted in the district.
            4.   Adequate utilities, access road, drainage and other necessary
facilities have been or are being provided.
            5.   Adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide
ingress and egress so designed as to minimize traffic congestion on the public
roadways.
            6.   The special exception will be located in a district where such
use is permitted and all other requirements set forth in this chapter which are
applicable to the use will be met.
            7.   It is recognized that in the development of a zoning
ordinance, not all uses of land can be listed, nor can all future uses be
anticipated. A use may have been omitted from the list of those specified as
permissible in the various districts established by this chapter, or questions
may arise concerning words which are synonymous. Applicant shall file a request
with the APC for a decision by the BZA. The BZA may also initiate an
application. The BZA shall render a decision after the application is made, and
shall notify the applicant and any person requesting the notice of the
decision. In such instances the following procedures shall apply:
               a.   In classifying a use, the BZA shall first make a finding
that all of the following conditions exist:
                  i.   That investigations have disclosed that the subject use
and its operations are compatible with the uses permitted in the district
wherein it is proposed to be located
                  ii.   That the subject use is similar to one or more uses
permitted in the district within which it is proposed to be located;
                  iii.   That the subject use will not cause substantial injury
to the values of property in the neighborhood or district within which it is
proposed to be located; and
                  iv.   That the subject use will be so designed, located and
operated that the public health, safety and general welfare will be protected
               b.   The BZA shall classify the use as to permitting the use by
right or permitting the use subject to special exception.
               c.   When classification of use is appealed or referred to the
BZA, it shall be the duty of the BZA to ascertain all pertinent facts
concerning the use and set forth in writing its findings and the reasons for
designating a specific classification for the use.
               d.   In no instance shall the BZA determine that a use be
permitted in a district when the use is specifically listed as first
permissible in a less restricted district.
               e.   Uses classified pursuant to this section shall be regarded
as listed uses. The Director shall maintain in the office of the APC an up-to-
date list of all such classifications which have been made.
               f.   Should the BZA determine that a use cannot be classified,
then the use shall be considered appropriate only within a PUD District.
      (3)   Appeals. The BZA shall hear and determine appeals from and review
any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the Director in the
enforcement of this chapter. In exercising its powers the BZA may reverse or
affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or
determination appealed and to that end shall have all of the powers of the
Director from whom the appeal is taken. The BZA shall fix a reasonable time for
the hearing of an appeal. Public notice shall be given of the hearing and due
notice shall be given additionally to the affected parties as determined by the
BZA. The BZA must require the party taking the appeal to assume the cost of
public notice and due notice to interested parties.
         (a)   When an appeal from the decision of any official or board has
been filed with the BZA, all proceedings, operation and work on the premises
concerned shall be stayed, unless the official or board from whom the appeal
was taken shall certify to the BZA that, by reason of facts stated in the
certificate, a stay would cause imminent peril to life or property. In such
case, proceedings or work shall not be stayed except by a restraining order,
which may be granted by a circuit or superior court of the county in which the
premises affected are situated, on notice to the office or board from whom the
appeal is taken and the owner of the premises affected, and on due cause shown.
         (b)   Every decision of the BZA shall be subject to review by
certiorari. Any person aggrieved by a decision of the BZA, may present to the
circuit or superior court of the county in which the premises affected are
located, a petition duly verified, setting forth that such decision is illegal
in whole or in part, and specifying the grounds of the illegality. The petition
shall be presented to the court within 30 days after the entry of the decision
or order of the BZA complained of. No change of venue from the county in which
the premises affected are located shall be had in any cause arising under the
provisions of this section.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 157.163 ZONE MAPS.
   (A)   General. The zone maps, which accompany and are hereby declared to be
a part of these regulations, show the boundaries of and the area covered by the
districts, notations, references, indications and other matters shown on the
zone maps are as much a part hereof as if they were fully described herein.
      (1)   The boundaries of the districts established by this section are as
shown on the zone maps, which are a part of this chapter. Such boundaries may
be changed only by amending this chapter.
      (2)   When the exact boundaries of a district are uncertain, they shall
be determined by use of the scale of the zone map.
      (3)   When a right-of-way is vacated, the districts adjoining each side
are respectively extended to the center of the area so vacated.
      (4)   In the case of further uncertainty, the BZA shall interpret the
intent of zone maps as to the location of the boundary in question.
      (5)   In the event of annexation of lands to a city or town in the
jurisdictional area, the zoning classification existing at the time of
annexation shall remain until changed by amendment procedures.
   (B)   Official maps. Each of the 12 townships of Boone County shall have an
official zoning map. An official zone map shall be identified by the signatures
of the appropriate legislative body and attested to by the appropriate
official. Each incorporated city or town within the jurisdiction of the APC
shall also have a zoning map identified by the signatures of the appropriate
legislative body.
   (C)   Changes. If in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, changes
are made in district boundaries or other matter portrayed on the official zone
maps, such changes shall be entered on the appropriate map by the Director,
after the amendment has been approved by the appropriate legislative body.
   (D)   Location of zone maps. Regardless of the existence of purported copies
of the official zone map which may from time to time be made or published, the
Official Zone Map of Boone County and Jurisdictional Areas shall be located in
the office of the Boone County APC. These official maps shall be the final
authority as to the current zoning status of land and water areas, buildings
and other structures within the jurisdictional area.
   (E)   Damaged, lost or destroyed map. In the event the official zone map
becomes damaged, destroyed, lost or difficult to interpret because of the
nature of the numbers of changes and additions, the appropriate legislative
body or the APC may direct the Director to prepare a new official zone map
which shall supersede the prior map upon approval by the APC and appropriate
legislative body and attested to by the appropriate official. The signatures of
the above mentioned and the date of final approval shall be placed on the new
maps. The new official zone map may correct drafting errors or other omissions
or legal changes in the prior map, but no such correction shall have the effect
of amending the original official zone map or subsequent amendments thereof.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 157.164 COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Whenever a violation of this chapter occurs, or is alleged to have
occurred, any person may file a written complaint.
   (B)   The complaint shall state fully the causes and basis thereof and shall
be filed with the Director.
   (C)   The Director, or his or her agent, shall investigate the complaint,
take immediate action and may refer the matter to the APC, BZA or their
attorney for review. The Director or other member of the AFC staff shall have
authority to enter upon property at any time to investigate a written
complaint.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 157.165 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Remedies. The APC, BZA or any designated enforcement official may
institute a suit for injunctive relief in the circuit court, or any court in
the county having jurisdiction to entertain the matters, to restrain an
individual person or a governmental unit from violating the provisions of the
ordinance enacted pursuant to its terms or
Chapter 156 of this code. The APC or the BZA may also institute a suit for
mandatory injunction, directing an individual person or a governmental unit to
remove a structure erected in violation of the provisions of these ordinances,
enacted pursuant to its terms. In the event that the APC or BZA deems it
necessary to invoke one or more remedies under this division, then, and in that
event, they shall be entitled, if found to be the prevailing party, to an award
of attorneys fees and costs of this action
   (B)   Improvement location permits.
      (1)   Any persons or corporation who shall initiate construction prior to
obtaining an improvement location permit, or certificate of occupancy or any
other permit or authorization required herein, shall pay an early bird fee as
set forth in the fee schedule.
      (2)   The owner or tenant of any building, structure or premises and any
other person who participates in, assists in or maintains such violation may
each be found guilty of a separate offense and suffer the penalties prescribed
by this section.
   (C)   Zoning ordinance. Any person or corporation who shall violate any of
the provisions of these ordinances or fail to fully comply therewith or with
any of the requirements thereof (including violations of conditions established
in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions) or who shall
build, reconstruct or structurally alter any building in violation of the
approved plot plan or building plans shall be subject to civil penalties of not
more than $500 per day of violation.
   (D)   Subdivision control ordinance.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Director to periodically research the
County Auditor’s records and perform the other necessary investigation to
detect any violations of these regulations.
      (2)   No owner, or agent of the owner, of any parcel of land located in a
proposed subdivision shall transfer or sell any such parcel before a plat of
the subdivision has been approved by the APC in accordance with the provisions
of these regulations and filed with the Boone County Recorder.
      (3)   No public board, agency, commission, official or other authority
shall proceed with the construction of or authorize the construction of any of
the public improvements required by these regulations until the proposed
subdivision has been approved by the APC in accordance with these regulations
and filed with the Boone County Recorder.
      (4)   No building permit shall be issued for the construction of any
building or structure located on a lot or plat subdivided or sold in violation
of the provisions of these regulations.
   (E)   Enforcement. The Director shall enforce these regulations and bring to
the attention of the APC attorney any violations or lack of compliance
herewith. The APC attorney shall take steps necessary under the Indiana Code to
civilly enjoin any violation of these regulations.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 157.166 SEVERABILITY AND EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   Severability. If any chapter, section, division, clause, paragraph,
provision or portion of this chapter shall be held to be invalid or
unconstitutional by any court of proper jurisdiction, the decision shall not
affect any other chapter, section, division, clause, paragraph, provision or
portion of this chapter.
   (B)   Effective date. This chapter shall be in full force and effect from
and after its passage by the Board of County Commissioners for the
unincorporated area of Boone County, Indiana, or by the appropriate legislative
body for any incorporated town or city in Boone County, Indiana.
   (C)   Passed. This chapter was passed by:
      (1)   The Boone County Commissioners on 12-21-1998.
      (2)   The Whitestown Town Board on                   , 1998.
      (3)   The Advance Town Board on                   ,1998.
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998)
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESSES
§ 157.180 GENERALLY.
   All adult entertainment businesses shall be required to comply with the
following standards.
(Ord. 2003-17, passed 8-11-2003)
§ 157.181 INTENT.
   In the development and adoption of this section, it is recognized that there
are some adult entertainment business uses which due to their very nature have
certain adverse secondary effects in the form of objectionable operational
characteristics particularly when located in close proximity to residential
neighborhoods, thereby having a deleterious impact upon property values and the
quality of life in the surrounding areas. It has been acknowledged by
communities across the nation that state and local governmental entities have a
special concern in regulating the operation of the adult entertainment
businesses under their jurisdiction to ensure that these adverse secondary
effects will not contribute to the blighting or down grading of adjacent
neighborhoods. The special regulations deemed necessary to control the
undesirable externalities arising from these adult entertainment businesses are
set forth below. The purpose of these controls and regulations is to preserve
the integrity and character of residential neighborhoods, to deter the spread
of urban blight and to protect minors from the objectionable operational
characteristics of these adult entertainment business uses by restricting their
close proximity to churches, parks, fairgrounds, schools, day care centers and
residential areas including AG districts.
(Ord. 2003-17, passed 8-11-2003)
§ 157.182 PROHIBITIONS.
   The establishment of an adult entertainment business, as defined, shall be
prohibited if the adult entertainment business is within 1,000 feet of another
such adult entertainment business or within 600 feet of any existing church,
school, day care center, park, fairground, AG district or “R” district within
the jurisdiction of the Boone County Area Plan Commission.
(Ord. 2003-17, passed 8-11-2003)
§ 157.183 MEASUREMENT OF DISTANCES.
   The distance between one adult entertainment business and another adult
entertainment business shall be measured in a straight line, without regard to
intervening structures or objects, from the closest exterior structural wall of
each such business. The distance between an adult entertainment business, and
any church, school, park, fairground, day care center, AG district or “R”
district shall be measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening
structures or objects, from the closest exterior structural wall of the adult
entertainment business to the nearest lot line of the church, school, day care
center, park, fairground, AG district or “R” district.
(Ord. 2003-17, passed 8-11-2003)
§ 157.184 EXTERIOR DISPLAY.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this subchapter to the contrary, all
exterior displays for an adult entertainment business shall comply with the
following regulations.
   (A)   General. No adult entertainment business shall be conducted in any
manner that permits the observation of any material depicting, describing or
relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas by
display, decorations, sign, a show window or other opening from any public
right-of-way.
   (B)   Number of signs. Not more than one wall sign shall be permitted for an
adult entertainment business and said wall sign shall be permitted only on the
front facade of the building. In addition to the one permitted wall sign, an
adult entertainment business may be permitted not more than one freestanding
sign and which meets all of the requirements of the zoning district in which it
is located.
   (C)   Sign surface area. The maximum sign area of a wall sign for an adult
entertainment business shall not exceed an amount equal to 5% of the front
building facade of the first floor elevation (first ten feet) of the premises
occupied by the adult entertainment business, or 100 square feet, whichever is
the lesser. The maximum combined sign area of a freestanding sign shall not
exceed one square foot for each lineal foot of frontage of the lot, or 24
square feet, which is the lesser.
   (D)   Lighting. Signs and sign structures may be illuminated, provided,
however, the illumination shall not be by way of exterior lighting (e.g., spot
or floodlights).
(Ord. 2003-17, passed 8-11-2003)
§ 157.185 CONTINUATION OF NON-CONFORMING USES.
   This subchapter is subject to the provisions of §§
157.120 et seq. of this chapter.
(Ord. 2003-17, passed 8-11-2003)
OVERLAY DISTRICTS
§ 157.200 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for overlay districts,
establish consistent procedures for their establishment and to foster the
purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 2003-4, passed 2-18-2003)
§ 157.201 INTENT.
   The intent of overlay districts is to give Boone County a tool to address
specifically identified areas of the jurisdiction that requires special
attention and guidance. In addition to the zoning ordinance purposes, the
general purposes of overlay districts are to promote coordinated, quality
development per the land use recommendations set forth in the comprehensive
plan; to establish basic development standards for structures, landscaping and
other improvements on the properties within overlay districts which promote
high quality and innovative site design while at the same time encourage
efficient land usage; and to establish development standards which will
encourage capital investments for the development of those properties within
overlay districts.
(Ord. 2003-4, passed 2-18-2003)
§ 157.202 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   General. The authority to establish overlay districts is based on the
goals and objectives of the Boone County Comprehensive Plan and I.C. 36-7-4-600
series.
   (B)   Establishment of overlay districts
      (1)   The establishment of an overlay district shall be a combination of
a zoning text amendment and a zoning map amendment and shall be processed
concurrently. To simplify the process, the public hearings shall be advertised
and held together; when considering the overlay district establishment, the APC
and the legislative body shall consider the recommendations together, the
legislative body's certifications shall be combined, and the adopting
ordinances shall be combined.
      (2)   The APC or any participating legislative body of the jurisdiction
shall only initiate overlay districts. I.C. 36-7-4-602(b) and (c) and I.C. 36-
7-4-607 and 36-7-4-608 shall govern the procedure for the establishment of
overlay districts.
(Ord. 2003-4, passed 2-18-2003)
§ 157.203 ZONING MAP.
   As part of the establishment of overlay districts as set forth above, the
APC shall recommend the boundaries of the overlay districts. Each ordinance
that establishes an overlay district shall authorize the Executive Director to
graphically delineate the overlay district on the zoning maps. Each overlay
district shall be identified on the zoning maps with its boundaries, an
identifying name, and the ordinance number that established the overlay
district.
(Ord. 2003-4, passed 2-18-2003)
§ 157.204 U.S. HIGHWAY 421 - MICHIGAN ROAD CORRIDOR OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose, intent, and authority.
      (1)   It is the purpose of the U.S. Highway 421 - Michigan Road Corridor
Overlay District (the "Overlay District") to promote and protect the public
health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare by providing for
consistent and coordinated treatment of the properties bordering U.S. Highway
421 (also known as Michigan Road) in the unincorporated areas of, Boone County,
Indiana. The Boone County Area Plan Commission ("APC") and Boone County Board
of Commissioners, in establishing this District, do so in compliance with I.C.
36-7-4-600 et. seq. and I.C. 36-7-4-1400 et. seq.
      (2)   It is recognized that U.S. Highway 421 is an important corridor to
Boone County. Therefore, it is the further purpose of the Overlay District to
promote coordinated, quality development per the land use recommendations set
forth in the Comprehensive Plan; to establish basic standards for structures,
landscaping, and other improvements on the properties within the Overlay
District which promote high quality, innovative site design and at the same
time encourage efficient land usage; to establish development standards which
will encourage capital investments for the development of those properties
along and abutting U.S. Highway 421; to promote the steady flow of traffic;
and, to promote the quality, scale and character of development consistent with
the land uses envisioned in the Comprehensive Plan.
      (3)   This Overlay District further seeks to foster development that will
provide this District with a special sense of place that will increase property
values, protect existing residential uses, and attract new businesses. More
specifically, the creation of this special sense of place shall be encouraged
by means of a coordinated set of design principles for buildings, site
planning, landscaping and signs. These principles are intended to guide
individual development activities so that they will work together visually in
support of the common architectural theme described below.
   (B)   District boundaries. The boundaries of the Overlay District are hereby
established as shown on the official zoning maps for Boone County, Indiana. The
boundaries extend 400 feet on either side of the U.S. Highway 421 right-of-way,
as shown on INDOT's plans numbered STP-135-2(008), as they existed on January
17, 2000, for that portion of U.S. Highway 421 south of 121st Street (also
known as Greenfield Road or County Road 550 South) and as it existed on January
1, 2003 for that portion of U.S. Highway 421 north of 121st Street within Boone
County, Indiana. The official zoning maps for Boone County, Indiana are
officially amended by the adoption of this chapter to include the Overlay
District per the boundaries set forth.
   (C)   APC approval. The APC must approve, approve with conditions, or
disapprove the development plan for any tract of land in the Overlay District
per the provisions of §§
157.070 through
157.086, including, without limitation, any proposed development in connection
with a residential subdivision. However, development plan approval by the APC
is not required for single-family dwellings to be constructed on individual
single-family lots within any residential subdivision.
   (D)   Permitted uses. All uses which are permitted in a given site's
underlying primary zoning districts, except those uses expressly excluded in
division (F) below, are permitted in the Overlay District.
   (E)   Permitted special exceptions. All special exceptions, which are
permitted (upon obtaining the grant of a special exception from the Board of
Zoning Appeals) in the underlying primary zoning District(s), except the uses
expressly excluded in division (F) below, are permitted in the Overlay
District.
   (F)   Excluded uses. The following uses are prohibited in the Overlay
District.
      (1)   Adult entertainment businesses;
      (2)   Amusement park;
      (3)   Bulk storage of petroleum products not used for on-site
manufacturing;
      (4)   Car washes;
      (5)   Carnivals, fairs, circuses;
      (6)   Confined feed operations;
      (7)   Disposal of radioactive materials;
      (8)   Drive-through facilities;
      (9)   Fertilizer manufacturing, stock yards, slaughtering, leather curing
and tanning;
      (10)   Flea market;
      (11)   Garbage disposal plant/sanitary landfill;
      (12)   Go-cart track;
      (13)   Grain elevator;
      (14)   Junk or salvage yard;
      (15)   Manufactured home dwelling sales;
      (16)   Mini-warehouses or self-storage facilities;
      (17)   Mobile home court;
      (18)   Off-premise (outdoor advertising) signs (see also division (P)
below);
      (19)   Outdoor storage, with the exception of propane tanks that are for
lease or purchase;
      (20)   Outdoor theatre;
      (21)   Penal or correctional institution;
      (22)   Reclaiming processes involving materials or chemicals that are
considered dangerous to the health, safety, and welfare of the general public
as determined by the State Board of Health or by the Boone County Health
Department;
      (23)   Refining or manufacturing of petroleum products;
      (24)   Refining of manufacturing of asphalt, cement, gypsum, lime, wood
preservatives;
      (25)   Roadside sales stand;
      (26)   Sand and gravel extraction or sales;
      (27)   Truck stop;
      (28)   Warehouses;
      (29)   Water slide.
   (G)   Accessory buildings and uses. All accessory buildings and uses which
are permitted in the underlying primary zoning district(s) shall be permitted,
except that any detached accessory building in any development plan shall be on
all sides the same building proportions, architectural features, construction,
materials, and in general to be architecturally compatible with the primary
building(s) with which it is associated.
   (H)   Minimum lot area. The minimum lot area required within the Overlay
District shall be those dictated by the requirements of the underlying zoning
district. All lots within the Overlay District shall be subject to development
plan approval, with the exception of individual lots for single-family
dwellings, as set forth in division (C) above. For lots located only partially
within the Overlay District, a development plan shall be submitted to the APC
for the entire tract to be developed and the entire tract shall be subject to
the requirements of this section.
   (I)   Height and area requirements.
      (1)   Building height:
         (a)   Minimum: See division (J)(3) below.
         (b)   Maximum: As specified in the primary underlying zoning district.
      (2)   Front yard for parcels with frontage on U.S. Highway 421 right-of-
way:
         (a)   Minimum: 30 feet, measured from the U.S. Highway 421 right-of-
way. This measurement shall include the mandatory 30-foot landscape buffer.
         (b)   Maximum: 120 feet, measured from the U.S. Highway 421 right-of-
way. This measurement shall include the mandatory 30-foot landscape buffer.
      (3)   Minimum side and rear yards: As specified in the primary underlying
zoning district.
      (4)   Gross floor area:
         (a)   All principal business and industrial Buildings shall have a
minimum of 2,500 square feet of gross floor area, excluding the floor area of
any accessory buildings. Accessory buildings need not meet the minimum floor
area requirement.
         (b)   New primary buildings within the area known as Eagle Village,
which is located between 116th and 121st Streets, shall have a minimum of 1,200
square feet of gross floor area, excluding the floor area of any accessory
buildings, and a maximum of 15,000 square feet of gross floor area, excluding
the floor area of any accessory buildings.
         (c)   Primary residential Structures, however, shall meet the minimum
floor area specified in the underlying zoning district.
      (5)   Landscape buffer: There shall be a 30-foot wide landscape buffer
within the front yard of all lots with frontage on U.S. Highway 421.
   (J)   Architectural design requirements. In reviewing the architectural
design of building(s) proposed to be built in the Overlay District, factors to
be considered by the APC shall include but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   Design theme: Buildings shall be designed with an overall theme
consistent with or complementary to the Colonial, Federal, Georgian, Victorian,
or Greek Revival periods. New buildings are not required to be imitative, but
must incorporate the salient features of these architectural styles. Pre-
existing buildings on adjoining lots shall not be a factor in the design of new
buildings.
      (2)   Building proportion: Buildings should avoid long, monotonous,
uninterrupted walls or roof planes.
      (3)   Building height: The height of new primary buildings shall be at
least one and one-half stories, or be designed to appear so from the front and
sides. Retail and office buildings are encouraged to be two stories or more in
height. The minimum height for all buildings shall be 20 feet, either at the
roof line or at the top of the parapet wall. Single-family dwellings shall have
at least 50% of the structure reaching one and one-half stories or 20 feet at
the roof line. New buildings within the area known as Eagle Village, which is
located between 116th and 121st Streets, may have a height of one story or 12
feet, but shall not exceed a maximum height of three stories.
      (4)   Building facades:
         (a)   Facades shall have a defined base or foundation, a middle or
modulated wall, and a top formed by a pitched roof or articulated cornice, in
each instance appropriate to the building style. Buildings with continuous
facades that are 90 feet or greater in width, shall be designed with offsets
(projecting or recessed) not less than eight feet deep, and at intervals of not
greater than 60 feet. New buildings within the area known as Eagle Village,
which is located between 116th and 121st Streets, shall not have a continuous
facade exceeding 50 feet.
         (b)   Facades constructed of more than one material shall only change
material along horizontal or vertical lines (not diagonal lines). For material
changes at the horizontal line, the heavier material shall always be placed
beneath the lighter material. Front and side facades of buildings located on
corner lots shall be of the same materials and similarly detailed.
      (5)   Roofs:
         (a)   Pitched roofs:
            1.   Roofs shall be simply and symmetrically pitched and only in
the configuration of gables and hips, with pitches ranging from 4:12 to 14:12.
            2.   Pitched roofs shall be clad in wood shingles, slate,
composition asphalt shingle or standing-seam metal panels. Shingle or panel
color shall be appropriate to the design of the building.
         (b)   Shed roofs: Shed roofs are permitted only when the ridge is
attached to an exterior wall of a building, with pitches ranging from 4:12 to
14:12.
         (c)   Flat roofs: Flat roofs are permitted when consistent with the
selected style of architecture, if edged by a railing or parapet, and if
rooftop mechanical equipment is either camouflaged on all sides or visually
integrated into the overall design of the building.
         (d)   In no case shall rooftop mechanical equipment be visible from
adjoining Residential Districts or from U.S. Highway 421.
         (e)   All vents, attic ventilators, turbines, flues and other roof
penetrations shall be painted to match the color of the roof, or painted flat
black. Gutters and downspouts shall be appropriate to or visually integrated
with the selected architectural style of the structure.
         (f)   Dormers, belvederes, cupolas and pergolas may be utilized as a
design element, so long as they are designed with the details, proportions,
style, and materials consistent with the buildings selected architectural
design.
      (6)   Entrances:
         (a)   The main building or tenant space pedestrian entrances shall be
defined and articulated by architectural elements such as lintels, pediments,
pilasters, columns, and other design elements appropriate to the selected
architectural style and details of the building as a whole. The location,
orientation, proportion and style of doors shall reflect the chosen style of
the building.
         (b)   Building facades for industrial and warehouse uses shall be
designed with a main entrance and at least two window openings associated with
this doorway.
      (7)   Windows: All window design shall be compatible with the style,
materials, color, details and proportion of the building. The number of panes,
the way it opens, the trim around it and whether it is embellished with
shutters must be consistent with the architectural style of the structure.
      (8)   Awnings: Fixed or retractable awnings are permitted if they
complement a building's architectural style, material, colors, and details; do
not conceal architectural features (such as cornices, columns, pilasters, or
decorative details); do not impair facade composition; and are designed as an
integral part of the facade. Metal, plastic or aluminum awnings are prohibited.
      (9)   Storefronts: Storefronts shall be integrally designed with overall
facade character. Ground floor retail, service and restaurant uses should
generally have large pane display windows; however, they shall not exceed 75%
of the total ground level (first floor) facade area. Buildings with multiple
storefronts shall be of unified design, through the use of common materials,
architectural details, Signs and lighting consistent with the overall building
style.
      (10)   Drive-through service units: Drive-through service units are
prohibited in the Overlay District.
      (11)   Suitability of building materials: In order to create variation
and interest in the built environment, all new buildings or building additions
shall use the exterior building materials specified below. Building materials
shall be consistent with or complementary to those which replicate Colonial,
Federal, Georgian, Victorian and Greek Revival periods of American
architecture, as follows:
         (a)   Exposed foundations shall be constructed of one or more of the
following:
            1.   Brick in a color historically consistent with the
architectural style;
            2.   Stone (limestone, granite, fieldstone, etc.); or
            3.   Split-face block or architectural pre-cast concrete, if
surface looks like brick or stone.
         (b)   Facade walls shall be constructed of any combination of:
            1.   Stone;
            2.   Smooth cut cedar shingles;
            3.   Wood clapboard siding;
            4.   Brick in a color historically consistent with the
architectural style;
            5.   Wood beaded siding; or
            6.   Stucco with smooth finish, or External Insulation and Finish
System (E.I.F.S.); not to exceed 20% of the overall non-window facade area.
         (c)   The exterior building material selection shall be supplemented
by the use of multiple colors, textures (e.g. rough, smooth, striated, etc.) or
architectural elements, (quions, pilasters, soldier courses, friezes, cornices,
dentils, etc.) on facades visible from the street. See also division (S) below.
      (12)   Topography: Design in relation to topography of the site, which
minimizes cut and fill and limits maximum on-site slope to 10%.
      (13)   Landscape design: Design of proposed landscaping in relation to
structures.
      (14)   Consistency with style and period: Overall aesthetics of the
proposed building, including color, are consistent with the architectural style
and period.
      (15)   Building orientation: The primary building(s) shall be oriented to
U.S. Highway 421, so that the front of the building faces the highway. Where
the primary building is designed to have three or more users (such as the case
of multiple lease spaces), a maximum of two uses shall be oriented to U.S.
Highway 421. Accessory buildings (including residential garages, storage
buildings, etc.) shall be located behind the primary building. No primary or
accessory building shall have service doors, garage doors, loading doors, or
similar service entrances opening toward or oriented to U.S. Highway 421.
   (K)   Landscaping requirements.
      (1)   Landscape plan. The applicant shall submit a landscape plan to the
APC as part of the development plan application, per §§
157.070 through
157.086.
      (2)   Areas to be landscaped.
         (a)   Landscape buffer: The 30-foot landscape buffer shall be composed
of grass and landscape areas. The incorporation of walkways and bikeways into
the design is encouraged; however, no parking areas, through roads, buildings,
accessory structures, etc. shall be established within this area.
         (b)   Foundation plantings: Foundation plantings shall be included
along all sides of any building. The minimum width of the planting area shall
be five feet, except that when adjoining a parking area located in the front
yard adjoining U.S. Highway 421, the minimum width shall be ten feet.
         (c)   Peripheral plantings: Minimum side and rear yard landscaping
shall occur per the requirements of the underlying primary zoning district.
         (d)   Parking lots: Per standards specified in division (L)(5) below.
         (e)   Screening areas: All air conditioning units, HVAC systems,
exhaust pipes or stacks, overhead doors, legally non-conforming outside storage
areas, and satellite dishes shall be integrated into the overall building
design or screened from the U.S. Highway 421 right-of-way and adjoining
residential districts or uses, by means of walls, fencing, parapets, penthouse
screens, landscaping, camouflage, or other approved method.
      (3)   Landscaping standards.
         (a)   The interior dimensions, specifications and design of any
planting area or planting median shall be sufficient to protect the landscaping
materials planted therein and to provide for proper growth. The following
minimum interior widths for planting areas shall be used:
            1.   Canopy trees:      9 feet;
            2.   Ornamental trees:   7 feet;
            3.   Shrubs (only):      5 feet.
         (b)   All plant material proposed to be used in accordance with any
landscape plan shall meet the following specifications.
            1.   Shade trees: a minimum trunk diameter of two and one-half
inches at six inches above grade, a minimum height of eight feet, and a
branching height of not less than one-third or more than one-half of tree
height.
            2.   Ornamental trees: a minimum trunk diameter of one and one-half
inches at six inches above grade, a minimum height of six feet, and a branching
height of not less than one-third or more than one-half of tree height.
            3.   Evergreen trees: a minimum height of eight feet, and a width
of not less than three-fifths of the height.
            4.   Deciduous shrubs: a minimum height of 18 inches, no less than
six main branches upon planting, and a mature height no greater than 36 inches.
            5.   Evergreen shrubs: a minimum height and spread of 18 inches,
maximum mature height of 36 inches.
         (c)   Landscape buffer: The primary landscaping materials used in the
landscape buffer shall be shade trees, ornamental trees, shrubs, ground covers
and grass.
            1.   A minimum of three shade trees and one ornamental tree shall
be provided per 100 linear feet of landscape buffer.
            2.   Shade trees planted within the landscape buffer parallel to
the US. Highway 421 right-of-way shall be spaced neither less than 15 feet
apart nor more than 40 feet apart.
            3.   Existing shade trees within the landscape buffer that have a
minimum trunk diameter of four and one-half inches at six inches above grade,
are encouraged to be preserved. For each shade tree that is preserved within
the landscape buffer area, two fewer trees are required to be planted within
the applicable 100 linear feet.
         (d)   Foundation plantings: The primary landscaping materials used
adjacent to buildings shall be shrubs, ground covers, and ornamental grasses.
         (e)   Parking lots:
            1.   Interior landscaping: A minimum of one shade tree and five
shrubs shall be planted within each parking lot for every seven spaces
provided, or not less than 20 trees per acre of parking. However, for buildings
with parking areas located in a front yard, with frontage directly on U.S.
Highway 421, a minimum of one shade tree and five shrubs shall be planted
within each parking lot for every five spaces provided, or not less than 24
trees per acre of parking.
            2.   Parking lot perimeter planting: Where parking areas are
located in the front yard, with frontage directly on U.S. Highway 421, a six-
foot wide perimeter planting area shall be provided along the front and sides
of those areas.
               a.   The required planting unit for this area shall include two
shade trees, three ornamental trees, and 30 shrubs per 100 linear feet.
               b.   The perimeter planting area shall be provided in addition
to the landscape buffer area.
               c.   Existing shade trees within the landscape buffer that have
a minimum trunk diameter of four and one-half inches at six inches above grade,
are encouraged to be preserved. For each shade tree that is preserved within
the landscape buffer area, two fewer trees are required to be planted within
the applicable 100 feet.
            3.   Front and side parking: Parking areas within front and side
yards shall be completely screened from view. Such screening shall be subject
to APC approval.
      (4)   Landscaping installation and maintenance.
         (a)   Installation: All landscaping approved as part of the landscape
plan portion of development plan approval shall be installed prior to the
issuance of a certificate of occupancy. If it is not possible to install the
required landscaping because of weather conditions, the property owner shall
post a bond prior to the issuance of the certificate of occupancy for an amount
equal to 125% of the total installed cost of the required landscaping.
         (b)   Maintenance: It shall be the responsibility of the owners and
their agents to insure proper maintenance of all trees, shrubs and other
landscaping approved as part of the landscape plan portion of development plan
approval in accordance with the standards set by this chapter. This is to
include, but is not limited to, replacing dead plantings with identical
varieties or a suitable substitute approved by the APC, irrigation and mulching
of planting areas, and keeping the area free of refuse, debris, rank vegetation
and weeds.
         (c)   Changes after approval: See §§
157.070 through
157.086.
         (d)   Inspection: The APC or its designee may visit any tract within
the Overlay District to inspect the landscaping and check it against the
approved plan on file.
   (L)   Parking requirements.
      (1)   Parking spaces required, and the dimensions of those parking
spaces: see division (Q) below.
      (2)   Landscaping standards: see division (K) above.
      (3)   Parking lots shall be designed to provide coordinated access to
parking areas on adjoining tracts or parcels within the Overlay District,
preferably via a frontage road network. Sites utilizing front-loaded parking
areas shall provide for continuous access across the rear of the site to
adjoining tracts or parcels. As part of the development plan submission, the
petitioner shall provide a site circulation plan that illustrates to the APC
how coordinated access will occur relative to the overall U.S. Highway 421
Corridor.
      (4)   All parking areas and drives (including residential driveways)
shall be paved with asphalt or concrete. Brick pavers or other decorative
pavements may be used as accents in parking area design. Poured-in-place
concrete curbs shall be used.
      (5)   Parking within front yard setbacks shall be discouraged and limited
to a maximum of two rows of the total required parking, except that within the
area known as Eagle Village, which is located between 116th and 121st Streets,
there shall be a maximum of one row of parking. Parking within the front yard
setbacks shall be subject to minimum landscape buffer width, minimum bufferyard
requirements and maximum building setback standards.
   (M)   Lighting requirements.
      (1)   Lighting plan: A lighting plan for the proposed development
(excluding single-family development) shall be filed as part of the development
plan application, per §§
157.070 through
157.086.
      (2)   Design: All lighting standards, including those on buildings,
security lights and architectural lights within the development area shall be
of uniform design and materials. Parking lot streetlights shall also be of
uniform height not to exceed 24 feet. Poles for such lights shall have a
minimum diameter of six inches for poles up to 12 feet in height and a minimum
of eight inches diameter for poles between 12 and 24 feet in height. Luminaries
for such lights shall be in proportion to the pole diameter and height. All
lights within gas station canopies and adjacent to residential areas shall be
of a "down lighting" type with the light element completely shielded on all
sides and top. The APC may approve decorative lighting should it be more
appropriate to the overall site design.
      (3)   Intensity: Lighting shall not cause illumination beyond any
residential lot line or street right-of-way line in excess of 0.1-foot candles
of light. Lighting shall not cause illumination beyond any non-residential
tract or parcel line or street right-of-way line in excess of 0.3-foot candles
of light.
   (N)   Access to individual tracts. The purpose of this section is to make
the closing of all curb cuts along U.S. Highway 421 possible by establishing a
common access road to the rear parking lots of all tracts within the Overlay
District. Frontage streets and common entrances shared by several properties
and developments shall be strongly encouraged, especially in those cases where
tracts can be accessed via connection to a primary or secondary arterial
street, local street, or adjoining parking lot. The APC shall encourage maximum
distances between curb cuts to U.S. Highway 421 in cooperation with the Indiana
Department of Transportation. Bicycle and pedestrian circulation to and through
the site shall be coordinated with vehicular access, landscape buffer design,
and parking.
   (O)   Other requirements.
      (1)   Trash collection: Trash collection and recycling areas shall be
enclosed and screened on all sides, with a minimum six-foot tall opaque wall.
Trash collection and recycling areas shall be in the rear of all buildings.
      (2)   Loading areas: Loading areas and trash collection areas shall be
permitted per the needs of the business establishments and shall be identified
on the development plan. Loading spaces and overhead doors shall face to the
rear of all buildings. Should a loading space be located adjacent to or visible
from a public right-of-way, or established on the side of a building through
any circumstance, it shall be screened per APC approval.
      (3)   Emergency access: All emergency access areas and facilities shall
be shown on the site plan and reviewed by the applicable fire department.
      (4)   Signs: A sign plan for the proposed development shall be submitted
to the APC for its approval as part of the development plan application. Signs
for each proposed use shall be uniform in character as to color and
architectural design as approved by the APC. Should a development plan-approved
sign plan be replaced with a new design, the amended sign plan must go before
the APC for review and approval. Individual signs that conform to both this
chapter and to the approved sign plan shall not require further approval,
however, such signs shall require an improvement location permit.
      (5)   Conforming uses: A development plan shall be submitted to the APC
for its approval when a legally established nonconforming use is changed to a
conforming use and when either:
         (a)   Any new building is to be constructed; or
         (b)   Any existing building or site development (including addition of
parking lot) is expanded by more than 30%.
      (6)   Nonconforming uses: A development plan shall be submitted to the
APC for its approval when a legally established nonconforming use is altered as
follows:
         (a)   A building has been more than 60% destroyed.
         (b)   Any expansion of a building or site development (including
addition of parking lot). Normal maintenance and repair is exempt from the
development plan approval requirement.
         (c)   If property or building is vacant for more than one year.
   (P)   Off-premise (outdoor advertising) signs. Off-premise signs will not be
allowed in the U.S. 421 Overlay District.
   (Q)   Application procedure. See §§
157.070 through
157.086.
   (R)   Validity of approval of the application by the APC. An approved
development plan petition shall be valid for two years from the date of
approval. If construction of the building(s) has (have) not started at the end
of the two-year period, the development plan request shall be re-submitted to
the APC for consideration and disposition.
   (S)   Waiver of development requirements.
      (1)   Building materials findings: The APC may grant a waiver of the
building materials development requirements of division (J)(11) above and
approve the use of alternate exterior building materials on any facade of a
building upon finding that:
         (a)   The building materials utilized represent an innovative use of
said materials which enhance the overall aesthetic exterior character of the
building and will not be detrimental to the use or value of area properties;
         (b)   The building materials utilized are appropriate when compared to
the building materials utilized on other buildings on the site and surrounding
sites;
         (c)   The building materials utilized are consistent with and
compatible with other building materials utilized on, and with the overall
exterior character of, other buildings and development located along the
street; and
         (d)   The building materials utilized are consistent with the intent
and purpose of this chapter.
      (2)   Architectural design findings: The APC may grant a waiver of the
architectural design requirements of division (J) above and approve an
architectural design which does not incorporate the overall theme or
incorporate the architecture, design and overall aesthetic exterior character
of a building consistent with the Georgian, Federal, Greek Revival, or
Victorian architectural styles upon finding that:
         (a)   The architectural design represents an innovative use of
building materials or design, or site design features which will not be
detrimental to the use or value of area properties;
         (b)   The proposed building is appropriate when compared to the
architecture, design and overall exterior character of other buildings on the
site and surrounding sites;
         (c)   The building design is consistent with and compatible with other
development located along the street; and
         (d)   The proposed building is consistent with the intent and purpose
of this chapter.
(Ord. 2003-4, passed 2-18-2003)
§ 157.205 I-65 INTERSTATE 65 SOUTH CORRIDOR OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose, intent and authority. The purpose of the Interstate 65 South
Corridor Overlay District is to promote and protect the public health, safety,
comfort, convenience and general welfare by providing for consistent and
coordinated treatment of the properties bordering Interstate 65, Boone County,
Indiana, from the City of Lebanon south to the county border. The Area Plan
Commission (APC), in establishing this district, are relying on I.C. 36-7-4-600
et seq. and I.C. 36-7-4-1400 et seq. This zoning district is, likewise,
intended to serve as a tool for implementing the development policies and
guidelines set for the Corridor in the Comprehensive Plan. Interstate 65 is a
limited access interstate highway and an important business corridor to Boone
County. The I-65 South Corridor is a premier office and industrial business
location and employment center whose viability, quality, and character are
important to the community as a whole, adjacent residents, employees, business
owners, and taxing districts. Therefore, it is the further purpose of the I-65
South Overlay District to preserve the aesthetic qualities of those bordering
properties through:
      (1)   The promotion of coordinated development in the I-65 South Overlay
District;
      (2)   The establishment of high standards for buildings, landscaping, and
other improvements constructed on the properties within the I-65 South Overlay
District which permit innovative site designs and at the same time encourage
efficient land usage; and
      (3)   The establishment of development requirements which will encourage
substantial capital investments for the development of those properties and
promote the quality, scale, and character of development consistent with the
Corridor's existing and planned uses. This section further seeks to foster
development that will provide this district with a special sense of place that
will increase property values, protect real estate investment, spur commercial
activity, and attract new businesses. More specifically, the creation of this
special sense of place shall be encouraged by means of a coordinated set of
design principles for buildings, site planning, landscaping and signage. These
principles are intended to guide individual development activities so that they
will work together visually in support of the common architectural theme
described below.
   (B)   District boundaries. The boundaries of the I-65 South Overlay District
are hereby established as follows:
      (1)   Beginning at the Boone County/Marion County border, 600 feet east
of the Interstate 65 right-of-way, proceeding northwest, parallel with
Interstate 65 at a distance of 600 feet from the Interstate 65 right-of-way, to
a point measuring 600 feet from the right-of-way of State Road 334, proceeding
east, parallel with State Road 334 at a distance of 600 feet to the State Road
334 right-of way, to a point measuring 2,640 feet from the Interstate 65 right-
of-way, extending north, across State Road 334 to a point measuring 600 feet
north of the State Road 334 right of way, proceeding west, parallel to State
Road 334 at a distance of 600 feet to the State Road 334 right-of way, to a
point measuring 600 feet from the Interstate 65 right-of-way, proceeding
northwest parallel to Interstate 65 at a distance of 600 feet from the
Interstate 65 right-of-way, to a point measuring 600 feet from the right-of-way
of CR 400 S., proceeding east, parallel with CR 400 S. at a distance of 600
feet from the CR 400 S. right-of-way, to a point measuring 2,640 feet from the
Interstate 65 right-of-way, extending north, across CR 400 S. to a point
measuring 600 feet north of the CR 400 S. right of way, proceeding west,
parallel to CR 400 S. at a distance of 600 feet to the CR 400 S. right-of way,
to a point measuring 600 feet from the CR 400 E. right-of-way, proceeding
north, parallel with CR 400 E. at a distance of 600 feet to the CR 400 E.
right-of way, to a point measuring 2,640 feet from the Interstate 65 right-of-
way, extending west across CR 400 E. to a point measuring 600 feet west of the
CR 400 E. right-of-way, proceeding south, parallel with CR 400 E. at a distance
of 600 feet to the CR 400 E. right-of way, to a point measuring 600 feet from
the Interstate 65 right-of-way, proceeding northwest, parallel to Interstate 65
at a distance of 600 feet from the Interstate 65 right-of-way to the corporate
limits of the City of Lebanon.
      (2)   Beginning at the Boone County/Marion County border, 600 feet west
of the Interstate 65 right-of-way, proceeding northwest, parallel with
Interstate 65 at either a) a distance of 600 feet from the Interstate 65 right-
of-way or b) the center line of Indianapolis Road, whichever is the greater
distance from the Interstate 65 right-of-way, to a point measuring 600 feet
from the CR 650 S. right-of-way, proceeding west, parallel with CR 650 S. at a
distance of 600 feet to a point measuring 2,640 feet from the Interstate 65
right-of-way, extending north across CR 650 S. to a point measuring 600 feet
north of the CR 650 S. right-of-way, proceeding east, parallel to CR 650 S. at
a distance of 600 feet, to the center line of Indianapolis Road, proceeding
northwest, along the center line of Indianapolis Road, to a point measuring 600
feet from the State Road 267 right-of-way, proceeding south, parallel with
State Road 267 at a distance of 600 feet from the State Road 267 right-of-way,
extending west across State Road 267 to a point measuring 600 feet west of the
State Road 267 right-of-way, proceeding north, parallel to State Road 267 at a
distance of 600 feet, to the center line of Indianapolis Road, proceeding
northwest, parallel with Interstate 65 at either a) a distance of 600 feet from
the Interstate 65 right-of-way or b) the center line of Indianapolis Road,
whichever is the greater distance from the Interstate 65 right-of-way, to the
corporate limits of the City of Lebanon.
   (C)   APC approval. Except as hereafter provided, the APC must approve,
approve with conditions, or disapprove the development plan for any commercial
(office or retail) or industrial use of any tract of land in the Overlay
District, per the provisions of §§
157.070 through
157.086. A public hearing shall be held by the APC before it decides whether to
approve or disapprove a development plan. However, no development plan is
required for, and the provisions of this section shall not be applicable to:
      (1)   Additions to existing structures which:
         (a)   Are attached to the existing structure;
         (b)   Continue the architectural design of the existing structure,
including exterior color and materials; doors and windows, other detailing;
         (c)   Meet with requirements of the underlying primary zoning
district;
         (d)   Do not exceed 30% of the original gross floor area of the
existing structure, applicable from the effective date of this ordinance, and
         (e)   Have received a prior development plan approval from the APC.
      (2)   Buildings or structures to be constructed on lots that are part of
a commercial or industrial subdivision receiving primary plat approval by the
APC prior to the effective date of this section.
   (D)   Permitted uses. All uses which are permitted in the underlying primary
zoning district(s), except the uses expressly excluded by division (F) below,
are permitted in the I-65 South Overlay District.
   (E)   Permitted special uses. All special uses which are permitted (upon
obtaining a special use approval from the Board) in the underlying primary
zoning district(s), except the uses expressly excluded in division (F) below,
are permitted in the Overlay District.
   (F)   Excluded uses. The following uses will not be permitted in the I-65
South Overlay District:
      (1)   Confined feeding;
      (2)   Junk yard;
      (3)   Manufacturing, use, or storage of explosives;
      (4)   Slaughter house;
      (5)   Sanitary landfill;
      (6)   Restricted waste site;
      (7)   Adult entertainment business;
      (8)   Any other uses excluded by the underlying primary zoning district.
   (G)   Accessory buildings and uses. All accessory buildings and uses which
are permitted in the underlying primary zoning district(s) shall be permitted,
except that any attached or detached accessory building in any development plan
shall have on all sides the same building proportions, architectural features,
construction materials, and in general be architecturally compatible with the
principal building(s) with which it is associated.
   (H)   Minimum tract size. The minimum tract size allowed within the Overlay
District is 130,680 square feet (three acres). A parcel that is less than three
acres will be allowed only if it is part of a development plan that includes
land totaling more than three acres. For tracts located only partially within
the Overlay District, a development plan shall be submitted to the APC for the
entire tract to be developed. If a parcel of land or subdivision lot was
recorded prior to the effective date of this overlay, and said parcel or lot
does not contain the minimum area required by this paragraph, said parcel or
lot (undersized lot) may be used for any use permitted in the Overlay District
provided that all other development requirements applicable to the Overlay
District can be met. This paragraph does not preclude the sale or other
transfer of any parcel of land within a tract after the approval of a
development plan for the entire tract. However, the development of the parcel
must still conform to the development plan for the entire tract as approved or
amended by the APC, and all other applicable requirements contained in this
chapter.
   (I)   Height and yard requirements. The purpose of this section is to
provide site design requirements that align buildings along the edges of a
parcel, towards the public right-of-way of the Interstate 65 South Corridor. It
is the intent of these regulations to orient new office and retail buildings
with their longest axis parallel to the adjoining highway or street to create a
sense of enclosure along the streets, with parking located to the rear, and, if
necessary, to the side of a building.
      (1)   Building height:
         (a)   Minimum: The height of new principal buildings shall be at least
one and one-half stories, or be designed to appear so from the front and sides.
Retail and office buildings are encouraged to be two stories or more in height,
with office or residential uses on the second floor. The minimum height for all
buildings shall be 20 feet, either at the roofline or at the top of the parapet
wall.
         (b)   Maximum: As specified in primary underlying zoning district.
      (2)   Front yard: As specified in the development standards of the
underlying primary zoning district in which the site is located.
      (3)   Minimum side and rear yards: As specified in the development
standards of the underlying primary zoning district in which the site is
located.
      (4)   Minimum gross floor area: All principal commercial buildings shall
have a minimum of 2,500 square feet of gross floor area, excluding the floor
area of any basement or any accessory buildings. Accessory buildings need not
meet the minimum floor area requirement.
      (5)   Primary structure orientation: The façades of all primary
structures located within the I-65 South Overlay District and facing and
parallel to Interstate 65 or Indianapolis Road, or any other primary
thoroughfare identified by the Boone County Comprehensive Plan, shall contain
at least one main building entrance of the type described in division (J)(4)
below. Unless otherwise approved by the APC, loading docks shall not be located
on a façade facing and parallel to Interstate 65 or Indianapolis Road, or any
other primary thoroughfare identified by the Boone County Comprehensive Plan.
   (J)   Architectural design requirements. A required development plan shall
depict the architectural design of building(s) to be constructed in the
development subject thereto. In reviewing such architectural design, the APC
shall consider the following factors:
      (1)   Building design: Evaluation of the appearance of a project shall be
based on the quality of its design and relationship to surroundings. New
buildings are not required to be imitative, but must incorporate the desired
salient features. Pre-existing buildings on adjoining tracts shall not be a
factor in the design of new buildings unless they are consistent with the
architectural objectives of the Overlay District.
      (2)   Building façades: To avoid long, monotonous, uninterrupted walls or
roof planes, building façades 90 feet or greater in width shall incorporate
changes in pattern, texture or color. Façades constructed of more than one
material shall only change material along a horizontal or vertical line (not a
diagonal line). In the case of a change along a horizontal line, the heavier
material shall always be placed beneath the lighter material. Front and side
façades of buildings located on corner lots or parcels shall be of the same
materials and similarly detailed.
      (3)   Roofs: Flat roofs shall be edged by a railing or parapet and
rooftop mechanical equipment shall either be camouflaged on all sides or
visually integrated into the overall design of the building. In no case shall
rooftop mechanical equipment be visible from adjoining residential zones or
uses.
      (4)   Entrances: Building entrances shall be defined and articulated by
architectural elements such as lintels, pediments, pilasters, columns, and
other design elements appropriate to the architectural style and details of the
building as a whole. The location, orientation, proportion and style of doors
must faithfully reflect the chosen style of the building. Building façades for
industrial and warehouse uses shall be designed with a main entrance and at
least two window openings associated with this doorway.
      (5)   Windows: All window design shall be compatible with the style,
materials, color, details and proportion of the building. The number of panes,
the way it opens, the trim around it and whether it is embellished with
shutters must be consistent with the architectural style of the structure.
      (6)   Awnings: Fixed or retractable awnings are permitted if they
complement a building's architectural style, material, colors, and details; do
not conceal architectural features (such as cornices, columns, pilasters, or
decorative details); do not impair façade composition; and are designed as an
integral part of the façade.
       (7)   Additional requirements for retail and commercial buildings: The
following additional requirements shall be applicable to any buildings in the
I-65 South Overlay District having office and retail as the principal use:
         (a)   Storefronts: Storefronts shall be integrally designed with
overall facade character. Ground floor retail, service and restaurant uses
should generally have large pane display windows, however, they shall not
exceed 75% of the total ground level (first floor) facade area. Buildings with
multiple storefronts shall be of unified design, through the use of common
materials, architectural details, signage and lighting consistent with the
overall building style.
         (b)   Drive-thru windows: Drive-thru windows shall be designed as a
related, integrated architectural element and part of the overall design
composition of the building. Stacking for drive-thru lanes shall be confined to
the side or rear of the tract or parcel with outlet from such lines also being
to the rear of the building. Lines for drive-thru facilities shall not be
permitted along the front and sides of structures within the Overlay District,
nor permitted to spill onto adjoining properties.
         (c)   Roofs: Except as hereinafter provided, roofs shall be simply and
symmetrically pitched and only in the configuration of gables and hips, with
pitches ranging from 4:12 to 14:12. Shed roofs are permitted only when the
ridge is attached to an exterior wall of a building, and shall conform to pitch
between 14:12 and 4:12. Flat roofs are permitted when consistent with the style
of architecture, and if they meet the requirements of division (J)(3) above.
Pitched roofs shall be clad in wood shingles, slate, composition asphalt
shingle or standing-seam metal panels. Asphalt shingles shall be colored to
resemble gray slate; standing-seam panels may be either gray, black, dark blue,
dark green or barn red. Dormers if appropriate to the style shall be designed
with the correct details, proportion and style consistent with the overall
building composition, and roofed with symmetrical gable, hip or barrel roofs.
Belvederes, cupolas, and pergolas are permitted if appropriate to the style,
well proportioned, and fully detailed. All vents, attic ventilators, turbines,
flues and others roof penetrations must be painted to match the color of the
roof or flat black, except those made of metal which may be left natural.
Gutters and downspouts shall be appropriate to or visually integrated with the
architectural style of the structure.
      (8)   Suitability of exterior building materials: Unless otherwise
approved by the APC, exterior building materials shall be as follows:
         (a)   Exposed foundation shall be constructed of one or more of the
following:
            1.   Red brick;
            2.   Stone (limestone, granite, fieldstone, etc.);
            3.   Split-face block or architectural pre-cast concrete, if
surface looks like brick or stone.
         (b)   Façade walls of buildings (other than industrial buildings and
warehouse facilities, including self-storage and mini-warehouse uses) shall be
constructed of one or more of the following materials:
            1.   Red brick or stone;
            2.   Smooth cut cedar shingles;
            3.   Wood clapboard siding;
            4.   Wood beaded siding;
            5.   Stucco with smooth finish, or dryvit (or equivalent), not to
exceed 20% of the overall non-window façade area;
            6.   Architectural metal panels;
            7.   Glass (up to 75% of the façade area); and
            8.   Ornamental metal.
         (c)   Façade walls of industrial buildings and warehouse facilities,
including self-storage and mini-warehouse uses, visible from Interstate 65
shall be constructed of one or more of:
            1.   Red brick façades trimmed with split-faced aggregate block (of
a color and texture resembling Indiana limestone), provided that it also
includes red brick accents (such as windowsills, lintels above windows and
doorways, building corners, parapet coping, etc.).
            2.   Split-face aggregate block (of a color and texture resembling
Indiana limestone) provided that it also incorporates red brick accents.
            3.   Pre-cast concrete wall panels of a color and texture
resembling either red brick or Indiana limestone, provided the building design
also incorporates architecturally appropriate details of contrasting color and
material.
            4.   Architectural metal panels;
            5.   Glass (up to 75% of the façade area); and
            6.    Ornamental metal.
         (d)   The use of accent and trim elements (accent panels, banding,
cornices, canopies/awnings, etc.) is recommended to add visual interest and
break down the scale of facades. Permitted building trim materials include:
brick, clay, stone, simulated cut stone, tile (ceramic or porcelain), wood,
glass, painted aluminum and formed polymers.
      (9)   Color: Colors used on building facades must be complementary.
Natural, muted colors (earth tones or neutral colors) should serve as the
primary façade color, with brighter colors used only as accents.
   (K)   Landscaping plan; required screening.
      (1)   Landscaping plan: The applicant shall submit a landscaping plan as
part of the development plan to the APC. This plan shall be drawn to scale,
including dimensions and distances; shall delineate all existing and proposed
structures, private parking areas, walks, ramps for the handicapped, terraces,
driveways, signs, lighting standards, steps, storm water facilities and other
similar structures; and shall delineate the location, size and description of
all landscape material and the method to be used for the watering or irrigation
of all planting areas. Landscape treatment for plazas, roads, paths, service
and private parking areas and storm water areas shall be designed as an
integral and coordinated part of the landscaping plan for the entire site. The
landscaping plan shall be consistent with the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Screening: All air conditioning units, HVAC systems, exhaust pipes
or stacks, overhead doors, outside storage areas (where permitted by the
underlying zoning district), trash collection areas, and satellite dishes shall
be integrated into the overall building design or screened from view from
Interstate 65 or adjoining residential zones or uses using:
         (a)   Walls, fencing, parapets or screens architecturally compatible
with the principal building(s) with which they are associated;
         (b)   landscaping) or camouflage; or
         (c)   Other approved method.
      (3)   Landscaping installation and maintenance:
         (a)   Installation: All landscaping approved as part of the
landscaping and/or development plan shall be installed prior to the issuance of
a certificate of occupancy by the Department.
         (b)   Maintenance: It shall be the responsibility of the owners and
their agents to insure proper maintenance of all trees, shrubs and other
landscaping approved as part of the landscaping and development plans in
accordance with the standards set by this chapter. This is to include, but is
not limited to, replacing dead plantings with identical varieties or a suitable
substitute, irrigation and mulching of planting areas, and keeping the area
free of refuse, debris, rank vegetation and weeds.
         (c)   Changes after approval: No landscaping which has been approved
by the APC may later be substantially altered, eliminated or sacrificed without
first obtaining further APC approval. However, minor material alterations in
landscaping may be approved by the Executive Director in order to conform to
specific site conditions.
         (d)   Inspection: The Executive Director, or authorized agent thereof,
may visit any tract within the Overlay District to inspect the landscaping and
check it against the approved plan on file.
    (L)   Parking requirements. See §
157.204(Q).
    (M)   Lighting requirements.
      (1)   Lighting plan: A lighting plan, meeting the following standards,
for the proposed development shall be filed as part of the development plan.
      (2)   Design: All lighting standards, including those on buildings,
security lights and architectural lights within the development area shall be
of uniform design and materials. Parking lot and streetlights shall also be of
uniform height not to exceed 30 feet. Luminaries for such lights shall be in
proportion to the pole diameter and height. All lights within gas station
canopies and adjacent to residential areas shall be of a "down lighting" type
with the light element completely shielded on all sides and top. The APC may
approve decorative lighting should it be more appropriate to the overall site
design.
      (3)   Intensity: Lighting shall not cause illumination beyond any
residential lot line or road right-of-way line in excess of 0.1 footcandle of
light. Lighting shall not cause illumination beyond any non-residential tract
or parcel line or road right-of-way line in excess of 0.3 footcandle of light.
   (N)   Loading berths. Loading berths and trash collection areas shall be
permitted per the needs of the business establishments and shall be identified
on the development plan. Loading berths and overhead doors shall be encouraged
to face to the rear of all buildings. Should a loading berth be located
adjacent to or visible from a public right-of-way, it shall be screened per APC
approval.
   (O)   Emergency access. All emergency access areas and facilities shall be
shown on the site plan and reviewed by the location appropriate Fire Chief
(Center Township, Worth Township, Perry Township, Zionsville).
   (P)   Access to individual lots. The streets that are considered by their
functional nature as primary thoroughfares, must have reasonable restrictions
as to the number and location of access points within the Overlay Zone.
Interstate 65 represents a total barrier to east-west streets. Therefore, in
order to provide safe and efficient traffic movement to and from adjacent lands
and to protect the functional integrity of the corridor's primary
thoroughfares, in many cases the building of frontage roads, access roads, or
distributor roads will be required. Such roads shall be coordinated with those
of contiguous lots and designed to preserve the aesthetic benefits provided by
greenbelt and other landscaped areas. Access at the side or rear of buildings
is to be encouraged. New access points onto the primary thoroughfare in the
corridor shall be coordinated with existing access points whenever possible.
   (Q)   Signs.
      (1)   On-premise signs: A sign plan for the proposed development shall be
submitted to the APC as part of the development plan. Signs for each proposed
use shall be uniform in character as to color and architectural design as
approved by the APC. Should an approved sign plan be replaced with a new
design, the amended sign plan must go before the APC for review and approval.
Individual signs which conform to both the sign ordinance and to the approved
sign plan shall not require further approval, however, such signs shall require
a sign permit.
      (2)   Off-premise (outdoor advertising) signs:
         (a)   Off-premise signs will not be allowed in the I-65 Overlay
District. This shall not prohibit incidental signs located at the entrances to
commercial or industrial subdivisions.
   (R)   Conforming uses. A development plan shall be submitted to the APC for
its approval when a legal non-conforming use is changed to a conforming use and
when either:
      (1)   Any new building is to be constructed; or
      (2)   Any existing building or site development (including addition of
parking lot) is expanded by more than 30%.
   (S)   Non-conforming uses. A development plan shall be submitted to the APC
for its approval when a legal non-conforming use is altered as follows:
      (1)   A building has been more than 60% destroyed.
      (2)   Any expansion of a building or site development (including addition
of parking lot). Normal maintenance and repair is exempt from the development
plan approval requirement.
      (3)   If property or building is vacated for more than one year.
   (T)   Waiver of development requirements.
      (1)   Building materials findings: The APC may grant a waiver of the
building materials development requirements of division (J)(8) approve the use
of alternate exterior building materials on any facade of a building upon
finding that:
         (a)   The building materials utilized represent an innovative use of
said materials which enhance the overall aesthetic exterior character of the
building and will not be detrimental to the use or value of area properties;
         (b)   The building materials utilized are appropriate when compared to
the building materials utilized on other buildings on the site and surrounding
sites;
         (c)   The building materials utilized are consistent with and
compatible with other building materials utilized on, and with the overall
exterior character of, other buildings and development located along the
street; and the building materials utilized are consistent with the intent and
purpose of this chapter.
   (U)   Architectural design findings.
      (1)   The APC may grant a waiver of the architectural design requirements
of division (J) above and approve an architectural design which does not meet
the requirements of said section upon finding that:
         (a)   The architectural design represents an innovative use of
building materials or design, or site design features which will not be
detrimental to the use or value of area properties;
         (b)   The proposed building is appropriate when compared to the
architecture, design and overall exterior character of other buildings on the
site and surrounding sites;
         (c)   The building design is consistent with and compatible with other
development located along the street; and
         (d)   The proposed building is consistent with the intent and purpose
of this chapter.
      (2)   The APC may also grant a waiver of the dimensional standards of
this section, beginning with division (H) above.
(Ord. 2003-4, passed 2-18-2003)
APPENDIX A: FEE SCHEDULE
Agricultural
                                                                  $.05 per
                                                                  square foot
Farm buildings                                                    of floor
                                                                  area, maximum
                                                                  of $50.
Residential
                                                                  $200 base
                                                                  fee, plus
                                                                  $.10 per
                                                                  square foot
Single-family dwelling or two-family dwelling                     of floor area
                                                                  (excluding
                                                                  garage, attic
                                                                  areas and the
                                                                  like).
Multi-family dwelling (3 or more units)                           $225 per
                                                                  unit.
                                                                  $.10 per
                                                                  square foot
Accessory structures, attached and detached garages               of floor
                                                                  area, minimum
                                                                  $100.
                                                                  $55 base fee,
                                                                  plus $.10 per
Additions                                                         square foot
                                                                  of floor
                                                                  area.
                                                                  $40 base fee,
                                                                  plus $.10 per
Interior remodel                                                  square foot
                                                                  of floor
                                                                  area.
Swimming pool                                                     $175.
                                                                  $155 for the
                                                                  first two
                                                                  years, $300
Temporary mobile home                                             per year
                                                                  after the
                                                                  first 2
                                                                  years.
Permit for decks, porches, gazebos, and pergolas                  $50.
Home occupation permit                                            $100 per home
                                                                  occupation.
Commercial and Industrial
                                                                  $350 base
                                                                  fee, plus
Commercial and industrial structures                              $.10 per
                                                                  square foot
                                                                  of floor
                                                                  area.
                                                                  $75 base fee,
                                                                  plus $.10 per
Interior remodel                                                  square foot
                                                                  of floor
                                                                  area.
                                                                  $.10 per
                                                                  square foot
Accessory structures and additions                                of floor
                                                                  area, minimum
                                                                  $140.
Commercial and industrial demolition permit                       $100 per
                                                                  building.
Other Structure Fees and Fines
                                                                  $200 base,
                                                                  plus $.10 per
                                                                  square foot
                                                                  of floor
                                                                  area.
                                                                  Additions,
                                                                  accessory
Church, school, library, museum, private recreation and the like  structures
                                                                  and interior
                                                                  remodels
                                                                  should follow
                                                                  commercial
                                                                  and
                                                                  industrial
                                                                  fees
                                                                  respectively.
Change in electrical service                                      $65.
                                                                  $9 per
Parking structure                                                 parking
                                                                  space.
                                                                  $50
                                                                  residential
Re-inspection                                                     and
                                                                  agricultural
                                                                  buildings.
                                                                  $2.50 per
                                                                  square foot
Sign                                                              of marketable
                                                                  area per
                                                                  visible face,
                                                                  minimum $100.
                                                                  The amount of
                                                                  the permit in
Early bird fine (start of construction prior to permit issuance)  addition to
                                                                  the cost of
                                                                  the permit
                                                                  issued.
                                                                  $250 per
Cell tower permit                                                 cellular
                                                                  communication
                                                                  tower.
Appeals, Special Exceptions, Variances, Exclusions and Zoning Amendments
                                                                  $500 base
Zoning amendment (change of zoning classification or text)        fee, plus $50
                                                                  per acre.
                                                                  $500 base
Zoning amendment for commercial/industrial (map amendment)        fee, plus $50
                                                                  per acre.
                                                                  $500 base
Zoning amendment for residential subdivision (map amendment)      fee, plus $25
                                                                  per acre.
                                                                  $275 ($650
                                                                  for mineral
                                                                  extraction,
                                                                  sanitary
                                                                  landfill,
                                                                  waste
Special exception                                                 transfer
                                                                  statio,
                                                                  hotel,
                                                                  shopping
                                                                  center,
                                                                  mobile home
                                                                  park or
                                                                  junkyard).
                                                                  $500 base
Special exception for cell tower                                  fee, plus $10
                                                                  per foot in
                                                                  height.
Special exception for commercial and industrial use               $500.
Variance                                                          $275.
                                                                  5 times the
                                                                  cost of the
                                                                  approved
Variance fine (variance required because construction did not     building
occur as per approved site plan)                                  permit in
                                                                  addition to
                                                                  the cost of
                                                                  the variance.
Variances for commercial and industrial uses with associated      $500 base
waivers                                                           fee, plus $50
                                                                  per waiver.
Application being processed for an appeal of the APC Director’s $50.
decision
Plats and Change of Development Plan
Minor subdivision (primary and secondary plat)                    $350.
Concept plan (placard)                                            $200 per
                                                                  concept plan.
                                                                  $650 base
Primary or secondary plat for major residential subdivisions      fee, plus $20
                                                                  per lot.
                                                                  $700 base
Primary or secondary plat for major commercial subdivisions       fee, plus $20
                                                                  per lot.
Change in development plan                                        $500, plus
                                                                  $50 per acre.
                                                                  $300 flat
Plat amendment application                                        fee, plus
                                                                  $100 per lot.
 
Miscellaneous
Planned unit development application $1,000 flat fee, plus $20 per acre.
Use classification                   $200.
File retrieval fee                   $25 per hour.
Director's report on prior ordinance $40 per hour.
determinations
                                     Black and White
                                     8 ½ x 11      $0.10/page
                                     8½ x 14      $0.10/page
                                     11 x 17         $0.25/page
                                     18 x 24         $1.00/page
Copy fees for research               24 x 36         $1.50/page
                                     36 x 48         $3.00/page
                                     Color
                                     8 ½ x 11      $0.50/page
                                     8½ x 14      $0.50/page
                                     11 x 17         $1.00/page
 
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998; Am. Ord. 2001-5, passed 1-2-2001; Am. Ord.
2006-6, passed 5-6-2006; Am. Ord. 2010-11, passed 11-15-2010; Am. Ord. 2012-06,
passed 7-2-2012)
APPENDIX B: PLANT MATERIALS RECOMMENDED FOR BUFFERYARDS
Scientific Name Common Name Soil Type Growth Rate
Scientific Name Common Name   Soil Type                                                                                                                     Growth Rate
                              Hydric                                    Mesic                                     Xeric                                     Fast                                      Slow
Canopy Trees
                              [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Acer spp.       Maple         e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                           e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                              IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
Aeaculus        Common                                                  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                                                            [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
hippocastanum   Horsechestnut                                           e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                                                                     e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                                                          IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
Ailanthus       Tree of       [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
altiasima       Heaven        e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                              IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
                                                                        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Betula app.     Birch                                                   e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                           e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
                                                                        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                                                            [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Carya app.      Hickory                                                 e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                                                                     e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                                                          IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
                Northern                                                [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Catalpa app.    Catalpa                                                 e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                           e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
Celtic          Common        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
occidentalia    Hackberry     e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                           e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                              IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
Fagus           American                                                [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                                                            [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
grandifolia     Beech                                                   e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                                                                     e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                                                          IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
                                                                        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Fraxinus app.   Ash                                                     e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                           e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
                                                                        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Ginkgo biloba   Ginkgo Tree                                             e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                           e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
                              [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Gleditsia app.  Honeylocust   e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                              IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
Gymnociadus     Kentuckey                                               [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                                                            [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
diocius         Coffeetree                                              e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                                                                     e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                                                          IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
                                                                        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Juglana app.    Walnut                                                  e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                           e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
                                                                        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Plantanus app.  Sycamore                                                e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                           e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
                              [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Populus app.    Poplar        e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                           e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                              IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
                                                                        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Prunus serotina Black Cherry                                            e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
                              [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Quercus app.    Oak           e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                           e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                              IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
                              [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Salix app.      Willow        e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                           e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                              IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
                                                                        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                                                            [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Tilia app.      Linden                                                  e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                                                                     e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                                                          IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
                              [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Ulmus app.      Elm           e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                              IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
Canopy Trees - Evergreen
                              [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                                                                                                      [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Abies app.      Fir           e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                                                                                                               e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                              IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                                                                                                    IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
                                                                        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Juniperus app   Juniper                                                 e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                           e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
                              [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                                                            [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Larix app.      Larch         e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                                                                     e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                              IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                                                          IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
                                                                        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                                                            [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Picea app.      Spruce                                                  e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                                                                     e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                                                          IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
                                                                        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Pinus app.      Pine                                                    e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                           e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
Thuja           American                                                [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                                                            [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
occidentalis    Arborvitae                                              e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                                                                     e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                                                          IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
Tauga           Canadian                                                [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
canadenaia      Hemlock                                                 e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                           e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
Understory Tree
                                                                        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                                                            [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Acer app.       Maple                                                   e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                                                                     e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                                                          IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
                                                                        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                                                            [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Aeaculus glabra Ohio Buckeye                                            e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                                                                     e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                                                          IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
                              [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Alnus app.      Alder         e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                           e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                              IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
Amelanchier                                                             [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                                                            [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
app.            Serviceberry                                            e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                                                                     e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                                                          IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
                              [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Betula app.     Birch         e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                           e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                              IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
Carpinus        American                                                [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
carolinia       Hornbeam                                                e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                           e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
Cercialiphyllum Japanese                                                [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                                                            [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
japonicum       Katsuratree                                             e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                                                                     e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                                                          IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
Chionanthus     White                                                   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                                                            [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
virginicus      Fringetree                                              e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                                                                     e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                                                          IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
                Dogwood /                                               [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Cornus app.     Cherry                                                  e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                           e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
                                                                        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Crataegus app.  Hawthorn                                                e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                           e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
                                                                        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                                                            [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Eleagnus app.   Olive                                                   e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                                                                     e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                                                          IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
Euonymus                                                                [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
atropurpureus   Eastern Wahoo                                           e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                           e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
                                                                        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                                                            [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Lindera benzoin Spicebush                                               e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                                                                     e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                                                          IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
Maclura         Osage Orange                                            [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
pomifera        Tree                                                    e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                           e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
                                                                        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                                                            [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Magnolia app.   Magnolia                                                e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                                                                     e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                                                          IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
                                                                        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Malus app.      Crab Apple                                              e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
                White                                                   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Morus alba      Mulberry                                                e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
                                                                        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Oatrya virginia Ironwood                                                e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                           e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
                                                                        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Prunus app.     Plum                                                    e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
                                                                        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Pyrus app.      Pear                                                    e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                           e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
Syringa         Japanese Tree                                           [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                                                            [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
japonica        Lilac                                                   e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                                                                     e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                                                          IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
Shrubs
Amorpha                                                                 [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
fruticosa       Indigo Bush                                             e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                           e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
                              [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Aronis app.     Chokeberry    e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                           e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                              IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
Berberis        Japanese                                                [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                                                            [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
thunbergi       Barberry                                                e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                                                                     e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                                                          IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
Calycanthos     Carolina                                                [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                                                            [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
floridus        Allspice                                                e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                                                                     e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                                                          IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
                                                                        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                                                            [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Caragana spp.   Peashrub                                                e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                                                                     e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                                                          IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
Ceanothus       New Jersey                                              [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                                                            [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
americanus      Tea                                                     e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                                                                     e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                                                          IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
Celastrus       American      [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
scandens        Bittersweet   e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                           e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                              IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
Cephalanthus                  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
occidentalis    Button Bush   e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                           e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                              IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
Chaenomeles                                                             [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                                                            [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
app.            Quince                                                  e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                                                                     e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                                                          IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
                              [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Cornus app.     Dogwood       e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                           e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                              IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
Corylus         American                                                [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
americana       Hazelnut                                                e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                           e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
Cotinus                                                                 [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                                                            [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
coggygria       Smokebush                                               e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                                                                     e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                                                          IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
Cotoneaster                                                             [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                                                            [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
app.            Cotoneaster                                             e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                                                                     e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                                                          IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
Deutzia         Slender                                                 [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                                                            [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
gracilis        Deutzia                                                 e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                                                                     e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                                                          IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
                                                                        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Euonymus alatus Burning Bush                                            e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                           e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
                                                                        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Forsythia app.  Forsythia                                               e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                           e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
                                                                        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Hamamelia app.  Witchhazel                                              e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                           e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
                                                                        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Hydrangea app.  Hydrangea                                               e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                           e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
                                                                        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Hypericum app.  St. Johnswort                                           e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                           e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
                                                                        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Ligustrum app.  Privit                                                  e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
                                                                        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Lonicera app.   Honeysuckle                                             e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
Myrica          Northern                                                [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
pennaylvanica   Bayberry                                                e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                           e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
                              [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Prunus app.     Plum          e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                              IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
Ptelea                                                                  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                                                            [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
trifoliata      Hope Tree                                               e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                                                                     e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                                                          IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
Rhamnus                       [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
frangula        Buckthorn     e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                              IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
Rhodotypes                    [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
scandens        Black Jetbead e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                           e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                              IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
                              [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Rhus app.       Sumac         e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                              IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
                              [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Ribus app.      Gooseberry    e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                              IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
                              [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Rosa app.       Rose          e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                              IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
                              [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Rubus app.      Raspberry     e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                              IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
Sambucus                      [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
canadensis      Elderberry    e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                           e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                              IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
Shepherdia                                                              [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                                                            [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
canadensis      Buffaloberry                                            e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                                                                     e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                                                          IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
                              [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Spiraea app.    Spirea        e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                           e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                              IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
Symphoricarpos  Indian        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
orbiculatis     Currant       e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                           e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                              IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
                              [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Syringa spp.    Lilac         e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                              IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
                              [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Viburnum spp.   Viburnum      e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                              IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
Evergreen Shrubs
                                                                        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Juniperus app.  Juniper                                                 e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                           e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
                                                                        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Pinus mugo      Mugo Pine                                               e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/ e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                           e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
                                                                        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                                                            [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Taxus app.      Yew                                                     e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/                                                                                     e30de5111d6bf45b2f4f687e8170c54e65638fed/
                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]                                                                                                          IMAGES/0-0-0-67.jpg]
 
(Ord. 98-25, passed 12-21-1998)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   DEVELOPMENTS
      
III.   STREETS; VACATIONS, CLOSINGS, USAGE AND THE LIKE
      
IV.   ZONING MAP CHANGES; REZONINGS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
4-1972   4-2-1972    Annexing 5.56 acres in the Town of Zionsville
95-10    7-24-1995   Annexing certain real estate into the City of Lebanon
                    
 
TABLE II: DEVELOPMENTS
 
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
1972-8       9-5-1972    Description of 3,000 acres of land to be developed
                         Expansion of Boone County Utilities, L.L.C.,
98-18        7-13-1998   certificate of territorial authority to provide sewage
                         disposal service
2000-8-A     12-18-2000  Granting a license to Boone County Utilities, L.L.C.,
                         in relation to the county’s public rights-of-way
Res. 2011-01 3-7-2011    Transferring parcels to nonprofit corporation
Res. 2011-2  5-2-2011    Transfer of parcels to nonprofit corporation
                        
 
TABLE III: STREETS; VACATIONS, CLOSING, USAGE AND THE LIKE
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
94-2  - -    Vacating alleys
94-4  - -    Vacating alley
82-8  8-16-  Vacating an abandoned part of Hunt Club Road
      1982
91-1  4-1-   Dedicating certain county-owned real estate to highway purposes
      1991
94-13 9-12-  Vacating a portion of Hunt Club Road
      1994
95-9  11-20- Closing and vacating a certain alley in Riley and Niven’s addition to the Town
      1995   of Thorntown
96-   12-2-  Vacating the remaining unimproved length of Willow Avenue, east of U.S. 421 to
12B   1996   Eagle Creek
97-5  3-17-  Vacating part of CR 650E, Eagle Township
      1997
97-7  5-5-   Granting permission for Boone County Utilities, L.L.C., to use the county’s
      1997   public rights-of-way
97-10 7-14-  Abandoning part of a county roadway
      1997
97-18 11-3-  Vacating part of CR 650S, Eagle Township
      1997
97-19 11-3-  Vacating part of CR 650S, Eagle Township
      1997
98-20 10-5-  Vacating a public alley
      1998
99-3  2-16-  Vacating CR 650S
      1999
99-6  8-16-  Vacating that part of the alley located between Lot 2 and Lot 3 in Farwick’s
      1999   First Addition
99-7  8-23-  Vacating a portion of old 96th Street from Zionsville Road to new 96th Street
      1999
99-8  9-13-  Rescinding Ord. 99-7
      1999
2000- 4-3-   Vacating a certain public street
2     2000
2000- 5-8-   Changing the name of O’Neal Road to Holliday Road
4     2000
01-02 1-22-  Vacating CR 400S
      2001
2001- 3-12-  Vacating Royal Avenue
3     2001
2001- 4-23-  Vacating North Willow Road
6     2001
2001- 5-14-  Vacating the cul-de-sac Circular Drive
9     2001
2001- 9-10-  Revoking Ord. 97-7
14    2001
01-15 9-17-  Vacating public alleys
      2001
2005- 4-18-  Excepting Willow Ridge Estates from certain prohibitions
10    2005
2005- 5-16-  Vacating a public road in the former Schmidt and Allen Subdivision
13    2005
2006- 6-9-   Vacating certain alleys
11    2006
08    3- -   Vacating Old State Road 334 from intersection at State Road 334 south to
      2007   County Road 650 south
2007- 10-1-  Relinquishing control and abandoning remaining part of a roadway to Kenneth H.
23    2007   Furguson Jr. in furtherance of Ord. 97-10
2016- 5-16-  Vacating the right-of-way of County Road 1175 West.
02    2016
2017- 9-18-  Vacating the road and right-of-way of County Road 860/875 West.
09    2017
2019- 1-7-   Vacating Holliday Road right-of-way from US 421/Michigan Road to approximately
01    2019   1,500 feet east of Eagle Creek.
2019- 1-7-   Allowing Town of Colifax to own and improve trails within Boone County.
05    2019
2019- 8-19-  Temporarily closing Bridge 32 (Creek Road over Sugar Creek).
10    2019
2020- 8-17-  Temporarily closing culvert (small structure) on County Road 900 West.
06    2020
2020- 11-16- Partially vacating Holliday Road and right-of-way.
09    2020
2021- 6-7-   Vacating the right-of-way of County Road 950 West.
04    2021
2021- 11-15- Vacating a portion of the right-of-way of County Roads 600 South and South
08    2021   Darlington Road (900 W).
            
 
TABLE IV: ZONING MAP CHANGES; REZONINGS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
95-3     - -         Rezoning 37.3280 acres in Perry Township
1-72     1-17-1972   Rezoning certain area in county
2-72     2-11-1972   Rezoning 0.431 acre in Center Township
4-1972   4-2-1972    Establishing zoning of 5.56 acres in the Town of
                     Zionsville
5-1972   5-15-1972   Rezoning certain area in county
6-72     6-3-1972    Rezoning 1 acre; northwest quarter of S32, T19N, R2E
1972-9   10-2-1972   Rezoning 1.55 acres in the county
10       11-6-1972   Rezoning 0.668 acre in Center Township
1976-2   4-19-1976   Rezoning certain area in county
5-1976   11-15-1976  Rezoning property to construct a seed corn facility
1-77     2-7-1977    Rezoning 4.04 acres, Perry Township Street
2-77     2-7-1977    Rezoning area in Center Township
5-77     4-18-1977   Rezoning 3.51 acres in Center Township
6-77     4-18-1977   Rezoning 0.69 acre in Washington Township
9-77     8-1-1977    Rezoning 4.9935 acres in Union Township
1-78     1-16-1978   Rezoning area in Sugar Creek Township
2-78     3-1-1978    Rezoning certain area in Sugar Creek Township
3-78     4-17-1978   Rezoning certain area in county
4-78     5-1-1978    Rezoning certain area in Eagle Township
6-78     6-12-1978   Rezoning certain area in county
7-78     10-10-1978  Rezoning 10 acres in county
79-2     7-16-1979   Rezoning 4 acres in Union Township
79-4     10-15-1979  Rezoning certain area in county
79-5     11-19-1979  Rezoning 2 acres in county
80-1     1-7-1980    Rezoning 3.489 acres in Center Township
80-3     3-17-1980   Rezoning 7.77 acres in Center Township
81-2     7-6-1981    Rezoning 0.1837 acre in Jackson Township
85-2     5-6-1985    Rezoning 1.4999 acres in the county
89-3     5-15-1989   Rezoning 4.8293 acres in Perry Township
90-2     1-15-1990   Rezoning certain area in the county
90-3     5-14-1990   Rezoning certain area in the county
90-5     9-17-1990   Rezoning 0.1584 acre in Eagle Township
90-6     10-1-1990   Rezoning 9.97 acres in the county
91-2     7-1-1991    Amending the Marion Township zoning map
91-6     10-14-1991  Rezoning the Eagle Township zoning map
92-1     2-10-1992   Rezoning the Center Township zoning map
92-2     2-18-1992   Rezoning certain areas within the county
92-8     12-14-1992  Rezoning certain area within the county
93-6     6-14-1993   Rezoning 5.9591 acres in Center Township
93-12    9-20-1993   Rezoning certain areas in the county
93-5     10-11-1993  Rezoning 0.1708 acre in the county
94-3     3-14-1994   Rezoning property filed by Perfection Products, Inc.
94-22    12-19-1994  Amending the zoning map of Eagle Township; 10617
                     Zionsville Road
95-10    7-24-1995   Assignment of zoning classification for annexed real
                     estate in the City of Lebanon
95-6     10- -1995   Rezoning area in Union Township; the northwest corner of
                     SR 32 and U.S. Highway 421
95-8     10- - 1995  Rezoning area in Union Township; the northwest corner of
                     SR 32 and U.S. Highway 421
96-1     3-18-1996   Amending the zoning map of Center Township; north side of
                     SR32 and east of 400E
96-2     3-18-1996   Rezoning 5.11 acres within Boone County
96-4     4-15-1996   Rezoning property at 5370 South Indianapolis Road,
                     Whitestown
96-8     8-12-1996   Amending the zoning map of Eagle Township; 0.4669 acres
96-9     8-19-2007   Rezoning 104.6 acres in Worth Township
96-10    9-18-1996   Amending the zoning map of Eagle Township; Sect. 31, Twp.
                     18N, R2E of 550 South
96-12A   10-21-1996  Amending the zoning map of Union Township; southwest
                     corner of 650E and railroad at 50N
96-13    11-25-1996  Rezoning real estate: Fix and Livengood; C&W; Schoolers;
                     Anna Crane; McLochlin; RRP; Annie Ottinger; Mary Ottinger
97-1     2-3-1997    Rezoning 15.13 acres in Center Township
97-2     2-3-1997    Amending the zoning map of Perry Township, Sect. 1, Twp.
                     17N, R1E of SR 334 and I65
97-4     3-17-1997   Rezoning 50 acres in Eagle Township
97-8     6-3-1997    Amending the zoning map of Eagle Township; Sect. 1, Twp.
                     17N, R2E, 4775 W. 116th Street
97-9     7-14-1997   Rezoning 13.38 acres in Eagle Township
97-12    8-11-1997   Amending the zoning map of Eagle Township; Sect. 31, Twp.
                     18N, R2E on the west side of 700 E, north of SR 334
97-17    10-28-1997  Rezoning 17.853 acres in Eagle Township
98-5     4-20-1998   Amending the zoning map of Jefferson Township; 815 S 1050W
98-6     4-20-1998   Amending the zoning map of Perry Township; 5340 E. 650S
98-7     4-20-1998   Amending the zoning map of Perry Township; southeast
                     corner of 550S and Perry-Worth Road
98-8     5-4-1998    Amending the zoning map of Sugar Creek Township; 5225
                     Serum Plant Road
98-15    6-10-1998   Amending the zoning map of Perry and Worth Township; east
                     side of SR267, south of I65 and north of 650S
98-17    6-15-1998   Rezoning 4.009 acres within the county
99-4     3-19-1999   Rezoning 17.66 acres within the county
99-5     7-19-1999   Rezoning 10.0001 acres in Perry Township
2000-13  - -2000     Rezoning 388.994 acres in Worth Township
2000-3   4-10-2000   Rezoning 5.88 acres in Eagle Township
20-4-A   5-10-2000   Rezoning 600 acres in Union Township
2000-5   6-5-2000    Rezoning area in Worth Township; 4685 S 700 E
2000-6   6-6-2000    Rezoning 7.0983 acres in Worth Township
2000-7   6-19-2000   Rezoning 205.45 acres in Eagle Township
2000-9   10-16-2000  Rezoning 5.960 acres in Eagle Township
2000-10  11-13-2000  Rezoning167.85 acres in Eagle Township
2000-11  11-13-2000  Rezoning 17.52 acres in Eagle Township
2000-12  11-13-2000  Rezoning 10 acres in Eagle Township
2000-14  12-18-2000  Rezoning 65.3 acres in Eagle Township
2001-7   5-14-2001   Rezoning certain area in the county
2001-8   5-14-2001   Rezoning certain area in the county
2001-10  7-23-2001   Rezoning certain area in the county
2001-11  7-23-2001   Rezoning certain area in the county
2001-13  8-6-2001    Rezoning 48.93 acres in Union Township
2002-1   2-4-2002    Amendment; rezoning
2002-9   7-15-2002   Rezoning 3 acres in Union Township
2002-13  10-15-2002  Rezoning 307.29 acres in Center Township
2003-9   5-12-2003   Rezoning area within Jefferson Township
2003-10  6-16-2003   Rezoning 2.4105 acres in Washington Township
2003-20  9-8-2003    Rezoning 36.2305 acres in Worth Township
2003-22  11-17-2003  Rezoning certain area in Eagle Township
2004-8   7-6-2004    Rezoning 9.5030 acres in Eagle Township
2004-11  8-23-2004   Rezoning 539.989 acres in the county
2004-15  10-18-2004  Rezoning certain parcels in the county
2004-17  11-29-2004  Rezoning 8 acres in Center Township
2004-18  11-29-2004  Rezoning certain tracts of land in the county
2004-21  12-13-2004  Rezoning 68 acres in Eagle Township
2005-03  2-14-2005   Rezoning 5.19 acres in the county
2005-04  2-14-2005   Rezoning 21.5 acres in the county
2005-06  3-21-2005   Rezoning 7.77 acres in Eagle Township
2005-09  4-18-2005   Rezoning certain area in Union Township
2005-14  5-16-2005   Rezoning 27.2706 acres in Eagle Township
2005-15  6-13-2005   Rezoning 8.691 acres in Eagle Township
2005-16  6-13-2005   Rezoning 8.691 acres in Eagle Township
2005-17  7-5-2005    Rezoning 40.910 acres in Union Township
2005-18  8-8-2005    Rezoning 40 acres in Jefferson Township
2005-21  10-17-2005  Rezoning property in Eagle Township
2005-25  12-19-2005  Rezoning tracts of land in the county
2006-2   3-13-2006   Rezoning 13.781 acres in Eagle Township
2006-05  5-8-2006    Rezoning tracts of land in the county
2006-09  6-12-2006   Rezoning 14.41 acres in the county
2006-10  6-12-2006   Rezoning 28.641 acres in the county
2006-16  12-18-2006  Rezoning approximately 101.595 acres in Perry Township
2006-17  12-21-2006  Rezoning approximately 100.472 acres in Union Township
2007-06  - -2007     Rezoning 12.301 acres in the county
2007-15  8-13-2007   Rezoning approximately 39.9 acres in Eagle Township
2007-24  11-19-2007  Rezoning approximately 4.63 acres in Eagle Township
2007-26  12-17-2007  Rezoning approximately 21.0562 acres in Union Township
2008-04  2-19-2008   Rezoning approximately 8.67 acres in Center Township
2008-08  7-7-2008    Rezoning approximately 12.4 acres in Union Township
2008-13  11-3-2008   Rezoning approximately 57.53 acres in Eagle Township
2014-05  12-15-2014  Rezoning approximately 5.615 acres in Center Township
2015-03  8-17-2015   Rezoning approximately 21.44 acres in the county
2017-15  10-16-2017  Rezoning approximately 8 acres in Center Township
2019-04  5-20-2019   Rezoning approximately 70.33 acres in Washington Township
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cites Code Section
I.C. Cites          Code Section
8-17-5              150.17
8-20-1-15           150.18
8-20-1-15.5         150.18
13-11-2-40          157.005
14-28-1             152.39
14-28-1-6           152.39
14-28-4             152.01
14-32               153.006
14-34               153.065;
                    153.080
16-41-27-4          157.005
16-41-27-5          157.005
22-12-1-16          157.005
36-1-2-13           150.94
36-7-4              152.01;
                    157.005
36-7-4-102          157.005
36-7-4-200          157.161
36-7-4-405          154.05
36-7-4-600 et seq.  157.204;
                    157.205
36-7-4-600          157.202
36-7-4-602(b)       157.202
36-7-4-602(c)       157.202
36-7-4-605          157.102;
                    157.161
36-7-4-607          157.161;
                    157.202
36-7-4-608          157.102;
                    157.202
36-7-4-610          157.161
36-7-4-701(e)       157.005
36-7-4-706          156.037;
                    156.038
36-7-4-708          156.037
36-7-4-901          157.162
36-7-4-902(d)       157.162
36-7-4-918.2        157.162
36-7-4-918.5        157.162
36-7-4-921          157.059
36-7-4-1400         157.005;
                    157.071
36-7-4-1405         157.005
36-7-4-1500         157.005
36-7-4-1500 et seq. 157.100
36-7-4-1508         157.005
                    151.01;
36-7-9              151.02;
                    151.08
36-7-9-2            151.06
36-7-9-4            151.05
36-7-9-14           151.07
36-9-27-29          153.001
36-9-27-54          153.083
36-7-9-28           151.99
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.     Date Passed Code Section
1975-1       - -         156.073
94-2         - -         TSO III
94-4         - -         TSO III
95-3         - -         TSO IV
1-72         1-17-1972   TSO IV
2-72         2-11-1972   TSO IV
4-1972       4-2-1972    TSO I;
                         TSO IV
5-1972       5-15-1972   TSO IV
6-72         6-3-1972    TSO IV
1972-8       9-5-1972    TSO II
1972-9       10-2-1972   TSO IV
10           11-6-1972   TSO IV
1976-2       4-19-1976   TSO IV
5-1976       11-15-1976  TSO IV
1-77         2-7-1977    TSO IV
2-77         2-7-1977    TSO IV
5-77         4-18-1977   TSO IV
6-77         4-18-1977   TSO IV
9-77         8-1-1977    TSO IV
1-78         1-16-1978   TSO IV
2-78         3-1-1978    TSO IV
3-78         4-17-1978   TSO IV
4-78         5-1-1978    TSO IV
6-78         6-12-1978   TSO IV
7-78         10-10-1978  TSO IV
79-2         7-16-1979   TSO IV
79-4         10-15-1979  TSO IV
79-5         11-19-1979  TSO IV
80-1         1-7-1980    TSO IV
80-3         3-17-1980   TSO IV
81-2         7-6-1981    TSO IV
                         151.20-
82-6         7-19-1982   151.35;
                         151.99
82-8         8-16-1982   TSO III
85-2         5-6-1985    TSO IV
89-3         5-15-1989   TSO IV
90-2         1-15-1990   TSO IV
90-3         5-14-1990   TSO IV
90-5         9-17-1990   TSO IV
90-6         10-1-1990   TSO IV
90-7         10-8-1990   150.01
91-1         4-1-1991    TSO III
91-2         7-1-1991    TSO IV
91-4         7-15-1991   155.01-
                         155.15
91-6         10-14-1991  TSO IV
92-1         2-10-1992   TSO IV
92-2         2-18-1992   TSO IV
92-8         12-14-1992  TSO IV
93-4         5-10-1993   154.01-
                         154.09
93-6         6-14-1993   TSO IV
93-12        9-20-1993   TSO IV
93-5         10-11-1993  TSO IV
94-3         3-14-1994   TSO IV
94-13        9-12-1994   TSO III
94-22        12-19-1994  TSO IV
95-10        7-24-1995   TSO I;
                         TSO IV
95-6         10- -1995   TSO IV
95-8         10- - 1995  TSO IV
95-9         11-20-1995  TSO III
96-1         3-18-1996   TSO IV
96-2         3-18-1996   TSO IV
96-4         4-15-1996   TSO IV
96-8         8-12-1996   TSO IV
96-9         8-19-2007   TSO IV
96-10        9-18-1996   TSO IV
96-12A       10-21-1996  TSO IV
96-13        11-25-1996  TSO IV
96-12B       12-2-1996   TSO III
97-1         2-3-1997    TSO IV
97-2         2-3-1997    TSO IV
97-4         3-17-1997   TSO IV
97-5         3-17-1997   TSO III
97-7         5-5-1997    TSO III
97-8         6-3-1997    TSO IV
97-9         7-14-1997   TSO IV
97-10        7-14-1997   TSO III
97-12        8-11-1997   TSO IV
97-17        10-28-1997  TSO IV
97-18        11-3-1997   TSO III
97-19        11-3-1997   TSO III
98-5         4-20-1998   TSO IV
98-6         4-20-1998   TSO IV
98-7         4-20-1998   TSO IV
98-8         5-4-1998    TSO IV
98-15        6-10-1998   TSO IV
98-17        6-15-1998   TSO IV
98-18        7-13-1998   TSO II
98-20        10-5-1998   TSO III
                         157.001-
                         157.007;
                         157.020-
                         157.038;
                         157.050-
                         157.057;
                         157.070-
                         157.086;
98-25        12-21-1998  157.100-
                         157.102;
                         157.120-
                         157.124;
                         157.140-
                         157.144;
                         157.160-
                         157.166;
                         Ch. 157, App. A
                         156.001-
                         156.004;
                         156.020-
                         156.022;
98-26        12-21-1998  156.035-
                         156.039;
                         156.055;
                         156.056;
                         156.070-
                         156.075
99-3         2-16-1999   TSO III
99-4         3-19-1999   TSO IV
99-5         7-19-1999   TSO IV
99-6         8-16-1999   TSO III
99-7         8-23-1999   TSO III
99-8         9-13-1999   TSO III
99-10        11-22-1999  157.008
2000-13      - -2000     TSO IV
2000-2       4-3-2000    TSO III
2000-3       4-10-2000   TSO IV
2000-4       5-8-2000    TSO III
20-4-A       5-10-2000   TSO IV
2000-5       6-5-2000    TSO IV
2000-6       6-6-2000    TSO IV
2000-7       6-19-2000   TSO IV
2000-9       10-16-2000  TSO IV
2000-10      11-13-2000  TSO IV
2000-11      11-13-2000  TSO IV
2000-12      11-13-2000  TSO IV
2000-8-A     12-18-2000  TSO II
2000-14      12-18-2000  TSO IV
01-02        1-22-2001   TSO III
2001-4       2-12-2001   157.005;
                         157.007
2001-3       3-12-2001   TSO III
                         157.070–
                         157.086;
2001-5       1-2-2001    157.100–
                         157.102;
                         Ch. 157, App. A
2001-6       4-23-2001   TSO III
2001-7       5-14-2001   TSO IV
2001-8       5-14-2001   TSO IV
2001-9       5-14-2001   TSO III
2001-10      7-23-2001   TSO IV
2001-11      7-23-2001   TSO IV
2001-13      8-6-2001    TSO IV
2001-14      9-10-2001   TSO III
01-15        9-17-2001   TSO III
2002-15      - -2002     157.005;
                         157.007
2002-1       2-4-2002    TSO IV
2002-5       5-6-2002    157.007
2002-9       7-15-2002   TSO IV
2002-13      10-15-2002  TSO IV
2003-4       2-18-2003   157.200-
                         157.205
2003-6       3-24-2003   157.008
2003-8       4-7-2003    157.005
2003-9       5-12-2003   TSO IV
2003-10      6-16-2003   TSO IV
2003-14      7-14-2003   156.037
                         157.007;
2003-17      8-11-2003   157.180-
                         157.185
2003-20      9-8-2003    TSO IV
2003-19      9-15-2003   156.076
2003-21      10-20-2003  157.007
2003-22      11-17-2003  TSO IV
                         157.005;
2004-07      - -2004     157.052;
                         157.058
2004-7       - -2004     157.006;
                         157.007
2004-01      2-9-2004    157.005;
                         157.007
                         156.022;
2004-02      2-9-2004    156.038;
                         156.074;
                         156.077
2004-05      3-15-2004   157.100–
                         157.102
2004-8       7-6-2004    TSO IV
2004-10      7-14-2004   157.008
2004-11      8-23-2004   TSO IV
                         151.01-
2004-14      10-4-2004   151.08;
                         151.99
2004-15      10-18-2004  TSO IV
2004-17      11-29-2004  TSO IV
2004-18      11-29-2004  TSO IV
2004-21      12-13-2004  TSO IV
2005-03      2-14-2005   TSO IV
2005-04      2-14-2005   TSO IV
2005-05      3-14-2005   157.008
2005-06      3-21-2005   TSO IV
2005-09      4-18-2005   TSO IV
2005-10      4-18-2005   TSO III
2005-13      5-16-2005   TSO III
2005-14      5-16-2005   TSO IV
2005-15      6-13-2005   TSO IV
2005-16      6-13-2005   TSO IV
2005-17      7-5-2005    TSO IV
2005-18      8-8-2005    TSO IV
2005-19      8-22-2005   157.007
2005-21      10-17-2005  TSO IV
2005-25      12-19-2005  TSO IV
2006-2       3-13-2006   TSO IV
                         157.005-
                         157.007;
2006-6       5-6-2006    157.021;
                         157.023;
                         157.026;
                         Ch. 157, App. A
2006-05      5-8-2006    TSO IV
2006-07      5-8-2006    156.071
2006-11      6-9-2006    TSO III
2006-09      6-12-2006   TSO IV
2006-10      6-12-2006   TSO IV
2006-16      12-18-2006  TSO IV
2006-17      12-21-2006  TSO IV
2007-06      - -2007     TSO IV
2007-15      8-13-2007   TSO IV
08           10-1-2007   TSO III
2007-23      10-1-2007   TSO III
2007-21      10-9-2007   157.007;
                         157.059
2007-24      11-19-2007  TSO IV
2007-26      12-17-2007  TSO IV
2008-04      2-19-2008   TSO IV
2008-08      7-7-2008    TSO IV
2008-13      11-3-2008   TSO IV
                         156.037;
2009-19      10-19-2009  156.071;
                         157.006
—          12-21-2009  151.02
2010-04      4-5-2010    157.039
2010-11      11-15-2010  Ch. 157, App. A
Res. 2011-01 3-7-2011    TSO II
Res. 2011-2  5-2-2011    TSO II
                         152.01–
                         152.14;
                         152.25–
                         152.27;
2011-6       9-6-2011    152.35–
                         152.42;
                         152.55–
                         152.61;
                         152.99
                         152.01–
                         152.05;
                         152.10–
                         152.18;
                         152.25–
2012-01      1-3-2012    152.27;
                         152.35–
                         152.42;
                         152.55–
                         152.61;
                         152.99
                         156.072;
                         157.005;
2012-02      3-5-2012    157.007;
                         157.040;
                         157.060
2012-06      7-2-2012    Ch. 157, App. A
2014-04      12-1-2014   150.02
2014-05      12-15-2014  TSO IV
                         153.001–
                         153.012;
                         153.025–
                         153.031;
                         153.045–
                         153.051;
2015-01      1-20-2015   153.065–
                         153.068;
                         153.080–
                         153.084;
                         153.095–
                         153.103;
                         153.115–
                         153.117
2015-03      8-17-2015   TSO IV
2016-01      4-4-2016    150.03
2016-02      5-16-2016   TSO III
2017-09      9-18-2017   TSO III
2017-15      10-16-2017  TSO IV
2019-01      1-7-2019    TSO III
                         157.005,
2019-02      2-19-2019   157.007,
                         157.061
2019-04      5-20-2019   TSO IV
2019-05      1-7-2019    TSO III
2019-10      8-19-2019   TSO III
2020-06      8-17-2020   TSO III
2020-09      11-16-2020  TSO III
2021-04      6-7-2021    TSO III
2021-08      11-15-2021  TSO III
                         150.15 -
                         150.21,
                         150.30,
                         150.31,
                         150.40,
                         150.50,
2023-10      2-2-2024    150.51,
                         150.60 -
                         150.62,
                         150.70 -
                         150.72,
                         150.80,
                         150.90 -
                         150.96
                        
 
