TOWN OF BOSWELL, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-9 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 2024-1211, passed 12-10-2024
State Legislation current through 2024 A.L.S. Pamphlet #3
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
BOSWELL, INDIANA
TOWN OFFICIALS
 
Mike G. Brody       Councilmember
Kylee Senesac       Councilmember
Jason W. Foster     Councilmember
Tracy Wortley       Clerk-Treasurer
Kyle J. Brost       Fire Chief
Michael Marquess II Town Marshal
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2010-12-13-2
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR BOSWELL, INDIANA, REVISING,
AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF BOSWELL, INDIANA DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE OF
ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
   WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of Boswell, Indiana
are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form and
substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety and
general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of its affairs;
and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Indiana empower and
authorize Boswell to revise, amend, restate, codify and compile any existing
ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted or published and to
incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
   WHEREAS, the Legislative Authority of the Town of Boswell has authorized a
general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of Boswell of
a general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinance in book form;
and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE TOWN OF
BOSWELL:
   Section 1.   The general ordinances of Boswell as revised, amended,
restated, codified, and complied in book form are hereby adopted as and shall
constitute the "Code of Ordinances of Boswell."
   Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist
of the following titles:
   Title I:      General Provisions
   Title III:   Administration
   Title V:   Public Works
   Title VII:   Traffic Code
   Title IX:   General Regulations
   Title XI:   Business Regulations
   Title XIII:   General Offenses
   Title XV:   Land Usage
   Table of Special Ordinances
   Parallel References
   Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and re-ordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
   Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk-Treasurer of
the Town of Boswell, Indiana is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of
such Code of Ordinances in the Office of the Clerk.
   Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in
Section 6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places
of the ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations
therein contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly
signed, attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and
notices thereof as required by law have been given.
   Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED this 13th day of December, 2010.
   TOWN COUNCIL OF THE
   TOWN OF BOSWELL, INDIANA
   Brian Knill /s/
   Brian Knill
   Ron Harper /s/
   Ron Harper
   Jerry Barrett /s/
   Jerry Barrett
ATTEST:   Jennifer Crisp /s/
      Jennifer Crisp, Clerk-Treasurer
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the "Town of Boswell
Code," for which designation "code of ordinances," "codified ordinances" or
"code" may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town Council.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council.
      COUNTY. Benton County, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      TOWNSHIP. Grant Township.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person or the person's
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
Statutory reference:
   For similar provisions under state law, see I.C. 1-1-4-5
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section stating that the provisions of a chapter are
severable as provided in division (B) above does not affect the operation of
division (B) above with respect to that chapter.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; or at the time of the effective date of that ordinance or
subsequent thereto, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a "statutory reference"
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Penalty provision for violations of code.
      (1)   In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is
created by different clauses or sections of an ordinance the prosecuting
officer may elect under which to proceed; but not more than one recovery shall
be had against the same person for the same offense; provided, that the
revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty
so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
      (2)   Whenever a minimum but not maximum fine or penalty is imposed, the
court may in its discretion fine the offender any sum exceeding the minimum
fine or penalty so imposed but not exceeding $2,500.
      (3)   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act
constitutes a breach of any section or provision of an ordinance, and there
shall be no fine or penalty declared for such breach, any person found to have
violated such section or provision shall be fined not more than $2,500 for each
offense.
      (4)   A separate offense will be deemed committed on each day on or which
a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   Penalties for violations which may be admitted before the Violations
Clerk. Any section of the code which refers to the penalty provision of this
division may be admitted by the violator before the Clerk-Treasurer who shall
serve as Violations Clerk, and pay the civil penalty described in this section
in lieu of the filing of an ordinance violation. The maximum civil penalty
which may be paid to the Violations Clerk is $250. In the event the violator
does not wish to admit the violation and pay the civil penalty, or in the event
that the civil penalty exceeds $250, the violation shall be filed in court, and
the civil penalty described in this section shall be assessed upon judgment of
an ordinance violation by the court.
   (C)   Specific penalties.
      (1)   For violations of § kko, Prohibition of Private Wells:
         (a)   A person who violates the provisions of this section shall be
fined $250.
      (2)   For violations of §
54.03, Septic Tanks and Wells:
         (a)   A person who violates the provisions of this section shall be
fined $250 per offense.
      (3)   For violations of §
71.030, Restrictions on Operation of Heavy Loads and Vehicles:
         (a)   A person who violates the provisions of this section shall be
fined $250.
      (4)   For violations of §
71.046, Cruising:
         (a)   A person who violates the provisions of this section shall be
fined $250.
      (5)   For violations of §
72.01, Parking in Preferential Zones:
         (a)   A person who violates the provisions of this section shall be
fined $50.
      (6)   For violations of §
72.02, Parking in Handicapped Spots:
         (a)   A person who violates the provisions of this section shall be
fined $50.
      (7)   For violations of §§
72.15 and
72.16, Parking Heavy Vehicles:
         (a)   A person who violates the provisions of these sections shall be
fined $250.
      (8)   For violations of
Chapter 73, Skateboards and Roller Blades:
         (a)   A person who violates the provisions of the chapter shall be
fined $100.
      (9)   For violations of
Chapter 74, Golf Carts:
         (a)   A person who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be
fined $50.
      (10)   For violations of §
90.02, Animal Nuisances:
         (a)   A person who violates the provisions of this section shall be
fined $250.
      (11)   For violations of §
90.03, Real Estate Nuisances, generally:
         (a)   A person who violates the provisions of this section shall be
fined $250.
      (12)   For violations of §
90.03(C), Trash and Junk:
         (a)   A person who violates the provisions of this section shall be
$50.
      (13)   For violations of §
90.03(E), Obstructing the Sidewalk:
         (a)   A person who violates the provisions of this section shall be
fined $20.
      (14)   For violations of §
90.03(F), Spitting:
         (a)   A person who violates the provisions of this section shall be
fined $10.
      (15)   For violations of §
90.04(A), Unplated Vehicles:
         (a)   A person who violates the provisions of this section shall be
fined $250.
      (16)   For violations of §
90.04(B), Abandoned Vehicles:
         (a)   A person who violates the provisions of this section shall be
fined $50.
      (17)   For violations of §
95.20, Prohibition of Items in the Park:
         (a)   A person who violates the provisions of this section shall be
fined $250.
      (18)   For violations of §
96.02, Fireworks:
         (a)   A person who violates the provisions of this section shall be
fined $250.
      (19)   For violations of §
96.15, Wooden Buildings:
         (a)   A person who violates the provisions of this section shall be
fined $100.
      (20)   For violations of
Chapter 97, Trees:
         (a)   A person who violates the provisions of this section shall be
fined $100.
      (21)   For violations of
Chapter 110, Itinerant Merchants:
         (a)   A person who violates the provisions of this section shall be
fined $100.
      (22)   For violations of
Chapter 130, Curfew:
         (a)   A person who violates the provisions of this section shall be
fined $50.
      (23)   For violations of
Chapter 131, Weapons:
         (a)   A person who violates the provisions of this section shall be
fined $250.
(Am. Ord. 2022-0308D, passed 3-8-2022; Am. Ord. 2022-0412B, passed 4-12-2022)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
31.   TOWN COUNCIL
         
32.   TOWN OFFICIALS
         
33.   TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
         
34.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
         
35.   FINANCES
         
36.   TOWN POLICIES
         
37.   ORDINANCE VIOLATION BUREAU
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Fees for dishonored checks
   
30.02   Public records
   
30.03   Use of Town Hall
Compensation for Town Employees
   
30.15   Compensation of officers and employees
   
30.16   Pay increase for town employees
 
   
30.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 FEES FOR DISHONORED CHECKS.
   (A)   These provisions shall apply to any check that is dishonored by a
financial institution for any reason, including but not limited to:
      (1)   Non-sufficient funds;
      (2)   Closed account; or
      (3)   A stop payment order.
   (B)   These provisions shall not limit the town's remedies to pursue a civil
action, which may include treble damages, costs of litigation and attorney
fees, or any other remedy created by federal, state or local statute and codes.
   (C)   Each check dishonored by a financial institution shall be assessed a
service fee.
(Ord. 2004-4, passed 10-25-2004)
§ 30.02 PUBLIC RECORDS.
   (A)   The Town Council shall designate a person or persons responsible for
public records release decisions and this person(s) shall make the final
determination of whether to approve or deny a request.
   (B)   All requests for public documents shall be made in writing by
completing a request for public records form, which shall be created and/or
reviewed by the Town Attorney and made available to the public by the Town
Clerk-Treasurer.
      (1)   The request for public records forms shall be the only accepted
form for making the requests.
      (2)   The request for public records forms shall be submitted to the
Clerk-Treasurer's office during regular business hours.
      (3)   Each request shall identify with reasonable particularity the
record being requested.
   (C)   To recover the costs of reproducing these records, the Town Clerk-
Treasurer shall assess the persons making the request a charge of $0.10 per
page for photocopying of single-sided standard eight and one-half by 11-inch
paper, and for copying photographs, audio tapes, electronic media, non-standard
documents and other items that may not be duplicated on a standard photocopier,
the Clerk-Treasurer shall charge the direct cost for copying, as defined by
I.C. 5-14-3-2.
   (D)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-3, a person who obtains public records or
information, which includes either the name, address, telephone number,
property location, account balances or any identifying information shall not be
used for commercial purposes, including to sell, advertise or solicit the
purchase of merchandise, goods or services, or sell, loan, give away or
otherwise deliver the information obtained by the request to any other person
for these purposes.
(Ord. 2004-3, passed 6-14-2004) Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.03 USE OF TOWN HALL.
   (A)   Commencing September 1, 2008, the Water Department and the Sewer
Department shall each be charged $500 per month rent for their use of the
town's office space in the Town Hall.
   (B)   The town shall be responsible for the utilities which serve the Town
Hall and its occupants.
   (C)   Both the Water Department and Sewer Department shall have access to
the Town Hall during regular office hours for the Town Hall for the purpose of
operating their respective departments.
   (D)   In the event of any extraordinary or unusual expense to the town or
the Town Hall which is incurred or caused by the Water Department or the Sewer
Department, the expense shall be the obligation of the Department which
incurred or caused the expense.
(Ord. 2008-4, passed 8-11-2008)
COMPENSATION FOR TOWN EMPLOYEES
§ 30.15 COMPENSATION OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   Officers and employees of the town shall be compensated at a rate as
established by Town Council ordinance from time to time.
Cross-reference:
   Budgets, see §§
35.20 through
35.22
§ 30.16 PAY INCREASE FOR TOWN EMPLOYEES.
   The Town Council shall set the amount of increase at its budget meeting each
year, allowing for adjustment to the compensation paid to town employees, to be
effective commencing the next fiscal year.
(Ord. 1998-1, passed 5-11-1998; Am. Ord. 2013-6.10, passed 6-10-2013)
§ 30.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for
which no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of §
10.99.
   (B)   Public records, §
30.02.
      (1)   Any person or organization that violates this provision shall be
fined $500 for each violation.
      (2)   Each record obtained in violation of this provision shall
constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. 2004-3, passed 6-14-2004)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
31.001   Staggered terms of office
   
31.002   Residency required
   
31.003   Powers and duties
   
31.004   President
   
31.005   Elected at large
   
31.006   Regular meetings
Meetings; General Provisions
   
31.020   Open meetings
   
31.021   Executive sessions
   
31.022   Notice of meetings
   
31.023   Agenda
   
31.024   Record of meetings
   
31.025   Quorum
   
31.026   Clerk of Council; tie-breaking vote
Meetings; Rules of Procedure
   
31.040   Presiding officer
   
31.041   Quorum for conducting business
   
31.042   Absence of President
   
31.043   Duties of the President
   
31.044   Duties of Council members
   
31.045   Seconding of motions required
   
31.046   Withdrawal of motions
   
31.047   Division of questions
   
31.048   Record of motions
   
31.049   Vote
   
31.050   Precedence of motion
   
31.051   Undebatable motions and exceptions to order
   
31.052   Motion to adjourn
   
31.053   Motion to postpone indefinitely
   
31.054   Motion to amend
   
31.055   Amendments
   
31.056   Reconsideration
   
31.057   Visitors and petitioners; public meeting procedures
   
31.058   Reports, communications, petitions and the like
   
31.059   Adoption of Robert's Rules of Order, revised
   
31.060   Temporary suspension of rules; amendment of rules
Ordinances and Resolutions
   
31.075   Majority vote; when required
   
31.076   Two-thirds vote; when required
   
31.077   Date of adoption; publication
   
31.078   Record of ordinances
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.001 STAGGERED TERMS OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in I.C. 36-5-2-3(b), (c), (d), (e), (f),
or (g) the term of office of a member of the Town Council is four years,
beginning at 12:00 p.m. January 1 after the member’s election and continuing
until the member’s successor is elected and qualified.
(I.C. 36-5-2-3(a))
   (B)   One member of the Town Council shall be elected at a municipal
election in 2011, for a term of office of three years. This one member shall be
identified as the individual receiving the highest vote total in the election.
   (C)   Two members of the Town Council shall be elected at a municipal
election in 2011 for terms of office of one year. These two members shall be
identified as those individuals receiving the second and third highest vote
totals in the election.
   (D)   All successors to the town officers elected at the municipal election
in 2011 shall serve for terms of four years.
   (E)   The term of office of each town officer begins on January 1 after the
election.
   (F)   In the event of a tie vote between two or more candidates for the Town
Council in the 2011 election receiving the highest number of votes or in the
event there is no election under I.C. 3-10-7, the candidates shall draw lots to
determine which candidate(s) shall serve a term of three years as opposed to a
term of one year. In the event of a tie vote between three or more candidates
for the Town Council in the 2011 election receiving the second highest number
of votes, or in the event of a tie vote between two or more candidates for the
Town Council in the 2011 election receiving the third highest number of votes,
the candidates shall draw lots to determine which candidate(s) shall serve a
term of one year.
(Ord. 2010-05-24, passed 5-24-2010)
§ 31.002 RESIDENCY REQUIRED.
   (A)   A member of the Town Council must reside within:
      (1)   The town as provided in Indiana Constitution, Article 6, § 6; and
      (2)   The district from which the member was elected, if applicable.
   (B)   A member of the Town Council who is elected by the voters of a
district forfeits office if the member ceases to be a resident of the district.
   (C)   A member of the Town Council who is elected by the voters of the
entire town but is elected or selected as a candidate from a district forfeits
office if the member ceases to be a resident of the district.
   (D)   An at-large member of the Town Council forfeits office if the member
ceases to be a resident of the town.
(I.C. 36-5-2-6)
§ 31.003 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Town Council may:
   (A)   Adopt ordinances and resolutions for the performance of functions of
the town;
   (B)   Purchase, hold and convey any interest in property for the use of the
town; and
   (C)   Adopt and use a common seal.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9)
§ 31.004 PRESIDENT.
   The Town Council shall select one of its members to be its President for a
definite term, which may not exceed his or her term of office as a member of
the Town Council.
(I.C. 36-5-2-7)
Cross-reference:
   Meetings; Rules of Procedure, see §§
31.040 through
31.060
§ 31.005 ELECTED AT LARGE.
   (A)   The current Town Council districts as were established by the
legislative body of the town are abolished.
   (B)   All members of the Town Council are elected at large by the voters of
the whole town.
(Ord. 1992-6, passed 12-14-1992)
§ 31.006 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   (A)   Effective January 1, 2014, the regular monthly meeting of the Town
Council shall be held on the second Monday of each month at 6:00 p.m. EDT in
the Boswell Community Center, 108 E. Main Street, Boswell, Indiana.
   (B)   In the event that such regular monthly meeting falls on a holiday
recognized by the State of Indiana, the regular monthly meeting will be held
instead on the following day, at the same time, in the same place.
(Ord. 2013-12-9-1, passed 12-9-2013)
MEETINGS; GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.020 OPEN MEETINGS.
   All meetings of the Town Council shall be held in accordance with state law
regarding open meetings, being I.C. 5-14-1.5.
§ 31.021 EXECUTIVE SESSIONS.
   (A)   As used in this section, PUBLIC OFFICIAL means a person:
      (1)   Who is a member of a governing body of a public agency; or
      (2)   Whose tenure and compensation are fixed by law and who executes an
oath.
   (B)   Executive sessions may be held only in the following instances:
      (1)   Where authorized by federal or state statute;
      (2)   (a)   For discussion of strategy with respect to any of the
following:
            1.   Collective bargaining, which does not include a discussion or
meeting under I.C. 20-29-6-7;
            2.   Initiation of litigation or litigation that is either pending
or has been threatened specifically in writing. As used in this division,
LITIGATION includes any judicial action or administrative law proceeding under
federal or state law;
            3.   The implementation of security systems;
            4.   A real property transaction including:
                  a.   A purchase;
                  b.   A lease as lessor;
                  c.   A lease as lessee;
                  d.   A transfer;
                  e.   An exchange; or
                  f.   A sale;
by the Town Council up to the time a contract or option is executed by the
parties. This clause does not affect a political subdivision's duty to comply
with any other statute that governs the conduct of the real property
transaction, including I.C. 36-1-10 or 6I.C. 36-1-11.
            5.   School consolidation.
         (b)   However, all such strategy discussions must be necessary for
competitive or bargaining reasons and may not include competitive or bargaining
adversaries.
      (3)   For discussion of the assessment, design and implementation of
school safety and security measures, plans and systems;
      (4)   Interviews and negotiations with industrial or commercial prospects
or agents of industrial or commercial prospects by:
         (a)   The Indiana Economic Development Corporation;
         (b)   The Office of Tourism Development (before July 1, 2020) or the
Indiana Destination Development Corporation (after June 30, 2020);
         (c)   The Indiana Finance Authority;
         (d)   The ports of Indiana;
         (e)   An Economic Development Commission;
         (f)   The Indiana State Department of Agriculture;
         (g)   A local economic development organization that is a nonprofit
corporation established under state law whose primary purpose is the promotion
of industrial or business development in Indiana, the retention or expansion of
Indiana businesses, or the development of entrepreneurial activities in
Indiana; or
         (h)   A governing body of a political subdivision.
However, this division (B)(4) does not apply to any discussions regarding
research that is prohibited under I.C. 16-34.5-1-2 or under any other law;
      (5)   To receive information about and interview prospective employees;
      (6)   With respect to any individual over whom the Town Council has
jurisdiction:
         (a)   To receive information concerning the individual’s alleged
misconduct; and
         (b)   To discuss, before a determination, the individual’s status as
an employee, a student or an independent contractor who is a physician or a
school bus driver.
      (7)   For discussion of records classified as confidential by state or
federal statute;
      (8)   To discuss before a placement decision an individual student’s
abilities, past performance, behavior and needs;
      (9)   To discuss a job performance evaluation of individual employees.
This division does not apply to a discussion of the salary, compensation or
benefits of employees during a budget process;
      (10)   When considering the appointment of a public official, to do the
following:
         (a)   Develop a list of prospective appointees;
         (b)   Consider applications;
         (c)   Make one initial exclusion of prospective appointees from
further consideration; and
         (d)   Notwithstanding I.C. 5-14-3-4(b)(12), the Town Council may
release and shall make available for inspection and copying in accordance with
I.C. 5-14-3-3 identifying information concerning prospective appointees not
initially excluded from further consideration. An initial exclusion of
prospective appointees from further consideration may not reduce the number of
prospective appointees to fewer than three unless there are fewer than three
prospective appointees. Interviews of prospective appointees must be conducted
at a meeting that is open to the public.
      (11)   To train school board members with an outside consultant about the
performance of the role of its members as public officials;
      (12)   To prepare or score examinations used in issuing licenses,
certificates, permits or registrations under I.C. 25;
      (13)   To discuss information and intelligence intended to prevent,
mitigate or respond to the threat of terrorism;
      (14)   To train members of a board of aviation commissioners appointed
under I.C. 8-22-2 or members of an airport authority board appointed under I.C.
8-22-3 with an outside consultant about the performance of the role of the
members as public officials. A board may hold not more than one executive
session per calendar year under this division.
   (C)   A final action must be taken at a meeting open to the public.
   (D)   Public notice of executive sessions must state the subject matter by
specific reference to the enumerated instance or instances for which executive
sessions may be held under division (B) of this section. The requirements
stated in §
31.024 for memoranda and minutes being made available to the public is modified
as to executive sessions in that the memoranda and minutes must identify the
subject matter considered by specific reference to the enumerated instance or
instances for which public notice was given. The Town Council shall certify by
a statement in the memoranda and minutes of the Town Council that no subject
matter was discussed in the executive session other than the subject matter
specified in the public notice.
   (E)   The Town Council may not conduct an executive session during a
meeting, except as otherwise permitted by applicable statute. A meeting may not
be recessed and reconvened with the intent of circumventing this division.
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-6.1)
§ 31.022 NOTICE OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the Town Council shall be held at a time and place
established by the Town Council.
   (B)   Public notice of the date, time and place of any meetings, executive
sessions or of any rescheduled or reconvened meeting shall be given by the Town
Council by posting a copy of the notice at the principal office of the Town
Council, or if no office exists, at the building where the meeting is to be
held.
§ 31.023 AGENDA.
   (A)   The Town Council, when utilizing an agenda, shall post a copy of the
agenda at the entrance to the location of the meeting prior to the meeting. A
rule, regulation, ordinance or other final action adopted by reference to
agenda number or item alone is void.
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-4(a))
   (B)   The Town Council shall designate a person who shall prepare the agenda
for each meeting.
§ 31.024 RECORD OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   As the meeting progresses, the following memoranda shall be kept:
      (1)   The date, time and place of the meeting;
      (2)   The members of the Town Council recorded as either present or
absent;
      (3)   The general substance of all matters proposed, discussed or
decided;
      (4)   A record of all votes taken, by individual members if there is a
roll call; and
      (5)   Any additional information required under this chapter or any other
statute that authorizes a governing body to conduct a meeting using an
electronic means of communication.
   (B)   The memoranda are to be available within a reasonable period of time
after the meeting for the purpose of informing the public of the Town Council's
proceedings. The minutes, if any, are to be open for public inspection and
copying.
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-4(b) and (c))
§ 31.025 QUORUM.
   A majority of all the elected members of the Town Council constitutes a
quorum.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.2)
§ 31.026 CLERK OF COUNCIL; TIE-BREAKING VOTE.
   (A)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is the Clerk of the Town Council.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is an ex officio member for the purpose of casting
the deciding vote to break a tie.
(I.C. 36-5-2-8)
MEETINGS; RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 31.040 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   The Council President shall take the chair at the hour appointed, or to
which the Council shall have adjourned, and shall immediately call the members
to order; whereupon, the Clerk of Council shall proceed to call the roll of
members. If a quorum is present, the Clerk of Council shall so announce and the
Council shall proceed with the order of business.
Cross-reference:
   Election of Council President, see §
31.004
   Town Clerk-Treasurer serves as Clerk of Council, see §
31.026
§ 31.041 QUORUM FOR CONDUCTING BUSINESS.
   (A)   A quorum shall consist of a majority of the entire Council, including
the Council President. A quorum shall be necessary to transact the business of
the Town Council.
   (B)   If no quorum is present, the Council shall not thereby stand
adjourned, but the members present shall adjourn or recess the Council by a
majority vote.
§ 31.042 ABSENCE OF PRESIDENT.
   At any meeting of the Council where a majority shall be assembled, and if
the President is temporarily absent but within or near the community, the Clerk
of Council shall preside and call the roll, whereupon the Council shall elect a
Temporary Chairperson from its membership. In the event that the absence of the
President shall be of a more permanent nature, a President Pro Tem shall be
elected.
§ 31.043 DUTIES OF THE PRESIDENT.
   (A)   The President shall serve as the Chair, shall preserve order and
decorum and may speak to points of order in preference to other members, and
shall decide all questions of order subject to appeal.
   (B)   If the President refuses to allow the Council members to exercise
their right to appeal a decision of the Chair, the Council members may consider
and pass upon the matter in spite of the Chair's failure to grant them appeal.
   (C)   The President shall have the power to require the Council room to be
cleared, or to have any disorderly person or persons ejected, in case of any
disturbances or disorderly conduct which prevent the meeting from being
continued in an orderly manner.
   (D)   Nothing in this code shall preclude the President from making or
seconding a motion, or from voting on any matters coming before the Council.
§ 31.044 DUTIES OF COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   (A)   While the President is stating the motion, or deciding a point of
order, the members shall be seated and no member shall leave the Council room
during the session without permission from the presiding officer.
   (B)   Every member, prior to his or her speaking, making a motion or
seconding the same, shall address the presiding officer and shall not proceed
with his or her remarks until recognized and named by the Chair.
   (C)   A member so recognized by the Chair shall confine himself or herself
to the question under debate.
   (D)   No member shall speak more than once on the same question, except by
permission of the Chair, and then not until every other member desiring to
speak shall have had an opportunity to do so.
   (E)   No member shall speak longer than five minutes at any one time, except
by consent of the Chair.
   (F)   While a member is speaking, no member shall hold any private
discussion, nor pass between the speaker and the Chair.
   (G)   A member, when called to order by the Chair, shall thereupon
discontinue speaking. The order or ruling of the Chair shall be binding and
conclusive, subject only to the right to appeal.
   (H)   Any member may appeal to the Council from a ruling of the Chair and,
if the appeal is seconded, the member making the appeal may briefly state his
or her reason for the same, and the Chair may briefly explain his or her
ruling; but there shall be no debate on the appeal and no other member shall
participate in the discussion. The Chair shall then put the question, "Shall
the decision of the Chair be overruled?" Otherwise, it shall be sustained.
   (I)   The right of a member to address the Council on a question of personal
privilege shall be limited to cases in which his or her integrity, character or
motives are assailed, questioned or impugned.
§ 31.045 SECONDING OF MOTIONS REQUIRED.
   No motion shall be put or debated in the Council or in committee unless it
be seconded. When a motion is seconded, it shall be stated by the presiding
officer before debate.
§ 31.046 WITHDRAWAL OF MOTIONS.
   After a resolution or a motion is stated by the President, it shall be
deemed to be in the possession of the Council, but it may be withdrawn by the
maker thereof with or without the consent of the Council member seconding the
motion prior to the call for the vote by the President.
§ 31.047 DIVISION OF QUESTIONS.
   If any question under consideration contains several distinct propositions,
the Council, by a majority vote of the members present, may divide the
questions.
§ 31.048 RECORD OF MOTIONS.
   In all cases where a resolution or motion is entered in the journal, the
names of the members moving and seconding the same shall be entered.
§ 31.049 VOTE.
   (A)   The ayes and nays shall be taken upon the passage of all ordinances
and on all propositions to create any liability against the town, or for the
expenditure or appropriation of its money, and upon any question and in all
other cases at the request of any member of the Council. When the Clerk of
Council has commenced to call the roll of the Council for the taking of a vote
by "Ayes" and "Nays," all debate on the question before the Council shall be
deemed concluded, and during the taking of the vote a member shall be permitted
to briefly explain his or her vote and shall respond to the calling of his or
her name by the Clerk of Council by answering "Aye" or "Nay," as the case may
be.
   (B)   The names of each member of the Council shall be listed on the
official copy of every ordinance passed indicating specifically the names of
those voting "Aye" and those voting "Nay."
   (C)   An abstention is neither an affirmative vote nor a negative vote.
Regardless of the number of abstentions, and except as otherwise provided by
law, an affirmative vote of the majority of the Council members is required to
pass a motion, ordinance, resolution or other action of the Town Council.
   (D)   The President shall announce the result of the Council's vote and the
votes shall be entered in the journal of the proceedings.
Cross-reference:
   Two-thirds vote; when required, see §
31.076
§ 31.050 PRECEDENCE OF MOTION.
   When a question is before the Council, no motion shall be received, except
as specified in this section, and which shall have precedence in the following
order:
   (A)   To fix the time to which to adjourn;
   (B)   To adjourn;
   (C)   To take a recess;
   (D)   To raise a question of privilege;
   (E)   To call for the orders of the day;
   (F)   To lay on the table;
   (G)   To call for the previous question;
   (H)   To postpone to a certain time;
   (I)   To refer to committee;
   (J)   To amend;
   (K)   To postpone indefinitely; and
   (L)   To the main motion.
§ 31.051 UNDEBATABLE MOTIONS AND EXCEPTIONS TO ORDER.
   The motion to adjourn or to lay on the table shall be decided without
debate, and the motion to fix the time to which to adjourn and the motion to
adjourn shall always be in order, except:
   (A)   When a member is in possession of the floor;
   (B)   When the roll call votes are being called;
   (C)   While the members are voting;
   (D)   When adjournment was the last preceding motion; or
   (E)   When it has been decided that the previous question shall be taken.
§ 31.052 MOTION TO ADJOURN.
   A motion to adjourn cannot be amended; but a motion to adjourn to a given
day or time shall be open to amendment and debate.
§ 31.053 MOTION TO POSTPONE INDEFINITELY.
   When a question is postponed indefinitely, it shall not be taken up again
before the next regular meeting.
§ 31.054 MOTION TO AMEND.
   A motion to amend an amendment shall be in order, but a motion to amend an
amendment to an amendment shall not be entertained.
§ 31.055 AMENDMENTS.
   Only one amendment at a time may be offered to any question before the
Council. The vote shall first be taken on the amendment and, if the amendment
passes, then further amendments may be proposed. Finally, a vote shall be taken
on the principal motion as finally amended.
§ 31.056 RECONSIDERATION.
   (A)   A vote or question may be reconsidered at any time during the same
meeting, or at the first regular meeting held thereafter. A motion for
reconsideration, once having been made and decided in the negative, shall not
be renewed. A matter once having been decided and a motion to reconsider the
matter having been defeated, it may nonetheless come before the Council at a
future time by way of a motion to rescind or as a new motion. If the Chair
determines that new facts are to be presented to the Council, or that there is
a likelihood that the Council will reverse its previous decision, the Chair
shall rule the motion in order. If a motion is continuously brought before the
Council and rejected, the Chair may rule its reintroduction under a motion to
rescind or as a new motion to be out of order.
   (B)   No motion to reconsider the approval or denial of the recommendation
of an advisory body required to hold public hearings shall be entertained
except at the same meeting at which the original action was taken or after the
matter has been referred to the advisory body for a further hearing and
recommendation.
   (C)   A motion to reconsider must be made and seconded by members who voted
on the prevailing side of the question to be reconsidered, unless otherwise
provided by law; provided, however, that where a motion has received a majority
vote in the affirmative, but is declared lost solely on the ground that a
greater number of affirmative votes is required by statute for the passage or
adoption of the motion, then in that case a motion to reconsider may be made
and seconded only by those who voted in the affirmative on the question to be
reconsidered, so long as the issue presented is the same, no new information is
forthcoming and the rights of third parties have not intervened.
§ 31.057 VISITORS AND PETITIONERS; PUBLIC MEETING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Except during the time allotted for public discussion and comments, no
person other than a member of the Council shall address that body, except with
the consent of a majority of the members present.
   (B)   (1)   Persons wishing to address the Town Council at public meetings
must sign up at the Town Hall at least five business days before the meeting at
which they intend to speak, and indicate the subject matter they intend to
discuss with the Town Council, in order to be added to the agenda for a Town
Council meeting.
      (2)   The Town Council may, should the need arise, deviate from these
rules by a majority vote.
(Ord. 1999-1, passed 3-22-1999; Ord. 2008-1, passed 2-11-2008)
§ 31.058 REPORTS, COMMUNICATIONS, PETITIONS AND THE LIKE.
   All communications, reports, petitions or any other papers addressed to the
Council shall be made available to the Clerk of Council prior to the meeting.
The Clerk of Council shall endeavor to distribute copies or read the material
to the members of the Council.
§ 31.059 ADOPTION OF ROBERT'S RULES OF ORDER, REVISED.
   The rules of parliamentary practice comprised in the latest published
edition of Robert's Rules of Order, revised, shall govern the Council in all
cases to which they are applicable and in which they are not inconsistent with
the ordinances of the town, including these rules, or the statutes of the
state.
§ 31.060 TEMPORARY SUSPENSION OF RULES; AMENDMENT OF RULES.
   The rules of the Council may be temporarily suspended, altered or amended,
by concurrence of a majority vote of all the Council members then in office.
ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
§ 31.075 MAJORITY VOTE; WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   A requirement that an ordinance, resolution or other action of the
Town Council be passed by a majority vote means at least a majority vote of all
the elected members.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.4(a))
   (B)   A majority vote of the Town Council is required to pass an ordinance
unless a greater vote is required by statute.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.6)
Cross-reference:
   Effect of abstentions, see §
31.049
§ 31.076 TWO-THIRDS VOTE; WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   A requirement that an ordinance, resolution or other action of the
Town Council be passed by a two-thirds vote means at least a two-thirds vote of
all the elected members.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.4(b))
   (B)   A two-thirds vote of all the elected members, after unanimous consent
of the members present to consider the ordinance, is required to pass an
ordinance of the Town Council on the same day or at the same meeting at which
it is introduced.
   (C)   Division (B) does not apply to the following:
      (1)   A zoning ordinance or an amendment to a zoning ordinance adopted
under I.C. 36-7; or
      (2)   An ordinance to increase the number of Town Council members adopted
under I.C. 36-5-2-4.2, unless the ordinance also establishes new legislative
body districts.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.8)
§ 31.077 DATE OF ADOPTION; PUBLICATION.
   (A)   An ordinance, order or resolution passed by the Town Council is
considered adopted when it is signed by the President of Council. If required
by statute, an adopted ordinance, order or resolution must be promulgated or
published before it takes effect.
   (B)   An ordinance prescribing a penalty or forfeiture for a violation must,
before it takes effect, be published in the manner prescribed by I.C. 5-3-
1 unless:
      (1)   It is published under division (C) below; or
      (2)   It declares an emergency requiring its immediate effectiveness and
is posted in:
         (a)   One public place in each district in the town; or
         (b)   A number of public places in the town equal to the number of
Town Council members, if the town has abolished legislative body districts
under I.C. 36-5-2-4.1.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (E) below, if a town publishes any of
its ordinances in book or pamphlet form, no other publication is required. If
an ordinance prescribing a penalty or forfeiture for a violation is published
under this division, it takes effect two weeks after the publication of the
book or pamphlet. Publication under this division, if authorized by the
legislative body, constitutes presumptive evidence:
      (1)   Of the ordinances in the book or pamphlet;
      (2)   Of the date of adoption of the ordinances; and
      (3)   That the ordinances have been properly signed, attested, recorded,
and approved.
   (D)   This section, other than division (F) below, does not apply to a
zoning ordinance or amendment to a zoning ordinance, or a resolution approving
a comprehensive plan, that is adopted under I.C. 36-7.
   (E)   An ordinance increasing a building permit fee on new development must:
      (1)   Be published one time in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1, and not later
than 30 days after the ordinance is adopted by the Town Council in accordance
with I.C. 5-3-1; and
      (2)   Delay the implementation of the fee increase for 90 days after the
date the ordinance is published under division (D)(1) above of this section.
   (F)   Subject to division (J) below, the legislative body shall:
      (1)   Subject to division (G) below, give written notice to the
Department of Environmental Management not later than 60 days before amendment
or repeal of an environmental restrictive ordinance; and
      (2)   Give written notice to the Department of Environmental Management
not later than 30 days after passage, amendment or repeal of an environmental
restrictive ordinance.
   (G)   Upon written request by the legislative body, the Department of
Environmental Management may waive the notice requirement of division (F)(1)
above of this section.
   (H)   An environmental restrictive ordinance passed or amended after 2009 by
the legislative body must state the notice requirements of division (F) above
of this section.
   (I)   The failure of an environmental restrictive ordinance to comply with
division (H) above of this section does not void the ordinance.
   (J)   The notice requirements of division (F) above apply only if the
municipal corporation received under I.C. 13-25-5-8.5(f) written notice that
the department is relying on the environmental restrictive ordinance referred
to in division (F) above as part of a risk based remediation proposal:
      (1)   Approved by the department; and
      (2)   Conducted under I.C. 13-22, 13-23, 13-24, 13-25-4 and 13-25-5.
(I.C. 36-5-2-10)
§ 31.078 RECORD OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Within a reasonable time after an ordinance of the Town Council is
adopted, the Clerk-Treasurer shall record it in a book kept for that purpose.
The record must include:
      (1)   The signature of the President of Council;
      (2)   The attestation of the Clerk-Treasurer; and
      (3)   The date of each recorded item.
   (B)   The record or a certified copy of it constitutes presumptive evidence
of the adoption of the ordinance.
(I.C. 36-5-2-10.2)
CHAPTER 32: TOWN OFFICIALS
Section
Clerk-Treasurer
   
32.01   Residency requirement
   
32.02   Election; term of office
   
32.03   Powers and duties
   
32.04   Deputies and employees
   
32.05   Office space
   
32.06   Claim payments
CLERK-TREASURER
§ 32.01 RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT.
   The Clerk-Treasurer must reside within the town as provided in Indiana
Constitution Article 6, § 6. The Clerk-Treasurer forfeits office if the Clerk-
Treasurer ceases to be a resident of the town.
(I.C. 36-5-6-3(a))
§ 32.02 ELECTION; TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Election. The Clerk-Treasurer shall be elected under I.C. 3-10-6 or 3-
10-7 by the voters of the whole town.
(I.C. 36-5-6-4)
   (B)   Term of office. Except as provided in I.C. 36-5-6-3(c), (d), (e) or
(f), the term of office of the Clerk-Treasurer is four years, beginning at 12:
00 p.m. on January 1 after election and continuing until a successor is elected
and qualified.
(I.C. 36-5-6-3(b))
      (1)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall be elected at a municipal election
in 2011 for a term of office of three years.
      (2)   All successors to the town officers elected at the municipal
election in 2011 shall serve for terms of four years.
      (3)   The term of office of each town officer begins on January 1 after
the election.
(Ord. 2010-05-24, passed 5-24-2010)
Cross-reference:
   Staggered terms for Town Council, see §
31.001
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is both the Town Clerk and the Town Fiscal
Officer.
(I.C. 36-5-6-2)
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer may administer oaths, take depositions and take
acknowledgments of instruments required by statute to be acknowledged.
(I.C. 36-5-6-5)
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall do the following:
      (1)   Receive and care for all town money and pay the money out only on
order of the Town Council;
      (2)   Keep accounts showing when and from what sources the Clerk-
Treasurer has received town money, and when and to whom the Clerk-Treasurer has
paid out town money;
      (3)   Prescribe payroll and account forms for all town offices;
      (4)   Prescribe the manner in which creditors, officers and employees
shall be paid;
      (5)   Manage the finances and accounts of the town and make investments
of town money;
      (6)   Prepare for the Town Council the budget estimates of miscellaneous
revenue, financial statements and the proposed tax rate;
      (7)   Maintain custody of the town seal and the records of the Town
Council;
      (8)   Issue all licenses authorized by statute and collect the fees fixed
by ordinance;
      (9)   Serve as Clerk of the Town Council by attending its meetings and
recording its proceedings;
      (10)   Administer oaths, take depositions and take acknowledgment of
instruments that are required by statute to be acknowledged, without charging a
fee;
      (11)   Serve as Clerk of the Town Court under I.C. 33-35-3-2, if the
judge of the court does not serve as clerk of the court or appoint a Clerk of
the Court under I.C. 33-35-3-1; and
      (12)   Perform all other duties prescribed by statute.
(I.C. 36-5-6-6)
   (D)   In addition to the statutory duties of the Clerk-Treasurer, the Clerk-
Treasurer, or his or her designee, shall be responsible for the billing and
collection of the town utility’s rates and charges, garbage collection service
fees, and tall grass and weed abatement fees, charges and penalties.
(Am. Ord. 2013-12-9-3, passed 12-9-2013)
Cross-reference:
   Utility billing; collection; disconnection, see §§
50.45 through
50.47
§ 32.04 DEPUTIES AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall appoint the number of deputies and employees
needed for the effective operation of the office, with the approval of the Town
Council. The Clerk-Treasurer’s deputies and employees serve at the Clerk-
Treasurer’s pleasure.
   (B)   If the town owns a utility and the Clerk-Treasurer is directly
responsible for the billing and collection of that utility’s rates and charges,
the Clerk-Treasurer shall appoint those employees who are also responsible for
that billing and collection. These employees serve at the Clerk-Treasurer’s
pleasure.
   (C)   (1)   If the Clerk-Treasurer is unable to perform the fiscal
requirements of the Clerk-Treasurer's position, the town shall hire or contract
with a qualified certified public accountant to:
         (a)   Provide guidance to the Clerk-Treasurer regarding the
performance of the Clerk-Treasurer's responsibilities; or
         (b)   Perform the Clerk-Treasurer's fiscal responsibilities.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer is considered to be unable to perform the
fiscal requirements of the Clerk-Treasurer's position if the town is declared
unauditable under I.C. 5-11-1-9(b).
(I.C. 36-5-6-7)
   (D)   (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer may hire or contract with competent
attorneys or legal research assistants on terms the Clerk-Treasurer considers
appropriate.
      (2)   Appropriations for the salaries of attorneys and legal research
assistants employed under this division (D) shall be approved in the annual
budget and must be allocated to the Clerk-Treasurer for the payment of
attorneys’ and legal research assistants’ salaries.
(I.C. 36-5-6-8)
§ 32.05 OFFICE SPACE.
   If office space exists in a building owned or leased by the town, the Town
Council shall provide suitable office space for the Clerk-Treasurer and staff
and records of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(I.C. 36-5-6-5.1)
§ 32.06 CLAIM PAYMENTS.
   (A)   The Town Council allows for the Clerk-Treasurer to make the following
claim payments in advance of Town Council allowance for the following expenses:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from the United States
government, its agencies or its political subdivisions;
      (2)   License or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   General grant programs where advance funding is not prohibited and
the contracting party posts sufficient security to cover the amount advanced;
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance of service agreements;
      (8)   Leases or rental agreements;
      (9)   Bond or coupon payments;
      (10)   Payroll;
      (11)   State, federal or county taxes; and
      (12)   Claims which would impose a penalty if not paid by due date.
   (B)   Each payment is to be supported by a fully itemized claim.
   (C)   All claims will be reviewed and allowed at the Council's regular or
special meeting following the pre-approved payment of the expense.
(Ord. 1992-5, passed 9-14-1992)
CHAPTER 33: TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Redevelopment Commission
   
33.01   Formation
   
33.02   Commissioners
   
33.03   Public hearings before the Commission
   
33.04   Procedures for filing of written remonstrances
Department of Economic Development
   
33.15   Formation
   
33.16   Economic Development Commission
Plan Commission
   
33.30   Designation of County Plan Commission
   
33.31   Powers and duties
   
33.32   Expenses
REDEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
§ 33.01 FORMATION.
   (A)   The Town Council now ratifies its earlier decision to create and
establish a Redevelopment Commission.
   (B)   There is and has been created within the town the Department of
Redevelopment (the "Department").
   (C)   The Department shall have all powers and duties provided pursuant to
I.C. 36-7-14 (the "Act"), as may be amended from time to time.
   (D)   The Department shall be controlled by a commission known as the
Redevelopment Commission, as provided for by I.C. 36-7-14-3.
(Res. passed 1-8-2007; Ord. 2006-2007-3, passed 2-26-2007)
§ 33.02 COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-14, this Commission shall consist of five
Commissioners, (the "Commissioners") who have been and hereby are appointed,
and duly sworn to fulfill the duties of this Commission.
   (B)   Commissioners shall comply with all conflict of interest disclosures,
if any, as required by law.
      (1)   An Economic Development Commissioner shall disclose any pecuniary
interest in any employment, financing agreement or other contract made under
Chapter 14 of the Act before any action by the Commission on it, and shall not
vote on any matter.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other law, a member of the Council may have a
pecuniary interest in any employment, financing agreement or other contract
made under Chapter 14 of the Act if he or she discloses the pecuniary interest
before any action by the fiscal body on it and does not vote on any matter.
      (3)   If any property in which an Commissioner or Council member has a
pecuniary interest is property required for the purposes of this chapter, that
property may be acquired, but only by gift or condemnation.
   (C)   No Commissioner shall be permitted to receive salary, wage or pay for
services in connection with serving upon this Commission, but may receive
reimbursement for expenses actually incurred.
(Res. passed 1-8-2007; Ord. 2006-2007-3, passed 2-26-2007)
§ 33.03 PUBLIC HEARINGS BEFORE THE COMMISSION.
   (A)   Any person who desires to speak in support/opposition of an action
required to be set for a public hearing by the Indiana Code, shall inform the
Clerk-Treasurer at least three business days before the hearing, by having his
or her name placed on the agenda, so the Clerk-Treasurer may determine the
space required.
   (B)   At the time of the public hearing, the Commission may designate a
Commissioner or other person to provide an opening statement.
   (C)   A person may speak at a public hearing or file a written remonstrance,
as provided for under division (B) above, in lieu of speaking.
   (D)   Those persons who desire to speak at the public hearing on an action
of the Commission will be called forward to make their statements.
   (E)   Persons who speak at a public hearing may be entitled to up to three
minutes.
      (1)   The Commission may allow an extension of time for information the
Commission believes will assist in rendering a decision or taking action.
      (2)   The Commission may limit the speaking time if the Commission
decides that the information is redundant or repetitive of information already
received.
      (3)   The Commission may require a person to be placed under oath prior
to giving testimony which is of an evidentiary nature.
      (4)   For each written remonstrance filed, one of the remonstrators may
speak at the public hearing to provide a summary of the remonstrance, and
respond to questions from the Commission. However, the remonstrance shall be
considered to speak for the group where multiple remonstrances are filed.
   (F)   At the conclusion of the public hearing and to the extent that time
permits, the Commission may allow additional members of the public who were not
placed on the agenda to speak.
   (G)   The Commission may continue the hearing, from time to time, as may be
required.
   (H)   The Commission may call upon persons to present information to the
Commission or the public on any matter properly before it.
   (I)   Nothing in these procedures shall limit the Commission from taking any
action otherwise permitted by law.
(Res. 2007-04-09-07, passed 4-9-2007)
§ 33.04 PROCEDURES FOR FILING OF WRITTEN REMONSTRANCES.
   (A)   The original remonstrance, plus six copies (for the Town Attorney and
five Commissioners) shall be filed with the Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of
Boswell, 111 W. Main Street, Boswell, Indiana 47921. Phone: (765) 869-5951.
   (B)   The remonstrance shall:
      (1)   Contain the name, home address, mailing address (if different) and
telephone number of the remonstrator, along with the remonstrator's county of
residence;
      (2)   Include all exhibits or documents that the remonstrator desires to
be considered by the Commission;
      (3)   Be verified and signed by at least one remonstrator, containing the
clause "I swear/affirm under penalties of perjury the forgoing statements are
true and correct;" and
      (4)   Any person who files as a remonstrator shall be considered to have
an interest in the proceedings.
   (C)   Remonstrances shall be filed at least two business day prior to any
scheduled public hearing.
   (D)   Upon receipt of the petition, the Clerk-Treasurer shall retain the
original for the public record and forward copies to the Town Attorney and all
Commissioners.
   (E)   Documents which fail to comply with this requirement may be rejected
as part of the written record and returned to the remonstrator.
(Res. 2007-04-09-07, passed 4-9-2007)
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
§ 33.15 FORMATION.
   (A)   The Town Council now ratifies its earlier decision to create and
establish an Economic Development Commission.
   (B)   There is and has been created within the town, the Department of
Economic Development (the "Department").
   (C)   The Department shall have all powers and duties provided for by I.C.
36-7-12 (the "Act"), as may be amended from time to time, including, but not
limited to §§ 17, 18, 18.5 and 19 of the Act.
   (D)   The Department shall be controlled by a commission known as the
Economic Development Commission, as provided for by §
33.16 below, and more fully set forth in §§ 4, 6, 9 thorough 16, of I.C. 36-7-
12.
(Res. passed 2-12-2007; Ord. 2006-2007-2, passed 2-26-2007)
§ 33.16 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   Pursuant to the Act, this Commission shall consist of three
Commissioners, (the "Commissioners") who shall be nominated, as required from
time to time, in the manner set forth in the Act and then appointed by the
President of the Town Council.
   (B)   The original Commissioners of this Commission having been nominated by
the respective authority and now duly appointed by the President of the Town
Council, pursuant to I.C. 36-7-12-6 and shall qualify for the office by taking
and subscribing an oath before the Clerk-Treasurer of the town and shall serve
for the initial terms, established by the Act.
      (1)   The Commissioner selected by the President shall serve for a period
of three years following February 1 after the original appointment, which shall
be until February 1, 2011.
      (2)   The Commissioner nominated by the President shall serve for a
period of two years following February 1 after the original appointment, which
shall be until February 1, 2010.
      (3)   The Commissioner nominated by the County Council shall serve for a
period of one year following February 1 after the original appointment, which
shall be until February 1, 2009.
   (C)   Commissioners shall comply with all conflict of interest disclosures,
if any, as required by law.
      (1)   An Economic Development Commissioner shall disclose any pecuniary
interest in any employment, financing agreement or other contract made under
Chapter 12 of the Act before any action by the Commission on it, and shall not
vote on any matter.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other law, a member of the Council may have a
pecuniary interest in any employment, financing agreement or other contract
made under Chapter 12 of the Act he or she discloses the pecuniary interest
before any action by the fiscal body on it and does not vote on any matter.
      (3)   If any property in which an Commissioner or Council member has a
pecuniary interest is property required for the purposes of this chapter, that
property may be acquired, but only by gift or condemnation.
   (D)   No Commissioner shall be permitted to receive salary, wage or pay for
services in connection with serving upon this Commission, but may receive
reimbursement for expenses actually incurred.
(Res. passed 2-12-2007; Ord. 2006-2007-2, passed 2-26-2007)
PLAN COMMISSION
§ 33.30 DESIGNATION OF COUNTY PLAN COMMISSION.
   The County Plan Commission be and the same is hereby designated as the Plan
Commission for the town.
(Ord. 1969-1, passed 11-24-1969)
§ 33.31 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   It is understood and agreed that the designated County Plan Commission
shall have for the town all the powers and duties granted under I.C. 36-7-4, to
a Town Plan Commission, provided that upon adoption of the master plan for the
town, the Town Council may then proceed to consider the master plan and
ordinance(s), or any amendments thereto, at the first Town Council meeting
following their receipt. The Town Council may then report its recommendations
to the Board of County Commissioners.
   (B)   The Board of County Commissioners shall not pass or approve the master
plan and ordinance(s), or any amendments thereto as they pertain to the town,
unless the Town Council has first ratified the plan and ordinance(s).
(Ord. 1969-1, passed 11-24-1969)
§ 33.32 EXPENSES.
   The county shall pay for all expenses incurred as a result of designating
and naming the County Plan Commission as the Plan Commission for the town, but
it is understood and agreed that any fees collected in the administration and
enforcement of a master plan, now or hereafter in effect, shall be paid to the
county.
(Ord. 1969-1, passed 11-24-1969)
CHAPTER 34: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
Town Marshal
   
34.01   Departmental organization and terms of employment
   
34.02   Probationary period
   
34.03   Hiring deputies
   
34.04   Training
   
34.05   Residency requirements
   
34.06   Marshal's hours of employment
   
34.07   Holidays
   
34.08   Duties
   
34.09   Use of squad car
   
34.10   Duties of deputies
Police Department
   
34.25   Number
   
34.26   Appointment of Deputy Marshals
   
34.27   Bond and compensation
   
34.28   Terms of service of Deputy Marshals
   
34.29   Termination of service of Deputy Marshals
TOWN MARSHAL
§ 34.01 DEPARTMENTAL ORGANIZATION AND TERMS OF EMPLOYMENT.
   The Town Marshal serves at the pleasure of the Town Council, and Deputy
Marshals serve at the pleasure of the Town Marshal, until each has completed
the mandatory basic training requirements under state law in the probationary
period described herein. Thereafter, full-time officers are subject to the
protections of I.C. 36-8-3-4 as that law may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2006-4, passed 10-10-2006)
§ 34.02 PROBATIONARY PERIOD.
   Upon hiring, the Town Marshal and his or her deputies shall be subject to a
one-year probationary period during which time the officer's performance will
be evaluated by the Town Council and the Town Marshal. Prior to the officer's
one-year anniversary, the Town Council shall be apprised of the officer's
performance by the Town Marshal, or, if it is the Town Marshal's first year of
employment, the Town Council will review his or her performance. After this
evaluation, the Town Council shall notify the officer in writing prior to his
or her first-year anniversary whether his or her job performance has been
satisfactory. If an officer is so notified that his or her performance is
unsatisfactory, his or her employment shall immediately cease. Otherwise, at
the expiration of the probationary period, the officer is considered regularly
employed by the town, upon completion of required training.
(Ord. 2006-4, passed 10-10-2006)
§ 34.03 HIRING DEPUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Town Marshal to seek applicants and interview
potential Deputy Marshal candidates. When the Town Marshal has completed that
task, he or she shall report to the Town Council his or her recommendation, and
the Town Council will ultimately decide whether the candidate recommended shall
receive an offer of employment, and if so, under what conditions.
(Ord. 2006-4, passed 10-10-2006)
§ 34.04 TRAINING.
   All officers hired on a full-time basis by the Town Marshal, as well as the
Town Marshal, shall attend Indiana Law Enforcement Academy training as required
by law within one year of employment with the Police Department and maintain
all annual training hours as required by law for each year thereafter. In the
event that the Town Council agrees to send the Town Marshal and/or his or her
Deputy Marshal to receive training, prior to receiving any training, the
officer shall be required to sign an agreement agreeing to repay the town the
costs of any training, in the event that the officer does not remain in the
employ of the town for two years after completion of the training course. In
the event that the officer leaves the employ of the town following completion
of training at the Indiana Law Enforcement Academy, whether voluntarily or
involuntarily, the town shall be reimbursed by the officer by an amount equal
to the cost of the academy training multiplied by a percentage of time
remaining in the two-year period. Each officer employed by the town shall
qualify in firearms training at least once per year.
(Ord. 2006-4, passed 10-10-2006)
§ 34.05 RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS.
   All members of the Department shall reside within this county, have adequate
means of transportation to the town and shall maintain telephone service in the
officer’s residence. Officers choosing to reside within the town shall be
entitled to receive additional compensation as provided by the Town Council.
The Town Marshal shall reside within the town limits or up to one mile outside
town limits.
(Ord. 2006-4, passed 10-10-2006; Am. Ord. 2018-0515A, passed 5-15-2018)
§ 34.06 MARSHAL'S HOURS OF EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   Typical working hours will be 8:00 p.m. to 4:00 a.m. Monday through
Friday, however, a total of 40 hours per week shall be worked, and after which,
the Marshal shall receive compensatory time off in lieu of overtime pay.
Compensatory time will accrue after the Marshal has worked 40 hours in a work
period, which shall include 30 minutes per shift for lunche3s, and shall be
calculated on a hour per hour basis (e.g., working 41 hours in a work period
will result in one hour of compensatory paid time off). Hours paid due to
vacation, holiday, sick leave, or funeral leave shall not count towards the
Marshal’s 40 hours, as these are not actual work hours. In the event the
Marshal has accumulated more than 20 hours of compensatory time, the Marshal
shall be paid for the hours in excess of 20 hours at their hourly rate of pay
calculated as follows: Annual salary divided by 2,080 hours equals hourly rate
of pay multiplied by the number of compensatory time hours that exceed 20
hours.
   (B)   During each eight-hour shift, the Marshal shall be entitled to 30
minutes for a meal and two 15-minute breaks, so long as the breaks do not
interfere with the Marshal’s duties. It is expected that the Town Marshal will
respond to calls for assistance from either the Town Council, citizens of the
town or other law enforcement agencies throughout the day and night. In the
event that action is needed during the day, or during a time when the Marshal
is not otherwise engaged in his or her duties, the Marshal shall respond to the
request in an appropriate and timely manner, and be permitted an equal amount
of time off his or her regularly scheduled duties during the next shift.
(Ord. 2006-4, passed 10-10-2006; Am. Ord. 2018-0515A, passed 5-15-2018)
§ 34.07 HOLIDAYS.
   Officers who work on holidays will be compensated with one day off for each
holiday worked. All compensated days must be used within the calendar year
given.
(Ord. 2006-4, passed 10-10-2006)
§ 34.08 DUTIES.
   The Town Marshal and Deputies shall have the following duties:
   (A)   To serve and protect the citizens of the town;
   (B)   To uphold and enforce the laws of the United States and state and the
ordinances of the town;
   (C)   To provide assistance to state and county officers when requested;
   (D)   To obtain and maintain all training necessary as required by the
state;
   (E)   To maintain all equipment in proper working order;
   (F)   To provide, in January of each year, an inventory to the Town Council
of all clothing and equipment;
   (G)   To provide, at the first Town Council meeting in January, April, July
and October, an inventory of all evidence or property seized and held by the
Department, and a description of how each item of evidence was disposed of;
   (H)   To remain within the limits of the Town Marshal Department's budget;
   (I)   The Marshal shall work a 40-hour week as set forth above. Further, the
Marshal shall arrange for coverage by Deputy Marshals from 8:00 p.m. on
Saturday night through 4:00 a.m. on Sunday morning and 8:00 p.m. on Sunday
night through 4:00 a.m. on Monday morning, or if no Deputy Marshal is
available, to arrange for coverage by the Sheriff's Department;
   (J)   Not engage in any other activity, employment, business or trade that
takes priority over the officer's obligations to the Department, or the town,
or that would limit his or her effectiveness in the discharge of his or her
official duties, or that would tend to reflect discredit upon the Department;
   (K)   Request permission for vacations, absences or leaves in advance from
the Town Council;
   (L)   When injured or ill, immediately notify the Town Marshal, or if it's
the Town Marshal who is ill or injured, notify the Clerk-Treasurer or a member
of the Town Council, if able to do so, and later shall give notice of the
probable date of his or her return to duty;
   (M)   Keep himself or herself neat, clean and presentable at all times,
unless his or her duty assignment requires otherwise;
   (N)   To be in uniform while on duty;
   (O)   To appear in court when summoned, and if the appearance in court is
related to the duties as an officer of the town, the employee may take equal
time off of his or her next regularly scheduled shift;
   (P)   To provide the Town Council with a report at each Town Council meeting
of the Department's activities including all reports of violations or
complaints received by the Department, and what was done to resolve the report
or complaint, including the date that the report or complaint was received, and
the date that it was resolved;
   (Q)   To provide copies of paperwork submitted to ILEA for purposes of
maintaining certification by ILEA and to show that officer(s) have met all
annual training requirements, to the Town Council on an annual basis; and
   (R)   To sign in at the beginning of each shift, and to sign out at the end
of each shift, by radio to the Benton County Sheriff’s Office dispatcher.
(Ord. 2006-4, passed 10-10-2006; Am. Ord. 2018-0515A, passed 5-15-2018)
§ 34.09 USE OF SQUAD CAR.
   The town’s squad car is to be used when the Marshal is on-duty. The Marshal
shall regularly patrol the town, and business and government properties
adjacent to the town, while on duty, unless engaged in assisting another
agency. When the Marshal is off-duty, the town’s squad car is to be used only
for town business; however, at the Town Council’s discretion the on-call deputy
may take the car home.
(Ord. 2006-4, passed 10-10-2006; Ord. 2008-5, passed 10-14-2008; Am. Ord. 2018-
0515A, passed 5-15-2018)
§ 34.10 DUTIES OF DEPUTIES.
   The duties of the Deputy Town Marshal shall include the following.
   (A)   The Deputy Marshal ("Deputy") is a law enforcement officer and shall
perform all duties, not specifically mentioned, which are commonly associated
with the duties and responsibilities of a law enforcement officer.
   (B)   The Deputy shall communicate routinely with his or her immediate
supervisor, the Town Marshal.
   (C)   The Deputy shall timely report for all shifts or call-outs, as
scheduled or required by the Marshal.
   (D)   The Deputy shall perform other duties as directed by the Marshal or
the Town Council.
(Ord. 2006-4, passed 10-10-2006)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 34.25 NUMBER.
   The Police Department shall consist of a Town Marshal and two Deputy
Marshals.
(Ord. 2010-1, passed 1-11-2010; Am. Ord. 2018-0515A, passed 5-15-2018)
§ 34.26 APPOINTMENT OF DEPUTY MARSHALS.
   It shall be the duty of the Town Marshal to seek applicants and interview
potential Deputy Marshal candidates. When the Town Marshal has completed that
task, he or she shall report to the Town Council his or her recommendation, and
the Town Council will ultimately decide whether the candidate recommended shall
receive an offer of employment, and if so, under what conditions.
(Ord. 2010-1, passed 1-11-2010; Am. Ord. 2018-0515A, passed 5-15-2018)
§ 34.27 BOND AND COMPENSATION.
   A bond in the amount of $10,000 shall be purchased for the Town Marshal. The
compensation to be paid to each employees will be determined annually in a
salary ordinance.
(Ord. 2010-1, passed 1-11-2010)
§ 34.28 TERMS OF SERVICE OF DEPUTY MARSHALS.
   The terms of service of Deputy Marshals are set forth in Ordinance 2005-2,
as adopted in §
36.40.
(Ord. 2010-1, passed 1-11-2010; Am. Ord. 2018-0515A, passed 5-15-2018)
§ 34.29 TERMINATION OF SERVICE OF DEPUTY MARSHALS.
   The Town Marshal may dismiss a Deputy Marshal at any time. However, a Deputy
Marshal who has been employed by the town for more than six months after
completing the minimum basic training requirements adopted by the law
enforcement training board under I.C. 5-2-1-9 may be dismissed only if the
procedure prescribed by I.C. 36-5-7-3 is followed.
(Ord. 2010-1, passed 1-11-2010; Am. Ord. 2018-0515A, passed 5-15-2018)
CHAPTER 35: FINANCES
Section
Disbursement of Funds
   
35.01   Appropriation required
   
35.02   Issue of warrants
   
35.03   Allowance of claims
   
35.04   Warrants for payment of claims
   
35.05   Payment of compensation to officer or employee prior to vacation leave
   
35.06   Transfer of funds
   
35.07   Payment of claims
Budgets
   
35.20   Preparation of annual budget estimates
   
35.21   Preparation and approval of ordinance fixing tax rate; making annual
appropriations
   
35.22   Increase or decrease of appropriations after approval of ordinance
Funds
   
35.35   Economic Development Income Tax Fund
   
35.36   Rainy Day Fund
   
35.37   Special non-reverting operating fund for park and recreation purposes
   
35.38   Promotional Fund
   
35.39   Unrestricted Donations Fund
   
35.40   Restricted Donations Fund
   
35.41   Cumulative Capital Development Fund
   
35.42   LOIT Special Distribution Fund
   
35.43   ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Grant Fund
Cross-reference:
   Stormwater Fund, see §
55.04
DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS
§ 35.01 APPROPRIATION REQUIRED.
   Unless a statute provides otherwise, town monies may be disbursed only after
an appropriation made by ordinance of the Town Council and recorded in a book
kept for that purpose by the Town Council. Each appropriation must be made from
the fund against which the expenses arose.
(I.C. 36-5-4-2)
§ 35.02 ISSUE OF WARRANTS.
   (A)   The Town Council or a board of the town may order the issuance of
warrants for payment of money by the town only at a meeting of the Town Council
or board.
   (B)   A town officer who violates this section forfeits his or her office.
(I.C. 36-5-4-3)
§ 35.03 ALLOWANCE OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   Except as provided in section §
32.06, the Town Council or a board of the town may allow a claim:
      (1)   Only at a meeting of the Town Council or board; and
      (2)   Only if the claim was filed in the manner prescribed by I.C. 5-11-
10-2 at least five days before the meeting.
   (B)   A town officer who violates this section forfeits his or her office.
(I.C. 36-5-4-4)
§ 35.04 WARRANTS FOR PAYMENT OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   As used in this section, CLAIM means a bill or an invoice submitted
for goods or services.
   (B)   Except as provided in §
32.06, a warrant for payment of a claim against a town may be issued only if
the claim is:
      (1)   Supported by a fully itemized invoice or bill under I.C. 5-11-10-
1.6;
      (2)   Filed with the Town Fiscal Officer;
      (3)   Certified by the Fiscal Officer before payment that each invoice is
true and correct; and
      (4)   Allowed by the Town Council or by the board of the town having
jurisdiction over allowance of the payment of the claim.
   (C)   The certification by the Fiscal Officer under division (B)(3) of this
section must be on a form prescribed by the State Board of Accounts.
(I.C. 36-5-4-6)
§ 35.05 PAYMENT OF COMPENSATION TO OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE PRIOR TO VACATION LEAVE.
   One to three days before the vacation leave period of a town officer or
employee begins, the town may pay him or her the amount of compensation he or
she will earn while he or she is on vacation leave.
(I.C. 36-5-4-7)
§ 35.06 TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding I.C. 8-14-1 and 8-14-2, the town may transfer money
distributed to the town from the motor vehicle highway account under I.C. 8-14-
1; the local road and street account under I.C. 8-14-2; or the motor vehicle
highway account under I.C. 8-14-1 and the local road and street account under
I.C. 8-14-2 to any other town fund after the passage of an ordinance or a
resolution by the Town Council that specifies the amount of the transfer, the
funds involved, the date of the transfer and the general purpose of the
transfer.
   (B)   However, the total amount of all money transferred by the town under
this section may not exceed $40,000.
(I.C. 36-5-4-13(b))
§ 35.07 PAYMENT OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby authorizes the Clerk-Treasurer to make claim
payments in advance of a Town Council allowance for the following types of
expenses:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from:
         (a)   The United States government; or
         (b)   An agency or a political subdivision of the United States
government.
      (2)   License fees or permit fees.
      (3)   Insurance premiums.
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges.
      (5)   Federal grant programs if:
         (a)   Advance funding is not prohibited; and
         (b)   The contracting party provides sufficient security for the
amount advanced.
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute.
      (7)   Maintenance agreements or service agreements.
      (8)   Lease agreements or rental agreements.
      (9)   Principal and interest payments on bonds.
      (10)   Payroll.
      (11)   State, federal, or county taxes.
      (12)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances.
      (13)   Expenses described in an ordinance.
   (B)   Each payment of expenses under this section must be supported by a
fully itemized invoice or bill and certification by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   The Town Council or the board having jurisdiction over the allowance
of the claim shall review and allow the claim at the Town Council's or board's
next regular or special meeting following the preapproved payment of the
expense.
(Ord. 2013-12-9-2, passed 12-9-2013)
BUDGETS
§ 35.20 PREPARATION OF ANNUAL BUDGET ESTIMATES.
   Before the publication (before January 1, 2015) and before the submission of
notice of budget estimates required by I.C. 6-1.1-17-3, the town shall
formulate a budget estimate for the ensuing budget year in the following
manner, unless the town provides by ordinance for a different manner.
   (A)   Each department head shall prepare for the department head’s
department an estimate of the amount of money required for the ensuing budget
year, stating in detail each category and item of expenditure the department
head anticipates.
   (B)   The Town Fiscal Officer shall prepare an itemized estimate of revenues
available for the ensuing budget year, and shall prepare an itemized estimate
of expenditures for other purposes above the money proposed to be used by the
departments.
   (C)   The President of Council shall meet with the department heads and the
Fiscal Officer to review and revise their various estimates.
   (D)   After the President’s review and revision, the Fiscal Officer shall
prepare for the President a report of the estimated department budgets,
miscellaneous expenses and revenues necessary or available to finance the
estimates.
(I.C. 36-5-3-3)
Cross-reference:
   Compensation of officials and employees, see §
30.15
§ 35.21 PREPARATION AND APPROVAL OF ORDINANCE FIXING TAX RATE; MAKING ANNUAL
APPROPRIATIONS.
   The Town Fiscal Officer shall present the report of budget estimates to the
Town Council under I.C. 6-1.1-17. After reviewing the report, the Town Council
shall prepare an ordinance fixing the rate of taxation for the ensuing budget
year and an ordinance making appropriations for the estimated department
budgets and other town purposes during the ensuing budget year. The Town
Council, in the appropriation ordinance, may change any estimated item from the
figure submitted in the report of the Fiscal Officer. The Town Council shall
promptly act on the appropriation ordinance.
(I.C. 36-5-3-4)
§ 35.22 INCREASE OR DECREASE OF APPROPRIATIONS AFTER APPROVAL OF ORDINANCE.
   After the passage of the appropriation ordinance, the Town Council may make
further or additional appropriations by ordinance, unless their result is to
increase the tax levy set under I.C. 6-1.1-17. The Town Council may, by
ordinance, decrease any appropriation set by ordinance.
(I.C. 36-5-3-5)
FUNDS
§ 35.35 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT INCOME TAX FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Town Economic Development Income Tax
Fund.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town is hereby directed to deposit any
revenues received from the county economic development income tax into the
Fund.
   (C)   Monies deposited in the Fund shall be used only as provided in state
law.
(Ord. 2009-4, passed 10-26-2009)
§ 35.36 RAINY DAY FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Rainy Day Fund to receive transfers of
unused and unencumbered funds under I.C. 36-1-8-5.
   (B)   Not more than 10% of any fiscal year's total budget shall be
transferred into the Rainy Day Fund.
   (C)   The Rainy Day Fund shall be subject to the same appropriation process
as other funds that receive money.
   (D)   The Town Council hereby intends to utilize its decision-making power
regarding fiscal affairs and set priorities for allocation and expenditure of
the Rainy Day Fund as deemed necessary to best serve the residents of the town
which could include appropriation for enhancement of computers and
communications systems, conducting programs for the benefit of the community,
financing any initiative designed to improve the economic growth of the town,
or to supplement spending in any other area, which would benefit the community
or town government.
(Ord. 2004-2, passed 3-22-2004)
§ 35.37 SPECIAL NON-REVERTING OPERATING FUND FOR PARK AND RECREATION PURPOSES.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Special Non-Reverting Operating Fund for
park and recreation purposes as provided in I.C. 36-10-3-22.
   (B)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall deposit fees, income and donations from
park and recreation activities in the town into the Fund, and disburse money
from the special Fund only on approved claims allowed and signed by the Town
Council.
   (C)   Further, be it ordained that all monies deposited in the special Fund
shall not revert back to the General Fund at the end of the fiscal year, but
rather shall remain expendable for the costs and expenses associated with the
operation of the town's park and recreation functions.
(Ord. 2003-1, passed 2-10-2003)
§ 35.38 PROMOTIONAL FUND.
   (A)   A fund, the Promotional Fund, is hereby established. The Town Council
is hereby authorized to budget and appropriate funds from the General Fund or
from other funds to pay the expenses incurred in promoting the betterment of
the municipality.
   (B)   Expenditures from this Fund may include, but not necessarily limited
to the following:
      (1)   Membership dues in local, regional, state and national associations
of a civic, educational or governmental nature, which have as their purpose the
betterment and improvement of municipal operations;
      (2)   Direct expenses for travel, meals and lodging in conjunction with
municipal business or meetings or organizations to which the municipality
belongs;
      (3)   Expenses incurred in the promotion of economic or industrial
development for the municipality, including meeting room rental, decorations,
meals and travel;
      (4)   Commemorative plaques, certificates or objects such as
commemorative keys;
      (5)   Contributions to the Boswell Elementary School for its Family Field
Trip event; and
      (6)   Other purposes which are deemed by the Town Council to directly
relate to promotion or betterment of the town.
   (C)   No expense shall be allowed from this Fund without prior authorization
and approval of the Town Council President. Claims for expenses under this
section shall be allowed as prescribed by law.
(Ord. 1982-3, passed 8-9-1982; Am. Ord. 2014-5.12.3, passed 5-12-2014)
§ 35.39 UNRESTRICTED DONATIONS FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Unrestricted Donations Fund (the
"Fund").
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is directed to deposit into such Fund all
unrestricted donations received by the town.
   (C)   The Town Council shall approve the expenditure of all such deposited
unrestricted donations, which expenditures shall be for the following purposes:
      (1)   Economic development projects;
      (2)   Town of Boswell beautification;
      (3)   Local matches toward grants on capital improvement projects;
      (4)   Capital improvement projects;
      (5)   Contributions toward the purchase of capital improvement projects
by the Boswell-Grant Township Volunteer Fire Department; or
      (6)   As determined by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2013-12-9-4, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 35.40 RESTRICTED DONATIONS FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Restricted Donations Fund (the
"Fund").
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is directed to deposit into such Fund all
restricted donations received by the town.
   (C)   The Town Council shall approve the expenditure of all such deposited
restricted donations, which expenditures shall be limited to purpose(s)
expressed by the donor.
   (D)   This section shall be in full force and effect retroactive to the date
any restricted donations received by the town, or any proceeds therefrom, were
acquired.
(Ord. 2013-12-9-5, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 35.41 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Town of Boswell Cumulative Capital
Fund.
   (B)   An ad valorem property tax levy will be imposed and the revenues from
the levy will be retained in the Town of Boswell Cumulative Capital Development
Fund.
   (C)   The rate under division (B) above will be $0.05 per $100 assessed
valuation.
   (D)   The funds accumulated in the town Cumulative Capital Development Fund
will be for any of the uses permitted in the following statutes:
      (1)   I.C. 8-16-3 Cumulative Bridge Fund;
      (2)   I.C. 8-22-3-25 Cumulative Building Fund;
      (3)   I.C. 14-27-6-48 Cumulative Building Fund;
      (4)   I.C. 14-33-14 Cumulative Maintenance Fund;
      (5)   I.C. 16-23-1-40 Cumulative Hospital Building Fund;
      (6)   I.C. 36-8-14 Cumulative Firefighting, Building, Equipment, Police
Radio Fund;
      (7)   I.C. 36-9-4-48 Cumulative Transportation Fund;
      (8)   I.C. 36-9-16-2 Municipal Cumulative Building or Sinking Fund and
Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund;
      (9)   I.C. 36-9-16-3 Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund;
      (10)   I.C. 36-9-16.5 Municipal Cumulative Street Fund;
      (11)   I.C. 36-9-17 General Fund;
      (12)   I.C. 36-9-26 Cumulative Building Fund - Sewers;
      (13)   I.C. 36-9-27-100 Cumulative Drainage Fund;
      (14)   I.C. 36-10-3-21 Cumulative Building Fund - Parks; and
      (15)   I.C. 36-10-4-36 Cumulative Sinking and Building Funds - Parks.
(Ord. 2015-7-13-1, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 35.42 LOIT SPECIAL DISTRIBUTION FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established for the Town of Boswell Fund 257, titled
the "LOIT Special Distribution Fund" (the "Fund").
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is directed to deposit into such fund all
restricted portion of the distribution, being at least 75% of the special
distribution received from Benton County.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer is directed to deposit the unrestricted portion of
the distribution in the General Fund, a properly created Home Rule Fund, or
into the Rainy Day Fund, as determined by the Town Council of the Town of
Boswell.
   (D)   The restricted portion of the distribution shall be used only for
infrastructure as found under I.C. 6-3.6-9-17(h)(1)(A), as set forth in Senate
Enrolled Act 67. The Town Council shall approve the expenditure of all such
restricted portion.
(Ord. 2016-0715.03, passed 7-12-2016)
§ 35.43 ARP CORONAVIRUS LOCAL FISCAL RECOVERY GRANT FUND.
   (A)   Fund #199, the ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Grant Fund, is
hereby established.
   (B)   The source of funding includes monies allocated to the town from ARP
and distributed to the town in 2021 and 2022.
   (C)   The town shall only appropriate and use the funds for only the
following reasons as set forth in § 603(C) of the ARP in accordance with U.S.
Treasury guidance.
      (1)   To respond to the public health emergency with respect to the
Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) or its negative economic impacts, including
assistance to households, small businesses, and nonprofits, or to aid the
impacted industries such as tourism, travel and hospitality;
      (2)   To respond to workers performing essential work during the COVID-19
public health emergency by providing premium pay to eligible workers of the
town that are performing such essential work, or by providing grants to
eligible employers that have eligible workers who perform essential work;
      (3)   For the provision of government services to the extent of the
reduction in revenue of the town due to the COVID-19 public health emergency
relative to revenues collected in the most recent full fiscal year of the town
prior to the emergency; or
      (4)   To make necessary investments in water, sewer or broadband
infrastructure as approved by the U.S. Treasury.
   (D)   The Town Council shall adopt a plan which provides details for the use
of funds.
   (E)   The fiscal officer will maintain detailed accounting records of the
fund to provide for future audits of the ARP Fund.
(Ord. 2021-0511, passed 5-11-2021)
CHAPTER 36: TOWN POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
36.01   Adoption of the National Incident Management System
   
36.02   Drug-free workplace
   
36.03   Town employees and political campaigns and contributions
   
36.04   Equal opportunity employment
   
36.05   Town employees and civic, educational or governmental associations
   
36.06   Anti-nepotism policies
   
36.07   Drug testing
   
36.08   Materiality threshold for erroneous or irregular variances, losses,
shortages, and thefts
   
36.09   Internal control standards
   
36.10   Vehicle and equipment use policy
   
36.11   Electronic fund transfer policy
Purchasing Rules
   
36.20   Purchasing agent; duties and powers
   
36.21   Delegation
   
36.22   Restrictions on purchases
   
36.23   Improper purchases
   
36.24   Emergency purchases
   
36.25   Small purchases
   
36.26   Credit cards
Employee Benefits and Duties
   
36.40   Adopted by reference
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.01 ADOPTION OF THE NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM.
   The Town Council hereby adopts the National Incident Management System as
defined by the United States Department of Homeland Security and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency dated March 1, 2004 and as amended, as the basis of
response organization by emergency response personnel, departments or agencies
within the town, and hereby directs the persons, departments and agencies to
maintain compliance with NIMS minimum standards for eligibility for federal
preparedness grant programs funding.
(Ord. 2006-3, passed 9-11-2006)
§ 36.02 DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE.
   (A)   Policy.
      (1)   The Town of Boswell requires all employees to report for work in a
condition that allows them to perform their duties in a safe and efficient
manner. Employees will not be permitted to work under the influence of alcohol
or with prohibited drugs in their systems thereby affecting job performance.
      (2)   Violation of any provision of this section will be considered just
cause for disciplinary action up to and including discharge, even for a first
offense. In addition, refusal to adhere to any part of the policy may be
considered an act of insubordination and also may lead to disciplinary action
up to and including discharge.
      (3)   This section and related procedures may be modified by the town at
any time in order to comply with any applicable federal, state or local laws or
to better serve the needs of the town.
   (B)   Prohibited drugs.
      (1)   Prohibited drugs are defined as illegal substances, including
controlled substances as defined in the Controlled Substance Act (21 U.S.C.
8120 and the Code of Federal Regulations (21 C.F.R. 1308.11-1308.15) and
prescription controlled substance which have not been prescribed by a licensed
physician or dentist for specific treatment purposes for the employee. Abuse of
prescription or over-the-counter drugs will also be treated as a substance
abuse problem under this section.
      (2)   This section prohibits the illegal use, sale, transfer,
distribution, possession, or unlawful manufacture of narcotics, drugs, or other
controlled substances while on the job or on town premises (including vehicles
used for town business). These include but arc not limited to marijuana,
cocaine, crack, PCP, heroin, LSD, amphetamines, hallucinogens, and
barbiturates. Any illegal substances found on such premises will be turned over
to the state police and may lead to criminal prosecution.
   (C)   Alcohol.
      (1)   The use of alcohol on the job or on town premises is prohibited,
unless such use is non-abusive and is part of an authorized official event held
off town premises. The use of alcohol in vehicles used for town business is
strictly prohibited.
      (2)   Alcohol possession applies to all open or unsealed alcoholic
beverage containers. Such containers are not allowed on the job or on town
premises, unless their possession is part of an authorized official event.
Possession of such containers in vehicles used for town business is never
authorized.
   (D)   Reporting violations.
      (1)   Employees must as a condition of employment, abide by the terms of
this section and report any conviction to the town under a criminal drug
statute for violations occurring on or off town premises when conducting town
business. Report of a conviction must be made to the town within five business
days after the conviction. The town will then notify the appropriate
contracting officer within ten days after receiving notice from either the
employee or from another source. (These requirements are mandated by the Drug-
Free Workplace Act of 1988.)
      (2)   An employee who is involved with off the job illegal drug activity
may be considered in violation of this section. In determining whether
disciplinary action will be imposed for this activity, the town will consider
the circumstance of each incident, including but not limited to any adverse
effect the employee’s actions may have on its customers, other employees, the
public, or the town’s reputation and image.
      (3)   Any questions regarding the reporting of violations should be
directed to the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (E)   Employee rehabilitation.
      (1)   Health maintenance is primarily a personal responsibility and it is
the individual’s responsibility to correct unsatisfactory job performance or
behavioral problems caused by alcohol or drag abuse. In an effort to assist
employees, the town will provide various means for employees and their family
members to remain aware of the dangers of substance abuse in the workplace and
to overcome drag and alcohol related problems.
      (2)   Employees with a personal, alcohol or drag related problem are
encouraged to volunteer to participate in a approved rehabilitation program
upon referral from the Employee and Family Assistance Program, before work
performance becomes affected.
      (3)   Participation in a rehabilitation program will not be considered a
barrier to employment nor a cause for disciplinary action. Employees will not
be disciplined merely because of participation in a rehabilitation program or
excused from the disciplinary consequences of conduct which is in violation of
this section or any other town policies or job requirements.
      (4)   Any employee identified through a town investigation as having a
substance abuse problem also may not avoid disciplinary action by requesting to
participate in an approved rehabilitation program. Circumstances in each case
will be evaluated to determine the course of action to be taken (i.e., whether
the employee will be offered the opportunity to participate in a rehabilitation
program and/or will be subject to discipline.)
   (F)   Testing.
      (1)   The town will not ask employees to submit to random alcohol or drug
tests.
      (2)   Alcohol or drug tests may be required for employees in the
following circumstances:
         (a)   When unsatisfactory job performance or other employee behavior
is reasonably indicative of substance abuse.
         (b)   During and after participation in a drag or alcohol
rehabilitation program for a reasonable period of time as determined by the
town.
         (c)   When required by law.
      (3)   If a supervisor identifies an employee with a behavior pattern and/
or job performance reasonably indicative of substance abuse, the supervisor
(with the concurrence of the next level of supervision) may recommend that the
employee have a fitness for duty examination by a physician designated by the
town. The physician will determine whether a fitness for duty examination is
necessary and whether alcohol or drag tests will be required.
      (4)   Pre-employment drug testing is part of the pre-employment physical.
The method of testing will be determined by the town. Applicants who test
positive for prohibited drugs in their systems will not be offered employment.
Any questions regarding reapplication opportunities should be directed to the
Clerk-Treasurer.
   (G)   (1)   Ordinances in conflict are repealed.
      (2)   Any ordinance or provision thereof which is inconsistent with, or
contrary to, the provisions of this section are hereby vacated and repealed.
(Ord. 2014-5.12.1, passed 5-12-2014)
§ 36.03 TOWN EMPLOYEES AND POLITICAL CAMPAIGNS AND CONTRIBUTIONS.
   The Town Council, being duly advised of the directives of the Federal Hatch
Act (5 U.S.C. §§ 7321 et seq.) concerning limitations on participation in
political campaigns and political contributions, now agrees that any town
employee funded by, or administering funds provided by, the federal government
shall comply with the Hatch Act.
(Ord. 1997-4, passed 10-27-1997)
§ 36.04 EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYMENT.
   In accordance with the Equal Employment Opportunity Act (42 U.S.C. §§ 2000e
et seq.), the Town Council states that it will consider all applicants, and
treat its employees, without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national
origin or any other legally protected status.
(Ord. 1997-5, passed 10-27-1997)
§ 36.05 TOWN EMPLOYEES AND CIVIC, EDUCATIONAL OR GOVERNMENTAL ASSOCIATIONS.
   (A)   The Town Council is authorized to budget and appropriate funds from
the General Fund and from other funds to provide membership for the town and
the elected officials and members of the municipality's boards, council,
departments or agencies in local, regional, state and national associations of
a civic, educational or governmental nature, which have as their purpose the
betterment and improvement of municipal operations.
   (B)   The Town Council is further authorized to budget and appropriate funds
to pay the expenses of duly authorized representatives to attend the meetings
and functions of organizations to which the municipality belongs.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 8-9-1982)
§ 36.06 ANTI-NEPOTISM POLICIES.
   (A)   The Town Council finds that it is necessary and desirous to adopt a
policy of conduct with regard to nepotism in the employment with the town and
in contracting with the town in order to continue to be able to provide local
government services to its residents and to comply with the new laws effective
July 1,2012 known as I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21, respectively.
   (B)   On February 25, 2013, the town shall have a nepotism and a contracting
with a unit policy that complies with the minimum requirements of I.C. 36-1-
20.2 (hereinafter "Nepotism Policy") and I.C. 36-1-21 (hereinafter "Contracting
with a Unit by a Relative Policy"), which shall be effective retroactively to
July 1, 2012, and implementation will begin.
   (C)   The town's Nepotism Policy is hereby established effective July 1,
2012 by adopting the minimum requirements provisions of I.C. 36-1-20.2, and
including all future supplements and amendments thereto which become law from
time to time, and making them a part hereof as if fully set out herein. In
addition a copy of I.C. 36-1-20.2 in effect on July 1, 2012 is attached to
Ordinance 2013-2-25.
   (D)   The town's Contracting with a Unit by a Relative Policy is hereby
established effective July 1, 2012 by adopting the minimum requirements
provisions of I.C. 36-1-21, and including all future supplements and amendments
thereto which become law from time to time, and making them a part hereof as if
fully set out herein. In addition a copy of I.C. 36-1-21 in effect on July 1,
2012 is attached to Ordinance 2013-2-25.
   (E)   The Town Council finds that both I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21
specifically allow a unit to adopt requirements that are "more stringent or
detailed" and that more detailed are necessary.
   (F)   The Town Council further finds that a single member of the legislative
body cannot act for the body to make work assignments, compensation,
grievances, advancement or a performance evaluation without prior authority of
a majority of the body and therefore without such authority by the majority he/
she will not be in the direct line of supervision. (See I.C. 36-4-6-11, I.C.
36-5 -2-9.4)
   (G)   The Town Council finds that a single member of governing bodies with
authority over employees in the town cannot act for the governing body to make
work assignments, compensation, grievances, advancement or a performance
evaluation without prior authority of a majority of the body, when a statute
provides that a majority is needed to act, and therefore, without such
authority by the majority, the single member will not be in the direct line of
supervision. However, to avoid the appearance of nepotism, in the event
relatives of Town Council members are employed by the town, the related Town
Council member shall be prohibited from occupying a direct line of supervision
over the related employee, and shall be prohibited from participating in
discussions or votes by the unrelated Town Council members concerning the
related employee's terms and conditions of employment, including making
decisions regarding the related employee's work assignments, compensation,
grievances, advancement or performance evaluation. These prohibitions on the
related Town Council member shall not apply to the responsibilities of the Town
Council member to make decisions regarding salary ordinances governing
employees other than the related employee, budgets, or personnel policies of
the unit.
   (H)   All elected and appointed officials and employees of the town are
hereby directed to cooperate fully in the implementation of the policies
created by this section and in demonstrating compliance with these same
policies.
   (I)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance
and certifications connected with the Nepotism Policy is a violation and may
result in the discipline, including termination, of an employee or a transfer
from the direct line of supervision or other curative action. An elected or
appointed official of the town who fails to abide by or cooperate with the
implementation, with the compliance and with mandated certifications of either
the Nepotism Policy or the Contracting with Unit by a Relative Policy may be
subject to action allowed by law.
   (J)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance
and certifications connected with the Contracting with Unit by a Relative
Policy is a violation and may result in the discipline, including termination,
of an employee or a curative action. An elected or appointed official of the
town who fails to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, with the
compliance and with mandated certifications of either the Nepotism Policy or
the Contracting with Unit by a Relative Policy may be subject to action allowed
by law.
   (K)   The polices created by this section are hereby directed to be
implemented by any of the following actions:
      (1)   Posting a copy of this section in its entirety in at least one of
the locations in the Town Hall where it posts employer posters or other notices
to its employees;
      (2)   Providing a copy of this section to its employees and elected and
appointed officials;
      (3)   Providing or posting a notice of the adoption of this section; or
      (4)   Any such other action or actions that would communicate the polices
established by this section to its employees and elected and appointed
officials. Upon any of taking these actions these policies are deemed
implemented by the town.
   (L)   A copy of the provisions of I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21 effective
July 1, 2012 are annexed to Ordinance 2013-2-15.
   (M)   Two copies of I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21, and as supplemented or
amended, are on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer for public inspection
as maybe required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
(Ord. 2013-2-25, passed 2-25-2013; Am. Ord. 2016-0209, passed 2-9-2016)
§ 36.07 DRUG TESTING.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   ALCOHOL shall mean any beverage that contains ethyl alcohol
(ethanol), including but not limited to beer, wine and distilled spirits.
      (2)   APPLICANTS shall include those individuals applying for full-time,
part-time, seasonal positions, and applicants who are former employees and have
been separated from employment for more than 90 days.
      (3)   DRUG shall include any controlled substance, prescription drug, or
any substance qualifying as a drug defined pursuant to I.C. 16-42-19-2.
      (4)   EXCUSED LEAVE shall mean a previously scheduled regular day off,
vacation, sick or disability leave, family medical leave, bereavement leave,
military leave, suspension, or other leave.
      (5)   FAILURE shall mean any of the following: a positive test result; a
diluted sample; failure to produce an adequate sample; production of a
contaminate; or, a failure to appear for the drug screen within the time
specified by the town.
      (6)   REASONABLE SUSPICION shall mean a good faith belief based on
specific articulable facts or evidence that an employee has violated the policy
and substance testing could reveal evidence related to that violation. Evidence
of tampering, countermeasures, or substituting a test sample shall constitute
reasonable suspicion.
      (7)   The preferred method for alcohol testing is a breath test
administered by a qualified breath-test operator as identified in l.C. 9-30-6-
5 and 260 IAC 1.1.
      (8)   A test under this section may include a test for the presence of
alcohol or drugs, including metabolites thereof.
      (9)   An employee who fails a test under this section is subject to
discipline, including termination.
   (B)   Prospective employees.
      (1)   An applicant for a position with the town, may be offered a
conditional offer of employment, which shall beconditioned upon the submission
to chemical test, which may be a test of either the blood, breath, urine, or a
combination thereof, to be performed at the town's expense (the "drug screen").
      (2)   If an applicant fails to produce an adequate sample, diluted
sample, or a contaminated sample, the applicant may, at his or her own expense
and within two hours, submit to a blood test at the applicant's own expense at
a facility selected by a town elected official, with the results to provided
unconditionally to the town.
      (3)   A positive drug screen or refusal to submit shall be cause to
revoke a conditional offer of employment.
      (4)   The town's policy on drug and alcohol abuse is as follows:
         (a)   Unlawful ingestion, possession, sale, or distribution of illicit
drugs or controlled substances or simulated use of a controlled substance are
prohibited;
         (b)   An employee's consumption of controlled substances or other
drugs, which are unlawful to possess without a prescription, is prohibited;
         (c)   The undisclosed use of any legal (prescription) drug by any
employee which may alter or restrict the employee's physical or mental ability
while working is prohibited.
   (C)   Random drug screens.
      (1)   Upon passage of this section and periodically thereafter, the Town
Council shall select a provider to conduct drug screens (the "provider") on the
frequency desired by the town.
      (2)   The procedures for selection shall be as follows:
         (a)   Upon passage of this section and, prior to January 31 of each
year thereafter, the Clerk-Treasurer shall generate a list of those individuals
on the town's payroll, said list containing the individuals full legal name and
the last four numbers of their social security number (the "selection pool").
         (b)   A list of those in the selection pool generated from division
(2)(a) above shall then be provided to the provider, with instructions to
randomly select a name at least once every six months and instructions to
proceeds as set forth herein. Said selections shall occur on a business day.
         (c)   Upon selection of a name from the selection pool by the
provider, the provider shall notify the Clerk-Treasurer of the selected
individual.
         (d)   A selected individual may be excused from testing by the Clerk-
Treasurer, if the individual is on an excused leave. The Clerk-Treasurer shall
notify the provider if the individual selected is to be excused from testing
for the forgoing reason and it shall be in the discretion of the provider to
either select another individual at that time or at a later date.
      (3)   An individual who is selected by the provider for a random drug-
screen and is not excused, shall be notified by the Clerk-Treasurer immediately
and directed to appear for testing within four hours at the location designated
by the provider.
      (4)   The individual shall provide appropriate identification to the
provider or its representative at the drug screen. Appropriate identification
shall include: photo identification (e.g., driver's license, passport, or any
other picture identification issued by a federal, state, or local government
agency); or identification by another who is an elected official of the town.
      (5)   Upon selecting a name, the provider shall provide a notice to the
Town Council, which contains the identity of the person selected and the
results. If the person was excused by the Clerk-Treasurer, the report shall so
indicate.
   (D)   Non-random drug-screens.
      (1)   Employees maybe ordered to take drug tests as a condition of
continued employment in order to ascertain prohibited drug and alcohol use, as
provided below:
         (a)   When there is reasonable suspicion that an employee is or has
been using drugs, as determined and ordered by either:
            1.   The Clerk-Treasurer and a concurring member of the Council; or
            2.   By majority vote of the Council;
         (b)   As part of a physical exam, as ordered by the Town Council or
Clerk-Treasurer; or
         (c)   As part of a post shooting, accident, use of force, or vehicle
crash investigation, when ordered by a member of the Town Council or the Clerk-
Treasurer.
      (2)   An employee ordered to submit to a drug screen under this section,
shall do so within four hours; however, if the drug screen is a breath test for
alcohol or in conjunction with an vehicle crash, then immediately.
(Ord. 2013-8-12.2, passed 8-12-2013)
§ 36.08 MATERIALITY THRESHOLD FOR ERRONEOUS OR IRREGULAR VARIANCES, LOSSES,
SHORTAGES, AND THEFTS.
   (A)   Purposes. This policy is intended to comply with I.C. 5-11-1-27 and
State Examiner Directive 2015-6.
   (B)   Materiality threshold.
      (1)   The materiality threshold for the town shall be $250. If the
erroneous or irregular variance, loss, shortage or theft is not cash or a cash-
equivalent, the value of the item at the time of the variance, loss, shortage
or theft shall be used to determine whether the materiality threshold has been
met.
      (2)   All erroneous or irregular variances, losses, shortages, or thefts
of $250 or more shall be reported immediately to the State Board of Accounts.
In addition, all erroneous, or irregular variances, losses, shortages, or
thefts which occur more than one time in a month and which in the aggregate
total $250 or more shall be reported immediately to the State Board of
Accounts, and to the Town Council.
   (C)   Knowledge of misappropriation. A public officer who has knowledge of
or reasonable cause to believe that there has been a misappropriation of public
funds or assets of the public office shall immediately send written notice of
the misappropriation to the Indiana State Board of Accounts and the Benton
County Prosecuting Attorney.
   (D)   Maintenance of documentation. The town shall maintain records and
documentation concerning erroneous or irregular variances, losses, shortages or
thefts in accordance with generally-accepted accounting principles and the
internal control standards provided by the Indiana State Board of Accounts.
   (E)   Resolution of incidents not meeting the materiality threshold. The
town shall investigate all erroneous or irregular variances, losses, shortages,
or thefts, regardless of whether they meet the materiality threshold
established by this policy. Upon conclusion of each such investigation, the
town shall:
      (1)   Implement procedures designed to prevent the recurrence of such
incidents; and
      (2)   Take appropriate disciplinary action against the employee
responsible for the incident.
(Res. 2016-08.09B, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 36.09 INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   (A)   The town finds that its mission as related to an internal control
system is as follows:
      (1)   Provision of a democratic governmental structure at the grassroots
level;
      (2)   Provision of services as determined through the political process
including but not limited to the police, fire, water and sewer utilities,
economic development, streets and parks;
      (3)   Promotion of government efficiency, accountability, reliability and
transparency; and
      (4)   Promotion of safeguards to reduce the risk of loss due to fraud,
waste, abuse, mismanagement or errors.
   (B)   The town finds that its interrelated and often overlapping objectives
as related to an internal control system are as follows:
      (1)   Operations objectives which involve the ways governmental services
are performed and the performance of those providing governmental services
including by way of example budgeting, purchasing, permitting, cash management
and planning among others.
      (2)   Reporting objectives which involve the filing of financial and non-
financial information to those inside the government and those outside of the
government including by way of example filing the annual report, audit and
examination cooperation, filing uniform conflict of interest forms and the
other filings with any governmental agency or official or information required
to be kept such as an OSHA log and responding to a public records request among
others.
      (3)   Compliance objectives involve the adherence to law and regulations
including by way of example following guidance documents such as the State
Board of Accounts’ manuals, bulletins, directives and the Department of Local
Government Finance’s forms and directions and including other outside of
government trainings and documents such as IACT among others.
   (C)   The Town adopts and directs the minimum level of internal control
standards and internal control procedures for an internal control system that
includes the following five standards to promote government accountability and
transparency as described in the Uniform Internal Control Standards for Indiana
Political Subdivisions guidance document from the State Board of Accounts dated
September 2015 and as thereafter modified: (1) control environment, (2) risk
assessment, (3) control activities, (4) information and communication, and (5)
monitoring.
   (D)   The town adopts and directs the following principles in explanation of
the pertinent standards above be followed at all levels of the town government:
      (1)   Control environment.
         (a)   The oversight body and management demonstrate a commitment to
integrity and ethical values.
         (b)   The oversight body oversees the town’s internal control system.
         (c)   Management establishes an organizational structure, assigns
responsibility and delegates authority to achieve the town’s objectives.
         (d)   Management demonstrates a commitment to attract, develop and
retain competent individuals.
         (e)   Management evaluates performance and holds individuals
accountable for their internal control responsibilities.
      (2)   Risk assessment.
         (a)   Management defines objectives clearly to enable the
identification of risks and defines risk tolerances.
         (b)   Management identifies, analyzes and responds to risk related to
achieving the defined objectives.
         (c)   Management considers the potential for fraud when identifying,
analyzing and responding to risks.
         (d)   Management identifies, analyzes and responds to significant
changes that could impact the internal control system.
      (3)   Control activities.
         (a)   Management designs control activities to achieve objectives and
respond to risks.
         (b)   Management designs the town’s information system and related
control activities to achieve objectives and respond to risks.
         (c)   Management implements control activities through policies.
      (4)   Information and communication.
         (a)   Management uses quality information to achieve the town’s
objectives.
         (b)   Management internally communicates the necessary quality
information to achieve the town’s objectives.
         (c)   Management externally communicates the necessary quality
information to achieve the town’s objectives.
      (5)   Monitoring.
         (a)   Management establishes and operates monitoring activities to
monitor the internal control system and evaluate the results.
         (b)   Management remediates identified internal control deficiencies
on a timely basis.
   (E)   The town adopts the internal control standards above so as to
establish an effective internal control system for the town through its design,
implementation and operation.
   (F)   The town directs that the above standards be used to design,
implement, operate and modify current operations, reporting and compliance
objectives that will safeguard the assets of the town, promote reliability,
accountability and transparency of financial and non-financial information and
to assure compliance with laws and regulations for each office, department and
personnel (as defined below) for an effective and reasonable internal control
system of the town.
   (G)   The town authorizes the Town Council to review the current internal
control system of the town and adopt a policy for the future internal control
system to be effective after June 30, 2016 and perform an annual review, or
more if determined necessary for compliance with this section.
   (H)   The personnel, whether an official or employee, of the town whose
official duties include receiving, processing, depositing, disbursing, or
otherwise having access to funds that belong to the federal government, state
government, a political subdivision, or another governmental entity shall
comply with these minimum internal control standards and procedures and any
other policy regarding standards and procedures determined necessary by the
town now and as modified in the future.
   (I)   The personnel of the town whose official duties include receiving,
processing, depositing, disbursing, or otherwise having access to funds that
belong to the federal government, state government, a political subdivision, or
another governmental entity shall be trained at least once during a calendar
year and annually thereafter, unless on leave status, on the minimum internal
control standards and procedures and any other standards and procedures
determined necessary by the town and shall cooperate with the town fiscal
officer or designee so that the fiscal officer can timely certify to the State
Board of Accounts that the training was received annually by the personnel as
provided by law.
   (J)   The town authorizes the Town Council to determine the position and
person who are the personnel referred to in divisions (H) and (I) above and
notify such personnel.
   (K)   The Town Council will perform all the internal controls system
activities/duties, however, the Town Council may delegate authority and/or
duties in creating, implementing, reviewing, or conducting the training about,
the internal control systems policy. MANAGEMENT, as used in any internal
control systems policy, shall refer to the Town Council unless its usage
suggests a department head of the town.
   (L)   All elected and appointed officials and employees of the town are
hereby directed to abide by and to cooperate fully in the implementation of the
internal control system of the town.
   (M)   An employee who fails to abide by or cooperate with the
implementation, compliance and certifications connected with the internal
control system commits a violation of and may result in the discipline,
including termination, of the employee.
   (N)   An elected or appointed official of the town who fails to abide by or
cooperate with the implementation and the mandated certifications of the
internal control system may be subject to any action allowed by law.
   (O)   This section may be implemented by any and all of the following
actions or such others as authorized by this Town Council, or its delegated
authority:
      (1)   Posting a copy of this section in its entirety in at least one of
the locations in the Town Hall where it posts employer posters or other notices
to its employees;
      (2)   Providing a copy of this section to its employees and elected and
appointed officials;
      (3)   Providing or posting a notice of the adoption of this section; or
      (4)   Any such other action or actions that would communicate the polices
established by this section to its employees and elected and appointed
officials.
(Res. 2016-0712-02, passed 7-12-2016)
§ 36.10 VEHICLE AND EQUIPMENT USE POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose. Town vehicles and equipment are essential tools in
accomplishing an employee’s job duties. This policy is intended to ensure the
safety and well-being of town employees, facilitate the efficient use of town
resources, minimize the town’s exposure to liability and monitor the use of the
town’s vehicles and equipment.
   (B)   Approval. When an employee leaves the town using a town vehicle, they
are to notify the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
   (C)   Operation.
      (1)   Only town employees with a valid driver’s license may operate town
vehicles or equipment. Employees are responsible for immediately notifying the
Clerk-Treasurer of any restrictions, limitations, or other change in their
driving status. Town vehicles and equipment are to be used as necessary to
conduct business of the town and its operations. Employees shall not operate
town vehicles or equipment for the purposes of conducting a private business or
enterprise or any other personal use. However, it is recognized that a de
minimums amount of personal use during the course of a scheduled shift, to
include meal breaks, whether at the employee’s residence or at a commercial
establishment, are permitted as determined by the employee’s supervisor. The
operation of a town vehicle to and from such personal use does not constitute
work time and the employee is considered off the clock until they arrive at a
bona-fide work assignment.
      (2)   Town employees must wear seat belts and obey traffic laws when
using town-owned vehicles. Town employees are strictly prohibited from
operating a town-owned vehicle while under the influence of alcohol or non-
prescribed drugs, or under the influence of prescription medication which may
impair their ability to safely operate a vehicle. No employee shall transport
alcohol in a town vehicle, excluding sworn police officers, if the alcohol is
being transported in accordance with official duties.
      (3)   Town employees shall refrain from operating handheld cellular
telephones or any other device that may cause the town employee to become
distracted while driving a town-owned vehicle. Employees shall make every
attempt to properly park the town-owned vehicle or use a hands-free device when
using such equipment.
   (D)   Passengers. Town vehicles are permitted to transport non-employees for
town business or when attending training, conferences or town-sanctioned
events. Other activities will require prior approval of the employee’s
supervisor or liaison.
   (E)   Traffic violations and accidents. Any employee receiving a traffic or
parking citation while operating a town-owned vehicle shall immediately notify
their supervisor. All fines and costs associated with the citation are the
responsibility of the employee. In the event of an accident involving any level
of damage, the employee driving the town-owned vehicle shall immediately notify
his or her supervisor. If the accident is required to be reported to the
police, the town employee shall immediately report the accident to the police.
In the event of a traffic citation or accident where the employee is determined
to be at fault, disciplinary action will be taken.
(Res. 2017-1212, passed 12-12-2017)
§ 36.11 ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER POLICY.
   (A)   The Town of Boswell is hereby authorized to use electronic fund
transfers for official business of the Town.
   (B)   Definition. Pursuant to I.C. 36-l-8-11.5(a), "electronic fund
transfer" for purposes of this section means any transfer of funds, other than
a transaction originated by check, draft, or similar paper instrument, that is
initiated through an electronic terminal, telephone, or computer or magnetic
tape for the purpose of ordering, instructing or authorizing a financial
institution to debit or credit an account.
   (C)   Authority. The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized and responsible
for:
      (1)   Selecting the financial institution to be used by the town;
      (2)   Executing the application and agreement with the selected financial
institution;
      (3)   Overseeing the use of EFTs for the town;
      (4)   Establishing appropriating security procedures for passwords,
codes, controls and other authorizations to protect and preserve town assets
and funds;
      (5)   Reviewing all transactions in connection with the use of EFTs.
   (D)   Administration. The Clerk-Treasurer shall not draw a warrant for an
EFT unless:
      (1)   There is a fully itemized invoice or bill for each expense;
      (2)   Each invoice or bill is approved by the town employee or
representative receiving the goods and services;
      (3)   The invoice or bill has been filed with the Clerk-Treasurer;
      (4)   The Clerk-Treasurer certifies before payment that the invoice or
bill is true and correct; and
      (5)   Payment of the invoice or bill is allowed by the Boswell Town
Council.
   (E)   The town shall comply with all other requirements regarding the
payment of claims by a political subdivision.
(Ord. 2022-0809A, passed 8-9-2022)
PURCHASING RULES
§ 36.20 PURCHASING AGENT; DUTIES AND POWERS.
   (A)   The Town Council shall be the purchasing agent for the town.
   (B)   The purchasing agent shall:
      (1)   Assume the duties, powers and responsibilities assigned to a
purchasing agent in I.C. 5-22 and establish small purchasing policy for
purchases not governed by I.C. 5-22;
      (2)   Act as the sole agent in obtaining materials, supplies, equipment
or contractual services for all town departments and divisions, municipally-
operated utility or any board, commissioner, officer or person otherwise
empowered by law to make purchase of materials, equipment, goods, supplies and
property of whatever description for the town. Any department or division shall
requisition materials, supplies, equipment or services from the purchasing
agent who shall, upon determining that appropriations are available for those
purposes, acquire the items requisitioned in accordance with public purchase
law. All contracts of purchase shall be made in the name of the town department
or division and be subject to the approval of the department or division;
      (3)   Establish purchasing and contractual procedures as may best be
suited to obtain the greatest economic value to the town;
      (4)   Prepare specifications and notice to bidders and see that the
required notices are published, where bidding and publication of notices are
required by law;
      (5)   Cooperate and consult with the Clerk-Treasurer for the purpose of
ensuring that adequate funds are available prior to making necessary purchases
and acquisitions to assure they are within the limits of the budget
appropriations of the department or division in need of the material; and
      (6)   Act as the agent of the town to sell or exchange any personal
property ordered to be sold by the Town Council in accordance with procedures
prescribed by law.
(Ord. 1998-2, passed - -)
§ 36.21 DELEGATION.
   The purchasing agent may designate in writing that an employee of the town
is a purchasing agent.
(Ord. 1998-2, passed - -)
§ 36.22 RESTRICTIONS ON PURCHASES.
   (A)   Purchases shall be made in accordance with the restrictions on
purchases as stated in I.C. 5-22 regarding purchases from the Department of
Corrections and purchases of Rehabilitation Center products.
   (B)   Supplies manufactured in the United States shall be specified for all
town purchases and shall be purchased unless the town determines that:
      (1)   The supplies are not manufactured in the Unites States in
reasonably available quantities;
      (2)   The prices of the supplies manufactured in the United States
exceeds by an unreasonable amount the price of available and comparable
supplies manufactured elsewhere;
      (3)   The quality of the supplies manufactured in the United States is
substantially less than the quality of comparably priced available supplies
manufactured elsewhere; or
      (4)   The purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States is not
in the public interest.
(Ord. 1998-2, passed - -)
§ 36.23 IMPROPER PURCHASES.
   Any purchase made in violation of this section or the purchasing procedures
established by the purchasing agent shall be null and void.
(Ord. 1998-2, passed - -)
§ 36.24 EMERGENCY PURCHASES.
   Upon declaration of any emergency, the purchasing agent or designee, as
defined in I.C. 5-22, may purchase repairs and purchase or lease materials
without giving notice, receiving bids or obtaining Council approval, so long as
the procedures outlined in I.C. 5-22 are followed.
(Ord. 1998-2, passed - -)
§ 36.25 SMALL PURCHASES.
   (A)   Subject to the limitations contained in I.C. 5-22, if the purchasing
agent expects a purchase to be less than $50,000, the purchasing agent may make
the purchase under the small purchase policy established by the town.
   (B)   If the purchasing agent expects a purchase to be at least $50,000 and
not more than $150,000:
      (1)   The purchasing agent may purchase supplies by inviting bids from at
least three persons known to deal in the lines or classes of supplies to be
purchased.
      (2)   The purchasing agent shall mail an invitation to quote to such
persons at least seven days before the time fixed for receiving quotes.
      (3)   If the purchasing agent receives a satisfactory quote, the
purchasing agent shall award a contract to the lowest responsible and
responsive offeror for each line or class of supplies required.
      (4)   The purchasing agent may reject all quotes.
      (5)   If the purchasing agent does not receive a quote from a responsible
and responsive offeror, the purchasing agent may purchase supplies under I.C.
5-22-10-10.
(Ord. 1998-2, passed - -; Ord. 2021-1012B, passed - -)
§ 36.26 CREDIT CARDS.
   (A)   Distribution. Credit cards may be distributed to those town officials
and employees who, in the opinion of the Clerk-Treasurer, have job
responsibilities which would cause their job performance to benefit by use of a
credit card (use of the term CREDIT CARD shall include either the credit card
or the credit card number).
   (B)   Authorization and control. The Clerk-Treasurer shall develop and
implement guidelines and accounting controls subject to the approval of the
Town Board to ensure the proper usage of credit cards and credit card funds.
Including designation of those employees or officials, who will be authorized
to use a credit card as authorized users and maintaining a log of the cards
assigned to each.
   (C)   Credit limits. The Clerk-Treasurer shall set credit limits on each
credit cad issued; provided that in no event shall such credit limit exceed
$5,000 for any individual credit card nor shall the aggregate credit limits for
all credit cards issued to or authorized for use exceed $5,000.
   (D)   Payment of bills. The Clerk-Treasurer shall establish and implement
written procedures or policies for the payment of all credit card bills subject
to the approval of the Town Board, which shall cause the credit card purchases
to be paid in full on a monthly basis, prior to the end of the grace period, so
as to avoid late fees or finance charges.
   (E)   Uses prohibited. The following uses are expressly prohibited and
unauthorized:
      (1)   Personal charges or charges not for official town business;
      (2)   Cash advances;
      (3)   Use of another authorized user's credit card;
      (4)   Obtaining or attempting to obtain a new line of credit, using the
credit card issued to the authorized user;
      (5)   Use of a credit card, which has been revoked, cancelled, or after
the authorization to use the credit card has been terminated by the town;
      (6)   Uses in excess of the credit limit or, in light of charges incurred
during the billing cycle by the authorized user, would cause the credit card's
limits to be exceeded;
      (7)   Authorized users shall not use a credit card, otherwise consistent
with this section, in such a manner that would likely bring about embarrassment
or disgrace to the town or appear immoral or unprofessional to the citizens of
the town;
      (8)   Use of a credit card after the authorized user's employment ended
or elected term in office has concluded; or
      (9)   In any manner inconsistent with other town ordinances or policies,
Federal, state, or local laws.
   (F)   Documentation of charges required. An authorized user shall obtain and
retain itemized receipts for each and every purchase made using a town credit
card and shall submit clear and legible copies of said receipts to the Clerk-
Treasurer on or before the last business day of each month for that month. Any
charges, which cannot be properly identified or which are not properly allowed,
shall be paid promptly by the authorized user by check, together with interest
and all other charges assessed by the credit card company, and shall constitute
a prior lien against all amounts owed by the town to the card user until paid
in full. Upon receipt of a credit card, each authorized user shall execute an
agreement to be personally liable for any charges, which are unauthorized, not
documented or cannot be properly identified, as set forth herein, to the
satisfaction of the State Board of Accounts or the Town Board.
   (G)   Lost or stolen credit cards. Each authorized user shall be responsible
for contacting the issuing financial institution and the Clerk-Treasurer,
immediately upon discovering that a credit card has been lost, stolen, or is
otherwise unaccounted for. Authorized users shall maintain in a safe location,
the telephone number for reported cards lost or stolen. The employee in
violation of this provision, may be held responsible for charges incurred,
using the card. Each employee shall be required to submit a lost/stolen card
affidavit to the Clerk-Treasurer, attesting to the date the loss was discovered
and the last charge used.
   (H)   Fraudulent use of credit card prohibited. No authorized user shall
knowingly use or attempt to use a credit card beyond the scope of the authority
permitted by this section or the policies established by the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2014-8-11, passed 8-11-2014)
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS AND DUTIES
§ 36.40 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The employee benefits and duties ordinance, copies of which are on file in
the office of the Clerk-Treasurer, is adopted and incorporated as part of this
code of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 2-14-2005; Ord. 2008-5, passed 10-14-2008; Ord. 2009-1,
passed 5-11-2009; Am. Ord. 2013-8-12.3, passed 8-12-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-12-8-1,
passed 12-8-2014; Am. Ord. 2018-0213A, passed 2-13-2018)
CHAPTER 37: ORDINANCE VIOLATION BUREAU
Section
   
37.01   Establishment
   
37.02   Violations Clerk designated
   
37.03   Duties of Clerk
   
37.04   Schedule of fines
   
37.05   Right to trial
   
37.06   Denial; exercise of the right to trial
   
37.07   Failure to appear or to satisfy assessed civil penalty; report;
prosecution
   
37.08   Court costs fee; admitted violations
   
37.09   Disposition of civil penalties and costs collected
§ 37.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Town Council may establish, by ordinance or code, an Ordinance
Violations Bureau.
(I.C. 33-36-2-1)
§ 37.02 VIOLATIONS CLERK DESIGNATED.
   (A)   Upon the creation of a bureau, the Town Council shall provide for the
appointment of a Violations Clerk, who may be the Clerk or Clerk-Treasurer of
the municipality, to be the administrator of the Bureau.
(I.C. 33-36-2-1)
   (B)   If the Town Council does not establish an Ordinance Violations Bureau
under §
37.01, the Clerk or Clerk-Treasurer of the town is designated the Violations
Clerk for purposes of this chapter.
(I.C. 33-36-2-2)
Cross-reference:
   Town Clerk to be Town Fiscal Officer, see §
32.03
§ 37.03 DUTIES OF CLERK.
   In ordinance violation cases, subject to the schedule prescribed under I.C.
33-36-3 by the Town Council, the Violations Clerk may accept the following:
   (A)   Written appearances;
   (B)   Waivers of trial;
   (C)   Admissions of violations; and
   (D)   Payment of civil penalties up to a specific dollar amount set forth in
an ordinance adopted by the legislative body, but not more than $250.
(I.C. 33-36-2-3)
§ 37.04 SCHEDULE OF FINES.
   (A)   Upon the appointment or designation of the Violations Clerk as
provided by §
37.01, the Town Council shall designate, by ordinance or code, a schedule of
ordinance and code provisions that are subject to admission of violation before
the Violations Clerk and the amount of civil penalty to be assessed to a
violator who elects to admit a violation under this chapter.
   (B)   Civil penalties shall be paid to, receipted by and accounted for by
the Violations Clerk under procedures provided for by the State Board of
Accounts. Payment of civil penalties under this chapter may be made in person,
by mail or to an agent or agents designated by the Town Council.
(I.C. 33-36-3-1)
§ 37.05 RIGHT TO TRIAL.
   A person charged with an ordinance or a code violation is entitled to a
trial before a court as provided by law, unless the person waives the right to
trial and enters an admission of the violation with the Violations Clerk. Upon
an admission, the Clerk shall assess and receive from the violator the amount
prescribed by the schedule of civil penalties established under §
37.04.
(I.C. 33-36-3-2)
§ 37.06 DENIAL; EXERCISE OF THE RIGHT TO TRIAL.
   If a person charged with a violation wants to exercise the right to trial,
the person shall appear before the Violations Clerk and deny the violation or
enter a written denial with the Clerk.
(I.C. 33-36-3-3)
§ 37.07 FAILURE TO APPEAR OR TO SATISFY ASSESSED CIVIL PENALTY; REPORT;
PROSECUTION.
   (A)   If a person does any of the following, then the Violations Clerk shall
report this fact to the official having the responsibility to prosecute
ordinance violation cases for the town:
      (1)   Denies an ordinance or code violation under this chapter;
      (2)   Fails to satisfy a civil penalty assessed by the Violations Clerk
after having entered an admission of violation; or
      (3)   Fails to deny or admit the violation under this chapter.
   (B)   Proceedings in court against the person shall then be initiated for
the alleged ordinance violation.
(I.C. 33-36-3-5)
§ 37.08 COURT COSTS FEE; ADMITTED VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   An ordinance violation admitted under this chapter does not constitute
a judgment for the purposes of I.C. 33-37. An ordinance violation costs fee may
not be collected from the defendant under I.C. 33-37-4.
   (B)   An ordinance violation processed under this chapter may not be
considered for the purposes of I.C. 33-37-7-5 or I.C. 33-37-7-6 when
determining the percentage of ordinance violations prosecuted in certain
courts.
(I.C. 33-36-3-6)
§ 37.09 DISPOSITION OF CIVIL PENALTIES AND COSTS COLLECTED.
   (A)   Except as provided in divisions (B) and (C), all sums collected by the
Violations Clerk as civil penalties for ordinance violations shall be accounted
for and paid to the town as provided by law.
   (B)   If a city or town that has not established a court under I.C. 33-35-
1 or an ordinance violations bureau under I.C. 33-36-2 has entered into an
interlocal agreement described in I.C. 33-36-2- 4 with a municipal corporation,
the sums collected by the violations clerk that involve the city or town that
has not established a court or an ordinance violations bureau shall be
accounted for and paid as provided in the interlocal agreement.
   (C)   If a county enters into an interlocal agreement under I.C. 33-36-2-
5 with a city or town, the sums collected by the Violations Clerk or city or
town court that involve the county shall be accounted for and paid as provided
in the interlocal agreement.
(I.C. 33-36-3-7)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
51.   GARBAGE
         
52.   SEWERS AND WATER
         
53.   INDUSTRIAL WASTES
         
54.   WELLS
         
55.   DEPARTMENT OF STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Reserved
Application of Utility Deposits
   
50.15   General provisions
   
50.16   Application of deposit following nonpayment
Fixing Water Usage for the Wastewater Utility
   
50.30   General provisions
Connection to Utilities
   
50.40   Establishing connection and reconnection to the town's utilities
Fees; Billing; Collection of Past Due Charges;
Disconnection/Reconnection
   
50.45   Billing procedures
   
50.46   Collection of delinquent water, wastewater, stormwater, garbage
collection and tall grass and weed abatement fees, charges and penalties
   
50.47   Disconnection procedures
   
50.48   Water bill adjustments for undetected leaks
   
50.49   Waiver of water meter disconnection/reconnection fees following natural
disasters
HIGH RISK UTILITY DEPOSITS
§ 50.01 RESERVED.
APPLICATION OF UTILITY DEPOSITS
§ 50.15 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Deposits collected are to be used to satisfy customer accounts for
services provided by the town for water, sewer, stormwater and sanitation
services.
   (B)   A single deposit will be collected on each new account by the Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (C)   Deposit proceeds for sewer service shall be applied to a customer’s
sewer account in accordance with I.C. 36-9-23-28.
   (D)   Any proceeds collected as a deposit in excess of the amount allowed by
I.C. 36-9-23-28 shall be used for water, stormwater and sanitation accounts.
(Ord. 2004-6, passed 12-27-2004; Ord. 2019-1210, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 50.16 APPLICATION OF DEPOSIT FOLLOWING NONPAYMENT.
   (A)   At any time after an account become delinquent, the Clerk-Treasurer
shall first apply the funds collected as a utility deposit towards the
satisfaction of the customer's sewer account in accordance with I.C. 36-9-23-
28.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-3, any excess funds that remain on deposit after
application pursuant to division (A) above shall then be applied towards the
satisfaction of the customer's water, stormwater and sanitation account, which
shall include the usage charges, late charges, reasonable attorney's fees,
court costs and interest as allowed by law.
   (C)   After the delinquent account has been satisfied, the funds may be
applied to any other delinquent water, sewer, stormwater and sanitation
accounts with the town, as long as the account holder(s) is named on the
additional account. However, if the account is a joint account and both
individuals are not named on a subsequent account, then the funds may not be
applied to any other account.
   (D)   Once all accounts have been satisfied, the remaining funds will be
available for refund to the customer, upon demand. It is the duty of the
customer to request the refund in person or in writing to the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (E)   Deposits which remain unclaimed for a period of seven years shall
become the property of the town without further notice.
(Ord. 2004-6, passed 12-27-2004; Ord. 2019-1210, passed 12-10-2019)
FIXING WATER USAGE FOR THE WASTEWATER UTILITY
§ 50.30 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   It is just and reasonable to estimate that the wastewater utility
consumes 20,000 gallons of water per month.
   (B)   The town wastewater utility shall be charged for utilities based on a
fixed usage of 20,000 gallons of water per month, regardless of actual use.
   (C)   The wastewater utility shall be assessed charges based upon the
aforementioned usage in accordance with the standard water and sewer rates as
provided by the town for its customers.
(Ord. 2004-5, passed 12-27-2004)
CONNECTION TO UTILITIES
§ 50.40 ESTABLISHING CONNECTION AND RECONNECTION TO THE TOWN'S UTILITIES.
   (A)   Applicants who desire to receive town water, wastewater and stormwater
and sanitation services shall submit a completed service application and pay
the deposit. In the event that an applicant applies for service, but has
previously left the town with an unpaid utility account, whether or not it was
expensed as a bad debt loss, the applicant must first pay any prior unpaid
account balance before service may be granted.
   (B)   All residential owner-occupied and residential non-owner-occupied
applicants who request utility service shall complete a service application and
pay a residential deposit of $250.
   (C)   Deposits shall be held without interest until 45 days after service to
the occupant is terminated.
   (D)   Following disconnection, service may be reconnected on business days,
Monday through Friday, between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. upon the
payment of the balance of all past due charges owed, together with a $60
reconnect fee for water/wastewater.
   (E)   Upon the death of the account holder, the account must be re-
established in the name of the current occupant within one year of death, with
a new deposit(s), unless the property is owner-occupied residential property
occupied by the surviving spouse, who shall be permitted to maintain the
account in their deceased spouse's name.
(Ord. 2019-1210, passed 12-10-2019; Ord. 2021-02, passed 2-9-2021)
FEES; BILLING; COLLECTION OF PAST DUE CHARGES; DISCONNECTION/RECONNECTION
§ 50.45 BILLING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The rates and charges shall be prepared and billed by the town
monthly, as the town may deem appropriate and as determined by the bylaws and
regulations of the town as hereinafter provided for, and shall be collected in
the manner provided by law and ordinance. The rates and charges, and notices of
delinquency, will be mailed to business and institutional customers, owner-
occupied residential customers, and for non-owner occupied residential
customers, to both the occupant(s) and to the owner. Owners of non-owner
occupied residential properties served shall have the right to examine the
collection records of the town for the purpose of determining whether the rates
and charges have been paid by the occupant(s), provided that the examination
shall be made in the office in which the records are kept and during the hours
that the office is open for business.
   (B)   The following dates apply to town water, wastewater, garbage
collection, or tall grass and weed abatement bills:
      (1)   First day of month: bills are sent to rate payers.
      (2)   Fifteenth day of month: payment is due on bills sent on the first
day of the month.
   (C)   Payment is due on the date of billing. Users shall have until on or
before the fifteenth day of the month of billing to pay the billing without
penalty. Accounts not paid within the period shall be delinquent and a penalty
equal to 10% of the sum due shall be assessed as a surcharge and added to the
user’s bill. In the event the account holder had a prior unpaid balance, any
payments shall be first applied to the oldest billing, and then to the next
oldest billing, until the account balance is paid in full. Partial payments
shall be applied first to water, second to wastewater and lastly to trash.
   (D)   Upon a bill becoming delinquent, a user shall have two weeks to pay
the bill before the disconnection procedure described herein is utilized.
Disconnection may be avoided only by the owner, user or lessee paying the full
account balance, including penalties.
   (E)   The town may offer a payment plan to users whose accounts are
delinquent only in the case of hardship as determined by the Town Council on a
case-by-case basis. A user must appear in person at a regularly scheduled Town
Council meeting to request a payment plan.
   (F)   Owners, whether or not occupying the premises served, shall be
responsible to the town for unpaid water, wastewater, garbage collection and
tall grass and weed abatement fees, penalties and charges.
(Ord. 2013-12-9-3, passed 12-9-2013; Ord. 2019-1210, passed 12-10-2019; Ord.
2021-02, passed 2-9-2021)
§ 50.46 COLLECTION OF DELINQUENT WATER, WASTEWATER, STORMWATER, GARBAGE
COLLECTION AND TALL GRASS AND WEED ABATEMENT FEES, CHARGES AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Wastewater fees are fees assessed against real estate and shall
constitute a lien against the property served until paid. Water, stormwater,
sanitation, or tall grass and weed abatement fees are fees assessed against
real property and may constitute a lien against residential owner-occupied and
business properties served. The lien attaches when a notice of lien, described
below, is recorded in the office of the County Recorder, except in the
following circumstances:
      (1)   A fee is not enforceable as a lien against a subsequent owner of
property unless the lien for the fee was recorded with the County Recorder
before the conveyance to the subsequent owner. If the property is conveyed
before the lien can be filed, the town shall notify the person who owned the
property at the time the fee became payable. The notice shall inform the former
owner that payment, including penalty fees for delinquencies, is due not more
than 15 days after the date of the notice. If payment is not received, the
amount due may be collected in any manner permitted by law. If payment is not
received within 180 days after the date of the notice, the amount due may be
expensed as a bad debt loss.
      (2)   A fee for water service is not enforceable as a lien against real
property occupied by someone other than the owner.
   (B)   If the water, wastewater, stormwater, sanitation, or tall grass and
weed abatement fees, charges and penalties are not paid within the time fixed
by ordinance, they are delinquent. The Clerk-Treasurer, or his or her designee,
is charged with the responsibility to collect delinquent water, wastewater,
stormwater, sanitation, and tall grass and weed abatement fees, charges and
penalties (the "delinquent fees"). The Clerk-Treasurer shall review all
delinquent accounts every month, or as necessary and attempt to collect the
delinquent fees in any of the following manners, pursuant to I.C. 36-1-3, 36-9-
23 and 36-7-10.1:
      (1)   By filing a civil action in the name of the town against the
customer, for the following:
         (a)   Delinquent water fees, charges and penalties from residential
customers, whether or not owner-occupied, and business owners, pursuant to I.C.
36-9-23-31;
         (b)   Delinquent wastewater fees, charges and penalties from
residential customers, whether or not owner-occupied, business owners, or
owners of non-owner-occupied residences, pursuant to I.C. 36-9-23-31;
         (c)   Delinquent stormwater, sanitation, or tall grass and weed
abatement fees, charges and penalties from owners or occupants of any property
served;
      (2)   Collection of all outstanding fees, charges and penalties by the
County Auditor's and Treasurer's Offices following the recording of a notice of
lien pursuant to Indiana's Home Rule Statute, I.C. 36-1-3 and I.C. 36-9-23-33,
in the manner described herein; or
      (3)   By foreclosing a lien following the recording of a notice of lien.
   (C)   In lieu of collection, the Town Council may write off delinquent fees
that are for less than $40, pursuant to I.C. 36-9-23-33(l).
   (D)   Filing a civil action. The Clerk-Treasurer may cause a civil action to
be filed in the name of the town to collect delinquent fees. A penalty of 10%
of the amount of the delinquent fees attaches to the delinquent fees, and the
amount of the delinquent fees, the penalty, and a reasonable attorney’s fee may
be recovered in a civil action brought in the name of the town, against the
owners, lessees, or users of the property served by the utility or benefit by
the services provided, pursuant to I.C. 36-9-23-31 and 36-1-3-6.
   (E)   Collection through recording a notice of lien. The Clerk-Treasurer may
defer enforcing the collection of delinquent fees until the delinquent fees
have been due and unpaid for at least 90 days, or when any tall grass and weed
abatement fees, charges and penalties have been due and unpaid for at least 30
days. Thereafter, the Clerk-Treasurer may utilize the procedures as described
in I.C. 36-9-23-33 to collect the delinquent fees, summarized as follows:
      (1)   As often as the Clerk-Treasurer determines is necessary in a
calendar year, the Clerk-Treasurer shall prepare a notice of lien for each lot
or parcel of real property on which fees and penalties are delinquent, listing
the amount of fees, charges and penalties which are delinquent, together with
the costs of recording and service charges, on the notice of lien.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall record each notice of lien with the
County Recorder, and shall then mail to each property owner on the notice of
lien a notice stating that a lien against the owner’s property has been
recorded. A service charge of $5, a County Auditor’s certification fee of $15,
the cost of recording the notice of lien and the costs of recording a release
of lien, shall be added to the amount due for each notice of lien.
      (3)   Not later than ten days after recording each notice of lien, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall certify to the County Auditor a list of the liens that
remain unpaid for collection in the next May.
      (4)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall release any recorded notice of lien when
the delinquent fees, and service, certification and recording fees described
above, have been fully paid.
      (5)   Upon receipt of the Clerk-Treasurer’s certified list described
above, the County Auditor shall enter on the tax duplicate for the town the
delinquent fees, penalties, service charges, recording fees and certification
fees, which arc due not later than the due date of the next installment of
property taxes. The County Treasurer shall then include any unpaid charges for
the delinquent fees, penalty, service charge, recording fees and certification
fee to the owner or owners of each lot or parcel of property, at the time the
next cycle’s property tax installment is billed.
      (6)   After the Clerk-Treasurer’s certification of liens, the Clerk-
Treasurer may not collect or accept delinquent fees, penalties, service
charges, recording fees, or certification fees from property owners whose
property has been certified to the County Auditor.
      (7)   If the delinquent fees, penalty, service charge, recording fees,
and certification fee are not paid, they shall be collected by the County
Treasurer in the same way that delinquent property taxes arc collected.
      (8)   At the time of each semiannual tax settlement, the County Treasurer
shall certify to the County Auditor all fees, charges, and penalties that have
been collected. The County Auditor shall deduct the service charges and
certification fees collected by the County Treasurer and pay over the Clerk-
Treasurer the remaining fees and penalties due the town. The County Treasurer
shall retain the service charges and certification fees that have been
collected for deposit in the County General Fund.
      (9)   Delinquent fees, penalties and service charges that were not
recorded before a recorded conveyance shall be removed from the tax roll, and a
release of lien shall be recorded, for a purchaser who provides a verified
demand in writing to the Clerk-Treasurer and the County Auditor, which states
that the delinquent fees were not incurred by the purchaser as a user, lessee,
or previous owner, and that the purchaser has not been paid by the seller for
the delinquent fees.
      (10)   The Clerk-Treasurer may at any time elect to record a release of
the notice of lien, paying the service charges, recording fees and
certification fees, decertifying the lien such that collection is not
undertaken by the County Auditor and County Treasurer, and seek to collect the
delinquent fees by filing a civil action in the manner described above.
   (F)   Foreclosure of a lien. The town may foreclose a lien for delinquent
fees in order to collect the fees and penalties. The town shall recover the
amount of the fees and penalties, and a reasonable attorney’s fee. The court
shall order the sale to be made without relief from valuation or appraisement
law, as provided in I.C. 36-9-23-34.
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 3-10-2003; Am. Ord. 2013-12-9-3, passed 12-9-2013; Ord.
2019-1210, passed 12-10-2019; Ord. 2021-02, passed 2-9-2021)
§ 50.47 DISCONNECTION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   If a bill, including penalties, becomes delinquent and is not paid by
the bill’s due date, the property served shall be placed on the disconnection
list. In addition, the Town Council, or its designated officers, shall
terminate service for any user for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   For any misrepresentation in the service application as to property
or fixtures to be supplied, or the use to be made of the water supply;
      (2)   For willful waste of water through improper or imperfect pipes,
fixtures, meters or otherwise;
      (3)   For failure to keep in good order and to protect the town’s
connections, service lines or fixtures;
      (4)   For damage or molesting any service pipe, meter, curb stop-cock, or
any other appliance of the company controlling or regulating the water supply;
      (5)   For neglecting to make agreed payments, or for the non-payment of
any account for water supplied, water service, wastewater service, garbage
collection, or any other scheduled fee or charge as required;
      (6)   Payment by dishonored check will be treated as non-payment and
penalties will apply as provided herein if such payment is not paid by the
appropriate due date. Further, any person who pays with a check which is
dishonored or returned for any reason, shall be assessed an additional amount,
being the maximum amount permitted under I.C. 26-1-2.1-502.5, as amended from
time to time, currently $20 plus an amount equal to the actual charge by the
depository institution for each returned or dishonored instrument. The town
shall be entitled to collect such sum; or
      (7)   In case of vacancy of the premises.
   (B)   Prior to deciding whether to disconnect water service, the Town
Council shall provide to the user notice and an opportunity to present evidence
about the account delinquency. Town employees shall mail a disconnection notice
to business and institutional customers, owner-occupied residential customers,
and for non-owner occupied residential customers, to both the occupant(s) and
to the owner, on the sixteenth day of each month, or as soon thereafter as
possible. If an owner of a property maintains a single meter for multiple non-
owner occupants, notice shall be sent to every unit serviced by the meter in
the event of a delinquency and of the disconnection hearing. All non-owner
occupants serviced by a delinquent account shall have the right to address the
Town Council at the disconnection hearing.
   (C)   All disconnection notices shall plainly state:
      (1)   That the user will have an opportunity to present evidence in
person to the Town Council at the next regular Town Council meeting at 6:00
p.m. prior to the Town Council determining whether to disconnect the service at
the property served by the utility.
      (2)   If the Town Council votes to approve disconnection of utility
services at that meeting, the actual disconnection will take place within 48
hours of the meeting.
      (3)   The reason for disconnection.
      (4)   The telephone number of the Town Hall which the user may call
during regular business hours in order to question the proposed disconnection
or seek information concerning his or her rights.
   (D)   If disconnection notices are sent in any month, at the first Town
Council meeting of the following month, there shall be an agenda item for
disconnection hearings. The Town Council shall invite all persons who received
disconnection notices to address the Town Council and present evidence
concerning the proposed disconnection. At the conclusion of any each hearing,
or if no evidence is presented, after determining that no one wishes to address
the Town Council and present evidence, the Town Council will decide whether
disconnection of utilities should proceed against anyone receiving a
disconnection notice.
   (E)   Within 48 hours of the meeting where the Board votes to disconnect
utility service to a property or properties, town employees shall disconnect
the utility service of those owners, lessees and users of the property whose
disconnection was approved at the Town Council meeting.
   (F)   When service is disconnected for non-payment, it will not be
reconnected until all past due charges and penalties, together with a
reconnection fee, are paid.
(Ord. 2013-12-9-3, passed 12-9-2013; Ord. 2019-1210, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 50.48 WATER BILL ADJUSTMENTS FOR UNDETECTED LEAKS.
   In accordance with I.C. 8-1.5-3.5:
   (A)   Water meters will be read around the twenty-second of each month.
   (B)   Meter readings will be entered, and a high/low usage report will be
run.
   (C)   High/low meter readings will be re-read and documented.
   (D)   Water bills will be mailed.
   (E)   Customer will bring the water bill into the office in refusal to pay.
If customer denies having a leak, and there is no justifiable answer to why the
customer’s bill was at least two times the average monthly usage at the
premises, the following will occur.
   (F)   Water meter will be re-read.
   (G)   Water meter will be pulled and a new meter will be installed, outside
premises will be observed for water saturation on the premises.
   (H)   Water meter will be sent off for inspection.
   (I)   Special meeting will be held to obtain approval from town council,
upon that time, Town Hall office will provide a written out adjustment form,
copy of bill with three noted meter readings, and an adjustment sign sheet for
the Council to approve.
   (J)   Once Town Hall receives the signed sheet, actual adjustment will be
made and updated.
   (K)   Customer will be called into the office to sign adjustment and to be
notified we are only allowed to make an unusual large bill adjustment once a
year and if following month it is high they will be responsible for paying the
bill.
   (L)   All documentation will be stapled together and filed in the adjustment
folder for the current year and noted in the delinquent folder.
(Policy and Procedure 2015-4-27, passed 4-27-2015)
§ 50.49 WAIVER OF WATER METER DISCONNECTION/RECONNECTION FEES FOLLOWING NATURAL
DISASTERS.
   The water meter disconnection and reconnection fees which could otherwise
apply under this title shall be, and hereby are, abated and waived for property
owners who request that their water meters be disconnected following a natural
disaster that required the evacuation of their property, during that period
that their properties remain vacated.
(Res. 2017-1010B, passed 10-10-2017)
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE
Section
   
51.01   Scope and frequency of service
   
51.02   Manner of placement; conformance required
   
51.03   Garbage exposed to flies, rodents or the like prohibited
   
51.04   Rates and charges
   
51.05   Payment
   
51.06   Exemption from collection fees
   
51.07   Waste removal service guidelines
   
51.08   Bulk item disposal program
§ 51.01 SCOPE AND FREQUENCY OF SERVICE.
   The Town Council may establish a garbage and unburnable trash collection and
disposal service to be available to all persons residing within the corporate
limits of the town and certain business establishments. The business
establishments that generate less than eight bags per week may receive service
for the residential rate. Businesses wishing to be exempted from service shall
notify the Town Council in writing of their alternate arrangements for
collection and disposal.
(Ord. 91-1, passed 4-22-1991)
§ 51.02 MANNER OF PLACEMENT; CONFORMANCE REQUIRED.
   All garbage and unburnable trash shall be placed in containers at locations
as are established by the guidelines set by the Town Council, which guidelines
shall be provided to each customer or available at the town.
(Ord. 91-1, passed 4-22-1991)
§ 51.03 GARBAGE EXPOSED TO FLIES, RODENTS OR THE LIKE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or lessee of any lot or parcel of land
within the corporate boundaries of the town, to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited, any human or animal excrement, garbage or any other organic waste
upon the premises in a way or place that it is exposed to flies or other
insects, rodents, small domestic animals or will endanger a water supply.
(Ord. 91-1, passed 4-22-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.04 RATES AND CHARGES.
   There is an established rate of $15.25 per month for the use and service of
garbage, unburnable and unrecyclable trash collection and the charges shall be
added to the water and wastewater bill each month to all residences and
qualified businesses.
(Ord. 91-1, passed 4-22-1991; Ord. 1993-1, passed 1-11-1993; Ord. 2000-1,
passed 6-12-2000; Ord. 2006-2, passed 2-27-2006; Ord. 2008-3, passed 8-11-2008;
Ord. 2024-1211, passed 12-10-2024)
§ 51.05 PAYMENT.
   Charges for the water, sewage and trash collection shall be billed on a
single bill and payments received shall first be credited to trash collection,
next to water service, and then to sewer service. In the event the entire bill
is not paid, then all charges may be considered delinquent. The charges, if
delinquent, may be collected in the name of the town and shall include costs of
collection and reasonable attorney's fees.
(Ord. 91-1, passed 4-22-1991)
Cross-reference:
   Collection of delinquent garbage collection fees, charges and penalties, see
§
50.46
§ 51.06 EXEMPTION FROM COLLECTION FEES.
   If, in the opinion of the Town Council, good cause is shown for the
exemption from the fees established hereunder, the fees shall not be assessed.
(Ord. 91-1, passed 4-22-1991)
§ 51.07 WASTE REMOVAL SERVICE GUIDELINES.
   (A)   Guidelines.
      (1)   All general household waste will be taken, up to five bags. Boswell
citizens are encouraged to recycle in an effort to reduce the number of bags
needed.
      (2)   Waste removal service will be provided weekly on every Monday,
except during weeks that a holiday falls on a Monday or Tuesday, on which the
day of service would then be on Wednesday.
      (3)   Waste should be set on curb line by 6:00 a.m. of the day of
service, however bags are not to be put out more than 48 hours prior to pick up
day.
      (4)   Waste should be placed in standard 30-gallon (or smaller) waste
containers or tied off plastic bags.
      (5)   All containers must be able to sustain the weight of its contents,
i.e., no cardboard box or paper bags used as waste containers.
      (6)   Bag or container weight should not exceed approximately 30 pounds.
      (7)   Ash from burn barrels will be accepted as long as it is in a bag or
container and weighs under 30 pounds.
   (B)   Unacceptable items. The following items will not be accepted:
      (1)   Construction material;
      (2)   Rock, earth or sod;
      (3)   Burn barrels;
      (4)   Yard waste;
      (5)   Liquid waste such as paint or water base, including hazardous,
toxic or flammable waste such as motor oil or gasoline;
      (6)   Tires;
      (7)   Animal carcasses; and
      (8)   Appliances.
   (C)   Yard waste policy. To comply with the Indiana Department of
Environmental Management the town will no longer be accepting trees and brush
in large unmanageable quantities. Given this restraint that IDEM has imposed,
the town must reduce the quantity of brush that it accumulates. This will
enable the town to effectively chip and dispose of brush in a cost effective
manner. To alleviate this problem, the town has developed a policy that will
allow the town to comply.
      (1)   Brush pick day(s) will be the last Monday of every month weather
permitting. Citizens are to put brush out no earlier than the Saturday and
Sunday before the last Monday of the month. If weather delays pickup citizens
will not have to move the pile.
      (2)   Types of brush have different specifications as to how much can be
put out.
         (a)   Large brush unit. Considered to be limbs no larger than three to
four inches in diameter, with no greater than 12 inches of branch spread.
Length is not a problem.
         (b)   Small brush unit. Considered to be branches no larger than one
to two inches in diameter no longer than four feet. A small brush unit must fit
in an area no larger than four feet by four feet by four feet tall.
         (c)   Citizens will be allowed to put out four large brush units and
one small brush unit per month.
         (d)   Storm damage will be picked up immediately, within a couple of
days, following a moderate storm. Major storm damage is the responsibility of
the property owner to clean up.
      (3)   It is important to note that the town employees will judge, using
the guidelines presented the type and amount of brush that is to be picked up.
The brush is to be piled on the edge of the road THERE IS TO BE NO TRASH, LOOSE
LEAVES, BOTTLES, CANS, ETC. These items pose a serious danger to the employees
operating the chipper. If such items are present the brush will be left and it
will be the property owner's responsibility to remove the brush in accordance
with the nuisance ordinance. If a pile is found to be in violation, a note, on
town letterhead, will be left on or at the property's door explaining the
problem.
      (4)   The intent of this policy is to comply with IDEM as well as help
the town employees to be more productive in other areas of need in the town
while providing basic assistance to the citizens of Boswell. Although there are
limits to the amount of brush, this should be adequate to serve all citizen
needs. Any questions should be submitted to town hall or any Council member.
   (D)   Appliances.
      (1)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         APPLIANCES. Any major appliances such as refrigerators, stoves,
washers, dryers or T.V.s and the like.
      (2)   Guidelines. Residents who wish to have an appliance removed must
call and make arrangements. Arrangements must be made a minimum of one day
prior to the regular day of service to be picked up that week. Appliances to be
picked up must be at the curb side. There will be a $15 charge per appliance
billed directly to the person requesting the service.
(Ord. 91-1, passed 4-22-1991)
 § 51.08 BULK ITEM DISPOSAL PROGRAM.
   (A)   Customers of the town's utilities may request a large and/or bulky
item pickup by tagging such item with a sticker obtained from the Clerk-
Treasurer's office and paying a fee of $25 per item.
   (B)   The town will pick up large and/or bulky items on an as-needed basis,
in the discretion of the town workers.
   (C)   The following items are specifically allowed or not allowed:
 
Allowed                                                                             Not Allowed
                                                                                    •   Liquids
                                                                                    •   Concrete, asphalts, bricks, blocks, gravel, sod or earth
•   Most furniture                                                             •   Brush or tree trimmings
•   Small appliances                                                           •   Grass clippings
•   Mattresses and box springs (must be completely wrapped in plastic prior to •   Computers and televisions
pickup)                                                                             •   Large household appliances (stoves, washing machines, driers, water
•   Household items and tools                                                  heaters, refrigerators, or freezers)
•   Limited construction and building materials (in one container, no boxes, ba•   Hazardous waste
loose piles or stacks)                                                              •   Oil
•   Carpet (one rolled section less than 4 feet long and 2 feet around)        •   Paint
                                                                                    •   Solvents
                                                                                    •   Batteries
                                                                                    •   Tires
 
   (D)   No items weighing more than 50 pounds will be picked up by the town.
   (E)   Residents who are unsure of whether an item can be picked up should
check with the Town Hall.
(Ord. 2022-0809B, passed 8-9-2022)
 
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS AND WATER
Section
Sewers Generally
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Illegal deposits and discharges; septic tanks and privy vaults
   
52.03   Connection required
   
52.04   Private sewage disposal systems
   
52.05   Permit
   
52.06   Discharges
   
52.07   Tampering
   
52.08   Inspections
Sewage Works
   
52.20   Rates and charges
   
52.21   Services rendered to town
   
52.22   Meters
   
52.23   Strength and character of sewage
   
52.24   Apartment houses, mobile home courts and housekeeping rooms
   
52.25   Date effective
   
52.26   Tap-on fee
   
52.27   Study
   
52.28   Bylaws and regulations
   
52.29   Definitions
   
52.30   Lawn sprinkling
   
52.31   Frozen water lines
   
52.32   Leak forgiveness policy
Tampering with Waterworks
   
52.45   Tampering prohibited
   
52.46   Enforcement
 
   
52.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Industrial wastes, see
Ch. 53
   Utility deposits, see §§
50.01 through
50.03,
50.15 and
50.16
SEWERS GENERALLY
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   B.O.D. (denoting BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized
in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory
procedure in five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and dewage.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the town, through its
Town Council, to inspect and approve the installation of building sewers and
their connection to the public sewer system.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to a degree that all particles will
be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of the
sanitary drainage system inside the walls of any building, which receives the
discharge from soil or waste stacks and branches and conveys the same to a
point three feet outside the building walls where it connects with its
respective building sewer.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with the
ground, surface and stormwaters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. Is mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STORM DRAIN (sometimes termed STORM SEWER). A sewer which carries storm and
surface waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other
than unpolluted cooling water.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the municipal sewage works of the town
or his or her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Ord. 1975-5, passed 12-16-1975)
§ 52.02 ILLEGAL DEPOSITS AND DISCHARGES; SEPTIC TANKS AND PRIVY VAULTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any sewage or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Ord. 1975-5, passed 12-16-1975) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.03 CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the town and abutting
on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located a public
sanitary or combined sewer of the town, is hereby required at his or her
expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect the
facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter, within 90 days after date of official notice to
do so, provided that the public sewer is within 100 feet of the property line.
(Ord. 1975-5, passed 12-16-1975) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.04 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
52.03, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the
Superintendent. The application for the permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the town, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications and other information as are deemed necessary by the
Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee of $25 shall be paid to the town at
the time the application is filed.
   (C)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent. He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 72 hours
of the receipt of notice by the Superintendent.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the State Board of Health. No
permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system employing
subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is less than
7,200 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge
to any natural outlet.
   (E)   At a time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by
a private sewage disposal system as provided in division (D) above, a direct
connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this
subchapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage disposal
facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
   (F)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the town.
   (G)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the health officer.
   (H)   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to the sewer within 60 days and the private sewage disposal system
shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank-run gravel or dirt.
(Ord. 1975-5, passed 12-16-1975) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.05 PERMIT.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   For residential and commercial service; and
         (b)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
      (2)   In either case, the owner, or his or her agent, shall make
application on a special form furnished by the town. The permit application
shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information
considered pertinent in the judgment of the inspector.
      (3)   A permit and inspection fee of $15 for a residential or commercial
building sewer permit and $25 for an industrial building sewer permit shall be
paid to the Clerk-Treasurer at the time the application is filed.
   (C)   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
town from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer.
   (D)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
   (E)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the inspector, to meet all
requirements of this subchapter.
   (F)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the requirements of the
Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
town. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (G)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by the building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (H)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (I)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code of other
applicable rules and regulations of the town, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice
No. 9. All connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviation
from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
Superintendent before installation.
   (J)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the inspector
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the inspector, or
his or her representative.
   (K)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
(Ord. 1975-5, passed 12-16-1975; Ord. 1983-19, passed 4-25-1977) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.06 DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
the sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water
or unpolluted process waters may be discharged, on approval of the
Superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet.
   (C)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment and personnel of the sewage works; and/or
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of a size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   (D)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the Superintendent that the wastes can harm either the sewers,
sewage treatment process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a
nuisance. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the Superintendent will give consideration to factors such as the
quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of
wastes in the sewage treatment plant and other pertinent factors. The
substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32 and 150°F (0 and 65° C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Superintendent;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to a degree that any material received in the composite
sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established by the
Superintendent for the materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor-
producing substances, in concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other
public agencies of jurisdiction for discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of a half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert, suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual B.O.D., chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements
in quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
slugs as defined herein.
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to a degree that the sewage treatment plant effluent
cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
   (E)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged, to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or
possess the characteristics enumerated in division (D) above of this section,
and which in the judgment of the Superintendent may have a deleterious effect
upon the sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which
otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the
Superintendent may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of division (J) below of this section.
      (2)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plans and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
   (F)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the the Inspector, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes,
sand or other harmful ingredients; except that the interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the Superintendent, and shall be located
as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   (G)   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
   (H)   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole together with necessary meters and other appurtenances
in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of
the wastes. The manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense, and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
   (I)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this subchapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at the control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premise is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, B.O.D. and suspended solids analyses are obtained
from 24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pH's are determined from
periodic grab samples.)
   (J)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the town and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the town for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the
industrial concern.
(Ord. 1975-5, passed 12-16-1975) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.07 TAMPERING.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently
break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure,
appurtenance or equipment which is a part of the municipal sewage works.
   (B)   Any person violating this provision shall be subject to immediate
arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
(Ord. 1975-5, passed 12-16-1975) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.08 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The Superintendent, inspector and other duly authorized
employees of the town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter.
      (2)   The Superintendent or his or her representatives shall have no
authority to inquire into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil,
refining, ceramic, paper or other industries beyond that point having a direct
bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or
facilities for waste treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the
town shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by
the company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
town's employees and the town shall indemnify the company against loss or
damage to its property by town employees and against liability claims and
demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and
growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused
by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required
in §
52.06(H).
   (C)   (1)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the
town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter
all private properties through which the town holds a duly negotiated easement
for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within the easement.
      (2)   All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the easement, shall be
done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 1975-5, passed 12-16-1975)
SEWAGE WORKS
§ 52.20 RATES AND CHARGES.
   For the use of and the service rendered by the sewage works, rates and
charges shall be collected from the owners of each and every lot, parcel of
real estate or building that is connected with the town’s sanitary sewer system
or otherwise discharges sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other
liquids, either directly or indirectly, into the sanitary sewer system of the
town, which rates and charges shall be payable as hereinafter provided and
shall be in an amount determinable as follows.
   (A)   Except as herein otherwise provided, sewage rates and charges shall be
based on the quantity of water used on or in the property or premises subject
to the rates and charges, as the same is measured by the water meter there in
use. However, all customers of the town's wastewater and waterworks utilities
will be charged, at a minimum, the "monthly minimum charge" listed below for
the waterworks and the sewage works, even if no water is consumed in a month.
For purposes of this section, CUSTOMERS do not include the owners of vacant
lots which do not have water meters. For owners of such properties, they shall
be deemed not to be "customers" of the town's wastewater and waterworks
utilities, and are not required to pay a monthly minimum sewer or water charge.
   (B)   (1)   
 
Service                                        Fee
Disconnect fee                                 Repealed
Post-disconnection hearing                     $35
Pre-disconnection fee                           
Reconnection fee as described in § 50.40(D)    
Deposit charge as described in § 50.40(B)      
Bad check charge as described in § 50.47(A)(6) 
 
      (2)   Water Works. The following rates shall apply for water usage and
charges for water works services:
 
WATER RATES AND CHARGES
Meter Flow Rates (per 1,000 gallons)
First 10,000 gallons $13.89
Next 10,000 gallons  $12.98
Next 10,000 gallons  $12.06
Over 30,000 gallons  $9.54
 
 
Monthly Minimum Charge Gallons Allowed Rate
3/4 inch               0 - 2,500       $34.73
2 inch                 0 - 13,350      $182.38
 
      (3)   Water works. The following rates shall apply for water usage and
charges for water works services:
 
Fire Hydrants  
Public        $600 per hydrant, per year
 
   (C)   (1)   Any sewer or water bill unpaid by the last Monday of each month
shall subject the property to disconnection of service, unless an exception is
granted by the Town Council duly entered in the record of the town at a regular
meeting of the Council.
      (2)   Legal action shall be instituted to collect any sewer or water bill
in arrears by three months.
   (D)   Disconnection and reconnection policies.
      (1)   Reconnections following disconnection for non-payment will only be
done during normal business hours, Monday through Friday, between 8:00 a.m. and
4:00 p.m., excluding holidays.
      (2)   After hours policy. The town will not take any calls after hours,
with the exception of:
         (a)   Disconnection of residences that do not have main shut off
valve.
         (b)   Water line breaks between the meter and the residence.
(Ord. 1983-17, passed 10-27-1975; Ord. 1975-4, passed 12-16-1975; Ord. 1978-1,
passed 4-10-1978; Ord. 1983-20, passed 10-11-1982; Ord. 1985-1, passed 3-25-
1985; Ord. 1985-2, passed 11-12-1985; Ord. 1985-2A, passed 3-24-1986; Ord.
1987-2, passed - -; Ord. 1992-2, passed 6-22-1992; Ord. 1993-3, passed 12-13-
1993; Ord. 1997-1, passed 7-14-1997; Ord. 2006-1, passed - -; Ord. 2010-12-13,
passed 12-13-2010; Ord. 2015-11.9, passed 11-9-2015; Ord. 2016-1128, passed 11-
28-2016; Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-14-2017; Ord. 2017-1010, passed 10-10-2017;
Ord. 2018-0612, passed 6-12-2018; Ord. 2019-1210, passed 12-10-2019; Ord. 2020-
1013, passed - -; Ord. 2023- 0411, passed - -)
§ 52.21 SERVICES RENDERED TO TOWN.
   For the service rendered to the town, the town shall be subject to the same
rates and charges hereinabove provided or to charges and rates established in
harmony therewith.
(Ord. 1975-4, passed 12-16-1975)
§ 52.22 METERS.
   (A)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building, other than a
domestic user, discharging sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other
liquids into the town's sanitary sewerage system, either directly or indirectly
is not a user of water supplied by the town municipal waterworks, and the water
used thereon or therein is not measured by a water meter, or is measured by a
water meter not acceptable to the town, then the owner or other interested
party, at his or her expense, shall install and maintain meters, weirs,
volumetric measuring devices or any adequate and approved method of measurement
acceptable to the town.
   (B)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building, other than a
domestic user, discharging sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other
liquids into the town's sanitary sewerage system, either directly or
indirectly, is a user of water supplied by the town's waterworks and, in
addition, uses water from another source which is not measured by a water meter
or is measured by a meter not acceptable to the town then the owner or other
interested party, at his or her expense, shall install and maintain meters,
weirs, volumetric measuring devices or any adequate and approved method of
measurement acceptable to the town.
   (C)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or discharges sanitary
sewage, industrial waste, water or other liquids into the town's sanitary
sewerage system, either directly or indirectly, and uses water in excess of
20,000 gallons per month, and it can be shown to the satisfaction of the town
that a portion of water as measured by the water meter or meters does not and
cannot enter the sanitary sewage system, then the owner or other interested
party shall install and maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring devices or
any adequate and approved method of measurement acceptable to the town for the
determination of sewage discharge.
   (D)   Water meters will be read by the twentieth of each month for purposes
of billing, unless the meters are covered with snow and/or temperatures are
below ten degrees for five continuous days prior to the specified day of meter
reading.
   (E)   Replacement meters and antenna lids. In the event that the property
owner, or other responsible party, shall damage an installed water meter, the
property owner or the responsible party shall pay for the cost of the
replacement water meter to the town. In the event that the property owner, or
other responsible party, shall damage an installed antenna lid, the property
owner or the responsible party shall pay a replacement fee of $100 for the cost
of the replacement antenna lid to the town.
   (F)   Relocation of water meters. It shall be unlawful for anyone, including
but not limited to any plumber, pipefitter, property owner or occupant, or
other person or persons to relocate a preexisting water meter without the
express written permission and supervision of an employee of the Town of
Boswell. Any costs, billings, or charges incurred in relocating the water meter
will be billed to the resident and property owner at a rate at a minimum of
$300 or at the hourly rate of the town employee(s), whichever is greater. In
addition, a violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine as set
forth in §
52.99(B). Each day of violation constitutes a separate and distinct violation
of this section. The collection of penalties shall be conducted in a manner
permitted by law.
(Ord. 1975-4, passed 12-16-1975; Ord. 2008-2, passed 5-12-2008; Ord. 2017-6-6,
passed 6-6-2017; Ord. 2019-10-8, passed 10-8-2019) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.23 STRENGTH AND CHARACTER OF SEWAGE.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges may be justly and equitably
adjusted to the service rendered, the town shall base its charges not only on
the volume, but also on the strength and character of the sewage and wastes
which it is required to treat and dispose. The town shall require the owner or
other user to determine the strength and content of all sewage and wastes
discharged, either directly or indirectly, into the sanitary sewage system, in
a manner and by a method as the town may deem practicable in the light of the
conditions and attending circumstances of the case, in order to determine the
proper charge. The owner or other user shall furnish a central sampling point
available to the town at all times.
   (B)   Extra charges based on the strength of the sewage and liquid wastes
shall be made on the following basis.
      (1)   Rate surcharge based upon suspended solids. There shall be an
additional charge of $0.06 per 1,000 gallons of flow for each 100 milligrams,
or fraction thereof, of suspended solids in excess of 250 milligrams per liter
of fluid.
      (2)   Rate surcharge based upon B.O.D. There shall be an additional
charge of $0.07 per 1,000 gallons of flow for each 100 milligrams, or fraction
thereof, of biochemical oxygen demand in excess of 200 milligrams per liter of
fluid.
   (C)   To determine the strength of the sewage and wastes, samplings and
analysis shall be made from time to time whenever it is deemed desirable by the
town. After charges have been established based upon the strength of sewage and
wastes, the owner may request reconsideration of these charges by the town by
submitting analyses of composite samples of the sewage and wastes subject to
charges, certified by a registered engineer or a qualified graduate chemist.
The town may then adjust the charges to the chapter rates required by the
analysis or may recheck the findings by additional samplings and analysis.
Requests for rate adjustments by the owner may be submitted no more often than
once every 12 months.
   (D)   The determination of suspended solids and five-day biochemical oxygen
demand contained in the waste shall be in accordance with the latest copy of
Standard Methods for the Examination of Water, Sewage and Industrial Wastes, as
written by the American Public Health Association, the American Waterworks
Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation.
(Ord. 1975-4, passed 12-16-1975)
§ 52.24 APARTMENT HOUSES, MOBILE HOME COURTS AND HOUSEKEEPING ROOMS.
   Except for billings to multiple users, such as apartment houses, mobile home
courts and housekeeping rooms, rates and charges may be billed to the tenant or
tenants occupying the properties served unless otherwise requested in writing
by the owners but the billings shall in no way relieve the owner from liability
in the event payment is not made as herein required. The owners of the
properties served which are occupied by tenants shall have the right to examine
the collection records of the town for the purpose of determining whether the
rates and charges have been paid by the tenants, provided that the examination
shall be made at the office at which the records are kept and during the hours
that the office is open for business.
(Ord. 1975-4, passed 12-16-1975)
§ 52.25 DATE EFFECTIVE.
    Except as otherwise provided, the rates and charges as herein set forth
shall become effective on the date that sanitary sewers of the sewer system are
made available for connection to any lot, parcel of real estate or building;
but in any event, the rates and charges shall become effective no later than
July, 1977 in order that the first billing for sewage service shall be rendered
no later than August 1st, 1977.
(Ord. 1975-4, passed 12-16-1975)
§ 52.26 TAP-ON FEE.
   Any user connecting to the water and/or sewage works shall pay a tap-on fee
of no less than $1,000 or actual costs and expenses incurred, per utility.
(Ord. 1975-4, passed 12-16-1975; Ord. 1992-3, passed 7-13-1992; Ord. 2023-0411,
passed - -)
§ 52.27 STUDY.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges for sewage services may remain
fair and equitable and be in proportion to the cost of providing services to
the various users or user classes, the town shall cause a study to be made
within a reasonable period of time following the first 12 months of operation,
subsequent to the completion of the improvement project. The study shall
include, but not be limited to, an analysis of the costs associated with the
treatment of excessive strength effluents from industrial users, volume and
delivery flow rate characteristics attributed to the various users or user
classes, the financial position of the sewage works and the adequacy of its
revenue to provide reasonable funds for operation and maintenance,
replacements, debt service requirements and capital improvements to the waste
treatment systems.
   (B)   Thereafter, on an annual basis, within a reasonable period of time
following the normal accounting period, the town shall cause a similar study to
be made for the purpose of reviewing the fairness and equity of the rates and
charges for sewage services on a continuing basis. The studies shall be
conducted by officers and/or employees of the town, or by a firm of certified
public accountants and/or a firm of consulting engineers which firms shall have
experience in these studies.
(Ord. 1975-4, passed 12-16-1975)
§ 52.28 BYLAWS AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The town shall make and enforce bylaws and regulations as may be
deemed necessary for the safe, economical and efficient management of the
town's sewerage system, regulator chambers, pumping stations and sewage
treatment works, for the construction and use of house sewers and connections
to the sewerage system, and for the regulations, collection, rebating and
refunding of the rates and charges.
   (B)   The town is hereby authorized to prohibit dumping of wastes into the
town's sewerage system, which, in its discretion, are deemed harmful to the
operation of the sewage treatment works of the town or to require methods
affecting pretreatment of the wastes to reduce the characteristics of the waste
satisfactorily to the town.
(Ord. 1975-4, passed 12-16-1975)
§ 52.29 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Liquid waste resulting from any commercial, manufacturing
or industrial operation or process.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. The waste from water closets, urinals, lavatories, sinks,
bath tubs, showers, household laundries, basement drains, garage floor drains,
bars, soda fountains and stable floor drains.
(Ord. 1975-4, passed 12-16-1975)
§ 52.30 LAWN SPRINKLING.
   In order that single-family domestic and residential users of sewage
facilities shall not be penalized for sprinkling lawns during the months of
May, June, July and August of each year, the billing for sewage services for
the users shall be based upon water usage for the immediately preceding months
of January, February and March. In the event the water usage of the previous
periods shall be less than the water usage for the summer months, then the
billing shall be based upon the usage of the 30-day period six months prior to
the summer period being billed. In the event the water usage for the 30-day
period six months prior to the summer billing is greater than the water usage
for the summer period, then the billing for sewage services shall be computed
on the actual water used in the period for which the sewage service is being
rendered domestic and/or residential sewage services as applicable to the
sprinkling rate shall apply to each lot, parcel of real estate or building,
which is occupied and used as a residence. The sprinkling rate shall not apply
to any premises which are partially or wholly used for commercial or industrial
purposes. In the event a portion of the premises shall be used for commercial
or industrial purposes, the owner shall have the privilege of separating the
water service so that the residential portion of the premises is served through
a separate water meter, and in that case the water usage as registered by the
water meter serving the portion of the premises used for residential purposes
could qualify under the sprinkling rate.
(Ord. 1986-2, passed 5-12-1986; Ord. 1999-3, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 52.31 FROZEN WATER LINES.
   (A)   Any time after a notice is posted or published by the town advising
water patrons to allow faucets to drip to avoid freezing and any patron shall
fail or neglect to open a faucet as directed and the water line or meter as a
result freezes, the town and Water Department shall assume no responsibility or
cost for thawing or repairing any line or meter, and the following charges
shall be assessed to the patron if the work is requested of an employee of the
town or Water Department.
 
Service                                Fee
To thaw a line or meter                $50 to which shall be added any charges
                                       for help outside the Department
Replacement of meter which bursts as a $40
result of freezing
 
   (B)   Any charges as assessed herein shall be placed against the owner of
the property and not charged directly to the occupant if the occupant is a
tenant.
(Ord. 1978-2, passed 12-11-1978)
§ 52.32 LEAK FORGIVENESS POLICY.
   (A)   In accordance with I.C. 8-1.5-3.5, a utility may adjust an unusually
large bill if the excess usage reflected in the bill is caused by physical
damage to any facility or equipment supplying water to the premises and the
damage:
      (1)   Is not visible or detectable on the customer's premises except upon
excavation or some other disturbance of the property; and
      (2)   Is not the result of an act of the customer, or of any agent or
contractor hired by the customer.
   (B)   An "unusually large bill" shall be defined as a residential water bill
that reflects monthly water usage, in whatever units measured, that is at least
two times the customer's average monthly usage at the premises.
   (C)   An unusually large bill may be detected by either the Clerk-Treasurer
or the residential water account holder. However, the residential account
holder will have the responsibility to report an unusually large bill to the
Clerk-Treasurer within two months of a suspected leak. Town personnel shall not
be responsible for detecting leaks or making adjustments.
   (D)   After a leak is reported, the Water Superintendent shall conduct an
investigation of the premises to determine the source of the leak and necessary
repair. The Water Superintendent shall be responsible for repairing leaks in
the town's equipment and the residential water account holder shall be
responsible for repairing leaks in the account holder's equipment.
   (E)   The Town Council shall only make a leak adjustment once per year. The
Council may also elect to waive delinquency fees incurred by an unusually large
bill if the utility customer was unwilling or unable to pay the water bill.
   (F)   All documentation will be stapled together and filed in the adjustment
folder for the current year and noted in the delinquent folder.
(Ord. 2019-1210, passed 12-10-2019)
TAMPERING WITH WATERWORKS
§ 52.45 TAMPERING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any plumber, pipefitter or other person or persons
to attach to, detach from, or in any way tamper with any property of the town
waterworks whatsoever without the express permission and supervision of an
employee of the town.
(Ord. 2001-5, passed 12-10-2001) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.46 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Town Marshal and all other duly authorized law enforcement officers
charged with enforcing the town's ordinances may issue an appearance ticket and
complaint, stating the date and time of violation, the name and address of the
person violating this subchapter, and ordering that person to appear on a
certain date and time in Benton Circuit Court in Fowler, Indiana, for the
purpose of a trial thereon, if contested. In the event that the person accused
of violating this subchapter wishes to admit the violation, he or she may pay
the fine at the Town Hall.
(Ord. 2001-5, passed 12-10-2001)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Sewers generally.
      (1)   Any person found to be violating any provision of §§
52.01 through
52.08 except §
52.07 shall be served by the town with written notice stating the nature of the
violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction
thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in the notice,
permanently cease all violations.
      (2)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in division (A)(1) above shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and on
conviction thereof shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $25 for each
violation. Each day in which any violation shall continue shall be deemed a
separate offense.
      (3)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
52.01 through
52.08 shall become liable to the town for any expense, loss or damage
occasioned the town by reason of the violation.
   (B)   Tampering with waterworks.
      (1)   There shall be the following fine for each violation of §§
52.45 and
52.46.
         (a)   Fifty dollars for a first-time violation, by a member of any
household or business;
         (b)   One hundred dollars for a second-time violation, by a member of
any household or business; and
         (c)   Five hundred dollars for the third violation, by a member of any
household or business, and for any subsequent violation thereafter.
      (2)   The collection of penalties shall be conducted in any manner
permitted by law.
(Ord. 1975-5, passed 12-16-1975; Ord. 2001-5, passed 12-10-2001)
CHAPTER 53: INDUSTRIAL WASTES
Section
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Industrial user reimbursement required
   
53.03   Manner to determine industrial recovery charges
   
53.04   Basis for industrial cost recovery rates and charges
   
53.05   Manner used by town to account for all industrial recovery payments
   
53.06   Ability to view records
   
53.07   Manner of preparation, billing and collection
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMOUNTS FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND EXPANSION. Those amounts which represent a
minimum of 80% of the amount retained by the town, together with interest
earned thereon. These amounts shall be used solely for reconstruction and
expansion of waste treatment facilities which must be approved by the United
States Environmental Protection Agency. The remaining 20% of retained amounts
may be used at the discretion of the town.
   FEDERAL GRANT AMOUNTS. The portion of the total construction costs for
Project Number C-180574 which was sponsored by the United States Environmental
Protection Agency. Total construction costs will amount to approximately
$1,347,546. The federal grant will amount to approximately $1,083,075.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. 
      (1)   Any nongovernmental user of the treatment works identified in the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual, 1972, Office of Management and
Budget, as amended and supplemented, under the following divisions:
         (a)   Division A - Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing;
         (b)   Division B - Mining;
         (c)   Division D - Manufacturing;
         (d)   Division E - Transportation, Communication, Electric, Gas and
Sanitary Services; and
         (e)   Division I - Services.
      (2)   A user in the Divisions listed may be excluded if it is determined
that the user will introduce primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes
from sanitary conveniences.
   NONINDUSTRIAL USER. Any governmental or residential user. The term also
includes commercial, institutional and other industrial users where it has been
determined that the wastes contributed by these users is primarily segregated
domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary conveniences.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTES. Wastes which do not exceed a biochemical oxygen
demand strength of 200 milligrams per liter of fluid or a suspended solids
strength in excess of 250 milligrams per liter of fluid.
   PAYMENT TO UNITED STATES TREASURY. The portion of the recovered amounts that
must be returned to the United States Treasury on an annual basis. The annual
payments to the United States Treasury will amount to 50% of the annual
recovered amounts, together with interest earned thereon.
   PROJECT NUMBER C-180574. A separate and distinct construction project for
construction of the town sewage works which was sponsored by the United States
Environmental Protection Agency under the provisions of Pub. L. No. 92-500,
being 33 USC 1251 et seq. This project does not include past or future
construction, equipment or other services not included in the specific project
number.
   RECOVERED AMOUNT. The annual payments from industrial users for their share
of the federal grant allocable to the cost of treating industrial waste, which
is determined by dividing the amount of the total federal grant, allocable to
the treatment of industrial waste, by the recovery period.
   RECOVERY PERIOD. The industrial cost recovery period, which is hereby
defined as a period of 30 years.
   RETAINED AMOUNTS. The portion of the recovered amounts retained by the town.
The RETAINED AMOUNTS will be equal to 50% of the recovered amounts, together
with interest earned thereon.
   SEGREGATED DOMESTIC WASTES. A concentration of waste discharges that do not
exceed normal domestic waste strength and which are measurable and set apart
from other industrial discharges. In order to ascertain than an industrial user
is contributing primarily SEGREGATED DOMESTIC WASTES, the industrial user, at
his or her expense, shall install and maintain meters, weirs, volumetric
measuring devices or any adequate and approved method of measurement acceptable
to the town for the determination of sewage discharge.
(Ord. 1976-1, passed 12-13-1976)
§ 53.02 INDUSTRIAL USER REIMBURSEMENT REQUIRED.
   In order to comply with federal regulations, in the case of federal grant
assistance for the construction of waste treatment works, where it has been
determined that industrial users as defined in §
53.01, or as amended by appropriate federal regulations, are required to
reimburse a portion of the federal grant amount allocable to the capital cost
of constructing facilities for the treatment of industrial wastes, rates and
charges shall be collected from each industrial user connected to the sewage
works or who otherwise discharges sewage, water or liquids, either directly or
indirectly, into the waste treatment system, which charges shall be payable
provided and shall be in an amount determinable as follows.
   (A)   (1)   The industrial cost recovery charges for the treatment of
industrial wastes at the treatment plant shall be based upon the volume of
sewage flow billed to industrial users, as determined in accordance with
appropriate provisions for determining billed flow included in §§
52.20 through
52.29 and the total strength and character of industrial wastes which is
introduced into the waste treatment system. The strength and character of
industrial wastes shall be measured at the industrial users expense as provided
for in §§
52.20 through
52.29 and furnished to the town. The owner or industrial user shall furnish a
central sampling point available to the town at all times. In the event that
measurements of the strength and character of industrial wastes are not
provided to the town on a timely basis, the measurements of the strength and
character of industrial wastes are not provided to the town on a timely basis,
the measurements of the strength and character of industrial wastes shall be
determined by the town on the basis of a sample, authorized hereunder, to be
taken by the town for the purpose of appropriate billing.
      (2)   The industrial cost recovery rates for the treatment of wastes
shall be as follows.
 
Measurement                              Rate
Monthly volume flow                      $3.00 per 1,000 gallons
Monthly total pounds of B.O.D.           $0.07 per pound
Monthly total pounds of suspended solids $0.06 per pound
 
   (B)   However, in the event an industrial user can and does show to the
satisfaction of the town that a portion of the total monthly billed sewage flow
is from sanitary conveniences, then the flow and pollutant loadings to which
the industrial cost recovery charge is applied, shall be determined on the
basis of net flow and pollutant loadings excluding sanitary conveniences.
   (C)   The industrial cost recovery charges for treatment services on or
after the effective date as stated in §
53.07 shall be prepared and billed monthly.
   (D)   The industrial cost recovery charge for the sewer collector system
shall be determined and applied on the basis of number of sewer connections.
      (1)   The industrial cost recovery charge for the collecting mains and
intercepting sewers shall be based on the average number of equivalent
household sewer connections utilized by industrial users during the year. The
industrial cost recovery surcharge for collecting mains and intercepting
sewers, for the first year, following completion of construction, shall be
$1,238.55 per equivalent household sewer connection.
(Ord. 1976-1, passed 12-13-1976)
§ 53.03 MANNER TO DETERMINE INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY CHARGES.
   The town shall determine which users are subject to paying the industrial
cost recovery charges in the following manner.
   (A)   The town shall require appropriate employees of the sewage works to
review billing records and prepare a list of all potential industrial users, as
identified in each of the Divisions listed in §
53.01.
   (B)   The list of all potential industrial users shall be analyzed on the
basis of data available at the sewage works billing office (i.e., type of
business, volume charges, excessive loading charges, estimated number of
employers and the like) for the purpose of developing preliminary lists of
probable industrial and probable nonindustrial users.
   (C)   The town shall conduct an immediate survey of all probable industrial
users in order to substantiate the validity of classifying a particular user as
an industrial user. Each user initially classified as an industrial user shall
be notified as to his, her or their classification.
   (D)   After completing the survey of all probable industrial users, the town
shall review the list of probable nonindustrial users to determine if the
initial classification of any of these users should be reconsidered. Where
appropriate, individual users will be contacted in order to determine the
proper classification.
   (E)   After an industrial user has been notified of his or her
classification, the user may request reconsideration by furnishing data and
measurements acceptable to the town for the determination of sewage discharge.
The town shall have the right to measure and determine the strength and content
of all sewage and waste discharges, either directly or indirectly into the
town's sanitary sewage system, in a manner and by a method as it may deem
practicable in the light of the conditions and attending circumstances of each
case in order to determine the proper user classification.
   (F)   Within a reasonable period of time following completion of the sewage
works construction project, the town shall have completed the initial
classification of all industrial users. During the first calendar year of
operation, subsequent to completion of the construction project, and annually
thereafter, the town will review, classify and reclassify all users as either
industrial or nonindustrial users based upon measurements and data obtained by
the town or furnished by individual users. Normally, each user will retain his
or her classification until the next succeeding classification period. However,
if there is a substantial change in the strength, volume or delivery flow rate
characteristics introduced into the treatment works by an individual user, then
the classification of that user may be reviewed and established during the year
in the light of the conditions and attending circumstances of each case.
(Ord. 1976-1, passed 12-13-1976)
§ 53.04 BASIS FOR INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY RATES AND CHARGES.
   The basis for the industrial cost recovery rates and charges included in §
53.02 are as follows.
   (A)   Treatment plant.
      (1)   Total estimated federal grant amount to be awarded for the
construction of the treatment plant under Project Number C-180574 amounts to
approximately $513,086.25.
      (2)   The assignment of treatment facilities costs to flow and loadings
is in accordance with EPA suggestions, where unit process cost studies are not
undertaken. The percentage of cost identified with the various treatment
facilities are as follows:
 
Treatment of waste volume     40%
Treatment of suspended solids 30%
Treatment of B.O.D.           30%
      Total             100%
 
      (3)   The design capacity of the treatment plant is as follows.
         (a)   Flow. Average daily flow 130,000 gallons times 365 days, equals
47.45 mg average annual design flow capacity.
         (b)   Suspended solids. Design capacity 240 mg/l, times annual flow
capacity 47.45 mg times weight will result in 94,976 pounds average annual
design capacity.
         (c)   Biochemical oxygen demand. Design capacity 200 mg/l, times
annual flow capacity 47.45 mg, times weight will result in 79,147 pounds
average annual design capacity.
      (4)   Industrial cost recovery period will be 30 years.
      (5)   Average annual basis for the cost recovery charge will amount to
$17,102.88.
      (6)   Total annual basis for the cost recovery charge allocated to
treatment plant functions, is as follows:
         (a)   Treatment of waste volume;
         (b)   Treatment of suspended solids; and
         (c)   Treatment of B.O.D.
      (7)   The industrial cost recovery rates for the treatment charges are
computed on the basis of the annual functional costs of treatment, divided by
average annual design capacity in the following manner.
         (a)   Treatment of waste volume. Annual functional cost $6,841.15
divided by annual capacity 47.45 mg equals $14 per 1,000 gallons.
         (b)   Treatment of suspended solids. Annual functional cost $5,130.86
divided by annual capacity 94,976 equals $0.05 per pound.
         (c)   Treatment of biochemical oxygen demand. Annual functional cost
$5,130.86 divided by annual capacity 79,147 equals $0.06 per pound.
      (8)   The rates computed in division (A)(7) above, would result in total
recovery of the federal grant amount if all users were subject to the
industrial cost recovery requirement, and provided, that the treatment plant
was operated at capacity during the cost recovery period. Therefore, these
rates will ensure that each industrial user will pay only that portion of the
federal grant amount applicable to the costs of the treatment facilities
actually utilized to treat industrial wastes, as determined by each industrial
users flow and pollutant loadings.
   (B)   Sewer collector system. Collecting mains and intercepting sewers.
      (1)   The total estimated federal grant amount to be awarded for the
construction of the collecting mains and intercepting sewers (which excludes
the cost of lateral sewers) under Project Number C-180574 amount to
approximately $429,818.
      (2)   Cost recovery period will be 30 years.
      (3)   Average annual basis for cost recovery charge will amount to
$14,327.
      (4)   Each year, the annual cost basis will be divided by the average
number of equivalent household sewer connections (household sewer connection is
equivalent to the service of the five-eighths-inch or three-fourths-inch water
meter) to determine the average charge per equivalent household sewer
connection. The average number of equivalent household sewer connections used
during the year will be determined by adding the number of equivalent
connections in use at the beginning of the year, to the number of equivalent
connections in use at the end of the year, and divide the sum by two.
      (5)   The number of equivalent household sewer connections will be based
on the various sizes of water meters. The larger sized water meters represent
larger capacity and the ability to demand more service than the average
household meter. The conversion factors to determine equivalent sized meters
shall be as follows.
Meter Size Ratio to 5/8-inch to 3/4-inch Water Meter
Meter Size           Ratio to 5/8-inch to 3/4-inch Water Meter
5/8-inch to 3/4-inch 1.0 to 1
1-inch               2.5 to 1
1-1/2-inch           5.7 to 1
2-inch               10.0 to 1
3-inch               23.0 to 1
4-inch               40.0 to 1
6-inch               91.0 to 1
 
      (6)   The annual industrial charge for each industrial user will be
determined by multiplying $1,238.55 (average charge per equivalent household
connection) times the average number of equivalent household sewer connections
utilized by each industrial user during the year. The average number of
equivalent household sewer connections used by each industrial user during the
year will be determined on an individual basis, in the same manner as indicated
in divisions (B)(4) and (B)(5) above.
      (7)   The industrial cost recovery surcharge computed above, would result
in total recovery of the federal grant amount for collecting mains and
intercepting sewers, if all users were subject to the industrial cost recovery
requirements. Therefore, the surcharge rate will ensure that each industrial
user will pay only that portion of the cost of collecting mains and
intercepting sewers, as attributed to industrial users, on the basis of actual
usage.
(Ord. 1976-1, passed 12-13-1976)
§ 53.05 MANNER USED BY TOWN TO ACCOUNT FOR ALL INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PAYMENTS.
   The town shall account for all industrial cost recovery payments in the
following manner.
   (A)   All revenues derived from the industrial cost recovery rates and
charges shall be segregated and kept in a special fund, separate and apart from
all other funds of the town. The special fund shall be designated the Sewage
Works Industrial Cost Recovery Fund and payment of the amount into the fund
shall be deemed a reasonable expense of operation of the sewage works for the
purpose of computing net operating revenue.
   (B)   Within 120 days following the end of the first calendar year after
completion of construction and improvements to the treatment works, and
annually thereafter, the town shall return 50% of the amounts recovered through
the industrial cost recovery charges, together with any interest earned
thereon, to the United States government or any agency thereof.
   (C)   Eighty percent of the funds retained by the town in the Sewage Works
Industrial Cost Recovery Fund or authorized investments and the interest earned
of expansion or reconstruction of the treatment works. All expansion or
reconstruction programs must be approved by an appropriate federal governmental
agency prior to commitment or expenditure of the retained funds. The remaining
20% of the funds retained by the town may be utilized for any authorized use
associated with the sewage works.
(Ord. 1976-1, passed 12-13-1976)
§ 53.06 ABILITY TO VIEW RECORDS.
   Upon request from EPA, the town shall encourage each industrial user to
permit representatives of the United States Environmental Protection Agency to
review appropriate industrial sewage records for the purpose of independently
verifying the flow and characteristics of industrial wastes which are
introduced into the treatment works. No waste introduced into the waste
treatment system shall interfer with the operation or performance of the sewage
treatment works. All users are subject to the requirements of pretreatment
standards established by federal and state law.
(Ord. 1976-1, passed 12-13-1976)
§ 53.07 MANNER OF PREPARATION, BILLING AND COLLECTION.
   The industrial cost recovery rates and charges shall be prepared, billed and
collected in the manner provided by law and ordinance.
   (A)   The industrial cost recovery charges for treatment services at the
treatment plant shall become effective for services rendered during the first
month following completion of construction and shall be prepared and billed
monthly.
   (B)   The annual industrial surcharge for the sewer collector system shall
become effective for the calendar year following the year that construction is
completed and shall be prepared and billed annually.
(Ord. 1976-1, passed 12-13-1976)
CHAPTER 54: WELLS
Section
   
54.01   Wells generally
   
54.02   Prohibition of private wells
   
54.03   Septic tanks and wells
   
54.04   Pollution of water supply
 
   
54.99   Penalty
§ 54.01 WELLS GENERALLY.
   No water shall be furnished from the wells owned and operated as the water
utility for town to any person, corporation or business located beyond the
legally established corporate limits of the town.
(Ord. 1977-1, passed 4-11-1977) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.02 PROHIBITION OF PRIVATE WELLS.
   Private wells are prohibited within the limits of the town, with the
exception of wells operated by the city's water utility.
(Ord. 1994-2, passed 10-10-1994) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.03 SEPTIC TANKS AND WELLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, firm or corporation, to
install or maintain a septic tank within the corporate limits of the Town of
Boswell.
(Ord. 1983-18, passed 11-6-1950) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.04 POLLUTION OF WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   Discharging, depositing or permitting to be discharged or deposited
any sewage, wastes or befouling or deleterious matter within 200 feet of any
well owned, operated or maintained by the town within the corporate limits of
the town for the purpose of furnishing water to the inhabitants of the town is
hereby declared to be a public nuisance and unlawful.
   (B)   Any person or persons, firm or corporation causing, permitting or
maintaining the public nuisance as above described in division (A) above shall
immediately upon order of the town remove and abate the nuisance; and that if
the person or persons, firm or corporation shall so fail to do, the town shall
cause the same to be done and assess the cost thereof against the person or
persons, firm or corporation, and collect the cost thereof by causing it to be
placed on the tax duplicate or by suit.
(Ord. 1983-17, passed 11-6-1950) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for
which no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of § 10.99.
   (B)   Pollution of water supply. Any person violating §
54.04 upon conviction shall be fined in the sum of not to exceed $500.
(Ord. 1983-17, passed 11-6-1950; Ord. 1983-18, passed 11-6-1950; Ord. 1994-2,
passed 10-10-1994; Ord. 2022-0412B, passed 4-12-2022)
CHAPTER 55: DEPARTMENT OF STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
Section
   
55.01   Definitions
   
55.02   Establishment of special taxing district for purposes of stormwater
management
   
55.03   Establishment of Stormwater Management Board
   
55.04   Establishment of Stormwater Fund
   
55.05   Fixed monthly stormwater management fee
§ 55.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SPECIAL TAXING DISTRICT. All mean all properties located within corporate
boundary of the town as defined by I.C. 8-1.5-5-5, to be utilized for funding
stormwater management for the town.
   STORMWATER FUND. As defined by I.C. 8-1.5-5 et seq., an account established
for the stormwater management, and said fund to be directed by the Stormwater
Management Board.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT. As defined by I.C. 8-1.5-5 et seq., the installation,
maintenance and operation of stormwater collection and disposal; which
includes, but is not limited to, the repair and replacement storm and drainage
tiles and pursue other endeavors related to the elimination of stormwater from
streets and properties.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT BOARD. As defined by I.C. 8-1.5-5 et seq., a board
established by the Town Council to be responsible for stormwater management.
(Ord. 2018-0213B, passed 2-13-2018)
§ 55.02 ESTABLISHMENT OF SPECIAL TAXING DISTRICT FOR PURPOSES OF STORMWATER
MANAGEMENT.
   The Town Council establishes a special taxing district in accordance with
I.C. 8-1.5-5-5 for the purposes of establishing and creating revenue for a
Stormwater Fund. In accordance with this statute, the special taxing district
is the corporate limits of the town.
(Ord. 2018-0213B, passed 2-13-2018)
§ 55.03 ESTABLISHMENT OF STORMWATER MANAGEMENT BOARD.
   The Town Council establishes a Stormwater Management Board, in accordance
with I.C. 8-1.5-5-4 et seq. The Board shall initially consist of members of the
Town Council and the members shall be in accordance with I.C. 8-1.5-5-4. The
powers of the Board shall be in accordance with I.C. 8-1.5-5-6. The three
members shall have staggered terms, consisting of two years; three years; and
years, as their initial terms, and thereafter each member shall serve a term of
four years, concluding on January 31. Board members shall be appointed by the
Town Council President, upon passage of this chapter and in January of each
year hereafter, in which a term will lapse. The first year of the three initial
Board members’ terms shall be shortened to conclude on January 31 following
their appointment, so that all terms shall hereafter expire on January 31. In
the event of a mid-term vacancy, due to death, resignation, removal or
otherwise of a Board member, the Town Council President shall appoint an
individual to fill the vacancy and complete the prior Board member’s remaining
term. In the event the Town Council President shall fail to appoint a new
member to the Board, when a term is completed, the current member shall
continue to serve into the new term, until a replacement is appointed or the
Board member is reappointed.
(Ord. 2018-0213B, passed 2-13-2018)
§ 55.04 ESTABLISHMENT OF STORMWATER FUND.
   The Town Council establishes a Stormwater Fund, in accordance with I.C. 8-
1.5-5-7, 8-1.5-5-8, 8-1.5-5-9, 8-1.5-5-10 and 8-1.5-5-11. The Fund shall be
established and maintained in accordance with I.C. 8-1.5-5 et seq.
(Ord. 2018-0213B, passed 2-13-2018)
Cross-reference:
   Other town funds, see §§
35.35 through
35.42
§ 55.05 FIXED MONTHLY STORMWATER MANAGEMENT FEE.
   (A)   This section adopts the definitions in §
55.01.
   (B)   (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-5-7, the town shall collect a stormwater
management fee from the owner of each parcel of real estate within the
corporate limits of the town which has a parcel identification number used by
the Benton County Assessor for the assessment and collection of real property
taxes, which revenue shall be deposited into the town’s Stormwater Fund, in the
following monthly amounts, based on the size of each parcel:
 
Monthly Fee Size of Parcel (in acres)
$7.50       0 - 1.0 acres
$10.00      Greater than 1.0 up to 5.0 acres
$12.50      Greater than 5.0 acres
 
      (2)   Parcels owned by the town shall not be exempt from such fees.
   (C)   Billing. The stormwater management fees shall be collected on the
monthly utility and trash fee statements sent by the Clerk-Treasurer, when
possible. Owners not receiving a monthly utility and trash fee statement for a
parcel will receive a monthly statement from the Clerk-Treasurer. The
stormwater management fee shall commence in the month following enactment of
this section. Fees shall be collected in the same manner as all other utility
fees in the town, including the assessment of late fees, reasonable attorney
fees, and costs. Delinquent accounts shall be collected as provided by §
50.45 or I.C. 8-1.5-5 et seq. and if unpaid shall become a lien upon the
property.
(Ord. 2018-0213B, passed 2-13-2018; Am. Ord. 2018-0515, passed 5-15-2018)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
         
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
         
73.   SKATEBOARDS AND ROLLER BLADES
         
74.   GOLF CARTS
         
75.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
Traffic Control Devices
   
70.15   Manual and specifications for traffic control devices
   
70.16   Establishment and maintenance of traffic control devices
   
70.17   Obedience to signals
   
70.18   Interference with signals
   
70.19   Unauthorized signals or markings
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ROAD or STREET. Includes the entire width between boundary lines of every
way in the town which is platted for use by the public and which is not
maintained by the state. This includes all streets and alleys.
   (B)   All other definitions applicable to vehicular traffic as set forth in
I.C. 9-13-2 and all subsequent amendments thereto are incorporated herein by
reference.
(Ord. 1988-1, passed 10-11-1988)
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.15 MANUAL AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   All traffic control signs, signals and devices installed in the town shall
conform to the Indiana Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets
and Highways as approved by the State Highway Commission. All signs and signals
required hereunder for the particular purpose shall so far as practicable be
uniform as to type and location throughout the town. All traffic control
devices so erected and not inconsistent with the provisions of state law or
this title shall be official traffic control devices.
(Ord. 1988-1, passed 10-11-1988)
§ 70.16 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   The town may establish and maintain official traffic control devices
necessary within the town. All traffic control devices, including signs, shall
be employed to indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform,
and as far as possible, shall be placed uniformly. All traffic control devices
and signs shall conform to required state specifications.
§ 70.17 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the town, or any electric
signal, gate or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for the barrier
or sign must be approved by the town.
   (B)   The sign, signal, marking or barrier shall have the same authority as
the personal direction of a police officer.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person without authority to attempt to or in
fact alter, deface, injure, knock down or remove any official control device or
any railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or
any part thereof.
Penalty see §
70.99
§ 70.19 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain or display on
or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which
purports to be, is an imitation of, or resembles an official traffic device,
railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct the movement of
traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes with the
effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or signal. No
person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority permit on any
street, any traffic sign or signal containing any commercial advertising.
Nothing in this section shall be construed as restricting any public department
or public utility of the town in any emergency or temporarily from marking or
erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been approved by the
town.
   (B)   Every prohibited sign, signal or marking is declared to be a public
nuisance and the town is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to be
removed.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this title for
which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
Speed Limits
   
71.001   Vehicle operation
   
71.002   Maximum speeds
   
71.003   Exceptions
Heavy Loads and Vehicles
   
71.030   Restrictions on operation
Cruising
   
71.045   Definitions
   
71.046   Cruising prohibited
   
71.047   Posting of signs
Rules of the Road
   
71.060   Definition
   
71.061   Passing
   
71.062   Slow moving vehicles
   
71.063   Turning
   
71.064   Stopping
   
71.065   Lighting
   
71.066   Mufflers
 
   
71.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Preferential traffic zone, see §
72.01
SPEED LIMITS
§ 71.001 VEHICLE OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall operate a vehicle on a street or highway at a speed
that is in excess of the speed limit posted on the road or highway by means of
official traffic control devices.
   (B)   No person shall operate a vehicle on a road or street at a speed that
is greater than reasonable and prudent under the conditions.
(Ord. 1988-1, passed 10-11-1988) Penalty, see §
71.999
Cross-reference:
   Traffic control devices, see §§
70.15 through
70.19
§ 71.002 MAXIMUM SPEEDS.
   It is ordained by the Town Council that the maximum speed limit on all town
streets within the town limits shall be 20 mph, except as provided below in §
71.003, pursuant to I.C. 9-21-5-6, as that section may be amended from time to
time, and the speed shall be effective at all times specified when signs are
erected giving notice.
(Ord. 1988-1, passed 10-11-1988; Ord. 2003-6, passed 9-8-2003) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.003 EXCEPTIONS.
   Section
71.002 shall not apply to the following:
   (A)   Any public street or highway under the jurisdiction of the State
Department of Transportation, either at time of this enactment, or that may
come within the jurisdiction in the future, including U.S. Highway 41 and State
Road 352;
   (B)   This subchapter shall not alter the speed limit on Old U.S. 41, which
is currently posted, and shall remain at 30 mph; and
   (C)   This subchapter shall not alter the speed limit of any street,
designated by a preceding ordinance, which ordained a speed limit to less than
20 mph.
(Ord. 2003-6, passed 9-8-2003) Penalty, see §
71.999
HEAVY LOADS AND VEHICLES
§ 71.030 RESTRICTIONS ON OPERATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to drive, operate, maintain or move any
automobile, school bus, truck, trailer or any transport truck, over, along or
upon any of the streets or alleys within the traffic preferential zone where
the gross weight of the vehicle, including load, shall exceed eight tons and
the same is hereby declared a nuisance.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to drive, operate, maintain or move any
automobile, truck, trailer or other motor vehicle over, along or upon any of
the streets or alleys outside the preferential traffic zone and within the
corporate limits of the town, excepting upon Brasdell Gravel Road, where the
gross weight of the motor vehicle exceeds 20 tons and the violation hereof is
hereby declared a nuisance.
(Ord. 1983-11, passed 6-5-1952) Penalty, see §
71.999
Cross-reference:
   Preferential traffic zone, see §
72.01
CRUISING
§ 71.045 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONGESTED TRAFFIC.
      (1)   Traffic on any public street, alley or highway which is delaying to
the point that:
         (a)   Motor vehicles cannot move through a 100-yard approach corridor
to an intersection controlled by a traffic light within two complete green-
light cycles, where the delay in forward movement is due to the position of
other motor vehicles;
         (b)   Motor vehicles cannot move through a 100-yard approach corridor
to an intersection controlled by a traffic light, stop sign or yield sign
within a five-minute period of time, where the delay in forward movement is due
to the position of other motor vehicles; or
         (c)   Motor vehicles cannot readily move forward on portions of public
streets, alleys or highways between intersections because traffic speed is
slowed to less than five mph, and the delay in movement is due to the position
of other motor vehicles.
      (2)   The determination that a street, alley or highway is congested
shall be made by the Town Marshal or ranking peace officer on duty within the
affected area.
   CRUISING. The repetitive driving of any motor vehicle past a traffic control
point in traffic which is congested at or near the traffic control point.
   GREEN LIGHT CYCLE. The period commencing upon the switching of a traffic
light from a red light to a green light through to the return of a red light.
   PEACE OFFICER. The Town Marshal, his or her designee, any member of the Town
Police Department, or other town, county or state official designated to
enforce this subchapter.
   PROPERTY IN THE PROXIMITY OF ANY POSTED NO-CRUISING ZONE. Any property which
is both visible from and located within 300 feet of any portion of a street,
alley or highway which is posted as a no-cruising zone pursuant to this
subchapter.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL POINT. A location along a public street, alley or highway
utilized by the Town Marshal or a peace officer on duty within the affected
area as an observation point in order to monitor traffic conditions for
potential violations of this title.
§ 71.046 CRUISING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Conduct prohibited. It shall be unlawful to engage in the activity
known as cruising as defined in this subchapter on the public streets, alleys
or highways of the town in any area which has been posted as a no-cruising
zone.
   (B)   First violation. Any person who violates division (A) of this section
may be given a written warning stating that any subsequent passage past that
traffic control point within the next succeeding four hours will be a violation
of this subchapter.
   (C)   Subsequent violations. Any person who, after having received a written
warning under division (B) above of this section, subsequently drives past or
is a passenger in a vehicle passing the same traffic control point within the
next succeeding four hours shall be in violation of this subchapter.
Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.047 POSTING OF SIGNS.
   This subchapter may be enforced in any area which has been posted as a no-
cruising zone. "No Cruising" signs shall be posted at the beginning and the end
of any public street, alley or highway or portion thereof, which is a no-
cruising zone.
RULES OF THE ROAD
§ 71.060 DEFINITION.
   (A)   The operator, driver or person in charge of any vehicle, driven or
propelled upon the streets of the town shall conform to and observe the
following rules of the road.
   (B)   The term VEHICLE shall include automobiles, motorcycles, bicycles,
tricycles and all other wheeled vehicles of whatever kind or by whatever force
or power driven, ridden or propelled, excepting railroad trains and baby
carriages. It shall also include equestrians and led horses.
(Ord. passed 3-15-1915)
§ 71.061 PASSING.
   (A)   Keep to the right curb excepting when passing another vehicle ahead. A
vehicle, except when passing another vehicle ahead, and then as near as
practical, shall keep to the right of the center of the street, and as near to
the right hand curb as safety and prudence will permit.
   (B)   Keep to right when meeting. A vehicle meeting another vehicle shall
keep to and pass to the right.
   (C)   Overtaking another; pass to the left. A vehicle overtaking a vehicle
or animal or animal being led shall pass to the left side of the overtaken
vehicle or led animal, and shall not turn to the right until entirely clear of
the overtaken vehicle or led animal or animals.
(Ord. passed 3-15-1915) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.062 SLOW MOVING VEHICLES.
   Slowly moving and heavy laden vehicles shall keep close to the right hand
curb.
(Ord. passed 3-15-1915) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.063 TURNING.
   (A)   Keep to right hand curb, turning into another street to the right. A
vehicle turning into another street to the right shall turn the corner
squarely, leaving the center of the street and street crossing to his or her
left, and as near to the right hand curb as practicable.
   (B)   Keep to the right hand curb, when turning to the left, at street
intersections. A vehicle turning into another street to the left, shall pass to
the right of and beyond the center of the street intersecting before turning,
leaving the center of the street and street crossing to the left.
   (C)   Turning restriction. No vehicles shall be turned about in Main Street
in the town between Adams Street and Clinton Street.
(Ord. passed 3-15-1915) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.064 STOPPING.
   No vehicle, unless in an emergency or upon the order of the Town Marshal, or
to allow another vehicle or pedestrian to cross its path, shall stop in any
public street or highway, except the near right hand curb thereof, and then so
as not to obstruct the street or alley crossing.
(Ord. passed 3-15-1915) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.065 LIGHTING.
   The laws of the state governing the lighting of automobiles and motorcycles
is hereby adopted and will be enforced to the letter.
(Ord. passed 3-15-1915)
§ 71.066 MUFFLERS.
   Every automobile and motorcycle operated in the town shall be equipped with
a muffler and the cut out, if any thereon, shall at all times be closed when
the machinery of the vehicle is in motion. In the operation of the motorcycle
and automobile, the amount of oil used in the operation shall be so regulated
as not permit of dropping of oil on any pavement of the town, and so as to
prevent smoke from issuing from the machine or vehicle.
(Ord. passed 3-15-1915) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for
which no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of § 70.99.
   (B)   Speed limits. Any person who violates §§
71.001 through
71.003 shall pay a fine of $25, in addition to any court costs set by the
County Circuit Court.
(Ord. passed 3-15-1915; Ord. 2003-6, passed 9-8-2003; Ord. 2004-1, passed 2-23-
2004; Ord. 2022-0412B, passed 4-12-2022)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Preferential traffic zone
   
72.02   Parking for persons with physical disability
Parking of Heavy Vehicles
   
72.15   Parking heavy vehicles, generally
   
72.16   Parking heavy vehicles in residential areas
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 PREFERENTIAL TRAFFIC ZONE.
   (A)   Public parking place. The town is the owner of and has established a
public parking place on the north side of Main Street, between the Public
Library and the Boswell Theatre, for the use and convenience of the general
public.
   (B)   Definition. For the purpose of this title, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      PREFERENTIAL TRAFFIC ZONE. Main Street extending east and west from
Center Street to Smith Street and Adams Street extending north and south from
McKnight Street to North Street, and Clinton Street extending north and south
from McKnight Street to North Street, and all alleys extending through and
intersecting each of the streets.
   (C)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to double park any motor vehicle upon any of
the streets, sidewalks or alleys, day or night, and at any time, within the
limits of the preferential traffic zone, and the same is hereby declared a
nuisance.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to park any motor vehicle, including
automobiles, trucks or trailers, within the regular parking places marked and
designated upon any of the streets, alleys or sidewalks, within the
preferential traffic zone, for more than four hours, and the violation hereof
is hereby declared a nuisance; the four-hour parking limitation to be effective
6:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. on each and every day of the year except Sundays and
legal holidays.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful to drive, operate or maintain the moving of
any automobile, truck, trailer or other motor vehicle upon any of the streets
or alleys within the preferential zone, if operated in excess of 15 mph and the
violation hereof is hereby declared a nuisance.
(Ord. 1983-11, passed 6-5-1952) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.02 PARKING FOR PERSONS WITH PHYSICAL DISABILITY.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      PERSON WITH A PHYSICAL DISABILITY. Any person who has been issued a
placard or special registration plate or decal for a motor vehicle by the State
Bureau of Motor Vehicles under I.C. 9-18.5-5 or 9-18.5-8, or the laws of
another state.
   (B)   Parking prohibited.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle,
motorcycle, moped, bicycle or other vehicle of any nature, which does not have
displayed a placard for a person with a physical disability issued under the
laws of this state or the laws of another state, in a parking space reserved
for a vehicle of a person with a physical disability.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly park in a parking
space reserved for a person with a physical disability while displaying a
placard to which neither the person nor the person's passenger is entitled.
   (C)   Violation. If any vehicle is parked unlawfully in violation of any of
the provisions of this section, and the identity of the driver cannot be
determined, the owner or person in whose name the vehicle is registered shall
be held prima facie responsible for the violation.
   (D)   Towing. In addition to any fines which may be given as a result of
violations of this section, any vehicle which is parked in a manner in
violation of this section may be towed to an area designated by the town at the
owner's expense. The owner shall also be required to pay any and all storage
fees resulting from this action.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see I.C. 5-16-9
PARKING OF HEAVY VEHICLES
§ 72.15 PARKING HEAVY VEHICLES, GENERALLY.
   It shall be unlawful to park automobiles, trucks, trailers or other motor
vehicles of more than one-ton capacity gross weight, including load, for any
purpose, upon any of the streets, alleys or sidewalks within the corporate
limits of the town for more than one hour at any one time in any one block
excepting the automobile, truck, trailer may be parked wholly within the limits
of privately owned premises, and the violation hereof is hereby declared a
nuisance.
(Ord. 1983-11, passed 6-5-1952) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.16 PARKING HEAVY VEHICLES IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS.
   (A)   In order to protect the safety, health and welfare of the citizens of
the town, it is necessary to regulate the parking of farm machinery, trucks,
semi-tractors and trailers in residential areas within the town.
   (B)   The parking of farm machinery, trucks, semi-tractors and trailers
within the town in residential areas creates a nuisance and a safety hazard for
the citizens of the town and those operating motor vehicles upon the streets
and rights-of-way of the town.
   (C)   No person, firm or corporation shall park a farm machine, truck and/or
semi-tractor having a gross weight in excess of 10,000 pounds in a residential
area within the corporate limits of the town for a continuous period of more
than four hours within any 24-hour period, unless the farm machine, truck and/
or semi-tractor:
      (1)   Is parked in the municipal parking lot located behind the Town
Hall;
      (2)   Is providing service to or on behalf of the town;
      (3)   Is parked entirely on the real estate owned by the owner of the
farm machine, truck and/or semi-tractor, and off the town's street or easement;
or
      (4)   Is being used in the construction of an improvement to real estate
within six months of the date that a building permit was issued for the
improvement.
   (D)   No person, firm or corporation shall operate a farm machine, truck
anchor semi-tractor having a gross weight in excess of 10,000 pounds on any
town street or alley for noncommercial purposes.
   (E)   No person, firm or corporation shall park a truck or semi-tractor
trailer in a residential area within the corporate limits of the town.
   (F)   A truck or semi-tractor having a gross weight in excess of 10,000
pounds may park, while running, in a residential area within the corporate
limits of the town for no more than one-half hour.
   (G)   RESIDENTIAL AREA shall mean an area consisting, in whole or in part,
of residential properties, but excludes businesses located within residential
districts which have been approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals or which
existed prior to the area being designated residential.
   (H)   (1)   Farm machines, trucks, semi-tractors and/or trailers may park in
the municipal parking lot for a continuous period of up to three days.
      (2)   Parking in the municipal parking lot shall be at the owner's own
risk, and the town hereby expressly disclaims and denies any and all liability
relating to any claim associated in any way with the parking of vehicles,
trailers or equipment in the municipal parking lot. The lot shall be posted
with signage which states "Parking is at Owner's Risk" or similar language.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed 7-22-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 73: SKATEBOARDS AND ROLLER BLADES
Section
   
73.01   Restrictions
   
73.02   Safety regulations
§ 73.01 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No person may use a skateboard, roller blades or similar devices, on
the private property of another within the town without the permission of the
property owner upon whose property the persons intend to use a skateboard or
roller blades.
   (B)   No person may use a skateboard, roller blades or similar devices on
public sidewalks, nor may any person place wax or similar dangerous substances
on public property.
(Ord. 2003-7, passed 9-22-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.02 SAFETY REGULATIONS.
   Any person that uses a skateboard, roller blades or similar devices, on
public roadways, within the town shall adhere to the following safety
regulations:
   (A)   Not use the skateboard, roller blades or similar devices on public
roadways between sunset and sunrise;
   (B)   Obey all traffic control devices, including stop signs and yield
signs, and yield the right-of-way to motor vehicle traffic;
   (C)   Travel in the same direction as motor vehicle traffic and as close to
right side of the roadway as possible;
   (D)   When one or more persons are traveling in close proximity and in the
same direction, they shall travel in a single file line, so as not to obstruct
motor vehicle traffic; and
   (E)   When being approached by an emergency vehicle with its emergency
lights and/or siren activated, the person shall immediately exit the travel
portion of the roadway and stop, until the emergency vehicle has passed;
(Ord. 2003-7, passed 9-22-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 74: GOLF CARTS
Section
   
74.01   Definitions
   
74.02   Operation of golf carts and off-road vehicles
   
74.03   Permit
   
74.04   Operator
   
74.05   Financial responsibility
   
74.06   Time of operation
   
74.07   Place of operation
   
74.08   Occupants
   
74.09   Traffic rules
   
74.10   Slow moving vehicle sign and reflectors
   
74.11   Wrecked or damaged golf carts
§ 74.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVER’S LICENSE. Any type of license or privilege to operate a motor
vehicle issued under the laws of a jurisdiction.
   GOLF CART. A four-wheeled motor vehicle originally and specifically designed
and intended to transport one or more individuals and golf clubs for the
purpose of playing the game of golf on a golf course, as that term is defined
in I.C. 9-13-2-69.7, as amended from time to time.
   OFF-ROAD VEHICLES. A motor driven vehicle capable of cross-country travel
without benefit of a road. The term is limited to a recreational off-road
vehicle that has a utilitarian purpose, defined by I.C. 14-8-2-185, but does
not include "low speed vehicles" (I.C. 9-13-2-94.5), "motorized carts" (I.C.
14-19-1-0.5), "motorized vehicles" (I.C. 9-13-2-104), "motor scooters" (I.C. 9-
13-2-109), or an "Electric personal assistive mobility device" (I.C. 9-13-2-
49.3). Off-road vehicles must be registered by the State of Indiana as required
by I.C. 14-16-1-8 and display a registration decal as required by I.C. 14-16-1-
11.5.
   PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. As that term is defined in I.C. 9-25-2-3,
as amended from time to time, means proof of ability to respond in damages for
each motor vehicle registered by a person for liability that arises out of the
ownership, maintenance or use of the motor vehicle in the following amounts:
      (1)   Twenty-five thousand dollars because of bodily injury to or death
of any one person;
      (2)   Subject to the limit in division (1) above, $50,000 because of
bodily injury to or death of two or more persons in any one accident; and
      (3)   Ten thousand dollars because of injury to or destruction of
property in any one accident.
(Ord. 2009-2, passed 8-24-2009; Ord. 2022-0308D, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 74.02 OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS. AND OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
   The operation of a golf cart and/or an off-road vehicle within the Town of
Boswell is strictly prohibited unless the golf cart and/or off-road vehicle is
operated and equipped in full compliance of this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-2, passed 8-24-2009; Ord. 2022-0308D, passed 3-8-2022) Penalty, see
§
10.99
§ 74.03 PERMIT.
   (A)   No person shall operate a golf cart in the Town of Boswell, unless
such vehicle has been registered and issued an annual permit.
   (B)   Application for a permit shall be made on a form provided by the town
and shall be accompanied by reasonable proof of ownership, and shall be made to
the office of the town's Clerk- Treasurer.
   (C)   No permit shall be issued without proof of insurance as further
described herein.
   (D)   A copy of the permit shall be kept with the vehicle at all times.
   (E)   The fee for the annual registration shall be $25.
(Ord. 2022-0308D, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 74.04 OPERATOR.
   (A)   A golf cart may only be operated by an individual who holds a valid
driver's license.
   (B)   An off-road vehicle may only be operated by an individual who has
registered that off-road vehicle with the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources and obtained a sticker showing current registration from the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources.
(Ord. 2009-2, passed 8-24-2009; Ord. 2022-0308D, passed 3-8-2022) Penalty, see
§
10.99
§ 74.05 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   The financial ability of the operator or owner notwithstanding, the operator
of a golf cart or off-road vehicle must be able to show proof of financial
responsibility for the golf cart or off-road vehicle when operating a golf cart
or off-road vehicle. Written proof of financial responsibility must be carried
by the operator at all times.
(Ord. 2009-2, passed 8-24-2009; Ord. 2022-0308D, passed 3-8-2022) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 74.06 TIME OF OPERATION.
   Golf carts shall not be operated on town streets during one-half hour after
sunset to one-half hour before sunrise unless the golf cart is equipped with
two operating headlights (one on each side of the front of the golf cart), at
least one operating tail lamp mounted on the rear that when lighted, emits a
red light plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear, and at least
two red reflectors visible from of 100 feet to 600 feet to the rear when
illuminated by the upper beams of head lamps.
(Ord. 2009-2, passed 8-24-2009; Ord. 2022-0308D, passed 3-8-2022) Penalty, see
§
10.99
§ 74.07 PLACE OF OPERATION.
   (A)   Golf carts and/or off-road vehicles may be operated on town streets
which have a posted speed limit of 30 miles or less.
   (B)   Golf carts and/or off-road vehicles may not be operated on sidewalks.
   (C)   Golf carts and/or off-road vehicles may be operated on the following
national or state highways: Old U.S. Highway 41 or State Road 352, but not on
U.S. Highway 41.
(Ord. 2009-2, passed 8-24-2009; Ord. 2022-0308D, passed 3-8-2022) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 74.08 OCCUPANTS.
   The number of occupants in a golf cart and/or off-road vehicle shall be
limited to the number of persons for whom factory seating is installed and
provided on the golf cart and/or off-road vehicle. The operator and all
occupants shall be seated in the golf cart and/or off-road vehicle and no part
of the body of the operator or occupant shall extend outside the perimeter of
the golf cart and/or off-road vehicle while the golf cart and/or off-road
vehicle is being operated.
(Ord. 2009-2, passed 8-24-2009; Ord. 2022-0308D, passed 3-8-2022) Penalty, see
§
10.99
§ 74.09 TRAFFIC RULES.
   (A)   The operator of the golf cart and/or off-road vehicle shall comply
with all traffic rules and regulations adopted by the State of Indiana and the
Town of Boswell which govern the operation of motor vehicles.
   (B)   Golf carts and/or off-road vehicles must obey posted speed limits and
may not be operated at a speed greater that 30 miles per hour.
(Ord. 2009-2, passed 8-24-2009; Ord. 2022-0308D, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 74.10 SLOW MOVING VEHICLE SIGN AND REFLECTORS.
   All golf carts must display on the back of the golf cart a "slow moving
vehicle emblem" as described in I.C. 9-21-9-3, or a red or amber flashing lamp
as described in I.C. 9-21-9-4, as those sections may be amended from time to
time.
(Ord. 2009-2, passed 8-24-2009; Ord. 2022-0308D, passed 3-8-2022) Penalty, see
§
10.99
§ 74.11 WRECKED OR DAMAGED GOLF CARTS.
   A person removing a wrecked or damaged golf cart and/or off-road vehicle
from a street or highway also must remove any glass or other foreign material
dropped upon the street or highway from the golf cart and/or off-road vehicle,
as described in I.C. 9-26-6-1, as amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2009-2, passed 8-24-2009; Ord. 2022-0308D, passed 3-8-2022) Penalty, see
§
10.99
CHAPTER 75: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
 
Street         Maximum Speed Limit
Harrold Street 15 mph
 
(Ord. 2001-3, passed 7-23-2001)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   NUISANCES
         
91.   RESERVED
         
92.   RESERVED
         
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
         
94.   FAIR HOUSING
         
95.   PARKS AND RECREATION
         
96.   FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
         
97.   TREES
CHAPTER 90: NUISANCES
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Animal nuisances
   
90.03   Real estate nuisances
   
90.04   Vehicle nuisances
   
90.05   Enforcement
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the content clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. To forsake entirely, or to neglect or refuse to provide or perform
the legal obligations for care and support of an animal by its owner, or his
agent. Such abandonment shall constitute the relinquishment of all rights and
claims by the owner to such animal.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. Any of the following, as described by I.C. 9-13-2-1, as
that section may be amended from time to time:
      (1)   A vehicle located on public property illegally, or a vehicle left
on public property continuously without being moved for more than 24 hours;
      (2)   A vehicle located on public property in a manner as to constitute a
hazard or obstruction to the movement of pedestrian or vehicular traffic on a
public right-of-way;
      (3)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without consent of
the owner, or person in control of that property, for more than 48 hours;
      (4)   A vehicle from which the engine, transmission or differential has
been removed, or that is otherwise partially dismantled or inoperable and left
on public property;
      (5)   A vehicle that has been removed by a towing service or a public
agency upon request of an officer enforcing a statute or ordinance if the
impounded vehicle is not claimed or redeemed by the owner or the owner's agent
within 20 days after the vehicle's removal;
      (6)   A vehicle that is at least three model years old, is mechanically
inoperable, and is left on private property continuously in a location visible
from public property for more than 20 days. For purposes of this subdivision, a
vehicle covered by a tarpaulin or other plastic, vinyl, rubber, cloth, or
textile covering is considered to be visible;
      (7)   A vehicle that was repaired or stored at the request of the owner,
that has not been claimed by the owner; and for which the reasonable value of
the charges associated with the repair or storage remain unpaid more than 30
days after the date on which the repair work is completed or the vehicle is
first stored; or
      (8)   A vehicle deemed "abandoned" under I.C. 9-22-1.
   ABATEMENT PERIOD. The period of time the owner has to correct the violation
stated on the violation notice or warning issued by the town personnel. The
initial abatement period is ten days unless otherwise stated herein. This time
may be extended up to 30 days, depending upon the severity of the violation,
and only at the discretion of the Town Council, Town Marshal, or other designee
of the town.
   AT LARGE. An animal is at large when it is off the premises of the owner,
and not under the control of the owner or a member of his immediate family
either by leash, cord, chain, or otherwise.
   BUTCHER. To slaughter animals, to dress a slaughtered animal or to divide an
animal carcass.
   CONTINUOUS ABATEMENT NOTICE. A notice, issued pursuant to I.C. 36-7-10.1, et
seq., after an initial notice of violation of the provisions relating to weeds,
rank vegetation and tall grass, that serves as notice to the real property
owner that each subsequent violation during the same year for which the initial
notice of the violation was provided may be abated by the town or its
contractors.
   CONTINUOUS ENFORCEMENT ORDER. A continuous enforcement order is an order in
relation to an unsafe building pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9, et seq., or a real
property nuisance pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6, et seq., that:
      (1)   Is issued for compliance or abatement and that remains in full
force and effect on a property without further requirements to seek additional
compliance and abatement authority or seek additional orders for the same or
similar violations;
      (2)   Authorizes specific ongoing compliance and enforcement activities
if a property requires reinspection or additional periodic abatement;
      (3)   Can be enforced, including assessment of fees and costs, without
the need for additional notice or hearing; and
      (4)   Authorizes the office of the Clerk-Treasurer to assess and collect
ongoing costs for continuous enforcement order activities from a party that is
subject to the notice.
   DEBRIS. The remains of something broken down, unused for prolonged periods,
discarded, abandoned, dilapidated or destroyed, which accumulates and poses a
threat to the health, safety and welfare of persons and property, and includes
by way of illustration and not limitation: refuse; accumulation of items on
public or private property which could pose serious health or safety risks to
persons or property; yard refuse, rank vegetation cut but not disposed of,
animal remains; trash; junk cars, parts of automobiles or other vehicles which
are no longer mobile; pieces or sheets of glass (whether fractured or whole);
wood, particle board, bark, wood chips, lumber or other building materials;
metal items from any source (whether rusted or not); broken fencing or other
barrier with exposed nails, splinters or sharp edges; wire, cables, hoses,
ropes, chains or other items which pose a choking or strangling threat to
children or other persons; rubber products, gasoline or other flammable
liquids, gases and solids, gasoline cans (whether in approved or unapproved
containers for storage), oil cans, oil pans, oil or any other type of surface
coating; improperly stored industrial detergents and mineral cleaners; grease,
alone or in any container, chemical cleansers; refrigerants (including Freon);
acetylene, propane, oxygen or other chemical used for welding or manufacturing
process accumulated and stored (whether properly or improperly) in containers
which are unsafe or unsafely stored; any other items not herein mentioned which
accumulate and pose a threat to the health, safety and welfare of person and
property.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PUBLIC NUISANCE. A thing, act, occupation, condition or use of
property which shall continue for a length of time as to:
      (1)   Annoy or may annoy, injure or has the potential to injure, or
endanger or has to the potential to endanger the comfort, health, repose,
safety or welfare of persons or property;
      (2)   In any way renders the public insecure in life or in the use of
property;
      (3)   Greatly offences the public morals or decency;
      (4)   Unlawfully and substantially interferes with or may interfere with,
obstruct or tend to obstruct, or render and have the potential to render any
street, alley, highway, navigable body of water, or public right-of-way
dangerous or potential danger to person or property;
      (5)   Is injurious to health, indecent, offensive to the senses or an
obstruction to the full use of property, so as essentially to interfere with
the comfortable enjoyment of life or property;
      (6)   Any growth of weeds, grass or other rank vegetation on private or
public property which is neglected, disregarded or not cut, mowed or otherwise
removed and/or which has attained a height of six inches or more;
      (7)   Any accumulation of dead weeds, grasses or brush on private or
public property;
      (8)   Any poison ivy, ragweed, rank vegetation, poisonous plant or plants
detrimental to health, growing on any private or public property;
      (9)   Property which has been allowed to become a health or safety
hazard, or which has accumulated litter, contains debris, an unsafe building,
abandoned vehicles, waste products, graffiti or any other items which pose a
threat to the health, safety and welfare of persons and property, unless
specifically authorized under existing laws and regulations; and/or
      (10)   A PUBLIC HEALTH NUISANCE, as defined below.
   GARBAGE. Rejected food wastes, and shall include every waste accumulation of
animal, fruit, or vegetable matter used or intended for food or that attend the
preparation, use, cooking, dealing in or storing of meat, fish, fowl, fruit or
vegetable.
   GRAFFITI. Markings of any kind, regardless of content, that may cause or do
cause passerby to obstruct, delay or disturb the regular flow of traffic
(whether pedestrian or vehicular), thereby creating a potential threat to the
health, safety and welfare of citizens or property. The markings are defined as
any markings which deface, deform, mar or which cause the defacing, deforming
or marring of any public or private property, regardless of ownership or
possessory interest therein, including by way of illustration and not
limitation, buildings, trees, lampposts, poles, hydrants, bridges, piers,
sidewalks, streets, alleyways or surface of any public or private property
located upon any public thoroughfare or right-of-way, or upon any public place
within the town. However, this section shall not prohibit the posting of
notices required by law to be posted.
   HARBOR. To suffer or permit any animal to frequent or remain on or within
one's house, building, enclosure or premises, and to feed, lodge or otherwise
care for such animal.
   INERT MATERIAL. Dirt, soil, brick, broken concrete or similar materials.
   JUNK. Any articles in any form composed of or consisting of any of the
following enumerated secondhand, discarded, abandoned or case-off metals or
materials, namely iron, brass, bronze, copper, tin, zinc, lead or any other
metals or compounds thereof, broken glass, rags, clothing, rubber, plastics,
synthetic substances, fabrics, bottles, papers, feathers, waste material, any
compound or by-product of the foregoing items. JUNK shall also include and mean
wrecked, abandoned, dismantled or immobile vehicles or parts thereof.
   JUNK CAR. Any vehicle that is (i) inoperable or unable, because of its
mechanical or physical condition, to be immediately operated upon a highway,
waterway, or airway, in a safe and lawful manner, excluding those laws
regarding insurance and vehicle registration; or (ii) has been stored upon the
property for more than three months with little to no movement, even if the
vehicle is properly titled and registered to the property owner and properly
insured; however, this time may be extended upon request of a property owner to
the Town Council if the vehicle is titled to a member of the armed forces of
the United States who is on active-duty assignment. A junk vehicle does not
include a vehicle maintained within an enclosed building or garage, or upon
lawfully operated salvage yards, gas stations, service stations, auto body
repairs shops, airport, automobile dealerships, or other businesses that are
customarily engaged in the sales and repairs of junk vehicles. Any motor
vehicle which does not bear a currently valid license plate, and is not kept in
a garage or building, regardless of age or condition.
   KENNEL. Any facility, person, group of persons or corporation engaged in the
commercial business of breeding, buying, selling or boarding animals.
   MECHANICALLY INOPERABLE. A vehicle that is not readily capable of being
operable, such as by having uninflated tires and a battery incapable of
starting the engine.
   OFF-ROAD VEHICLES. Those vehicles defined by I.C. 14-8-2-185, but does not
include "low speed vehicles" (I.C. 9-13-2-94.5), "motorized carts," (I.C. 14-
19-1-0.5),"motorized bicycles"(I.C. 9-13-2-104), "motor scooters"(I.C. 9-13-2-
109), or an "electric personal assistive mobility device"(I.C. 9-13-2-49.3).
   OWNER. Any one or more of the following:
      (1)   Any person owning, keeping or harboring a dog, cat, or other animal
for a period of 48 hours or longer;
      (2)   The person or entity with an ownership or occupancy interest in a
structure of a parcel of real estate including the life tenant or tenants if
any;
      (3)   The record owner or owners as reflected by the most current records
in the county auditor where the real estate is located; or
      (4)   The purchaser or purchasers of real estate under any contract for
the conditional sale thereof.
   PUBLIC HEAL TH NUISANCE. Includes, but is not limited to the following
specific situations:
      (1)   All decayed, harmfully adulterated or unwholesome food or drink
offered to the public;
      (2)   Carcasses of animals, birds or fowl not carried off or otherwise
disposed of in a sanitary manner within 24 hours after death;
      (3)   Accumulations of decayed animal or vegetable matter, trash,
rubbish, rotting lumber, bedding, packing material, junk vehicles, scrap metal
or any material in which flies, mosquitoes, disease-carrying insects, rats or
other vermin may breed, or may be a fire hazard;
      (4)   All stagnant water in which mosquitoes, flies or other insects may
multiply;
      (5)   Garbage can which are not fly-tight, or not kept clean;
      (6)   Pollution of any public well, cistern, stream, river, lake, canal
or body of water by sewage, waste, pollution, industrial wastes or other
substances;
      (7)   The escape of smoke, soot, cinders, noxious acids, fumes, gases,
flying ash or industrial dust within the town limits in quantities which may or
does cause injury or endangers the health of persons or threatens or causes
substantial injury to property;
      (8)   Any use of property, substances or things within the town limits
emitting or causing foul, offensive, unpleasant, nauseous, noxious or
disagreeable odors, or stenches extremely repulsive to the physical senses of
ordinary persons which annoy, discomfort, injure or inconvenience the health of
any appreciable number of persons within the town; or any slaughter house;
      (9)   All abandoned wells not securely covered or secured;
      (10)   Any accumulation of junk, rubbish, scrap metal, automotive parts,
building materials, machinery, dead trees or parts of dead trees, upon any
premises in a residential or nonresidential area;
      (11)   Any abandoned refrigerators, freezers or similar appliances from
which the doors and other covers have not been removed, or which are not
equipped with a device for opening from the inside by pushing only with the
strength of a child, or which may or may not contain rust, or which have
refrigerant in any part thereof or which still have electrical cables attached
regardless of age;
      (12)   Any sign of any size, shape, content or purpose, which infringes
upon the town's right-of-way easement from the center of the road to location
of the sign, or which poses a serious threat to the health, safety or welfare
of the citizens of the town; or
      (13)   Whenever any animal of any species, whether or not it is kept as a
household pet, is allowed to run at large in the town or is a hazard to the
health and safety of any person, or is allowed to disturb the peace and quiet
of one or more neighbors, whether through loud and frequent barking, damage to
property, noxious odor, or otherwise.
   REFUSE. Garbage, rubbish or any combination thereof.
   RENDER. To reduce a dead animal in weight or volume including the processing
of dried blood and the grinding of animal bones.
   RUBBISH. Solid wastes including incinerator ashes, inert material, paper,
cardboard, tin cans, yard clippings, wood, glass, bedding, crockery, metals,
and similar materials or litter of any kind.
   SLAUGHTER. To kill an animal for consumptive purposes, or to prepare a dead
animal for consumptive purposes.
   SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST. Any right in real property that may be
affected in a substantial way by actions authorized by I.C. 36-7-9, et seq.,
including a fee interest, a life estate interest, a future interest, a mortgage
interest, or an equitable interest of a contract purchaser.
   UNSAFE PREMISES. Any premises, building or structure, or any part of a
building or structure, defined as unsafe by LC. 36-7-9-4, as may be amended
from time to time.
   VEHICLE. A self-propelled device in, upon, or by which a person or property
is, or may be, transported or drawn upon a highway, waterway, or airway.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any dog or any other animal, domesticated or wild, or bird,
that has a previously displayed unprovoked belligerent behavior toward any
person in a manner such as to threaten bodily injury to such person, or has
actually bitten any person or animal causing bodily injury, whether such animal
or bird was bred, used or trained for fighting or attack.
   WEEDS AND RANK VEGETATION. Weeds and rank vegetation include grasses and
those weeds and growing vegetation which is excessively vigorous in growth,
shockingly conspicuous, malodorous and/or flagrant, or tends to overgrow or
choke out plants that are more desirable. Weeds and rank vegetation do not
include agricultural crops, such as hay and pasture.
(Ord. 2022-0412, passed 4-12-2022)
§ 90.02 ANIMAL NUISANCES.
   (A)   Keeping of animals. No person shall own, keep, have in his or her
possession, or harbor any dog, which, by frequent or habitual howling, yelping
or barking, shall cause a nuisance by creating a serious annoyance or
disturbance to any individual or to the neighborhood.
   (B)   Running at large prohibited. No person shall permit any dog or cat to
run at large in the town, except on the property of the owner of said dog or
cat, unless the same be on a suitable leash or otherwise restrained.
   (C)   Vicious animals and farm animals. It shall be unlawful and a nuisance
to possess, maintain or house within the limits of the town (a) a vicious
animal defined under the definition of vicious animal; or (b) cattle, calves,
buffalo, horses, ponies, mules, donkeys, swine, sheep, goats, or poultry.
   (D)   Number of animals restricted. Not more than three dogs or three cats
shall be allowed in the residence or on the property of the owner of a dog or
cat. The owner of a dog or cat may retain the puppies born of said dog or
kittens born of said cat exceeding the permissible number for 12 weeks after
birth of the animals. If after that time there are more than three dogs and
three cats in the residence or on the property of the owner, it will be deemed
a violation of this section. No kennel shall be maintained in the town.
   (E)   Cruelty prohibited.
      (1)   Except as authorized by law no person shall intentionally or
wantonly:
         (a)   Subject any animal to or cause cruel or injurious mistreatment
through abandonment, causing it to fight for pleasure or profit, mutilation,
beating, torturing, tormenting, failing to provide adequate food, drink, space
or health care, or by any other means;
         (b)   Subject any animal in his custody to cruel neglect; or
         (c)   Kill any animal.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing of animals:
         (a)   Pursuant to a license to hunt, fish or trap;
         (b)   Incident to the processing as food or for other commercial
purposes;
         (c)   For humane purposes; or
         (d)   For any other purpose authorized by law.
   (F)   Abandonment prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any owner of any dog,
cat or other animal to abandon the same within the town.
   (G)   Slaughtering prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to
slaughter, butcher or render any animal or animal carcass, at any site or
location within the corporate limits of the town in order to protect the health
and welfare of the town's citizens.
   (H)   Retrieving abandoned or neglected animals. After any town employee has
retrieved and impounded an animal running at large, an abandoned animal or a
neglected animal, the following procedure shall be utilized:
      (1)   The animal shall be retrieved and impounded, and taken to the
wastewater plant to a kennel where the animal will be provided with food and
water;
      (2)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer or Marshal will attempt to contact the
owner, if known;
      (3)   The owner shall have three days to claim the animal;
      (4)   The owner will need to reimburse the town a fee of $25 per day the
animal is kept in a kennel; and
      (5)   If the animal is not claimed within three days after impoundment, a
town employee will take the animal to a no kill shelter to dispose of the
animal.
   (I)   Inoculation. It shall be the duty of every owner of a dog harbored in
the town to have the dog inoculated against rabies. The owner of the dog shall
at all times keep in his or her possession evidence of rabies inoculation
consisting of a certificate signed by the licensed veterinarian administering
the vaccine.
   (J)   Enforcement, see §
90.05(A).
(Ord. 2022-0412, passed 4-12-2022)
§ 90.03 REAL ESTATE NUISANCES.
   (A)   Pests. Permitting buildings or premises to become infested by insects,
rodents or other pests is prohibited, and constitutes a public nuisance. Any
such building or premises shall be promptly exterminated by acceptable
processes which will not be injurious to human health. After extermination,
proper precautions shall be taken to prevent infestation.
   (B)   Environmental public nuisances and public health nuisances. Permitting
or causing an environmental public nuisance or a public health nuisance, as
defined herein, on public or private property, is prohibited and constitutes a
public nuisance.
   (C)   Junk.
      (1)   It is declared to be a nuisance and unlawful for any person or
entity to place, permit, allow or have upon their premises, whether leased or
owned, or to place, permit or allow to be placed upon public property in the
town, trash, litter, rags, accumulation of barrels, boxes, crates, packing
cases, tin cans, pallets or lumber not neatly piled; filthy or littered
cellars, house yards, barnyards, stable yards, or factory yards; garbage in any
quantity which is not securely protected in tightly closed receptacles
scheduled for pickup within 24 hours; or any other substance or material that
would lead to the attraction, breeding, or multiplying of insects, vermin or
rodents.
      (2)   It shall further be unlawful for any resident or nonresident
persons or businesses to blow, sweep, place or deposit any garbage, debris or
refuse, including, but not limited to construction material or structural
debris, rock, earth or sod, grass clippings, shrub clippings, leaves, vines,
small trees, brush, limbs, burn barrels, tires, animal carcasses or parts
thereof, appliances and hazardous waste, whether generated by households or
business; in a street or public right-of-way, in and around the town.
   (D)   Weeds and rank vegetation; tall grass. It shall be unlawful for any
property owner in the town to permit weeds, grasses, plants, or vegetation,
other than bushes, trees, flowers, ornamental plants or garden plants to grow
to a height of more than six inches within the town boundaries. Any such weeds
and rank vegetation or grass shall be considered a nuisance.
   (E)   Obstruction of rights-of-way. It is unlawful and a nuisance for any
person, firm, corporation or legal entity to obstruct or block any portion of
any public sidewalk with any object or article which will prevent the full use
of the sidewalk by citizens desiring to use the same.
   (F)   Spitting. It shall be a nuisance for any person to spit on any of the
sidewalks of the town or deposit on any of the sidewalks any tobacco quid,
cigar or cigarette stub.
   (G)   Burning.
      (1)   Open fires, also called outdoor fires, are prohibited within the
town except as specifically permitted by this section.
      (2)   A person may open burn as follows:
         (a)   On residentially zoned real estate, when contained in a fire pit
with a metal or gravel bottom, or similar structure no more than five feet in
diameter, or within a non-combustible container with a screen cover, in which
only clean (uncoated or unpainted) wood or wood products are burned.
         (b)   For maintenance purposes a person may open burn vegetation from
a farm, orchard, nursery, tree farm, or a drainage ditch, as permitted by
Indiana law.
         (c)   The town Street Department may burn vegetation and wood products
derived from pruning or clearing a roadside.
         (d)   For recreational, social, or religious purposes, a person may
open burn for cooking, celebration, religious or social ceremonies, or personal
comfort, provided that such fires comply with the following:
            1.   Only clean wood products, paper, charcoal, or clean petroleum
products may be burned;
            2.   The nearest local fire department must be notified at least 24
hours prior to any burning where the size of the pile being burned is more than
125 cubic feet;
            3.   Fires shall not be ignited prior to two hours before the
activity or meeting is to take place and shall be extinguished upon the
conclusion of the activity or meeting; and
            4.   No fire shall be used for refuse disposal purposes.
         (e)   For special circumstances approved by the Town Council,
including but not limited to:
            1.   Environmentally prescribed burning;
            2.   Burning of vegetation by fire departments and firefighters to
create fire breaks or for training;
            3.   When a variance from 326 IAC 4-1 has been approved by the
state's Department of Environmental Management; and
            4.   Emergency burning following natural disasters.
         (f)   Any open burning is subject to the following conditions:
            1.   A person who open burns shall extinguish the fire if the fire
creates:
               a.   A pollution problem;
               b.   A threat to public health;
               c.   A nuisance; or
               d.   A fire hazard.
            2.   Burning may not be done during unfavorable meteorological
conditions such as high winds, temperature inversions or air stagnations.
            3.   All fires must be attended at all times during burning until
completely extinguished.
            4.   No non-wood building materials, including asbestos, may be
burned.
            5.   Burning may not be commenced before sunrise or added to after
sunset, and must be extinguished by one hour after sunset.
            6.   Burning shall be more than 20 feet from any structure owned by
the person performing the burn, a road, or a power line; and 100 feet from any
fuel storage area, pipeline, or structure not owned by the person.
      (3)   The following burning is prohibited:
         (a)   Burning of any material is prohibited on any real estate zoned
other than residential or agricultural.
         (b)   Burning of any substance other than those permitted in this
section is prohibited.
         (c)   Burning that causes annoyance or creates a condition which
interferes with the health or well-being of any individual in his or her home
or place of employment or recreation, or which interferes with the normal use
and enjoyment of any such place.
         (d)   Burning on a paved street or surface any leaves that have fallen
from trees or shrubs, non-woody plant matter, weeds, grass clippings, or other
material that can be composted is prohibited.
      (4)   In addition to any penalty imposed in §
10.99, the offender shall be responsible for all costs of abatement and the
recording and administrative fees as set forth above, and for any legal costs
incurred by the town to collect any such abatement costs, administrative fees,
or penalties.
   (H)   Offensive odors. It is unlawful to erect, use, or maintain any
building, structure or place for the exercise of any trade, employment or
business, or for the keeping or feeding of any animals, animals or fowls which
by occasioning noxious exhalations or noisome or offensive smells, becomes
injurious to the health, comfort or property of individuals or the public; or
whoever causes or suffers any filth or noisome substance to be collected or to
remain in any place to the damage, prejudice, or discomfort of others or the
public; or whoever obstructs or encumbers by fences, structures or otherwise
continues or maintains any obstruction or essentially to interfere with the
comfortable enjoyment of life, will upon a five-day written notice from the
Council to abate such nuisance.
   (I)   Noise pollution. On Sunday through Thursday, between the hours of 10:
00 p.m. E.D.T. and 7:00 a.m. E.D.T., and on Friday and Saturday, between the
hours of 11:00 p.m. E.D.T. and 7:00 a.m. E.D.T., it shall be unlawful for any
person within the town limits of the Town of Boswell, to make loud or obnoxious
noises, play loud music, gather in a noisy assemblage, or to disturb the peace
and quiet of the citizens of the town by making such noises (collectively,
"disturbances of the peace"). Such disturbances of the peace shall be declared
a nuisance.
   (J)   Standing water. All low places in lands and ponds, depressions,
excavations, ditches and drains in or on lands within the corporate limits of
the town in which water will stand and will not rapidly run off therefrom after
a rain fall, and in which water on standing therein will stagnate, are hereby
declared to be a nuisance, and any owner or owners of real estate within the
corporate limits of the town who maintains or continues any pond, depression,
excavation, ditch or drain in or on his or her real estate within the corporate
of the town in which water will stand and will not rapidly run off after a
rainfall and in which water will stagnate on standing therein, is hereby
declared to be guilty of maintaining a nuisance.
   (K)   Mobile homes. The maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving or
permitting to be or remain on any public or private property of any dismantled,
dilapidated or uninhabitable mobile home or manufactured housing, or part
thereof, for more than ten days, shall constitute a public nuisance, unless any
person, firm or corporation causing the condition to exist obtains a permit to
do so from the Town Council, which the permit may be issued only after a public
meeting during which citizens are given an opportunity to voice their support
or objection to any conduct. The permit shall cost $50 upon issuance, and shall
be valid for only ten days, after which, an additional permit must be obtained.
Further permits will also be subject to the requirement of a public meeting to
discuss the permit.
(Ord. 2022-0412, passed 4-12-2022)
§ 90.04 VEHICLE NUISANCES.
   (A)   Unplated vehicles. No person or business may place an unplated,
unregistered, or uninsured vehicle or trailer upon their property in a
residential district, unless the vehicle or trailer is placed inside a building
on the property. These restrictions shall not apply to business or commercial
properties where the primary operation of the business or commercial property
is to maintain, repair or sell vehicles directly to consumers. The primary
operation of a business or commercial property shall be determined by the Town
Council.
   (B)   Abandoned vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation other than a licensed automobile, truck, farm implement,
manufactured housing or mobile home dealer to keep, park, store or maintain on
any public or private premises within the limits of the town and within public
view for more than ten days any dismantled, disused, inoperable, junk or
abandoned automobile or motor vehicle of any description, any dismantled,
disused, inoperable, junk or abandoned tractor, implement or farm tool, or
dismantled, dilapidated or uninhabitable manufactured housing or mobile home,
or any part thereof. The maintenance of any vehicles, implements, tools,
manufactured housing or mobile homes as herein described is hereby declared to
be a nuisance.
   (C)   Enforcement, see § 90.05(B).
(Ord. 2022-0412, passed 4-12-2022)Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.05 NUISANCE ENFORCEMENT.
   For purposes of enforcing violations of Chapter 90, the Town Marshal, his
deputies and any Code Enforcement Officers (hereinafter "CEOs") designated by
the Town Council may enforce nuisance violations. CEOs may only enforce town
code violations and shall not attempt to enforce any Indiana statutes.
   (A)   Enforcement of §
90.02 Animal Nuisances.
      (1)   For violations witnessed by members of the Police Department, the
responsible party may be issued a citation for the code violation, in the
officer's discretion.
      (2)   Alternatively, after witnessing a violation, or after receiving a
complaint of an animal nuisance, inspecting the alleged violation and agreeing
that a code violation has occurred, the Police Department should:
         (a)   Document the condition violating the town code and identify the
responsible party (e.g., owner of animal, owner of real estate, tenant or
occupant).
         (b)   Prepare a notice of violation to the responsible party,
identifying the date, time and place of violation, the code section(s)
violated, and the date by which the responsible party must correct the
violation, allowing no less than ten days after mailing or service. The notice
of violation shall be sent by first class mail, delivered personally to the
responsible party, leaving a copy at the responsible party's residence, or by
electronic service at an email address provided by the responsible party.
         (c)   After the time for correction has passed, the Police Department
shall re-inspect the alleged violation and document the condition violating the
town code. If the violation has not been corrected or abated, the Police
Department shall issue a citation to the responsible party. The citation shall
identify the date, time and place of violation, the code section(s) violated,
the per-day penalties under § 10.99 associated with the violation, which shall
commence on the date of the citation, and explain that the violation may be
admitted, corrected and paid before the Clerk-Treasurer within 30 days after
mailing the citation, or if not, it will be filed with the appropriate court as
an ordinance violation. The citation shall be sent by first class mail,
delivered personally to the responsible party, leaving a copy at the
responsible party's residence, or by electronic service at an email address
provided by the responsible party.
         (d)   If the citation is not admitted, corrected and paid to the
Clerk-Treasurer's Office within 30 days, the citation shall be filed with the
appropriate court as an ordinance violation and a copy will be sent to the Town
Attorney.
   (B)   Enforcement of §
90.03(A), (B), (C), (E), (F), (G), (H), (I), (J), and (K) Real Estate Nuisances
and § 90.04(A), Vehicle Nuisances, including abandoned vehicles that are at
least three model years old, are mechanically inoperable, and are left on
private property continuously in a location visible from public property for
more than 20 days.
      (1)   For violations witnessed by members of the Police Department or
CEOs, the owner and parties with substantial interests of record (the "owners")
(e.g., owner, contract purchaser, tenant, mortgagee, and lienholders) may be
issued a citation for the code violation, in the officer's or CEO's discretion.
      (2)   Alternatively, after witnessing a violation, or after receiving a
complaint of a real estate or vehicle nuisance, inspecting the alleged
violation and agreeing that a code violation has occurred, the Police
Department or CEO should:
         (a)   Document the condition violating the town code and identify the
owners.
         (b)   Prepare a notice of violation to the owners identifying the
date, time and place of violation, the code section(s) violated, and the date
by which the owners must correct the violation, allowing no less than 15 days
after mailing the notice via certified mail and by first class mail, or ten
days after personal service, leaving a copy at the owners' residence or by
electronic service at an email address provided by the owners, of the notice.
         (c)   After the time for correction has passed, the Police Department
or CEO shall re-inspect the alleged violation and document the condition
violating the town code. If the violation has not been corrected or abated, the
Police Department or CEO shall issue a citation for the violation to the
owners. The citation shall identify the date, time and place of violation, the
code section(s) violated, the per-day penalties under § 10.99 associated with
the violation, which shall commence on the date of the citation, the date by
which the owners must correct the violation, allowing no less than 15 days
after mailing the citation via certified mail and by first class mail, or ten
days after personal service, leaving a copy at the owners' residence or by
electronic service at an email address provided by the owners, of the citation,
and explain that town employees or contractors will thereafter correct the
violation and issue a bill for the costs associated with bringing the real
estate or vehicle nuisance into compliance. The citation shall specify that in
the event the owners wish to appeal the citation, the owners must notify the
Clerk-Treasurer within 15 days after the mailing of the citation sent via
certified mail and by first class mail, or ten days after the personal service,
the leaving of a copy at the owners' residence or the electronic service at an
email address provided by the owners, of the citation, and request to be placed
on the agenda of the next Town Council meeting, or at a later meeting at the
option of the Clerk-Treasurer. At the meeting the Town Council members present
shall vote for or against the appeal and the majority shall prevail. If the
Town Council denies the appeal, the owners shall have seven days to comply with
the citation.
         (d)   If the violation isn't corrected within the time permitted in
the citation, and no appeal is taken, or if an appeal is taken and denied and
the violation isn't corrected within the time permitted, the town or its
contractors may enter the property and abate the real estate nuisance pursuant
to I.C. 36-1-6, et seq. or the vehicle nuisance. The town employees or the
contractor shall submit a statement of costs to the Clerk-Treasurer's Office
upon completion, and the Clerk-Treasurer's Office shall issue a notice of
abatement costs letter, which includes abatement costs, as well as
administrative expenses of Clerk time spent generating notices and mailing
costs, to the each of the owners by via certified mail and by first class mail,
or by personal service, leaving a copy at the owners' residence or by
electronic service at an email address provided by the owners.
         (e)   The notice of abatement costs shall specify that in the event
the owners wish to appeal the notice, the owners must notify the Clerk-
Treasurer within 15 days after the mailing of the notice of abatement costs
letter sent via certified mail and by first class mail, or ten days after the
personal service, the leaving of a copy at the owners' residence or the
electronic service at an email address provided by the owners, of the notice of
abatement costs letter, and request to be placed on the agenda of the next Town
Council meeting, or at a later meeting at the option of the Clerk-Treasurer. At
the meeting the Town Council members present shall vote for or against the
appeal and the majority shall prevail. If the Town Council denies the appeal,
the owner shall have seven days to pay the abatement costs.
         (f)   If the abatement costs aren't paid within the time permitted in
the notice of abatement costs, and no appeal is taken, or if an appeal is taken
and denied and the abatement costs aren't paid within the time permitted, the
Clerk-Treasurer's Office shall complete and record a notice of lien with the
County Recorder, pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-2, so that the Auditor places the
costs on the tax duplicate for the property to be collected as delinquent taxes
are to be collected.
   (C)   Enforcement of §
90.03(D), Weeds and Rank Vegetation; Tall Grass.
      (1)   The Town Council shall be responsible for the administration of §
90.03(D), the Clerk-Treasurer's Office shall be responsible for the provision
of all mailings and filings required as set forth below, and the Police
Department or CEOs shall be responsible for personal service of notices.
      (2)   When the town officials become aware of the existence of a
violation of §
90.03(D), a notice of violation shall be sent by first class mail, personal
service, leaving a copy at the owner of record's ("owner") residence or by
serving the agent of the owner, or at least one of the owners of real properly
with multiple owners, at the last address of the owner for the property as
indicated in the records of the County Auditor on the date of the notice.
      (3)   If an initial notice of violation was provided in the manner
described above, a continuous abatement notice may be posted at the property at
the time of abatement instead of being sent by first class mail, certified
mail, personal service or by leaving a copy at the residence of the owner. A
continuous abatement notice serves as notice to the owner that each subsequent
violation during the same year for which the initial notice of the violation
was provided may be abated by the town, or its contractors, without further
notice.
      (4)   The notice of violation shall inform the owner of the following,
which are the procedures hereby adopted for giving the owner notice, abating
the nuisance and billing and collecting any sums due therefrom:
         (a)   There appears to be weeds and rank vegetation, including grass,
growing on the owner's property exceeding six inches, contrary to §
90.03(D);
         (b)   The owner has 15 days after the mailing of the notice of
violation sent via first class mail, or ten days after the personal service,
the leaving of a copy at the owners' residence or by serving the agent of the
owner, of the notice of violation to cause the property to be brought into
compliance with §
90.03(D);
         (c)   In the event that the property is not in compliance within 15
days after the mailing of the notice of violation sent via first class mail, or
ten days after the personal service, the leaving of a copy at the owners'
residence or by serving the agent of the owner, of the notice of violation, the
town or its contractors will enter the property and use their own equipment and
personnel to mow the property to abate the violation;
         (d)   The owner will be billed following the provision of these
services in the minimum sum of $250 which, depending on the administrative
costs, actual hours of labor expended and costs of postage for notices, may be
higher. That in the event that the bill is not paid within 30 days of its
mailing to or service on the owner, the bill will be deemed delinquent.
Delinquent weeds and rank vegetation abatement billings and tall grass billings
may be collected by billing, by filing a civil action which will include
reasonable attorneys fees, by having the Clerk-Treasurer certify the amount of
the bill, plus any additional administrative costs incurred in certification,
in a notice of lien with the County Auditor pursuant to I.C. 36-7-10.1-4 or by
foreclosing a lien.
         (e)   That in the event the owner wishes to appeal the notice of
violation or bill, the owner must notify the Clerk-Treasurer within 15 days
after the mailing of the notice of violation or bill sent via first class mail,
or ten days after the personal service, the leaving of a copy at the owners'
residence or by serving the agent of the owner, of the notice of violation or
bill and request to be placed on the agenda of the next Town Council meeting,
or at a later meeting at the option of the Clerk-Treasurer. At the meeting the
Town Council members present shall vote for or against the appeal and the
majority shall prevail. If the Town Council denies the appeal, the owner shall
have seven days to make payment. In the event the bill is not paid within seven
days of the decision of the Town Council, it is delinquent and shall be
collected as set forth above.
   (D)   Additional enforcement provisions.
      (1)   In addition to fines for violations of this chapter, the Town
Council may:
         (a)   Declare the premises to be unsafe;
         (b)   Issue an emergency order where immediate action is required to
protect the health and safety of the public or of the occupants of the
premises; and
         (c)   Seek any of the additional relevant remedies provided by state
law or local ordinance.
      (2)   Civil action or foreclosure for nonpayment.
         (a)   If the costs incurred by the town for the correction of the
public nuisance are not paid to the town as herein provided and become
delinquent, then the amount due the town for such corrective action, the
penalty thereon and all costs of collection thereof, including a reasonable
attorney's fee, may be recovered by the town in a civil action brought in the
name of the town against the owner of the premises responsible for payment
thereof.
         (b)   If the costs incurred by the town for the correction of a public
nuisance is not paid to the town as herein provided and becomes delinquent, the
town, as an additional or alternative remedy, may foreclose the lien created by
this chapter as a means of collecting the amount due the town for sale of the
premises be made without relief from valuation and appraisement laws.
         (c)   In addition to the enforcement remedies provided by this
subchapter, the town may enforce the provisions of this subchapter, by all
other legal remedies, including but not limited to, the use of a mandatory
injunction to required abatement of any public nuisances within the town by the
owner or occupant of the affected premises. In all such actions brought by the
town to enforce the provisions of this subchapter, the town is entitled to
recover all cost of such litigation, including reasonable attorney fees and all
costs of collection.
      (3)   Transfer of ownership. It shall be unlawful and a violation of this
chapter for the owner of any premises who has received a notice of violation to
sell, transfer, mortgage, lease or otherwise dispose of the premises to another
until the provisions of the notice of violation have been complied with, or
until such owner shall first furnish the grantee, transferee, mortgagee, or
lessee a true copy of any notice of violation and shall furnish the town a
signed and notarized statement from the grantee, transferee, mortgagee, or
lessee acknowledging the receipt of such notice of violation and fully
accepting the responsibility without condition for making the corrections or
repairs required by the notice of violation.
      (4)   Continuous enforcement order.
         (a)   Any property owner who fails to abate any nuisance described in
§ 90.03, shall be deemed to be in violation of this section and may be issued a
continuous enforcement order as set forth in this section. Notice of violations
by the Town Council or its designee, shall be sent to the owners and parties
with substantial interests of record (the "owners") (e.g., owner, contract
purchaser, tenant, mortgagee, and lienholders) via certified mail and by first
class mail, or by personal service, leaving a copy at the owners' residence or
by electronic service at an email address provided by the owners.
         (b)   One letter within a calendar year shall be deemed sufficient
notice for each and every lot, parcel, and lands owned by the offender within
the corporate limits of the town. The town shall have the right to abate any
real estate nuisance upon the owner's failure to do so within 15 days after the
mailing of the continuous enforcement order sent via certified mail and by
first class mail, or ten days after the personal service, the leaving of a copy
at the owners' residence or the electronic service at an email address provided
by the owners, of the continuous enforcement order. A continuous enforcement
order may be posted at the property at the time of abatement in the event the
town initially obtains service upon the property owner as required by I.C. 36-
7-10.1-3. The continuous enforcement order shall serve as notice to the real
property owner that each subsequent violation during the same calendar year for
which the initial notice of the violation was provided may be abated by the
town or its contractors.
(Ord. 2022-0412, passed 4-12-2022)
CHAPTER 91: RESERVED
CHAPTER 92: RESERVED
CHAPTER 93: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Materials Placed in Public Roadways
   
93.001   Dumping of trash and debris
   
93.002   Exceptions
Obstructing or Blocking the Sidewalk
   
93.015   Prohibited
   
93.016   Exceptions
Construction of Streets
   
93.030   Regulations
Encumbrances
   
93.045   Lanterns or light required
   
93.046   Ashes
   
93.047   Automotive, power driven or horse drawn vehicles
   
93.048   Obstructions
Snow and Ice
   
93.060   Duty to remove
Spitting
   
93.075   Prohibited
 
   
93.999   Penalty
MATERIALS PLACED IN PUBLIC ROADWAYS
§ 93.001 DUMPING OF TRASH AND DEBRIS.
   It shall be unlawful for any resident or nonresident persons or businesses
to blow, sweep, place or deposit any garbage, debris or refuse, including, but
not limited to construction material or structural debris, rock, earth or sod,
grass clippings, shrub clippings, leaves, vines, small trees, brush, limbs,
burn barrels, tires, animal carcasses or parts thereof, appliances and
hazardous waste, whether generated by households or business; in a street or
public right-of-way, in and around the town.
(Ord. 2003-5, passed 9-8-2003) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.002 EXCEPTIONS.
   The Town Council may, as it deems necessary, allow for exceptions to §
93.001 to enable the collection of leaves, lawn or shrub clippings, vegetation,
earth or sod, or other debris as needed and for the limited time frames
specified by the Town Council. This subchapter shall not be intended to prevent
persons from placing bags of trash or large items of debris on the public
right-of-way for trash collection by private contractors, except that the
trash, debris or other materials, shall not be placed in the roadway or on upon
the public sidewalks and shall be placed out a reasonable time before the
scheduled pick-up and any remaining items, promptly removed after the scheduled
pick-up.
(Ord. 2003-5, passed 9-8-2003)
OBSTRUCTING OR BLOCKING THE SIDEWALK
§ 93.015 PROHIBITED.
   After legal publication of this subchapter and on and after June 1, 1972, it
shall be declared a nuisance and unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or
legal entity to obstruct or block any portion of any public sidewalk with any
object or article which will prevent the full use of the sidewalk by citizens
desiring to use the same.
(Ord. 1983-15, passed - -) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.016 EXCEPTIONS.
   Section
93.015 shall not apply to the temporary obstruction of sidewalks in unloading,
loading or moving merchandise or other property. Section
93.015 shall not apply to barriers erected for the safety of pedestrians when
any sidewalk is under construction or repair, nor upon the occasions as a
substantial number of merchants of the town conduct sidewalk sales.
(Ord. 1983-15, passed - -)
CONSTRUCTION OF STREETS
§ 93.030 REGULATIONS.
   From and after the date of the passage of this section, all streets
constructed within the corporate limits of the town shall be of a width of 35
feet and that the construction of the streets shall conform to the
specifications as to fill, base and surface, which specifications are recorded
and on file with the Clerk-Treasurer at his or her office in the Town Hall.
(Ord. 1983-13, passed - -)
ENCUMBRANCES
§ 93.045 LANTERNS OR LIGHT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to encumber any street, alley and other
public grounds of the town by depositing on any street, alley or other public
places any things as old cars, machinery, household furniture or any other
goods or chattels without fastening sufficient lanterns or other suitable
lights on the old cars, machinery, household furniture or any other goods or
chattels between the time of the setting and the rising of the sun.
(Ord. 1983-12, passed - -1943) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.046 ASHES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to dump ashes or things commonly known
as rubbish in any street or alley of the town.
(Ord. 1983-12, passed - -1943) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.047 AUTOMOTIVE, POWER DRIVEN OR HORSE DRAWN VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any automotive vehicle or any
power driven or horse drawn vehicle for a period of 24 hours or longer in any
street, alley or other public grounds in the town and to park any power or
horse drawn vehicle on the streets, alleys or public grounds of the town
without fastening a light to both the front and rear end of the power or house
drawn vehicle between the time of the setting and the rising of the sun, and
every 24 hours shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 1983-12, passed - -1943) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.048 OBSTRUCTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, company or corporation to
obstruct any of the streets and alleys of the town by placing thereon any
vehicles, plows, machinery, rubbish or any other object or objects without the
consent of the Town Council.
(Ord. 58-1/2, passed 6-18-1900) Penalty, see §
93.999
SNOW AND ICE
§ 93.060 DUTY TO REMOVE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to allow snow or ice to
remain on the sidewalk in front of any premises owned or occupied by any person
for a longer period than ten hours after the same has fallen or accumulated
thereon.
(Ord. 64, passed 2-3-1902) Penalty, see §
93.999
SPITTING
§ 93.075 PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to spit on any of the sidewalks of the
town or deposit on any of the sidewalks any tobacco quid, cigar or cigarette
stub.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for
which no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of §
10.99.
   (B)   Materials placed in public roadways.
      (1)   The Town Marshal and all other duly authorized law enforcement
officers charged with enforcing the town’s ordinances may issue an appearance
ticket and complaint, stating the date and time of violation, the name and
address of the person violating §§
93.001 and
93.002, and ordering that person to appear on a certain date and time in Benton
Circuit Court in Fowler, Indiana, for the purpose of a trial thereon, if
contested. In the event that the person accused of violating §§
93.001 and
93.002 wishes to admit the violation, he or she may pay the fine at the Town
Hall.
      (2)   Any costs, billings or charges incurred in the removal of any
refuse, trash or debris, will be billed to the property owner and will be due
within 30 days, together with the following penalty provisions:
         (a)   A written warning shall be issued for a first-time violation, by
any member of the household or business;
         (b)   Fifty dollars for a second-time violation, by a member of any
household or business;
         (c)   One hundred dollars for a third-time violation, by a member of
any household or business; and
         (d)   Five hundred dollars for a fourth-time violation, by a member of
any household or business, and for any subsequent violation thereafter.
      (3)   Each day of violation constitutes a separate and distinct violation
of §§
93.001 and
93.002. The collection of penalties shall be conducted in any manner permitted
by law.
   (C)   Encumbrances. Any person or persons found guilty of a violation of any
or all of §§
93.045 through
93.047 shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in any sum not exceeding $10,
nor less than $2, first offense.
   (D)   Section 93.048. Any person, persons, company or corporation violating
the provisions of §
93.048 shall be fined not less than $1 and not more than $10.
   (E)   Snow and ice. Any person who shall violate §
93.060 shall be fined in any sum not less than $1 and not more than $10.
(Ord. 2003-5, passed 9-8-2003; Ord. 1983-15, passed - -; Ord. 1983-12, passed -
-1943; Ord. 58-1/2, passed 6-18-1900; Ord. 64, passed 2-3-1902; Ord. passed -
-; Ord. 2022-0412B, passed 4-12-2022)
CHAPTER 94: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
94.01   Policy statement
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Unlawful practice
   
94.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
94.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
94.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
94.07   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
94.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
94.09   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
94.10   Exemptions
   
94.11   Administrative enforcement
   
94.12   Severability of provisions
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the Federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, being 42 USC 2000e et seq., as
amended, the Federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, being 42
USC 3601 et seq., as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 1993-2, passed 5-10-1993)
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that the person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-2)
   COMMISSION. The State Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-9-
1-4 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
94.04,
94.05,
94.06,
94.07 or
94.08 of this chapter or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or part of a building or structure that is
occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS. One or more individuals (who have not attained the age of
18 years) being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody
of the individual or the written permission of the parent or other person. The
protections afforded against discrimination on this basis of FAMILIAL STATUS
shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process of securing
legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18 years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual (I.C. 22-9.5-2-9), with the status of
the family being further defined in FAMILIAL STATUS.
   HANDICAP.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of a person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the Federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990; and
         (e)   Any other impairment defined under 910 IAC 2-3-2(14).
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or
addiction to a controlled substance as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802 (910 IAC 2-3-
2(4)); nor does the term HANDICAP include an individual solely because that
individual is a transvestite (910 IAC 2-3-2(14)).
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under U.S.C. Title 11, receivers and fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 1993-2, passed 5-10-1993; Am. Ord. 2014-5.12.2, passed 5-12-2014)
§ 94.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below of this section, §
94.09 and I.C. Title 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the
sale or rental of housing set forth I.C. Title 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
94.04 of this chapter shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) below and I.C. Title
22-9.5-3;
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below of this section,
nothing in §
94.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three single-family houses at
any one time; provided that in the sale of the single-family house by a private
individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or who was not
the most recent resident of the house prior to the sale, the exemption shall
apply only to one sale within any 24-month period. The private individual owner
may not own any interest in, nor have owned or reserved on his or her behalf,
title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds from the sale or
rental of more than three single-family houses at any one time. The sale or
rental of any single-family house shall be excepted from application of this
section only if the house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson, or any person in
the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of
any broker, agent or salesperson or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
94.04(C) of this chapter, but nothing in this proviso shall prohibit the use of
attorneys, escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of the living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended
for occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 1993-2, passed 5-10-1993)
§ 94.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
94.03 and except as exempted by §§
94.03(B) and
94.09, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, familial
status or national origin;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
familial status or national origin;
   (C)   To make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or published
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, or an
intention to make any preference, limitation or discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale or rental when the dwelling is in fact so available;
   (E)    For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status or national origin; or
   (F)   (1)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
         (a)   That buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with the dwelling, because of a handicap of:
         (a)   That person;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (3)   For purposes of this division, DISCRIMINATION includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by the
person if the modifications may be necessary to afford the person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modification, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices or services, when accommodations may be necessary to afford the
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1988, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in a
manner that:
            1.   The public use and common use portions of the dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
            2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within the dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
            3.   All premises within the dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               a.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               b.   Lights, switches, electrical outlets, thermostats and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
               c.   Reinforcements in bathroom walls to allow later
installation of grab bars; and
               d.   Usable kitchens and bathrooms so that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
      (4)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements Americans With
Disabilities Act of 1990 and of the American National Standard for buildings
and facilities providing accessibility and usability for physically handicapped
people (commonly cited as ANSI A117.1) suffices to satisfy the requirements of
division (F)(3)(c)3.
      (5)   Nothing in this division requires that a dwelling be made available
to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health
or safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 1993-2, passed 5-10-1993) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available a transaction, or in the
terms or conditions of a transaction, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap or familial status.
(Ord. 1993-2, passed 5-10-1993) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers'
organization or other service, organization or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of the access, membership or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national
origin.
(Ord. 1993-2, passed 5-10-1993) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
94.03,
94.04,
94.05 or
94.06 of this chapter.
(Ord. 1993-2, passed 5-10-1993; Am. Ord. 2014-5.12.2, passed 5-12-2014)
§ 94.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin and because he or she is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; and/or
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
the person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A)
above; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in
any of the activities, services, organizations or facilities described in
division (A), or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing
any denial of the opportunity to participate shall be fined according to local,
state and federal law; and if bodily injury results shall be fined not more
than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if death
results shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 1993-2, passed 5-10-1993)
§ 94.09 EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to 24 CFR Part 5.403 and 24 CFR Part 574.3 the definition of
“family” is revised to include families regardless of the actual or perceived
sexual orientation, gender identity or marital status of its members.
(Ord. 2014-5.12.2, passed 5-12-2014)
§ 94.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below of this section.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to those persons,
unless membership in the religion is restricted on account of race, color or
national origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not
in fact open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or
purposes provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a
commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of the lodgings to
its members or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   (1)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply
with respect to housing for older persons.
      (2)   As used in this section, HOUSING FOR OLDER PERSONS means housing:
         (a)   Provided under any state of federal program that the Secretary
of the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the State Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly persons (as defined in the state or federal program);
         (b)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age or
older; or
         (c)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55
years of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 1993-2, passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 2014-5.12.2, passed 5-12-2014)
§ 94.11 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commission as set forth in
division (B) below hereof shall be vested in the Chief Executive Officer of the
town.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the town because of
a lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of this chapter by
complainants to the State Civil Rights Commission (“Commission”) for
administrative enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the Chief
Elected Officer of the town shall refer all complaints to the Commission as
provided for under division (A) above of this section to the Commission for
purposes of investigation, resolution and appropriate relief as provided for
under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the town shall administer
their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the Chief Executive Officer and the Commission to
further the purposes.
   (D)   The Chief Executive Officer of the town, or the Chief Executive
Officer’s designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any
aggrieved person or complainant requesting the information.
(Ord. 1993-2, passed 5-10-1993)
§ 94.12 SEVERABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   If any provision of this chapter or the application thereof to any person or
circumstances shall be determined to be invalid, the remainder of this chapter
and the application of its provisions to other persons not similarly situated
or to other circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
(Ord. 2014-5.12.2, passed 5-12-2014)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to discourage the
citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other persons
to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, in any of the activities,
services, organizations or facilities described in §
94.08(A), or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any
denial of the opportunity to participate shall be fined not more than $1,000,
or imprisoned not more than one year, or both; and if bodily injury results
shall be fined not more than $10,000, or imprisoned for not more than ten
years, or both; and if death results shall be subject to imprisonment for any
term of years or for life.
(Ord. 1993-2, passed 5-10-1993)
CHAPTER 95: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Community Advisory Park Board
   
95.01   Creation
   
95.02   Purpose
   
95.03   Donation of land
   
95.04   Reports
   
95.05   Powers and duties
Community Park
   
95.20   Prohibition on items and things
COMMUNITY ADVISORY PARK BOARD
§ 95.01 CREATION.
   There is hereby created the Community Advisory Park Board, who shall be the
recreation board described in I.C. 36-10-5-2, and whose members shall be
appointed pursuant to that Indiana Code section.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 7-24-2000)
§ 95.02 PURPOSE.
   The Community Advisory Park Board shall serve to plan, design, construct,
maintain and operate a community park within the town.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 7-24-2000)
§ 95.03 DONATION OF LAND.
   The town hereby accepts a donation of land from the Rotary Club as a gift
for the purposes of establishing a community park which shall be governed by
the Community Advisory Park Board, and in consideration of the gift, shall
treat the property as any other municipal property, specifically agreeing to
maintain the park, provide security and accept liability for the park as the
town would for any other town property.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 7-24-2000)
§ 95.04 REPORTS.
   The Community Advisory Park Board shall provide periodic reports of its
activities to the Town Council.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 7-24-2000)
§ 95.05 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Community Advisory Park Board shall have all powers and duties permitted
by law.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 7-24-2000)
COMMUNITY PARK
§ 95.20 PROHIBITION ON ITEMS AND THINGS.
   The following items or things are prohibited in the Community Park:
   (A)   Pets;
   (B)   Bicycles, mopeds or motorized vehicles;
   (C)   Skateboards;
   (D)   Fireworks; and
   (E)   Alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. 2006-5, passed 12-26-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 96: FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
96.01   Consumer fireworks
Wooden Buildings
   
96.15   Prohibited
FIREWORKS
§ 96.01 CONSUMER FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The use or discharge of consumer fireworks is prohibited within the
corporate limits of the Town of Boswell, except on certain dates, places and
times as herein provided.
   (B)   Definitions.
      CONSUMER FIREWORK. The term CONSUMER FIREWORK shall be defined as
provided in I.C. 22-11-14-1.
      FIREWORK. The term FIREWORK shall be defined as provided in I.C. 22-11-
14-1.
   (C)   Location for use. Fireworks may be used or discharged within the Town
of Boswell only on the user's property, on the property of someone who has
consented to the use of fireworks, or at a special discharge location
designated by the State Fire Marshal for the discharge of consumer fireworks.
   (D)   Use or discharge of consumer fireworks prohibited except on certain
dates and times. Consumer fireworks may only be used or discharged within the
Town of Boswell, Indiana by adults age 18 years or older, or by children under
age 18 when an adult is present, on the following dates and times, as provided
in I.C. 22-11-14-10.5:
      (1)   Between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and two hours after sunset
(approximately 11:00 p.m.) on June 29, June 30, July 1, July 2, July 3, July 5,
July 6, July 7, July 8, and July 9;
      (2)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight on July 4; and
      (3)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. on December 31 and 1:00 a.m. on
January 1.
   (E)   Enforcement. The Boswell Police Department is responsible for the
interpretation and civil enforcement of this section.
   (F)   Seizure and forfeiture of consumer fireworks. Enforcement personnel
from the Boswell Police Department may seize and dispose of consumer fireworks
that are used in violation of this section.
   (G)   Penalty. In addition to the seizure and disposition of consumer
fireworks that are used in violation of this section, whoever violates any
provision of this section shall be fined not more than $250. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day that a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2022-0412A, passed 4-12-2022)
WOODEN BUILDINGS
§ 96.15 PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to erect any wooden
building or buildings within the following described portion of the town and
the portion is hereby designated and established as a fire limit within the
town:
On Lots Three, Four, Five and Six, Block Eight, original plat of the town; on
Lots One, Two, Three and Four, Block Seven, original plat of the town, and on a
tract of land bounded as follows: on the east by Clinton Street; on the south
by Lots Two and Three, in Block Seven; on the west by Adams Street; on the
north by the right-of-way of the Lake Erie and Western Railroad Company; the
whole of the district over which the fire limits is established is bounded
follows: on the east by Clinton Street; on the south by the alley forming the
south boundary of Lots Three and Six, Block Eight, original plat of the town;
on the west by Adams Street, and on the north by the right-of-way of the
railroad company.
   (B)   A fire limit is established in the town as follows and that it shall
be unlawful for any person or persons to erect within the limit any building
except of brick:
Commencing at the northeast corner of Lot 20, in S.P. Smith's First Addition to
the town, from thence west to the northwest corner of Lot 20; thence south to
the alley dividing between the residence property owned by J. S. Bradley on the
north, and J. Whitcomb on the south thereof; thence east to the west line of
Adams Street in the town; thence north to the place of beginning.
(Ord. 30, passed 9-17-1888; Ord. 37, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 97: TREES
Section
   
97.01   Trimming required
§ 97.01 TRIMMING REQUIRED.
   (A)   All owners of lots, parts of lots and lands within the corporate
limits of the town, shall be required between March 1 and the first day of July
1, to trim all shade trees along the street and sidewalks in front of their
respective lots, parts of lots and lands in a manner as not to destroy their
usefulness for shade and ornamental purposes, but in a manner that the branches
of the trees shall not be a hindrance to pedestrians on sidewalks under them
and to teams and vehicles on streets, and also in a manner that the shade from
the trees will not prevent the drying of the streets. The work shall be done
under the supervision of the Town Marshal and to his or her satisfaction.
   (B)   The brush cut from the trees shall be removed from the streets and
sidewalks as soon as cut by the persons whose duty it is to do the trimming.
   (C)   On failure of any owner of a lot, part of a lot or lands to comply
with the foregoing provisions of this section within the time set for the work
to be done, the Marshal of the town or Town Council shall contract the work out
according to the provisions of this section and the expense thereof shall
become a lien on the lots, parts of lots and lands, to the extent of the
expenses, and the collection thereof, and shall be collected as taxes are now
collected.
(Ord. 24, passed - -1891) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   SOLICITORS, PEDDLERS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
         
111.   RESERVED
         
112.   RESERVED
         
113.   RESERVED
         
114.   RESERVED
         
115.   INTOXICATING LIQUORS
         
116.   SPECIAL EVENTS, STREET FAIRS AND FESTIVALS
CHAPTER 110: SOLICITORS, PEDDLERS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
Section
   
110.01   Permit required
   
110.02   Definitions
   
110.03   Violations declared to be a nuisance
§ 110.01 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Only itinerant merchants, peddlers, or solicitors, who are acting on behalf
of a charity, may engage in such activity within the municipality after
obtaining a permit. Any itinerant merchant, peddler or solicitor desiring to
engage in, do or transact business in the town on behalf of a charity shall
file his or her request for a permit for that purpose with the Clerk-Treasurer
of the town. This request shall state his or her name, the kind of business
proposed to be conducted and the length of time for which he or she desires to
do this business. There is no cost for a permit, however, permits issued shall
be non-transferable and shall expire on the next business day following the
date of issuance. All permits issued by the Clerk-Treasurer will show the
company represented, solicitor's name, address and description and make of car
or vehicle he or she is using.
(Ord. 1992-1, passed 4-24-1992; Am. Ord. 2016-0614, passed 6-12-2016) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 110.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor as defined in this section.
   CHARITY. An organization recognized by the Internal Revenue Service and/or
Indiana Department of Revenue as a not-for-profit organization.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the municipality and
who, in the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure,
vehicle, or any place within the municipality.
   PEDDLER. (1) Any person who travels from place to place by any means
carrying goods for sale, or making sales, or making deliveries; or (2) Any
person who, without traveling from place to place, sells or offers goods for
sale from any public place within the municipality. A person who is a peddler
is not an itinerant merchant.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a solicitor is not
a peddler.
(Ord. 1992-1, passed 4-24-1992; Am. Ord. 2016-0614, passed 6-12-2016)
§ 110.03 VIOLATIONS DECLARED TO BE A NUISANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and deemed to be a nuisance, for any person or
persons not affiliated with a charity to peddle, hawk, sell or exchange for
sale any goods, wares or merchandise of any kind and every kind whatsoever; or
take or solicit any orders for goods, wares and merchandise, within the limits
of the town, either for immediate delivery or future delivery. This chapter
shall not apply to businesses who regularly visit pre-established customers at
their homes, or who are invited onto a homeowner's premises (e.g., Culligan,
Mary Kay, Schwan's, etc.).
   (B)   The practice of going in and upon residences in the town by transient
salesmen, merchants, and itinerant vendors of goods not having been requested
or invited to do so by the owner or occupant of those private residences, for
the purpose of soliciting orders for the sale of goods, wares, and merchandise,
and of disposing of or peddling or hawking the same, is declared to be a
nuisance and punishable as such.
(Ord. 2016-0614, passed 6-12-2016)
CHAPTER 111: RESERVED
CHAPTER 112: RESERVED
CHAPTER 113: RESERVED
CHAPTER 114: RESERVED
CHAPTER 115: INTOXICATING LIQUORS
Section
   
115.01   Issuance of liquor retailer’s permits
§ 115.01 ISSUANCE OF LIQUOR RETAILER’S PERMITS.
   In accordance with the laws of the State of Indiana and subject to the
approval of the Benton County Alcoholic Beverage Board and the Indiana Alcohol
and Tobacco Commission, the town consents to the issuance of liquor retailer
permits within the town limits.
(Ord. 2018-4-17, passed 4-17-2018)
CHAPTER 116: SPECIAL EVENTS, STREET FAIRS AND FESTIVALS
Section
   
116.01   Permit required
   
116.99   Violations and penalties
§ 116.01 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   A special event permit must be obtained if any of the following apply:
      (1)   The event is held outdoors on town property, including streets or
sidewalks.
      (2)   The event is a walk, run, or parade crossing the public roadway or
public property.
      (3)   The event is deemed to impact normal town operations (such as
police patrol, fire/EMS services, etc.).
      (4)   The event requires street closures (except block parties), or
closure of town parking lots and/or town-owned property.
      (5)   The event is held by a licensed business, takes place outdoors and
is open to the general public. This includes sidewalk sales, tent sales,
promotions held in parking lots, etc.
      (6)   The event is open to the general public.
   (B)   The following events are not required to obtain a special event
permit:
      (1)   Regularly scheduled athletic events.
      (2)   Events hosted by the town on town property.
      (3)   Funeral processions.
   (C)   Permit fee.
      (1)   Applications made at least 60 days prior to the event require a
non-refundable $50 processing fee made out to the Town of Boswell paid at the
time of submission.
      (2)   Applications made with less than 60 days prior to the event require
a non- refundable $100 processing fee made out to the Town of Boswell paid at
the time of submission.
      (3)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer and Town Council reserve the right to
waive fees and costs for certain events as determined on a case-by-case basis.
   (D)   The application process is as follows:
      (1)   Submit completed application to the Clerk-Treasurer with all
attachments required in the application.
      (2)   Once an application is submitted, the event planner will be
required to attend a Town Council meeting to discuss the details of the event.
      (3)   The town reserves the right to require an event walk-through with
applicant and town staff, including members of the Fire Department, prior to
event date.
      (4)   Final sign-off by the Police Chief, Fire Chief, and Health
Department or their representative is required for the event to take place.
   (E)   A copy of the special event permit shall be displayed in the special
event venue in the method prescribed by the Town Council applicable to the
particular event and shall be exhibited upon demand of any town official.
   (F)   A special event permit is non-transferrable.
(Ord. 2024-0514, passed 5-14-2024)
§ 116.99 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Failure to complete all requirements of the permit application process
may result in a permit not being issued for the event.
   (B)   A permit recipient must abide by the decisions of town staff relative
to a temporary suspension of the event for a public safety concern as
determined by the town, including but not limited to severe weather or
inappropriate behavior of attendees. Failure to comply with directives of town
staff will result in revocation of event permit.
   (C)   Failure to comply with the terms agreed upon for the issuance of the
permit will result in revocation of the event permit.
   (D)   Continuing an event after revocation of event permit will result in a
fine of up to $1,000.
   (E)   Failure to obtain a special event permit when required will result in
a fine of up to $5,000.
   (F)   Additionally, whenever an event is conducted without a obtaining a
permit required by this chapter, the event organizer shall be responsible for,
and the town shall charge the event organizer for, all town costs incurred as a
result of the adverse impacts of the event on town services, and any damages to
public property which may have been caused from such event being unlawfully
held.
(Ord. 2024-0514, passed 5-14-2024)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   CURFEW
         
131.   WEAPONS
         
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
CHAPTER 130: CURFEW
Section
   
130.01   Restrictions
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No person under the age of 16 may be in a public place or a place of
public resort in the town:
      (1)   After the hour of 9:00 p.m. on Sundays, Mondays, Tuesdays,
Wednesdays and Thursdays and before the hour of 6:00 a.m. the following day; or
      (2)   After the hour of 10:00 p.m. on Friday or Saturday, and before the
hour of 6:00 a.m. the following day unless:
         (a)   Accompanied by the child's parent, guardian or custodian;
         (b)   Accompanied by an adult specified by the child's parent,
guardian or custodian; or
         (c)   Participating in, going to or returning from:
            1.   Lawful employment;
            2.   A school sanctioned activity;
            3.   A religious event; or
            4.   An activity protected by the First Amendment to the United
States Constitution.
   (B)   No person under the age of 18 may be in a public place or a place of
public resort in the town:
      (1)   After the hour of 11:00 p.m. on Sundays, Mondays, Tuesdays,
Wednesdays and Thursdays and before the hour of 6:00 a.m. the following day; or
      (2)   After the hour of 1:00 a.m. on Saturday morning or 1:00 a.m. on
Sunday morning, and before the hour of 6:00 a.m. the same day unless:
         (a)   Accompanied by the child's parent, guardian or custodian;
         (b)   Accompanied by an adult specified by the child's parent,
guardian or custodian; or
         (c)   Participating in, going to or returning from:
            1.   Lawful employment;
            2.   A school sanctioned activity;
            3.   A religious event; or
            4.   An activity protected by the First Amendment to the United
States Constitution.
(Ord. 2000-3, passed 12-28-2000; Ord. 2003-4, passed 5-12-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 131: WEAPONS
Section
   
131.01   Definitions
   
131.02   Use of weapons prohibited
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMMUNITION. Any material intended as a projectile including, but not limited
to, bullets, pellets, BBs, arrows, shotgun shot, salt, stones or other
missiles.
   SHOOTING. The propulsion of any ammunition by any weapon.
   WEAPON. A firearm, bow, slingshot, sling, air rifle or other similar device
from which a projectile is shot or otherwise commonly propelled of a speed
sufficient to penetrate the skin of a person or animal.
(Ord. 2001-4, passed 12-10-2001)
§ 131.02 USE OF WEAPONS PROHIBITED.
   The shooting of any ammunition from any weapon within the corporate limits
of the town shall be unlawful.
(Ord. 2001-4, passed 12-10-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
Section
   
132.01   Disturbing the peace
§ 132.01 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, within the limits of the town,
whether drunk or sober, to offer to fight or quarrel with any person or
persons.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb the peace and quiet of
the town, or any of the inhabitants thereof, by making any loud or unusual
noise, or who shall engage in loud, boisterous or obscene conversation, or who
shall discharge any pistol, gun or other firearm whatever, within the limits of
the town. Fireworks are excluded, however any use of fireworks must follow the
regulations of I.C. 22-11-14.
(Ord. 10, passed 11-7-1883) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Unsafe Building Inspector
   
150.01   Adoption of state law
   
150.02   County inspector to serve as town inspector
Unsafe Building Code
   
150.15   Collection of administrative and legal expenses
Building Code
   
150.30   Title
   
150.31   Purpose
   
150.32   Authority
   
150.33   Scope
   
150.34   Adoption of rules by reference
   
150.35   Application for permits
   
150.36   Permit required
   
150.37   Other ordinances
   
150.38   Fees
   
150.39   Review of application
   
150.40   Inspections
   
150.41   Inspection assistance
   
150.42   Entry
   
150.43   Stop order
   
150.44   Certificate of occupancy
   
150.45   Workmanship
   
150.46   Violations
   
150.47   Right of appeal
   
150.48   Remedies
 
   
150.99   Penalty
UNSAFE BUILDING INSPECTOR
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   The Town Council adopts the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9 et seq., as that law
may be amended from time to time, as the town's unsafe building law. I.C. 36-7-
9 et seq. is hereby incorporated by reference in this, the town's unsafe
building law. All proceedings within the town for the inspection, repair and
removal of unsafe buildings and structures shall be governed by the law and the
provisions of this subchapter. In the event that the provisions of this
subchapter conflict with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9 et seq., as that chapter
may be amended from time to time, the provisions of the Indiana Code shall
control. Further, the town specifically adopts by reference the definition of
substantial property interest as that definition is defined at I.C. 36-7-9-2,
as that section may be amended from time to time.
( Ord. 84-2, passed - -; Ord. 2009-3, passed 9-14-2009)
§ 150.02 COUNTY INSPECTOR TO SERVE AS TOWN INSPECTOR.
   Either the County Unsafe Building Inspector or a person selected by the town
is designated to be the Town Unsafe Building Inspector for purposes of
enforcing the state unsafe building law, that the Town Unsafe Building
Inspector is authorized to administer and to proceed under the provisions of
the law in ordering the repair or removal of any buildings or structures found
to be unsafe as that term is specified in I.C. 36-7-9 et seq. and the Town
Council is designated to be the hearing authority as that term is used in I.C.
36-7-9-2, for purposes of hearing and reviewing orders issued by the Town
Unsafe Building Inspector.
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 9-14-2009)
UNSAFE BUILDING CODE
§ 150.15 COLLECTION OF ADMINISTRATIVE AND LEGAL EXPENSES.
   (A)   By reviewing the prior unsafe building enforcement actions in the
past, and the expenses associated therewith, the Town Council now determines
that $750 represents the average processing expense incurred in a typical
unsafe building order enforcement action, in addition to any other contract or
expenses incurred in the enforcement of the orders. This amount shall be added
to any lien filed and recorded against any unsafe building premises.
   (B)   The $300 average processing fee shall be filed and recorded and
collected, as I.C. 36-7-9 permits the collection of expenses associated with
the enforcement of unsafe building orders.
(Ord. 2003-8, passed 11-10-2003)
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.30 TITLE.
   This subchapter, and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto, shall
be known as the Building Code of the Town of Boswell Indiana, may be cited as
such, and will be referred to herein as "this code."
(Ord. 1990-1, passed 8-7-1990)
§ 150.31 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this code is to provide minimum standards for the protection
of life, health, environment, public safety and general welfare and for the
conservation of energy in the design and construction of buildings and
structures.
(Ord. 1990-1, passed 8-7-1990)
§ 150.32 AUTHORITY.
   The Building Commissioner of the county, hereinafter referred to as the
Building Commissioner, after having been designated as the officer of a single
agency to administer and enforce this code, is hereby authorized in the name of
the town to issue building permits, collect fees, perform inspections, order
corrections of violation of this code and authorize occupancy of buildings and
structures within the corporate limits of the town.
(Ord. 1990-1, passed 8-7-1990)
§ 150.33 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this code apply to the construction, alterations, repair,
use, occupancy, maintenance and additions to all buildings and structures,
other than fences, in the town.
(Ord. 1990-1, passed 8-7-1990)
§ 150.34 ADOPTION OF RULES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Building rules of the State Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission as set out in the following articles of I.A.C. Title 675 are hereby
incorporated by reference in this subchapter and shall include later amendments
to those articles as the same are published in the Indiana Register or the
Indiana Administrative Code with effective dates as fixed therein:
      (1)   Article 13 - Building Codes:
         (a)   Fire and Building Standards;
         (b)   Indiana Building Codes;
         (c)   Indiana Building Code Standards; and
         (d)   Indiana Handicapped Accessibility Code.
      (2)   Article 14 - One- and Two-Family Dwelling Codes:
         (a)   Council of American Building Officials One and Two Family
Dwelling Code;
         (b)   CABO One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code; Amendments; and
         (c)   Standard for Permanent Installation of Manufactured Homes.
      (3)   Article 16 - Plumbing Codes: Indiana Plumbing Codes.
      (4)   Article 17 - Electrical Codes:
         (a)   Indiana Electrical Code; and
         (b)   Safety Code for Health Care Facilities.
      (5)   Article 18 - Mechanical Codes: Indiana Mechanical Code.
      (6)   Article 19 - Energy Conservation Codes:
         (a)   Indiana Energy Conservation Code; and
         (b)   Modifications to the Model Energy Code.
      (7)   Article 20 - Swimming Pool Codes: Indiana Swimming Pool Code.
   (B)   Copies of adopted building rules, codes and standards are on file in
the office of Town Hall.
(Ord. 1990-1, passed 8-7-1990)
§ 150.35 APPLICATION FOR PERMITS.
   No building permit shall be issued for the foregoing purposes, unless the
application for a permit is accompanied by a plat or sketch of the proposed
location showing lot boundaries, and by plans and specifications showing the
work to be done. In addition, a copy of a design release, issued by the State
Building Commissioner and the State Fire Marshal pursuant to I.C. 22-15-3-1,
shall be provided to the Building Commissioner before issuance of a permit for
construction covered by the design release.
(Ord. 1990-1, passed 8-7-1990)
§ 150.36 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A permit shall be obtained before beginning construction, alteration or
repair of any building or structure, using forms furnished by the Building
Commissioner. All permits shall be issued by the Building Commissioner, and all
fees required therefor shall be paid to the County Treasurer.
(Ord. 1990-1, passed 8-7-1990)
§ 150.37 OTHER ORDINANCES.
   All work done under any permit issued by the Building Commissioner shall be
in full compliance with all other town ordinances pertaining thereto.
(Ord. 1990-1, passed 8-7-1990)
§ 150.38 FEES.
   Please see the county fee schedule.
(Ord. 1990-1, passed 8-7-1990)
§ 150.39 REVIEW OF APPLICATION.
   Prior to the issuance of any building permit, the Building Commissioner
shall:
   (A)   Review all building permit applications to determine full compliance
with the provisions of this code;
   (B)   Review all building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements to determine whether proposed building sites will be
reasonably safe from flooding;
   (C)   Review building permit applications for major repairs with the
floodplain area having special flood hazards to determine that the proposed
repair:
      (1)   Uses construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage; and
      (2)   Uses construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
   (D)   Review building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements within the floodplain area having special flood
hazards to assure that the proposed construction (including prefabricated and
mobile homes):
      (1)   Is protected against flood damage;
      (2)   Is designed (or modified) and anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse or lateral movement of the structure, flood damage; and
      (3)   Uses construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
(Ord. 1990-1, passed 8-7-1990)
§ 150.40 INSPECTIONS.
   After the issuance of any building permit hereunder, the Building
Commissioner shall make, or shall cause to be made, inspections of the work
being done under the permit as are necessary to ensure full compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter and the terms of the permit.
(Ord. 1990-1, passed 8-7-1990)
§ 150.41 INSPECTION ASSISTANCE.
   The Chief of the Fire Department, or his or her designated representative,
shall assist the Building Commissioner in the inspection of fire suppression,
detection and alarm systems and shall provide reports of the inspection to the
Building Commissioner.
(Ord. 1990-1, passed 8-7-1990)
§ 150.42 ENTRY.
   Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Building Commissioner, or his
or her duly authorized representatives, may enter at reasonable times any
building, structure or premises in the town to perform any duty imposed upon
him or her by this code.
(Ord. 1990-1, passed 8-7-1990)
§ 150.43 STOP ORDER.
    Whenever any work is being done contrary to the provisions of this code,
the Building Commissioner may order the work stopped by notice in writing
served on any persons engaged in the doing or causing the work to be done, and
any persons shall forthwith stop the work until authorized by the Building
Commissioner to proceed with the work.
(Ord. 1990-1, passed 8-7-1990)
§ 150.44 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No certificate of occupancy for any building or structure erected, altered
or repaired after the adoption of this subchapter shall be issued unless the
building or structure was erected, altered or repaired in compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter. It shall be unlawful to occupy any building or
structure unless a full, partial or temporary certificate of occupancy has been
issued by the Building Commissioner.
(Ord. 1990-1, passed 8-7-1990) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.45 WORKMANSHIP.
   All work on the construction, alteration and repair of buildings and other
structures shall be performed in a good and workmanlike manner according to
accepted standards and practices in the trade.
(Ord. 1990-1, passed 8-7-1990)
§ 150.46 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, whether as owner,
lessee, sublessee or occupant, to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair,
improve, remove, convert, demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building
or structure, other than fences, in the town or cause to permit the same to be
done, contrary to or in violation of the provisions of this code.
(Ord. 1990-1, passed 8-7-1990) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.47 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   All persons shall have the right to appeal the Building Commissioner's
decision first to the Board of County Commissioners and then to the Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission, in accordance with the provisions of
I.C. 22-13-2-7.
(Ord. 1990-1, passed 8-7-1990)
§ 150.48 REMEDIES.
   The Building Commissioner shall in the name of the town bring action in the
Circuit Court of the county for mandatory and injunctive relief in the
enforcement of and to secure compliance with any order or orders made by the
Building Commissioner, and any action for mandatory or injunctive relief may be
joined with an action to recover the penalties provided for in this subchapter.
(Ord. 1990-1, passed 8-7-1990) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   If any person, firm or corporation shall violate any of the provisions
of §§
150.30 through
150.48, or shall do any act prohibited herein, or shall fail to perform any
duty lawfully enjoined, within the time prescribed by the Building
Commissioner, or shall fail, neglect or refuse to obey any lawful order given
by the Building Commissioner in connection with the provisions of §§
150.30 through
150.48 for each violation, failure or refusal, the person, firm or corporation
shall be fined in any sum not less than $100 nor more than $500. Each day of
unlawful activity as is prohibited by the first sentence of this division shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 1990-1, passed 8-7-1990)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
         
I.   ANNEXATIONS
         
II.   ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND REVITALIZATION
         
III.   FRANCHISES
         
IV.   VACATIONS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Res./Ord. No. Date Description
Res./
Ord.  Date Description
No.
           Annexing territory commencing at a point between the southeast quarter and the
           southwest quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 13, Township 24 North,
Res.  - -  Range Nine West, Benton County, on the south line of Section 13; thence north
           552 feet; thence east 594 feet; thence south 552 feet; thence west 602 feet to
           the place of the beginning.
           Annexing territory commencing at the southeast quarter and the southwest quarter
Res.  - -  of the southeast quarter of Section 13, Township 24 North, Range Nine West,
           Benton County, from thence north 522 feet; thence 358 feet; thence south 522
           feet; thence east 358 feet to the place of the beginning.
Res.  - -  Annexing Mauzy's Second Addition.
      6-
Res.  15-  Annexing the Broad Lawn Plat Addition.
      1896
1975- 10-  Annexing a part of the southwest quarter of Section 19, Township 24 North, Range
1     27-  Eight West, of the second principal meridian, Grant Township, containing 4.36
      1975 acres.
2007- 1-8- Annexing:
1     2007
           (1)   A part of the northwest quarter, northeast quarter and the southeast
           quarter of Section 19, Township 24 North, Range Eight West, Grant Township,
           containing 135.137 acres more or less;
           (2)   A part of the northwest quarter of Section 19, Township 24 North, Range
           Eight West, Grant Township, containing 15.999 acres, more or less; and
           (3)   A part of the southwest quarter of Section 19, Township 24 North, Range
           Eight West, of the second principal meridian, containing 4.36 acres.
 
TABLE II: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND REVITALIZATION
 
Res./Ord. No.  Date      Description
Res. 1996-2    6-24-1996 Economic revitalization area declaration for Ralph
                         Richard Robinson and James Bernard Freeland.
Res. 2007-0911 - -2007   Declaring an economic revitalization area and granting
                         a tax abatement for 110 North Clinton Street.
Res. 2-26-07   2-26-2007 Designating and declaring the HUB AG economic
                         development area to be an economic development area.
                         Confirming Res. 2-26-07, designating and declaring the
Res. 043007    4-30-2007 HUB AG economic development area to be an economic
                         development area.
Res. 2010-0412 4-12-2010 Confirming an economic revitalization area and
                         granting a tax abatement for 110 North Clinton Street.
 
TABLE III: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Description
Ord. No. Date       Description
                    Granting a franchise to Maurice O. Bish to provide for the
63       - -        construction, maintenance and operation of a system of
                    waterworks, electric lighting and heat and power.
1991-2   - -        A garbage, rubbish collection and landfill operation
                    agreement with Vermilion Waste Systems, Inc.
-        2-17-1896  Granting Central Union Telephone Company the right to erect
                    and maintain its poles and lines.
                    Granting a franchise to Presson and Dunn and their
43       6-1-1896   successors for a period of 20 years to construct a
                    telephone exchange.
-        9-20-1897  Granting a license and a franchise to Henry C. Harris to
                    erect and maintain an electric light system.
                    Granting permission to the Boswell Electric Light and
65       3-10-1902  Waterworks Company, its successors and assigns, to operate,
                    maintain, equip and extend an electric light plant.
                    Granting permission and authority to John Dunn, his
Res.     12-18-1902 successors and assigns, to erect and maintain a single line
                    of telephone poles extending through the town.
                    Granting Citizen's Water and Light Company permission and
-        3-29-1912  authority to erect poles, wires and all necessary
                    appliances in the streets and public grounds to transmit
                    electricity for light and power.
-        - -        Contracting with Citizen's Water and Light Company for
                    lights and fire hydrants.
-        - -        Granting a franchise to Boswell Telephone Company to
                    operate and maintain a telephone system.
-        - -        Ratifying, confirming and approving a franchise contract
                    made and entered into with the Boswell Water Company.
                    Granting Kentland TV and Kable a franchise for the purpose
1983-5   - -        of transmission and distribution of television signals for
                    cable television.
 
TABLE IV: VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Description
Ord.  Date Description
No.
1995- 11-
4     27-  Vacating Kelli Street.
      1995
2010- 6-   Vacating an alley lying between Lots 1 - 8 in Mauzy's Second Addition and Lots 12,
6-28  28-  13, 36, 37 and 60 in Mauzy's Second Addition.
      2010
2016- 4-
0412  12-  Vacating an alley between Lots 4 and 5 in James Mauzy’s First Addition.
      2016
2016- 8-9- Vacating an alley between Lots 10 and 11 in Laura Stokes’ First Addition.
0809  2016
           Vacating three alleys:
      7-      (1)   Between lots 13 and 14 and Lots 21 and 22 in Smith’s First Addition;
2018- 10-     (2)   From Main Street to the northeast corner of Lot 12 and northwest corner of
0710  2018 Lot 23 in Smith’s First Addition; and
              (3)   From Adams street to the southwest corner of Lot 3 and the northwest corner
           of Lot 2 in Block 8 in the original plat of the town.
2019- 11-  Vacating an alley between Lots 37 and 38 in Mauzy's Third Addition and Lots 9 and 10
1112  12-  in Mauzy's Third Addition.
      2019
2020- 12-  Vacating an alley lying south of Lots 5 and 20, and north of Lots 4 and 21 in Mauzy's
1208  8-   Second Addition.
      2020
2021- 10-
1012  12-  Vacating three alleys and one street in Smith's Second Addition.
      2021
          
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cites Code Section
I.C. Cites          Code Section
1-1-1-5             10.04
1-1-1-7             10.12
1-1-1-8             10.06
1-1-4-5             10.05
1-1-5-1             10.11
1-1-6-1             10.08
3-10-6              32.02
3-10-7              32.02
5-2-1-9             34.29
5-3-1               31.077
5-11-1-9(b)         32.04
5-11-1-27           36.08
5-11-10-1.6         35.04
5-11-10-2           35.03
5-14-1.5            31.020
5-14-1.5-4(a)       31.023
5-14-1.5-4(b)       31.024
5-14-1.5-4(c)       31.024
5-14-1.5-6.1        31.021
5-14-3-2            30.02
5-14-3-3            30.02,
                    31.021
5-14-3-4(b)(12)     31.021
5-16-9              72.02
                    36.20,
5-22                36.22,
                    36.24,
                    36.25
5-22-10-10          36.25
6-1.1-17            35.21,
                    35.22
6-1.1-17-3          35.20
6-3.6-9-17(h)(1)(A) 35.42
8-1.5-3.5           50.48,
                    52.32
8-1.5-4 et seq.     55.03
8-1.5-4             55.03
8-1.5-5-5           55.01,
                    55.02
                    55.01,
8-1.5-5 et seq.     55.04,
                    55.05
8-1.5-5-6           55.03
8-1.5-5-7           55.04,
                    55.05
8-1.5-5-8           55.04
8-1.5-5-9           55.04
8-1.5-5-10          55.04
8-1.5-5-11          55.04
8-14-1              35.06
8-14-2              35.06
8-16-3              35.41
8-22-2              31.021
8-22-3              31.021
8-22-3-25           35.41
9-13-2              70.01
9-13-2-1            90.01
9-13-2-49.3         74.01,
                    90.01
9-13-2-69.7         74.01
9-13-2-94.5         74.01,
                    90.01
9-13-2-104          74.01,
                    90.01
9-13-2-109          74.01,
                    90.01
9-18.5-5            72.02
9-18.5-8            72.02
9-21-5-6            71.002
9-21-9-3            74.10
9-21-9-4            74.10
9-22-1              90.01
9-25-2-3            74.01
9-26-6-1            74.11
9-30-6-5            36.07
13-22               31.077
13-23               31.077
13-24               31.077
13-25-4             31.077
13-25-5             31.077
13-25-5-8.5(f)      31.077
14-8-2-185          74.01,
                    90.01
14-16-1-8           74.01
14-16-1-11.5        74.01
14-19-1-0.5         74.01,
                    90.01
14-27-6-48          35.41
14-33-14            35.41
16-23-1-40          35.41
16-34.5-1-2         31.021
16-42-19-2          36.07
20-29-6-7           31.021
22-9-1-4 et seq.    94.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.    94.01
22-9.5-2-2          94.02
22-9.5-2-3          94.02
22-9.5-2-4          94.02
22-9.5-2-8          94.02
22-9.5-2-9          94.02
22-9.5-2-11         94.02
22-9.5-2-13         94.02
22-9.5-3 et seq.    94.10
22-9.5-3            94.03
22-9.5-4-8          94.11
22-9.5-5            94.02
22-9.5-5-1          94.03
22-9.5-6            94.02,
                    94.11
22-11-14-1          96.01
22-11-14-10.5       96.01
22-13-2-7           150.47
22-15-3-1           150.35
25                  31.021
26-1-2.1-502.5      50.47
33-35-1             37.09
33-35-3-1           32.03
33-35-3-2           32.03
33-36-2             37.09
33-36-2-1           37.01,
                    37.02
33-36-2-2           37.02
33-36-2-3           37.03
33-36-2-4           37.09
33-36-2-5           37.09
33-36-3             37.03
33-36-3-1           37.04
33-36-3-2           37.05
33-36-3-3           37.06
33-36-3-5           37.06
33-36-3-6           37.08
33-36-3-7           37.09
33-37               37.08
33-37-4             37.08
33-37-7-5           37.08
33-37-7-6           37.08
36-1-3              50.16,
                    50.46
36-1-3-6            50.46
36-1-5-4            36.06
36-1-6 et seq.      90.01,
                    90.05
36-1-6-2            90.05
36-1-8-5            35.36
36-1-8-11.5(a)      36.11
36-1-20.2           36.06
36-1-21             36.06
36-4-6-11           36.06
36-5-2-3(a)         31.001
36-5-2-3(b)         31.001
36-5-2-3(c)         31.001
36-5-2-3(d)         31.001
36-5-2-3(e)         31.001
36-5-2-4.1          31.077
36-5-2-4.2          31.076
36-5-2-6            31.002
36-5-2-7            31.004
36-5-2-8            31.026
36-5-2-9            31.002
36-5-2-9.2          31.025
36-5-2-9.4          36.06
36-5-2-9.4(a)       31.075
36-5-2-9.4(b)       31.076
36-5-2-9.6          31.075
36-5-2-9.8          31.076
36-5-2-10           31.077
36-5-2-10.2         31.078
36-5-3-3            35.20
36-5-3-4            35.21
36-5-3-5            35.22
36-5-4-2            35.01
36-5-4-3            35.02
36-5-4-4            35.03
36-5-4-6            35.04
36-5-4-7            35.05
36-5-4-13(b)        35.06
36-5-6-2            32.03
36-5-6-3(a)         32.01
36-5-6-3(b)         32.02
36-5-6-3(c)         32.02
36-5-6-3(d)         32.02
36-5-6-4            32.02
36-5-6-5            32.03
36-5-6-5.1          32.05
36-5-6-6            32.03
36-5-6-7            32.04
36-5-6-8            32.04
36-5-7-3            34.29
36-7                31.076,
                    31.077
36-7-9 et seq.      90.01,
                    150.01
36-7-9              150.15
36-7-9-2            150.01,
                    150.02
36-7-9-4            90.01
36-7-10.1           50.46
36-7-10.1 et seq.   90.01
36-7-10.1-3         90.05
36-7-10.1-4         90.05
36-7-12             33.15
36-7-12-6           33.16
36-7-14             33.01,
                    33.02
36-7-14-3           33.01
36-8-3-4            34.01
36-8-14             35.41
36-9-4-48           35.41
36-9-16-2           35.41
36-9-16-3           35.41
36-9-16.5           35.41
36-9-17             35.41
36-9-23             50.46
36-9-23-28          50.15,
                    50.16
36-9-23-31          50.46
36-9-23-33          50.46
36-9-23-33(l)       50.46
36-9-23-34          50.46
36-9-26             35.41
36-9-27-100         35.41
36-10-3-21          35.41
36-10-3-22          35.37
36-10-4-36          35.41
36-10-5-2           95.01
                    
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No.      Date Passed Code Section
-             - -         TSO Table I
-             - -         TSO Table I
-             - -         TSO Table I
-             6-15-1896   TSO Table I
-             12-18-1902  TSO Table III
1996-2        6-24-1996   TSO Table II
2007-0911     - -2007     TSO Table II
-             1-8-2007    33.01,
                          33.02
-             2-12-2007   33.15,
                          33.16
2-26-07       2-26-2007   TSO Table II
2007-04-09-07 4-9-2007    33.03,
                          33.04
043007        4-30-2007   TSO Table II
2010-0412     4-12-2010   TSO Table II
2016-0712-02  7-12-2016   36.09
2016-08.09B   8-9-2016    36.08
2017-1010B    10-10-2017  50.49
2017-1212     12-12-2017  36.10
                         
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.                     Date Passed Code Section
-                            - -         93.075,
                                         93.999
37                           - -         96.15
63                           - -         TSO Table III
84-2                         - -         150.01
1983-13                      - -         93.030
                                         93.015,
1983-15                      - -         93.016,
                                         93.999
1987-2                       - -         52.20
1991-2                       - -         TSO Table III
1998-2                       - -         36.20—
                                         36.25
2006-1                       - -         52.20
10                           11-7-1883   132.01
24                           - -1891     97.01
29                           8-15-1892   115.15—115.18, 115.99
30                           9-17-1892   96.15
-                            2-17-1896   TSO Table III
40                           3-30-1896   95.50,
                                         95.99
43                           6-1-1896    TSO Table III
-                            9-20-1897   TSO Table III
58-1/2                       6-18-1900   93.048,
                                         93.999
64                           2-3-1902    93.060,
                                         93.999
65                           3-10-1902   TSO Table III
                                         71.060—
-                            3-15-1915   71.066,
                                         71.999
                                         93.045—
1983-12                      - -1943     93.047,
                                         93.999
1983-17                      11-6-1950   54.04,
                                         54.99
1983-18                      11-6-1950   54.03,
                                         54.99
                                         71.030,
1983-11                      6-5-1952    72.01,
                                         72.15,
                                         72.99
1969-1                       11-24-1969  33.30—
                                         33.32
1975-1                       10-27-1975  TSO Table I
1983-17                      10-27-1975  52.20
1975-4                       12-16-1975  52.20—
                                         52.29
                                         52.01—
1975-5                       12-16-1975  52.08,
                                         52.99
1976-1                       12-13-1976  53.01—
                                         53.07
1977-1                       4-11-1977   54.01
1983-19                      4-25-1977   52.05
1978-1                       4-10-1978   52.20
1978-2                       12-11-1978  52.31
1982-3                       8-9-1982    35.38
1982-4                       8-9-1982    36.05
1983-20                      10-11-1982  52.20
1983-5                       - -         TSO Table III
1985-1                       3-25-1985   52.20
1985-2                       11-12-1985  52.20
1985-2A                      3-24-1986   52.20
1986-2                       5-12-1986   52.30
                                         70.01,
1988-1                       10-11-1988  70.15,
                                         71.001,
                                         71.002
                                         150.30—
1990-1                       8-7-1990    150.48,
                                         150.99
91-1                         4-22-1991   51.01—
                                         51.07
                                         110.01—
1992-1                       4-24-1992   110.03,
                                         110.99
1992-2                       6-22-1992   52.20
1992-3                       7-13-1992   52.26
1992-5                       9-14-1992   32.06
1992-6                       12-14-1992  31.005
1993-1                       1-11-1993   51.04
                                         94.01—
                                         94.08,
1993-2                       5-10-1993   94.10,
                                         94.11,
                                         94.99
1993-3                       12-13-1993  52.20
1994-2                       10-10-1994  54.02,
                                         54.99
1995-4                       11-27-1995  TSO Table IV
1997-1                       7-14-1997   52.20
1997-4                       10-27-1997  36.03
1997-5                       10-27-1997  36.04
1998-1                       5-11-1998   30.16
1999-1                       3-22-1999   31.057
1999-3                       11-8-1999   52.30
2000-2                       7-24-2000   95.01—
                                         95.05
2000-3                       12-28-2000  130.01
2001-2                       2-26-2001   91.010,
                                         91.999
2001-3                       7-23-2001   Ch. 75, Sch. I
                                         131.01,
2001-4                       12-10-2001  131.02,
                                         131.99
                                         52.45,
2001-5                       12-10-2001  52.46,
                                         52.99
2002-1                       7-22-2002   72.16
2003-1                       2-10-2003   35.37
2003-2                       3-10-2003   50.45
2003-4                       5-12-2003   130.01,
                                         130.99
                                         93.001,
2003-5                       9-8-2003    93.002,
                                         93.999
                                         71.002,
2003-6                       9-8-2003    71.003,
                                         71.999
                                         73.01,
2003-7                       9-22-2003   73.02,
                                         73.99
2003-8                       11-10-2003  150.15
2004-1                       2-23-2004   71.015,
                                         71.999
2004-2                       3-22-2004   35.36
2004-3                       6-14-2004   30.02,
                                         30.99
2004-4                       10-25-2004  30.01
2004-5                       12-27-2004  50.30
2004-6                       12-27-2004  50.15,
                                         50.16
2005-2                       2-14-2005   36.40
2006-2                       2-27-2006   51.04
2006-3                       9-11-2006   36.01
2006-4                       10-10-2006  34.01—
                                         34.10
                                         95.20,
2006-5                       12-26-2006  95.21,
                                         95.99
2007-1                       1-8-2007    TSO Table I
2006-2007-2                  2-26-2007   33.15,
                                         33.16
2006-2007-3                  2-26-2007   33.01,
                                         33.02
2008-1                       2-11-2008   31.057
2008-2                       5-12-2008   52.22
2008-3                       8-11-2008   51.04
2008-4                       8-11-2008   30.03
2008-5                       10-14-2008  34.09,
                                         36.40
2009-1                       5-11-2009   36.40
                                         74.01,
2009-2                       8-24-2009   74.02,
                                         74.04—
                                         74.11
2009-3                       9-14-2009   150.01,
                                         150.02
2009-4                       10-26-2009  35.35
2010-1                       1-11-2010   34.25—
                                         34.29
2010-05-24                   5-24-2010   31.001,
                                         32.02
2010-6-28                    6-28-2010   TSO Table IV
2010-12-13                   12-13-2010  52.20
2010-12-13-2                 12-13-2010  Adopting Ordinance
2013-2-25                    2-25-2013   36.06
2013-6.10                    6-10-2013   30.16
2013-8-12.3                  8-12-2013   36.40
2013-12-9-1                  12-9-2013   31.006
2013-12-9-2                  12-9-2013   35.07
                                         32.03,
                                         50.45—
2013-12-9-3                  12-9-2013   50.47,
                                         92.01—
                                         92.04
2013-12-9-4                  12-9-2013   35.39
2013-12-9-5                  12-9-2013   35.40
2014-5.12.1                  5-12-2014   36.02
                                         94.02,
2014-5.12.2                  5-12-2014   94.07,
                                         94.09,
                                         94.12
2014-5.12.3                  5-12-2014   35.38
2014-8-11                    8-11-2014   36.26
2014-12-8-1                  12-8-2015   36.40
2015-7-13-1                  7-13-2015   35.41
Policy & Procedure 2015-4-27 4-27-2015   50.48
2015-11.9                    11-9-2015   52.20
2016-0209                    2-9-2016    36.06
2016-0412                    4-12-2016   TSO Table IV
                                         110.01—
                                         110.03,
2016-0614                    6-12-2016   110.99,
                                         112.01,
                                         112.02,
                                         112.99
2016-0712.03                 7-12-2016   35.42
2016-0809                    8-9-2016    TSO Table IV
2016-1128                    11-28-2016  52.20
2017-03                      3-14-2017   52.20
2017-6-6                     6-6-2017    52.22
2017-1010                    10-10-2017  52.20
2018-0213A                   2-13-2018   36.40
2018-0213B                   2-13-2018   55.01—
                                         55.05
2018-4-17                    4-17-2018   115.01
2018-0515                    5-15-2018   55.05
                                         34.05,
                                         34.06,
                                         34.08,
2018-0515A                   5-15-2018   34.25,
                                         34.26,
                                         34.28,
                                         34.29
2018-0612                    6-12-2018   52.20
2018-0710                    7-10-2018   TSO Table IV
2019-10-8                    10-8-2019   52.22
2019-1112                    11-12-2019  TSO Table IV
                                         50.15,
                                         50.16,
                                         50.40,
2019-1210                    12-10-2019  50.45—
                                         50.47,
                                         52.20,
                                         52.32
2020-1013                    - -         52.20
2020-1208                    12-8-2020   TSO Table IV
                                         50.40,
2021-02                      2-9-2021    50.45,
                                         50.46
2021-0511                    5-11-2021   35.43
2021-1012                    10-12-2021  TSO Table IV
2021-1012B                   - -         36.25
                                         10.99,
2022-0308D                   3-8-2022    74.01—
                                         74.11
2022-0412                    4-12-2022   90.01—
                                         90.05
2022-0412A                   4-12-2022   96.01
                                         10.99,
2022-0412B                   4-12-2022   54.99,
                                         71.999,
                                         93.99
2022-0809A                   8-9-2022    36.11
2022-0809B                   8-9-2022    51.08
2023-0411                    - -         52.20,
                                         52.26
2024-0514                    5-14-2024   116.01,
                                         116.99
2024-1211                    12-10-2024  51.04
                                        
 
