BOURBON, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord. 2023-09, passed 8-8-2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes,
titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Bourbon
Town Code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified ordinances,”
or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or subsection.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters, or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning,
application, or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   (a)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary,
and usual sense.
         (b)   Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent,
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town Council.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council.
      COUNTY. Marshall County, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads, and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver, and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      TOWN. The town of Bourbon, Indiana.
      TOWNSHIP. The township or townships in which the town is located.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing, or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter, or section are severable as provided in division (B) above
does not affect the operation of division (B) above with respect to that
chapter, subchapter, or section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority, or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties, or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority, or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers, and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday, or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   (A)   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former
section or law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section
or law is not revived unless it so expressly provides.
   (B)   The repeal of any section shall not extinguish or release any penalty,
forfeiture, or liability incurred under the section, unless the repealing
section so expressly provides.
   (C)   The section shall be treated as still remaining in force for the
purposes of sustaining any proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of
the penalty, forfeiture, or liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the town published in its prior code and subsequently amended,
the previous code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(Prior
Code, §      ).”
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GOVERNING BODY
      
31.   FINANCES AND TAXATION
      
32.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
33.   GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
      
34.   ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
      
35.   ORGANIZATIONS
CHAPTER 30: GOVERNING BODY
Section
   
30.01   Council meetings; order of business
   
30.02   Legislative districts
   
30.03   Town Council elections
   
30.04   Nominations
§ 30.01 COUNCIL MEETINGS; ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   The Town Council shall meet at the Town Hall on the second Tuesday of
each month at 6:00 p.m. If any such regular meeting day shall fall on a legal
holiday, then the meeting shall be held the following day at 6:00 p.m. The
meeting minutes, once approved by the town, from the public meeting shall be
placed on the town website for the public’s availability.
   (B)   Special meetings of the Town Council may be called by the President or
by a majority of the Council by notifying the Clerk-Treasurer of the date of
the meeting. The Clerk-Treasurer shall notify each Council member of such
meeting or leave a written notice thereof at each Council member’s residence.
   (C)   A majority of all the Council members shall constitute a quorum. If
the presence of a quorum is questioned and it shall be ascertained that a
quorum is not present, no debate or motion, but to adjourn, shall be in order
until a quorum is present.
   (D)   The order of business of the Council is as follows (the order of
business may be altered by a majority of the Council):
      (1)   Each meeting of the Council shall be opened by a roll call and note
of members present and absent;
      (2)   Reading and correcting minutes of the preceding regular or special
meeting.
         (a)   The reading of the minutes may be dispensed with by the
presiding officer, or on request by a member by unanimous consent, and stand
approved subject to objection.
         (b)   When objected to, it shall be determined by vote. Any motion to
correct mistakes made in entries shall be deemed a question of privilege and
proceed with until disposed of.
      (3)   Comments by the public;
      (4)   Old business;
      (5)   New business;
      (6)   Report from department heads;
      (7)   Comments from Council members;
      (8)   Report from Town Attorney and Clerk-Treasurer; and
      (9)   Close.
   (E)   (1)   The President of the Town Council shall be elected by the
members of the Town Council at the first meeting of the calendar year.
      (2)   The President shall take the chair at the hour designated to
perform all the duties as set forth herein.
   (F)   The President or presiding officer shall preserve order and decorum,
and shall decide all questions of order without debate, subject to an appeal to
the Council. The presiding officer may submit to the Council any question of
order for a decision.
   (G)   The President may speak to all matters coming before the Council, and
shall have the right to vote on all ordinances and motions.
   (H)   The President shall appoint the members of all standing committees and
any special committees as may be ordered by the Council.
      (1)   He or she shall determine the number of members to serve on a
committee and may name the chairperson of it. Standing committees shall be
appointed at the commencement of the term of the Council.
      (2)   Members of standing committees shall serve only during the term of
the President appointing them.
      (3)   If any member of a committee refuses or is unable to perform the
duties required of him or her, the President may replace that member.
   (I)   To pass an ordinance, a majority vote of all of the Council members is
required.
   (J)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall call for members’ votes and every member
shall be required to vote when a question is put, unless, for good cause, a
Council member shall abstain.
   (K)   No Council member shall be permitted to vote after the results have
been announced, but may for special reasons change or withdraw his or her vote
by unanimous consent of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.1) (Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 30.02 LEGISLATIVE DISTRICTS.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-5-2-4.1(g), the legislative body districts for election
to the Town Council, a town having a population of less than 3,500, are now
hereby abolished.
(Prior Code, § 2.3) (Ord. 1997-7, passed 7-15-1997)
§ 30.03 TOWN COUNCIL ELECTIONS.
   (A)   The Council members of the town shall be elected at large by a vote of
all the qualified voters of the town.
   (B)   In the town election to be conducted in 1979, three Council members
shall be elected, one of whom shall be designated to serve a term of two years
beginning January 1, 1980, and the remaining two Council members to be elected
for a term of four years beginning January 1, 1980. Thereafter, all Council
members shall be elected to serve for a term of four years in accordance with
the law of the state concerning town elections.
   (C)   Following the election conducted in November 1979, the elected Council
member who shall have received the least number of votes in said election shall
serve as such Council member for a term of two years, and the remaining two
Council members shall serve for a term of four years.
(Prior Code, § 2.2) (Ord. 1978-1, passed 1-18-1978; Ord. 1979-1, passed 1-17-
1979)
§ 30.04 NOMINATIONS.
   (A)   Candidates for town office for the town shall be nominated by primary
election, beginning January 1, 2019.
   (B)   The nomination of candidates for town office in the town by town
convention is hereby abolished.
   (C)   The County Election Board shall conduct the primary election for the
nomination of major party candidates for town offices for the town.
   (D)   All state statutes governing primary elections for town shall apply to
the nomination of candidates for town offices for the town.
(Ord. 2018-3, passed 9-11-2018)
CHAPTER 31: FINANCES AND TAXATION
Section
Funds
   
31.001   Capital Improvement Fund
   
31.002   Motor Vehicle Highway Fund
   
31.003   LOIT Special Distribution Fund
   
31.004   Community Crossings Grant Fund
   
31.005   American Rescue Plan Fund
   
31.006   Opioid Settlement Fund
   
31.007   Cumulative Capital Development Fund
   
31.008   Promotion account; General Fund
   
31.009   Fire Equipment Replacement Fund
Rates and Fees
   
31.020   Mitigation rates for emergency departments
   
31.021   Park fee schedule
   
31.022   Matchett Center fee schedule
   
31.023   Standard operating procedure; Police Department and towing
   
31.024   Miscellaneous service and equipment fees
Distribution of Monies
   
31.035   Clerk-Treasurer to pay certain EMS claims
Fixed Asset Capitalization Policy
   
31.050   Definitions
   
31.051   Recording and accounting
   
31.052   Safeguarding of assets
Purchasing Rules and Regulations
   
31.065   Purchasing agent
   
31.066   Purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States
   
31.067   Protection of offers; status of documents as public records
   
31.068   Evidence of financial responsibility
   
31.069   Modification, termination of contracts
   
31.070   Purchase of services
   
31.071   Publication of notices; invitations for bids
   
31.072   Receiving offers
   
31.073   Correction, withdrawal of bids
   
31.074   Cancellation of solicitation
   
31.075   Small purchases
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned Vehicle Fund, see §
90.20
   Unsafe Building and Unsafe Premises Fund, see §
150.03
FUNDS
§ 31.001 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   (A)   (1)   In accordance with the requirement of I.C. 6-7-1-31.1, there is
hereby created a special fund to be known as the “Cumulative Capital
Improvement Fund of Bourbon,” into which the cigarette taxes allotted to the
town by reason of the Indiana Cigarette Law, being I.C. 6-7-1-0.3 et seq. as
amended, shall be deposited.
      (2)   Said funds shall be a cumulative fund and all the monies deposited
into said Fund shall be appropriated and used solely for capital improvements
as hereinafter defined, and none of such monies shall revert to the General
Fund or be used for any purposes other than capital improvement.
   (B)   (1)   The term CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS means the construction or
improvement of any property owned by the town, including, but not limited to,
streets, thoroughfares, and sewers, and retirement of general obligation bonds
of the town issued, and the proceeds used for the purpose of constructing
capital improvements.
      (2)   The term CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS shall not include salaries of any
public officials or employees, except those which are directly chargeable to a
capital improvements.
(Prior Code, § 2.4) (Ord. 1-1965, passed 6-16-1965)
§ 31.002 MOTOR VEHICLE HIGHWAY FUND.
   (A)   The “Motor Vehicle Highway Fund” be renamed “Motor Vehicle Highway
Fund-Unallocated (201).”
      (1)   The fund will receive 50% of all State Motor Vehicle Highway
distributions received after June 30, 2017.
      (2)   The fund will retain any cash balance including investment income
and interest as of June 30, 2017.
      (3)   The fund will receive all miscellaneous revenues related to either
Motor Vehicle Highway Fund, allocated or unallocated.
      (4)   The fund will be used for any legal expenditure of motor vehicle
highway dollars.
   (B)   The “Motor Vehicle Highway Fund-Allocated” (“Allocated”) is created.
      (1)   The Allocated Fund will receive 50% of all State Motor Vehicle
Highway distributions received after June 30, 2017.
      (2)   The Allocated Fund will be used solely for construction,
reconstruction, and maintenance of highways, as defined in I.C. 8-14-1-1.
      (3)   The Allocated Fund balances will remain in the fund and will not
revert to the Unallocated Fund.
      (4)   The Allocated Fund balances will not be eligible for transfer to
the Rainy Day Fund 448.
(Ord. 2017-2, passed 7-11-2017)
§ 31.003 LOIT SPECIAL DISTRIBUTION FUND.
   (A)   The sources of funding for the newly established fund are a special
distribution of Local Option Income Tax pursuant to I.C. 6-3.6-9-17 and any
other funding source not specifically prohibited by law.
   (B)   Expenditures from this Fund are restricted to allowable purposes per
I.C. 6-3.6-9-17(h)(1)(A) as follows:
      (1)   Engineering, land acquisition, construction, resurfacing,
maintenance, restoration, or rehabilitation of both local and arterial road and
street systems;
      (2)   The payment of principal and interest on bonds sold primarily to
finance road, street, or thoroughfare projects;
      (3)   Any local costs required to undertake a recreational or reservoir
road project under I.C. 8-23-30;
      (4)   Capital projects of a Council of aviation commissioners established
under I.C. 8-22-2 or an airport authority established under I.C. 8-22-3-1; and
      (5)   The Fund shall be subject to the same appropriation process as
other municipal funds.
(Ord. 2016-1, passed 6-14-2016)
§ 31.004 COMMUNITY CROSSINGS GRANT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established in the town a Fund for the deposit of any
grant(s) awarded to the town from the State Department of Transportation
pursuant to any Local Roads and Bridges Matching Grant Agreement (the “grant
agreements”) entered into between the town and the State Department of
Transportation. Said Fund shall be referred to as the “Community Crossings
Grant Fund.”
   (B)   Monies deposited in the Community Crossings Grant Fund shall be
expended with appropriations only for the purposes for which the grant was
awarded under the grant agreements.
   (C)   Any unexpended monies in said Community Crossings Grant Fund at the
close of the project (as described in the applicable grant agreement) that were
received from the State Department of Transportation shall be returned to the
State Department of Transportation in accordance with said grant agreement.
   (D)   (1)   The express or implied repeal or amendment by this section or
any other ordinance or part of any other ordinance does not affect any rights
or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or procedures begun prior to the
effective date of this section.
      (2)   Those rights, liabilities, and proceedings are continued, and
penalties shall be imposed and enforced under the repealed or amended section
as if this section had not been adopted.
   (E)   (1)   No part of this section shall be interpreted to conflict with
any local, state, or federal laws, and all reasonable efforts should be made to
harmonize same.
      (2)   Should any section or part thereof of this section be declared by a
court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such decision shall not affect
the validity of the section as a whole, or any other portion thereof other than
that portion so declared to be invalid, and for this purpose the provisions of
this section are hereby declared to be severable.
(Ord. 2017-3, passed 10-10-2017)
§ 31.005 AMERICAN RESCUE PLAN FUND.
   (A)   There is created a new Fund with the Clerk-Treasurer’s office that
shall be entitled “ARP Grant Fund,” and the Clerk-Treasurer has issued a fund
number of 176 with respect to these funds, and such funds shall be non-
reverting.
   (B)   The purpose of the funds is to be used for only the following reasons
as set forth in § 603(C) of the ARP in accordance with U.S. Treasury Guidance:
      (1)   To respond to the public health emergency with respect to the
Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) or its negative economic impacts, including
assistance to households, small businesses, and non-profit, or to aid the
impacted industries such as tourism, travel, and hospitality;
      (2)   To respond to workers performing essential work during the COVID-19
public health emergency by providing premium pay to eligible works of the
metropolitan city, the non-entitlement unit of local government, or the county
that are performing such essential work, or by providing grants to eligible
employers that have eligible workers who perform essential work;
      (3)   For the provision of government services to the extent of the
reduction in revenue of such metropolitan city, non-entitlement unit of local
government, or county due to the COVID-19 public health emergency relative to
revenues collected in the most recent full fiscal year of the metropolitan
city, non-entitlement unit of local government, or county prior to the
emergency; or
      (4)   To make necessary investments in water, sewer, or broadband
infrastructure as approved by the U.S. Treasury.
   (C)   The funds shall be appropriated by the town’s fiscal body before use.
   (D)   All expenditure of funds shall be approved by the Town Council with
any and all claims to be paid from the town’s ARP Fund.
   (E)   The Town Council will establish the plans, conditions, and rules upon
which the funds are to be requested and used.
   (F)   Any unused funds shall be paid back to the U.S. Treasury when
required.
   (G)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall keep accurate and complete financial records
of the receipt and expenditure of any and all funds deposited and paid from
this new Fund.
   (H)   No money received in the ARP Fund shall be used for any type of
deposit into any pension fund.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 4-13-2021)
§ 31.006 OPIOID SETTLEMENT FUND.
   (A)   I.C. 4-6-15 states that funds received from opioid litigation and
settlements be maintained in funds with the following number and names:
      (1)   Fund 2256: Opioid Settlement Unrestricted; and
      (2)   Fund 2257: Opioid Settlement Restricted.
   (B)   The restricted portion is controlled by the settlement agreement,
while the unrestricted portion may be spent in the same manner as money in a
General Fund.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 10-11-2022)
§ 31.007 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   A need now exists for the reestablishment of a Cumulative Capital
Development Fund for all uses as set out in I.C. 36-9-15.5.
   (B)   The Council will adhere to the provisions of I.C. 36-9-15.5. The
proposed fund will not exceed
$0.05 per $100 of assessed valuation beginning with taxes payable in 2024.
(Ord. 2023-5, passed 4-11-2023)
§ 31.008 PROMOTION ACCOUNT; GENERAL FUND.
   An account shall be established within the general fund of said town
designated as the Promotional Account on an annual basis in a sum not to exceed
$2,500.
(Prior Code, § 2.10) (Ord. 1986-5, passed 12-3-1986)
§ 31.009 FIRE EQUIPMENT REPLACEMENT FUND.
   (A)   A separate fund is hereby created to be designated as the Fire
Equipment Replacement Fund.
   (B)   The town and the township of the county may make deposits to such fund
as such governmental entities may hereafter agree.
   (C)   Such Fund shall be maintained as a fund separate from the General Fund
or other accounts of the town.
   (D)   Such Fund shall be continuing in nature and shall not be drawn upon
except for the specific purpose that such fund is created for pursuant to this
section.
   (E)   The purpose of this fund shall be specifically to provide equipment
for fire protection purposes for the residents of the town and the township of
the county.
   (F)   The town and the township of the county, by their proper elected
officials, shall hereafter enter into a written agreement which will define how
the Clerk-Treasurer of said town may draft against such fund for the stated
purpose of the same.
(Prior Code, § 2.15) (Ord. 1996-5, passed 10-15-1996)
RATES AND FEES
§ 31.020 MITIGATION RATES FOR EMERGENCY DEPARTMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   The town shall initiate mitigation rates for the delivery of
emergency and non-emergency services by the Fire Department for personnel,
supplies, and equipment to the scene of emergency and non-emergency incidents
as listed in division (E) below.
      (2)   The mitigation rates shall be based on actual costs of the services
and that which is usual, customary, and reasonable (UCR), as shown in division
(E) below, which may include any services, personnel, supplies, and equipment
and with baselines established by addendum to the document codified herein.
   (B)   A claim shall be filed to the responsible party(s) through his, her,
or their insurance carrier. In some circumstances, the responsible party(s)
will be billed directly.
   (C)   The Fire Department’s Town Council may make rules or regulations and
from time to time may amend, revoke, or add rules and regulations, not
consistent with this section, as they may deem necessary or expedient in
respect to billing for these mitigation rates or the collection thereof.
   (D)   It is found and determined that all formal actions of the Town Council
concerning and relating to the adoption of this section were adopted in open
meetings of the Town Council, and that all deliberations of the Town Council
and any of its committees that resulted in such formal actions were in
accordance with all legal requirements, and the codified ordinances of the Town
Council.
   (E)   (1)   The mitigation rates below are average “billing levels,” and are
typical for the incident responses listed, however, when a claim is submitted,
it will be itemized and based on the actual services provided.
      (2)   Motor vehicle incidents rates are as follows.
         (a)   Level 1, $435. Provide hazardous materials assessment and scene
stabilization. This will be the most common “billing level.” This occurs almost
every time the Fire Department responds to an accident/incident.
         (b)   Level 2, $495. Includes Level 1 services as well as clean up and
material used (sorbents) for hazardous fluid clean up and disposal. The town
will bill at this level if the Fire Department has to clean up any gasoline or
other automotive fluids that are spilled as a result of the accident/incident.
         (c)   Level 3, $605. For car fires, provide scene safety, fire
suppression, breathing air, rescue tools, hand tools, hose, tip use, foam,
structure protection, and clean up gasoline or other automotive fluids that are
spilled as a result of the accident/incident.
         (d)   Level 4, $1,800. Includes Level 1 and 2 services as well as
extrication (heavy rescue tools, ropes, airbags, cribbing, and the like). The
town will bill at this level if the Fire Department has to free/remove anyone
from the vehicle(s) using any equipment. The town will not bill at this level
if the patient is simply unconscious and the Fire Department is able to open
the door to access the patient. This level is to be billed only if equipment is
deployed.
         (e)   Level 5, $2,200. Includes Levels 1, 2, and 4 services as well as
Air Care (multi-engine company response, mutual aid, helicopter). We will bill
at this level any time a helicopter is utilized to transport the patient(s).
         (f)   Level 6, itemized response. The Fire Department has the option
to bill each incident as an independent event with custom mitigation rates, for
each incident using, itemized rates deemed usual, customary and reasonable
(UCR). These incidents will be billed and itemized per apparatus, per
personnel, plus products, and equipment used.
   (F)   Additional time on-scene is as follows.
      (1)   Engine billed at $400 per hour.
      (2)   Truck billed at $500 per hour.
      (3)   Miscellaneous equipment billed at $300.
   (G)   HAZMAT levels are as follows.
      (1)   Level 1, $700. For basic responses, the claim will include engine
response, first responder assignment, perimeter establishment, evacuations,
set-up, and command.
      (2)   Level 2, $2,500. For intermediate responses, the claim will include
engine response, first responder assignment, HAZMAT certified team and
appropriate equipment, perimeter establishment, evacuations, set-up and
command, Level A or B suit donning, breathing, and air and detection equipment,
and set-up and removal of decon center.
      (3)   Level 3, $5,900. For advanced responses, the claim will include
engine response, first responder assignment, HAZMAT certified team and
appropriate equipment, perimeter establishment, evacuations, first responder
set-up and command, Level A or B suit donning, breathing air and detection
equipment, and robot deployment. Setup and removal of decon center, detection
equipment, recovery and identification of material, and disposal and
environment clean up. Includes above in addition to any disposal rates of
material and contaminated equipment and material used at scene. Includes three
hours of on scene time, with each additional hour at $300 per HAZMAT team.
   (H)   Additional time on-scene (for all levels of service) engine billed at
$400 per hour.
   (I)   Truck billed at $500 per hour.
   (J)   Miscellaneous equipment billed at $300.
   (K)   False alarm billing rates are as follows.
      (1)   The first false alarm within 12-months in a calendar year is free
of charge.
      (2)   The second false alarm in a 12-month calendar year is billed at
$100.
      (3)   The third false alarm in a 12-month calendar year is billed at
$200.
      (4)   The fourth through sixth false alarms in a 12-month calendar year
are billed at $300 per event not to exceed $500 per calendar day.
   (L)   Fire investigation rates are as follows: Fire investigation team, at
$275 per hour, and includes:
      (1)   Scene safety;
      (2)   Investigation;
      (3)   Source identification;
      (4)   K-9/arson dog unit;
      (5)   Identification equipment;
      (6)   Mobile detection unit;
      (7)   Fire report; and
      (8)   The claim begins when the Fire Investigator responds to the
incident and is billed for logged time only.
   (M)   (1)   Fires rates are as follows: Assignments shall be $400 per hour,
per engine/$500 per hour, per truck, and includes:
         (a)   Scene safety;
         (b)   Investigation; and
         (c)   Fire I Hazard Control.
      (2)   This will be the most common “billing level.” This occurs almost
every time the Fire Department responds to an incident.
   (N)   A Fire Department has the option to bill each fire as an independent
event with custom mitigation rates, which are itemized, per person, at various
pay levels and for itemized products use.
   (O)   (1)   Illegal fires regulations are as follows: Assignments shall be
$400 per hour, per engine at $500 per hour, per truck.
      (2)   When a fire is started by any person or persons that requires a
Fire Department response during a time or season when fires are regulated or
controlled by local or state rules, provisions, or ordinances because of
pollution or fire danger concerns, such person or persons will be liable for
the Fire Department response at a cost not to exceed the actual expenses
incurred by the Fire Department to respond and contain the fire.
         (a)   Similarly, if a fire is started where permits are required for
such a fire and the permit was not obtained and the Fire Department is required
to respond to contain the fire the responsible party(s) will be liable for the
response at a cost not to exceed the actual expenses incurred by the Fire
Department.
         (b)   The actual expenses will include direct labor, equipment costs,
and any other costs that can be reasonably allocated to the cost of the
response.
   (P)   Water incidents are as follows.
      (1)   Level 1, basic response. The claim will include engine response,
first responder assignment, perimeter establishment, evacuations, first
responder set-up and command, and scene safety and investigation (including
possible patient contact and hazard control).
         (a)   This will be the most common “billing level.” This occurs almost
every time the Fire Department responds to a water incident; and
         (b)   Billed at $400 plus $50 per hour, per rescue person.
      (2)   Level 2, intermediate response. Includes Level 1 services as well
as clean up and materials used (sorbents), minor hazardous clean up, and
disposal.
         (a)   The town will bill at this level if the Fire Department has to
clean up small amounts of gasoline or other fluids that are spilled as a result
of the incident.
         (b)   Billed at $800 plus $50 per hour, per rescue person.
      (3)   Level 3, advanced response. Includes Level 1 and Level 2 services
as well as D.A.R.T. activation, donning breathing apparatus, and detection
equipment:
         (a)    Set-up and removal of decon center, detection equipment,
recovery, and identification of material. Disposal and environment clean up.
Includes above in addition to any disposal rates of material and contaminated
equipment and material used at scene; and
         (b)   Billed at $2,000 plus $50 per hour per rescue person, plus $100
per hour per HAZMAT team member.
      (4)   Level 4, itemized response. The Fire Department has the option to
bill each incident as an independent event with custom mitigation rates for
each incident using itemized rates deemed usual, customary, and reasonable
(UCR). These incidents will be billed, itemized, per trained rescue person,
plus rescue products used.
   (Q)   Back country or special rescue regulations are as follows.
      (1)   Itemized responses, where each incident will be billed with custom
mitigation rates deemed usual, customary, and reasonable (UCR).
      (2)   These incidents will be billed, itemized per apparatus per hour,
per trained rescue person per hour, plus rescue products used.
      (3)   Minimum billed $400 for the first response vehicle plus $50 per
rescue person. Additional rates of $400 per hour per response vehicle and $50
per hour per rescue person.
   (R)   Chief response shall be as follows:
      (1)   This includes the set-up of command, and providing direction of the
incident.
      (2)   This could include operations, safety, and administration of the
incident.
      (3)   Billed at $250 per hour.
   (S)   Miscellaneous additional time on-scene shall be as follows:
      (1)   Engine billed at $400 per hour;
      (2)   Truck billed at $500 per hour; and
      (3)   Miscellaneous equipment billed at $300.
   (T)   Mitigation rate notes as follows.
      (1)   The mitigation rates above are average “billing levels,” and are
typical for the incident responses listed, however, when a claim is submitted,
it will be itemized and based on the actual services provided.
      (2)   These average mitigation rates were determined by itemizing costs
for a typical run (from the time a fire apparatus leaves the station until it
returns to the station) and are based on the actual costs, using amortized
schedules for apparatus (including useful life, equipment, repairs, and
maintenance) and labor rates (an average department’s “actual personnel
expense” and not just a firefighter’s basic wage). The actual personnel expense
includes costs such as wages, retirement, benefits, workers compensation,
insurance, and the like.
   (U)   If the invoice is not paid within 90 days, a late charge of 10% of the
invoice, as well as 1.5% per month, as well as the actual cost of the
collections, will be accessed to the responsible party(s).
(Ord. 2014-8, passed 12-9-2014)
§ 31.021 PARK FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The rental fees for the Town Park Pavilion located in the Bourbon Town
Park are as follows:
 
Kitchen $35
North   $35
South   $35
 
      (1)   A refundable security deposit of $50 shall be paid at the time of
reservation.
      (2)   Rental fees for brown metal chairs: $0.50 per chair.
   (B)   It is further stated that all reservations for town owned facilities/
property must be made through the Clerk-Treasurer’s office and all fees and
deposits be made directly to the Clerk-Treasurer’s Office by the renting party.
   (C)   The waiving or adjustment of any fees may be allowed, but only with
approval of the Town Council.
(Ord. 2020-01, passed 2-11-2020)
§ 31.022 MATCHETT CENTER FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Inclusive in the part-time category would be those employees hired for
a specific period of time, even though those hours might equal 40 hours per
week.
   (B)   Fee schedule shall be as follows.
 
Building rental - out of town residents   $400
Building rental - town residents          $300
Refundable security deposit               $200
Set-up fee the night before if not rented $50
Triton graduation party rental            $150
Wedding receptions                        $1,000
 
   (C)   The proceeds from such fees shall be deposited into the fund entitled
General Fund and the revenue account listed as rental of the Matchett Center.
(Ord. 2022-02, passed 10-11-2022)
§ 31.023 STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURE; POLICE DEPARTMENT AND TOWING.
   (A)   The Town Police Department may be authorized to create a standard
operating procedure to follow for vehicles which have been legally impounded by
the Town Police Department.
   (B)   (1)   As part of the standard operating procedure, a $20
administrative fee that will be collected by the Clerk-Treasurer of the town
shall be authorized as part of that standard operating procedure, which will
include impounded vehicle release.
      (2)   If the owner’s vehicle has been impounded by the Town Police
Department, the owner is required to obtain a release from the Police
Department before the owner may retrieve his or her vehicle from the towing
company. The towing and impound fees charged by the towing company are wholly
separate and additional to any fees that the Police Department may assess.
      (3)   To obtain a release of the owner’s vehicle from the towing company,
the owner must provide the following information to the Police Department prior
to the vehicle being released from the towing company.
         (a)   Proof of ownership as follows:
            1.   Name of registered owner of lien holder must be on the BMV
registration files;
            2.   Official (stamped) paperwork from the BMV showing transfer of
title; and
            3.   Picture identification, such as a driver’s license.
         (b)   Proof of valid insurance on the vehicle, such as an insurance
policy, which must show the specific vehicle that was towed on the policy; it
is not necessary that the policy be in the registered owner or lien holder’s
name.
         (c)   Proof that the person who will operate the vehicle has valid
driving privileges as follows:
            1.   Valid driver’s license; or
            2.   Implied consent temporary permit (issued to OWI drivers when
license is confiscated; these are generally valid until the initial hearing at
the court where the offense is charged).
         (d)   1.   The Police Department administrative fee shall be $20 cash
(in either exact change, money order, or cashier’s check); this administrative
fee is in addition to the towing or storage costs incurred through the towing
company.
            2.   This fee must be paid to the Police Department prior to the
vehicle being released from the towing company.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 4-14-2021)
§ 31.024 MISCELLANEOUS SERVICE AND EQUIPMENT FEES.
   The Town Council has established the following rates and charges for the use
and services rendered by town employees.
Service Fee
Service                             Fee
Backhoe-loader                      $150 per hour
Brush chipper                       $300 per hour
Dump truck (large)                  $140 per hour
Dump truck (small)                  $110 per hour
Garden tractor mower                $60 per hour
Labor charge (each individual)      $75 per hour
Loader-mower tractor                $110 per hour
Mini excavator                      $150 per hour
Overtime (after hours) labor charge $112.50 per hour
Sewer tap fee                       $500
Skid-steer                          $100 per hour
Street sweeper                      $90 per hour
Vactor truck                        $260 per hour
Water tap fees                      $1,500
ZTR mower                           $60 per hour
 
(Res. 2023-06, passed 9-12-2023)
DISTRIBUTION OF MONIES
§ 31.035 CLERK-TREASURER TO PAY CERTAIN EMS CLAIMS.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer be allowed to pay EMS claims prior to the EMS
Advisory Board meetings.
   (B)   Such claims shall still be supported by a fully itemized claim form,
and be reviewed at the next regular or special meeting following pre-approved
payment of expense.
(Prior Code, § 2.9.3) (1999-2, passed 1-19-1999)
FIXED ASSET CAPITALIZATION POLICY
§ 31.050 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   BUILDINGS.
      (1)   A department will capitalize buildings at full cost with no
subcategories for tracking the cost of attachments. Examples of attachments are
roof, heating, cooling, plumbing, lighting or sprinkler systems, or any part of
the basic BUILDING. The department will include the cost of items designed or
purchased exclusively for the building.
      (2)   A department’s new BUILDING will be capitalized only if it meets
the following conditions.
         (a)   The total costs exceeds $10,000.
         (b)   The useful life is greater than five years.
      (3)   A department improving or renovating an existing building will
capitalize the costs only if the results meet all the following conditions.
         (a)   The total cost exceeds $10,000.
         (b)   The useful life is extended five or more years.
         (c)   The total cost will be greater than the current book value and
less than the fair market value.
      (4)   Capital BUILDING costs will include preparation of land for the
building, architectural and engineering fees, bond issuance fees, interest
costs (while under construction), accounting cost if material, and any costs
directly attributable to the construction of the building.
      (5)   A department will record donated buildings at fair market value on
the date of transfer with any associated costs.
      (6)   Purchases made with federal or state funding will follow the source
funding policies and above procedures.
   CAPITAL OUTLAYS. Expenditures which benefit both the current and the future
fiscal periods. This includes the cost of acquiring land or structures,
construction or improvement of buildings, structures, or other fixed assets,
and equipment purchases having an appreciable and calculable period of
usefulness. These are expenditures resulting in the acquisition of or addition
to the government’s general fixed assets.
   ENTERPRISE FUNDS.
      (1)   Those funds used to account for operations:
         (a)   Financed and operated in a manner similar to private business
enterprise, where the intent of the governing body is that the costs (expenses,
including depreciation) of providing goods or services to the general public on
a continuing basis be financed or recovered primarily through user charges; or
         (b)   Where the governing body has decided that periodic determination
or revenues earned, expenses incurred, and/or net income is appropriate for
capital maintenance public policy, management control, and other purposes.
      (2)   The enterprise funds of the town shall include the municipally
owned water and sewage utilities.
      (3)   Operation of utilities shall require ENTERPRISE FUND accounting and
reporting.
   FIXED ASSETS. Tangible assets of a durable nature employed in the operating
activities of the unit and that are relatively permanent and are needed for the
production or sale of goods or services are termed property, plant, and
equipment, or FIXED ASSETS. These assets are not held for sale in the ordinary
course of business. This broad group is usually separated into classes
according to the physical characteristics of the items (for example, land,
buildings, improvements other than buildings, machinery and equipment,
furniture, and fixtures).
   HISTORICAL COSTS. The cash equivalent price for exchanged goods or services
at the date of acquisition. Land, buildings, equipment, and most inventories
are common examples of items recognized under the HISTORICAL COST attribute.
   IMPROVEMENTS OTHER THAN BUILDINGS.
      (1)   The definition of this group is improvements to land for better
enjoyment, attached or not easily removed, and will have a life expectancy of
greater than five years.
      (2)   Examples of this are walks, parking areas and drives, golf club
paths, fencing, retaining walls, pools, outside fountains, planter underground
sprinkler systems, and other similar items.
      (3)   IMPROVEMENTS do not include roads, streets, or assets that are of
value only to the public. For example, Main Street is a public street with
greatest value to the public. Roads or drives upon town-owned land that provide
support to facilities are assets. A sidewalk down the road for public enjoyment
is an infrastructure improvement and is not capitalized. However, sidewalks
installed upon town-owned land for use by the public and for the support of
town facilities are capital assets.
      (4)   The town will capitalize new improvements other than buildings only
if it meets the following conditions.
         (a)   The total cost exceeds $10,000.
         (b)   The useful life is greater than five years.
      (5)   A department will capitalize IMPROVEMENTS or renovations to
existing improvements other than buildings only if the result meets the
following conditions:
         (a)   The total cost exceeds $10,000.
         (b)   The assets useful life is extended five or more years.
         (c)   The total cost will be greater than the current book value and
less than the fair market value.
      (6)   A department’s donated IMPROVEMENTS OTHER THAN BUILDINGS will be
recorded at fair market value on the date of transfer with any associated
costs.
      (7)   Purchases made using federal or state funding will follow source
funding policies and above procedures.
   LAND.
      (1)   The town will capitalize all land purchases, regardless of cost.
      (2)   Exceptions to land capitalization are land purchase outright as
easements, or right-of-way for infrastructure. Examples are roads and streets,
street lighting systems, bridges, overpasses, sidewalks, curbs, parking meters,
street signs, viaducts, and stormwater collection.
      (3)   Original cost of land will include the full value given to the
seller, including relocation, legal services incidental to the purchase
(including title work and opinion), appraisal and negotiation fees, surveying
and costs for preparing the land for its intended purpose (including
contractors and/or town employees (salary and benefits)), such as clean up,
demolishing buildings, excavating, and/or inspection.
      (4)   A department will record donated land at fair market value on the
date of transfer plus any associated costs.
      (5)   Purchases made using federal or state funding will follow the
source funding policies and above procedures.
   MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT.
      (1)   An apparatus, tool, or conglomeration of pieces to form a tool. The
tool will stand alone and not become a part of a basic structure or building.
      (2)   The town will capitalize and tag items with an individual value
equal to or greater than $5,000. Machinery combined with other machinery to
form one unit with a total value greater than the above mentioned limit will be
one unit.
      (3)   Shipping charges, consultant fees, and any other cost directly
associated with the purchase, delivery, or set-up, (including contractors and/
or town works (salary and benefits)), which makes such equipment operable for
its intended purpose will be capitalized.
      (4)   Improvements or renovations to existing MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT
will be capitalized only if the results meet all of the following conditions.
         (a)   Total costs exceed $5,000.
         (b)   Useful life is extended two or more years.
         (c)   Total costs will be greater than the current book value and less
than the fair market value.
      (5)   Examples include:
         (a)   A work truck being equipped with screens, lights, or radios for
use as a single unit through its life expectancy is considered one unit.
         (b)   If police cars are constantly changing light bars or radios to
other vehicles, the town will capitalize each piece of equipment separately, if
it meets the required dollar amount.
         (c)   A department’s computer (CPU, monitor, keyboard, and printer) is
considered one unit.
   (6)   Departments will record donated MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT at fair market
value on the date of the transfer with any associated costs.
   (7)   Purchase made using federal or state funding will follow the source
funding policies and above procedures.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.2)
   TANGIBLE ASSETS. Assets that can be observed by one or more of the physical
senses. They may be touched and in some environments heard and smelled.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.1) (Ord. 1996-6, passed 7-2-1996; Ord. 2001-4, passed 6-12-
2001)
§ 31.051 RECORDING AND ACCOUNTING.
   (A)   (1)   The town and its various departments shall classify capital
expenditures as capital outlays with the fund from which the expenditure was
made in accordance with the Chart of Accounts of the Cities and Towns Manual.
      (2)   The cost of property, plant, and equipment includes all
expenditures necessary to put the asset into position and ready for use. For
purposes of recording fixed assets of the town and its departments, the
valuation of assets shall be based on historical cost or where the historical
cost is indeterminable, by estimation for those assets in existence.
   (B)   (1)   (a)   The town’s municipally owned utilities shall record
acquisition of fixed assets in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principals.
         (b)   When an asset is purchased for cash, the acquisition is simply
recorded at the moment of cash paid, including all outlays relating to its
purchase and preparation for intended use.
      (2)   Assets may be acquired under a number of other arrangements,
including:
         (a)   Assets acquired for a lump-sum purchase price;
         (b)   Purchase on the deferred payment plan;
         (c)   Acquisition under capital lease;
         (d)   Acquisition by exchange of non-monetary assets;
         (e)   Acquisition by issuance of securities;
         (f)   Acquisition by self-construction; and
         (g)   Acquisition by donation or discovery.
   (C)   (1)   Some of these arrangements present special problems relating to
the cost to be recorded, for example, in utility accounting, interest during a
period of construction has long been recognized as a part of the asset cost.
      (2)   Reference to an intermediate will illustrate the recording of
acquisition of assets under the aforementioned acquisition arrangements. For
purposes of recording fixed assets of the utilities, the evaluation of assets
shall be based on historical cost.
   (D)   In addition, an asset register (prescribed Form 211) shall be
maintained to provide a detail record of the governmental unit.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.1) (Ord. 1996-6, passed 7-2-1996)
§ 31.052 SAFEGUARDING OF ASSETS.
   Accounting controls shall be designed and implemented to provide reasonable
assurances that:
   (A)   Capital expenditures made by the town, its various departments, and
utilities be in accordance with management’s authorization, as documented in
the minutes;
   (B)   Transactions of the utilities be recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
principals;
   (C)   Adequate detailed records be maintained to assure accountability for
town- and utility-owned assets;
   (D)   Access to assets be permitted in accordance with the existing assets
at least every two years and appropriate action taken with respect to any
differences; and
   (E)   The recorded accountability for assets be compared with the existing
assets at least every two years and appropriate action taken with respect to
any difference.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.1) (Ord. 1996-6, passed 7-2-1996)
PURCHASING RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 31.065 PURCHASING AGENT.
   The Town Council hereby determines that it is the purchasing agency for the
town. The Town Council hereby designates the following persons to serve as
purchasing agents for the town:
   (A)   The elected Clerk-Treasurer;
   (B)   The Town Marshal;
   (C)   The heads of the Sewer, Water, Street, Fire, EMS, and Park
Departments; and
   (D)   Such other town employees as are designated in writing to be
purchasing agents, such designation to be in writing.
(Prior Code, § 2.18.1) (Ord. 1998-5, passed 7-21-1998)
§ 31.066 PURCHASE OF SUPPLIES MANUFACTURED IN THE UNITED STATES.
   Supplies manufactured in the United States shall be specified for all town
purchases and shall be purchased unless the town determines that:
   (A)   The supplies are not manufactured in the United States in reasonably
available quantities;
   (B)   The price of the supplies manufactured in the United States exceeds by
an unreasonable amount the price of available and comparable supplies
manufactured elsewhere;
   (C)   The quality of supplies manufactured in the United States is
substantially less than the quality of comparably priced available supplies
manufactured elsewhere; or
   (D)   The purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States is not in
the public interest.
(Prior Code, § 2.18.2) (Ord. 1998-6, passed 7-21-1998)
§ 31.067 PROTECTION OF OFFERS; STATUS OF DOCUMENTS AS PUBLIC RECORDS.
   (A)   Protection of offers prior to opening. The purchasing agent shall
retain all offers received in a secure location prior to the date and time at
which the offers will be opened in order to prevent disclosure of the contents
prior to the opening of the offers.
   (B)   Unobstructed evaluation of offers.
      (1)   After offers have been opened, the purchasing agent shall be
responsible for maintaining the offers in such a manner as to permit evaluation
of the offers by the persons responsible for evaluating the offers.
      (2)   The purchasing agents shall maintain such offers in their own
offices, as well as a duplicate set of records in the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (C)   Public record status of bids. Bids submitted in response to an
invitation for bids must be available for public inspection and copying after
the time of the bid opening. Accepted bids with all necessary accompanying
documentation will be kept for inspection in the designated cabinets.
   (D)   Register of proposals. The purchasing agent shall prepare a register
of proposals for each request for proposals issued which shall contain
information concerning the proposals available for public inspection and
copying. Proposals may not be disclosed. A copy of the register will also be
kept in the designated cabinet.
   (E)   Discussions with offerors responding to a request for proposals. The
purchasing agent may conduct discussions with, and best and final offers may be
obtained from, responsible offerors who submit proposals determined to be
reasonably susceptible of being selected for a contract award.
   (F)   Delay of opening of offers. When the Town Council makes a written
determination that it is in the town’s best interests, offers may be opened
after the time stated in the solicitation. The date, time, and place of the
rescheduled opening must be announced at the time and place of the originally
scheduled opening.
(Prior Code, § 2.18.2) (Ord. 1998-6, passed 7-21-1998)
§ 31.068 EVIDENCE OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Purchases less than $25,000. The purchasing agent may not require
evidence of financial responsibility when the estimated cost of a purchase is
less than $25,000.
   (B)   Purchases between $25,000 and $100,000.
      (1)   The solicitation may include a requirement that an offeror provide
evidence of financial responsibility. If evidence of financial responsibility
is required, the solicitation must indicate the kind of evidence that will be
acceptable.
      (2)   If a bond or certified check is required, it may not exceed 10% of
the estimated cost of the purchase.
   (C)   Purchases over $100,000. The solicitation shall include a requirement
that an offeror provide evidence of financial responsibility and must indicate
the kind of evidence that will be acceptable. If a bond or certified check is
required, it may not exceed 10% of the estimated cost of purchase.
   (D)   Retention of bonds or checks. Checks and other evidence of financial
responsibility shall be retained in a secure place.
(Prior Code, § 2.18.2) (Ord. 1998-6, passed 7-21-1998)
§ 31.069 MODIFICATION, TERMINATION OF CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Price adjustments. The purchasing agent may include provisions to
permit price adjustments in a purchase contract. The following provisions for
price adjustments may be included.
      (1)   Price adjustments must be computed by agreement on a fixed price
adjustment before the beginning of the pertinent performance or as soon after
the beginning of a performance as possible.
      (2)   Price adjustments must be computed by unit prices specified in the
contract or subsequently agreed upon.
      (3)   Price adjustments must be computed by costs attributable to the
events or situations under such clauses with adjustments of profit or fee, all
as specified in the contract or subsequently agreed upon.
      (4)   Price adjustments must be computed in such other manner as the
contracting parties may eventually agree upon.
      (5)   In the absence of agreement by the parties, price adjustments must
be computed by a unilateral determination by the governmental body of the costs
attributable to the events or situations under such clauses with adjustment of
profit or fee, all as computed by the governmental body in accordance with
applicable rules adopted by the governmental body.
   (B)   Adjustments in time or performance. The purchasing agent may include
provisions in a purchase contract concerning adjustments for time or
performance under the contract.
   (C)   Unilateral purchase rights of town. The purchasing agent may include
in a purchase contract provisions dealing with the unilateral right of the Town
to order changes in the work within the scope of the contract or to order
temporary work stoppage or delays in time or performance.
   (D)   Quantity variations. The purchasing agent may include in a purchase
contract provisions dealing with variations between estimated quantities of
work in a contract and the actual quantity delivered.
(Prior Code, § 2.18.2) (Ord. 1998-6, passed 7-21-1998)
§ 31.070 PURCHASE OF SERVICES.
   The town purchasing agency may not require any town purchasing agent or any
town-elected official to purchase services in any particular manner; except
that the purchase of services that exceed $1,000 shall be approved by the town
purchasing agency.
(Prior Code, § 2.18.2) (Ord. 1998-6, passed 7-21-1998)
§ 31.071 PUBLICATION OF NOTICES; INVITATIONS FOR BIDS.
   (A)   All notices of invitation for bids shall be published in accordance
with I.C. 5-3-1 in the Bourbon News-Mirror. The purchasing agent shall schedule
the publication of notice to provide a reasonable amount of time for
preparation and submission of bids. A notice will be published two times, at
least one week apart. The second publication must occur at least ten days prior
to the date the bids will be open.
   (B)   Request for proposals. All notices of request for proposals shall be
published in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 in the Bourbon News-Mirror. The
purchasing agent shall schedule the publication of notice to provide a
reasonable amount of time for preparation and submission of proposals. The
notice will be published two times, at least one week apart. The second
publication must occur at least seven days prior to the date the proposals will
be open.
   (C)   Request for specifications. All notices of request for specification
shall be published in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 in the Bourbon News-Mirror.
The purchasing agent shall schedule the publication of notice to provide a
reasonable amount of time for preparation and submission of proposals. The
notice will be published two times, at least one week apart. The second
publication must occur at least seven days prior to the date the proposal will
be opened.
   (D)   Electronic notices. Whenever a notice or other material, including
specifications, and invitation for bids, requests for proposals, or requests
for specifications is sent by mail, the purchasing agent may also send the
notice or other material by electronic means, provided that the transmission of
the information is at least as efficient as mailing the information.
(Prior Code, § 2.18.2) (Ord. 1998-6, passed 7-21-1998)
§ 31.072 RECEIVING OFFERS.
   (A)   Opening of offers.
      (1)   Bids received in response to an invitation for bids must be opened
publicly in the presence of at least one or more witnesses at the time and
place designated in the invitation for bids.
      (2)   Proposals received in response to request for proposals must be
opened to avoid disclosure of the contents to competing offerors during the
process of negotiation.
      (3)   Proposals received in response to a request for specifications may
be opened as specified in the request for specifications.
   (B)   Electronic receipt of offers.
      (1)   The purchasing agent may receive electronic offers in response to
an invitation to bid, request for proposals, or a request for specification.
      (2)   An electronic offer may only be received if:
         (a)   The solicitation includes a procedure for the electronic
submission of the offer; and/or
         (b)   The purchasing agency receives the offer on a fax machine or
other system with a security feature that protects the contents of an
electronic offer with the same degree of protection as provided to an offer not
transmitted electronically.
(Prior Code, § 2.18.2) (Ord. 1998-6, passed 7-21-1998)
§ 31.073 CORRECTION, WITHDRAWAL OF BIDS.
   (A)   An offeror may correct inadvertent errors in a bid up to the time at
which bids will be opened by supplementing the erroneous bid and submitting a
revised bid.
   (B)   A bidder may not supplement an inadvertently erroneous bid after the
time at which the bids were opened.
   (C)   A bidder may withdraw a bid containing inadvertent errors up to the
time at which bids will be opened and for a period of not more than 24 hours
after the time at which the bids were opened.
(Prior Code, § 2.18.2) (Ord. 1998-6, passed 7-21-1998)
§ 31.074 CANCELLATION OF SOLICITATION.
   When the purchasing agent makes a written determination that it is in the
town’s best interest, the purchasing agent may cancel a solicitation or reject
all offers, provided that the solicitation included information concerning the
procedure for cancellation.
(Prior Code, § 2.18.2) (Ord. 1998-6, passed 7-21-1998)
§ 31.075 SMALL PURCHASES.
   (A)   Any purchasing agent may purchase supplies with an estimated cost of
less than $500 per purchase on the open market without inviting or receiving
quotes, and without receiving any additional approvals from the purchasing
agency or from a supervising employee; any purchasing agent may purchase
supplies with an estimated cost of from $501 to $2,500 per purchase on the open
market without inviting or receiving quotes, but only with the prior approval
of that purchasing agent’s direct supervisor; and any purchasing agent may
purchase supplies with an estimated cost of from $2,501 to $25,000 per purchase
on the open market without inviting or receiving quotes, but only with the
prior permission of the purchasing agency.
   (B)   All purchasing agents shall complete the required forms as required by
statute, and a copy of said forms are attached hereto in the ordinance codified
in this section, and made a part hereof.
(Prior Code, § 2.18.2) (Ord. 1998-6, passed 7-21-1998)
CHAPTER 32: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
   
32.01   Personnel policies
§ 32.01 PERSONNEL POLICIES.
   The town’s personnel policies are hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if set out in full, and a copy of which is on file and
is available for public inspection and copying during regular business hours in
the office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, §§ 2.6.2, 2.6.3, 2.6.4, 2.6.5)
(Ord. 1986-7, passed - -; Ord. 1997-12, passed - -; Ord. 1991-8, passed 6-18-
1991; Ord. 1993-12, passed 10-5-1993; Ord. 2011-03, passed 2-8-2011; Ord. 2011-
06, passed 5-10-2011; Ord. 2013-7, passed 12-10-2013; Ord. 2013-8, passed 2-11-
2014; Ord. 2023-6, passed 6-13-2023)
(Document “Amendment to Section 5.1,” 12-10-2013)
CHAPTER 33: GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
Section
   
33.01   Access to public records
 
   
33.99   Penalty
§ 33.01 ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS.
   (A)   The Town Council shall designate a person or persons responsible for
public records release decisions, and this person(s) shall make the final
determination of whether to approve or deny a request.
   (B)   All requests for public documents shall be made in writing by
completing a request for public records form, available from the Clerk-
Treasurer of the town, which form shall be created and/or reviewed by the Town
Attorney, and made available to the public by the Clerk-Treasurer of the town.
      (1)   The request for public records form shall be the only accepted form
for making such requests.
      (2)   The request for public records form shall be obtained from and
submitted to the Clerk-Treasurer of the town during regular business hours.
      (3)   Each request shall identify with reasonable particularity the
record being requested. A request identifies a law enforcement recording with
reasonable particularity only if the request provides the following information
regarding the law enforcement activity depicted in the recording:
         (a)   The date and approximate time of the law enforcement activity;
         (b)   The specific location where the law enforcement activity
occurred; and
         (c)   The name of at least one individual, other than a law
enforcement officer, who was directly involved in the law enforcement activity.
   (C)   (1)   To recover the costs of producing these records, the Clerk-
Treasurer of the town shall assess the person(s) making the request a charge of
$0.10 per page for photocopying of black and white, single-sided standard eight
and one-half by 11-inch paper or eight and one-half by 14 inch paper, and $0.25
per page for photocopying of color single-sided standard eight and one-half by
11 inch paper or eight and one-half by 14-inch paper.
      (2)   The fee for providing law enforcement recordings is $150 per
recording. For copying photographs, audio tapes, electronic media, non-standard
documents, and other items that may not be duplicated on a standard
photocopier, other than law enforcement recordings, the Clerk-Treasurer of the
town shall charge the direct cost for such copying, as defined by I.C. 5-14-3-
2, as that section may be amended from time to time.
   (D)   Any town department required to provide certification of any document
being provided to a person requesting such certification shall provide it.
However, the person making such request shall pay a fee of $1 per page
certified, up to a maximum fee of $5 per document certified.
   (E)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-3, as that section may be amended from time to
time, a person who obtains public records or information, which includes either
the name, address, telephone number, property location, account balances, or
any identifying information, shall not use the public records for commercial
purposes, including to sell, advertise, or solicit the purchase of merchandise,
goods, or services, or sell, loan, give away, or otherwise deliver the
information obtained by the request to any person for these purposes.
(Ord. 2020-05, passed 11-10-2020) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.99PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, organization, or other entity that violates §
33.01 shall be fined $100 for each violation, and each separate record obtained
in violation of §
33.01 shall constitute a separate violation that could result in an enhanced
fine of $500.
(Ord. 2020-05, passed 11-10-2020)
CHAPTER 34: ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
34.01   Bureau established
   
34.02   Violations Clerk
   
34.03   Acceptance of payment and the like
   
34.04   Penalty amounts; violations
   
34.05   Violations enforced by Bureau
   
34.06   Disposition of funds
§ 34.01 BUREAU ESTABLISHED.
   The ordinances of the town that may be enforced through the Ordinance
Violation Bureau created hereby, and the penalties for the violation thereof
are hereby designated in Exhibit A attached to the ordinance codified herein,
and made a part hereof. All fines must be paid within 72 hours of three town
working days of the service of the violation notice to the violator in order
for the reduced penalty to apply.
(Ord. 2011-10, passed 12-13-2011)
§ 34.02 VIOLATIONS CLERK.
   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is hereby appointed and shall serve as the
Violations Clerk, and shall administer the Ordinance Violation Bureau.
(Ord. 2011-10, passed 12-13-2011)
§ 34.03 ACCEPTANCE OF PAYMENT AND THE LIKE.
   The Town Clerk-Treasurer, and his or her staff, as agents thereof, shall
accept written appearance, waiver of trial, admissions of violations, and
payment of civil penalties in the amount and for the violations as provided
herein.
(Ord. 2011-10, passed 12-13-2011)
§ 34.04 PENALTY AMOUNTS; VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any fine not paid within such three working days in order to receive
the reduced penalty for the applicable ordinance violation shall be paid within
15 days of the service of the violation notice.
      (1)   The violation notice shall be served in person to the violator or
by regular United States mail to the last known address of the violator.
      (2)   The service date for such violation notice shall be as of the date
of personal service thereof or two days after such violation notice might be
mailed to the violator as allowed hereby.
   (B)   Nothing contained herein shall prevent the Town Council from otherwise
enforcing any of the ordinances listed on Exhibit A, attached to the ordinance
codified herein, for the abatement of any nuisance or other prohibited
activities under such listed ordinances and from recovering any expenses,
costs, and fees allowed by such ordinance(s) or from pursuing any other legal
remedy said Town Council may have under the listed ordinances rather than
pursuing the violator of any such ordinance(s) through the Ordinance Violations
Bureau created hereby.
   (C)   Any other civil penalties set forth in the ordinances listed on
Exhibit A, attached to the ordinance codified herein, hereto are hereby
superseded. In the event no penalty is listed in any of such ordinances then
are hereby added so that any such ordinance is hereby amended to include the
penalties listed on Exhibit A, attached to the ordinance codified herein,
whenever such ordinance(s) might be enforced through the Ordinance Violation
Bureau created hereby, except that in the event an ordinance allows the town to
charge for services rendered to those in violation thereof, such as for mowing
services, the town shall be able to charge for those services in addition to
any penalty provided hereby.
   (D)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer, as Violations Clerk, hereunder shall deposit
any penalties paid to the Violations Bureau created hereby or any other amounts
received as a result of the creation of such Violations Bureau to the General
Fund of the town, and shall account for all proceeds received in that capacity.
   (E)   With respect to any penalty provided by such ordinance pursuant to the
Exhibit A, attached to the ordinance codified herein or otherwise, such penalty
shall be multiplied by any repeat violator of the same by the number of times
they may have violated such ordinance in any calendar year all at the
discretion of the officer or party enforcing such ordinance violation.
(Ord. 2011-10, passed 12-13-2011; Ord. 2017-1, passed 2-14-2017)
§ 34.05 VIOLATIONS ENFORCED BY BUREAU.
   (A)   Minors obtaining tobacco.
      (1)   It shall be a violation enforceable through such Violations Bureau
for a person less than 18 years of age to:
         (a)   Purchase tobacco;
         (b)   Accept tobacco for personal use; and
         (c)   Possess tobacco on his or her person.
      (2)   It is a defense to such violation if the accused person acted in
the ordinary course of employment in a business concerning tobacco.
         (1)   Any violation shall require the payment of a fine in an amount
not to exceed $50 for the first violation of such ordinance, however, such fine
shall automatically be reduced to $25 if it is paid to the Clerk within 72
hours of when the ticket for such violation might issue.
         (2)   Any ticket issued to any person for a subsequent violation of
this division (A) shall require the payment of a fine of $100; however, such
fine shall automatically be reduced to $50 if it is paid to the Clerk within 72
hours of when the ticket for such subsequent violation(s) might issue.
         (3)   A charge of $50 shall be added to any ticket issued pursuant to
such ordinance where the Town’s Attorney is required to send a demand letter to
any party receiving such ticket.
         (4)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall also add any costs associated with the
enforcement of this division (A), such as certified mail postage, and the like,
to the amount of the fine charged for said ticket.
   (B)   Unlicensed solicitation. Unlicensed solicitation shall be a violation
handled by the town’s Ordinance Violation Bureau.
(Ord. 2012-3, passed 8-14-2012; Ord. 2013-1, passed 3-12-2013)
Cross-reference:
   Solicitation, see §
110.01
§ 34.06 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS
   (A)   The Town Council has determined that it would be in the best interest
of said municipality to require that any payments received either from the
county or the state for the creation of its Ordinance Violations Bureau be
deposited to its General Fund.
   (B)   Any funds received from the county or the state as a result of the
town’s creation of an ordinance violation bureau be deposited to the town’s
General Fund.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 8-14-2012)
CHAPTER 35: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Authorities
   
35.01   Park Authority
Departments
   
35.15   Department of Redevelopment
   
35.16   Department of Stormwater Management
AUTHORITIES
§ 35.01 PARK AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Town Council is hereby designated the Park Authority under I.C.
36-10-5-2(b)(1). Accordingly, the members of the municipal legislative body of
the town shall hereafter serve as ex officio members of the Town Park
Authority. The Town Park Authority, as restructured hereunder, shall have and
maintain all authority and responsibility over the operation and maintenance of
the town’s park system, including, but not limited to, all property,
facilities, programs, personnel, and rules and regulations of the town’s park
system, as may be permitted by state law.
   (B)   The State Parks Authority may, from time to time, establish advisory
committees interested in the town, public parks, playgrounds, recreational
facilities, programs, and properties, having authority and responsibility as
directed by the Town Parks Authority.
   (C)   It is the intent of the town that this section and the acts hereunder
not abrogate or alter the prior and currently applicable rules and regulations
relating to the town’s system, subject only to the transfer of functions
attendant to the restructuring of the town’s authority as set forth herein. To
that end, all prior rules and regulations of the town’s system are ratified and
reaffirmed until such other time as the reconstituted Town Park Authority
determines otherwise.
(Ord. 2019-4, passed 9-10-2019)
DEPARTMENTS
§ 35.15 DEPARTMENT OF REDEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   The Town Council now deems it to be in the best interest of the town
and its citizens to afford a maximum opportunity for rehabilitation,
redevelopment, or economic development of areas by private enterprise and the
town by establishing a department of redevelopment.
   (B)   The Town Council hereby establishes the Department of Redevelopment of
the town. The Department will be controlled by a Council of five members known
as the Town Redevelopment Commission.
   (C)   Pursuant to the Act, all of the territory within the corporate
boundaries of the town will be a taxing district to be known as the
“Redevelopment District of Bourbon” for the purposes of levying and collection
of special benefit taxes for redevelopment purposes as provided in the Act. The
property within this special taxing district will be considered to be
benefitted by the redevelopment projects and economic development projects
carried out under the Act to the extent of special taxes levied under the Act.
   (D)   (1)   Two members of the Town Council, appointed by a majority of the
Town Council, shall be members of the Town Redevelopment Commission
(“Commission”) and shall hold such membership coterminous with their term of
Town Council membership.
      (2)   The President of the Town Council shall appoint the remaining three
members of the Commission.
      (3)   In addition, said President shall appoint one member to the
Commission who is also a member of the Council of the Triton School Corporation
who shall be a non-voting member of the Commission and whose term shall be
coterminous with his or her term on the Council of the Triton School
Corporation.
      (4)   The term of office of the three members of the Commission appointed
by the Town Council President and the one non-voting member of the Commission
appointed from the Council of the Triton School Corporation shall commence from
the date of their appointment and expire on January 1, 2016. All future
appointments of such members shall be for two-year terms.
(Ord. 2014-6, passed 11-11-2014)
§ 35.16 DEPARTMENT OF STORMWATER MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   A Department of Stormwater Management is hereby established for the
town, to be controlled by a Board of Directors consisting on three Directors.
Said Directors shall be appointed by the Executive of the town, and not more
than two of said Directors may be of the same political party.
   (B)   The terms of office of the Directors shall be staggered so that one of
the Directors shall serve an initial term of one year; one of the Directors
shall serve an initial term of two years; and one of said Directors shall serve
an initial term of three years. All of said initial terms shall begin effective
as of January 1, 1997. The Executive, when making the appointment of Directors,
shall specify which Director shall serve which initial term. From and after the
initial term, each Director so appointed shall serve a term of three years. The
Executive of the town may remove a Director at any time when, in the judgment
of the Executive, it is in the best interest of the Department.
   (C)   The Board created pursuant to the terms of this section shall have
those powers provided for under I.C. 8-1.5-3-4(a), as the same may be amended
from time to time, which are as follows.
      (1)   The Board has general supervisory powers over the utilities under
its control, with responsibility for the detailed supervision of each utility
vested in its superintendent, who is responsible to the Board for the business
and technical operation of the utility.
      (2)   The Board shall:
         (a)   Fix the number and compensation of employees;
         (b)   Adopt rules governing the appointment of employees including
making proper classifications and rules to:
            1.   Determine the eligibility of applicants;
            2.   Determine by competitive examination the relative fitness of
applicants for positions;
            3.   Establish eligible lists arranged according to the ratings
secured;
            4.   Provide for the appointment of those having the highest
ratings; and
            5.   Provide for the promotion of employees.
      (3)   Subject to I.C. 36-4-9-2, appoint a superintendent or manager of
each utility under its control who is responsible to the Board for the business
and technical operation of the utility; the Board shall make the appointment on
the basis of fitness to manage the particular utility to which he or she is to
be assigned, taking into account his or her executive ability and his or her
knowledge of the utility industry.
      (4)   Subject to I.C. 36-4-9-12, hire attorneys when required for the
operation of the utility.
      (5)   Hire professional or expert personnel when required for the
operation of the utility.
      (6)   Submit a budget of its financial needs for the next year in detail
required by the municipal legislative body.
      (7)   Recommend to the legislative body reasonable and just rates and
charges for services to the patrons of each utility.
      (8)   Appropriate, lease, rent, purchase, and hold all real and personal
property of the utility.
      (9)   Enter upon lands for the purpose of surveying or examining the land
to determine the location of any plant or appurtenances.
      (10)   Award contracts for:
            1.   The purchase of capital equipment;
            2.   The construction of capital improvements; and/or
            3.   Other property or purposes that are necessary for the full and
efficient construction, management, and operation of each utility.
      (11)   Adopt rules for the safe, economical, and efficient management and
protection of each utility.
      (12)   Deposit at least weekly with the Municipal Fiscal Officer all
money collected from each utility to be kept in a separate fund subject to the
order of the Board.
      (13)   Make monthly reports to the Fiscal Officer of each of the receipts
and disbursements of money belonging to each utility and an annual report of
the condition of the utility. In addition thereto, the Board shall have the
powers and duties set for in I.C. 8-1.5-5-6 as the same may be amended from
time to time, as follows:
         (a)   Hold hearings following public notice;
         (b)   Make findings and determinations;
         (c)   Install, maintain, and operate a stormwater collection and
disposal system;
         (d)   Make all necessary or desirable improvements of the grounds; and
         (5)   Issue and sell bonds of the district in the name of the
municipality for the acquisition, construction, alteration, addition, or
extension of the stormwater collection and disposal system or for the refunding
of any bonds issued by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 2.20) (Ord. 1996-7, passed 10-15-1996)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER AND SEWERS GENERALLY
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWERS
      
53.   STORMWATER
      
54.   SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 50: WATER AND SEWERS GENERALLY
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Rental property service; turning off and on
   
50.02   Non-resident customers
Administrative Utility Procedures
   
50.15   Application for new services
   
50.16   Tapping charges
   
50.17   Water meter security deposit; amendment
   
50.18   Transfer of service
   
50.19   Service turn on
   
50.20   Permanent discontinuance of service
   
50.21   Past due accounts
   
50.22   Returned check fees
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 RENTAL PROPERTY SERVICE; TURNING OFF AND ON.
   (A)   Any person or persons who shall rent property served by the water
utility of the town under separate meter thereto shall be required to deposit
with the Clerk-Treasurer of said town before the provision of such service the
sum of $30 as a meter deposit for the provision of such water utility to said
rented property.
   (B)   At such time that said person or persons shall terminate his or her
use of such water utility and after the Clerk-Treasurer has determined that
such person or persons has complied with all regulations relating to the
supplying of such water utility to said rented property, and paid all amounts
due therefor, the said deposit shall be returned to that person, or his or her
designate.
   (C)   Any person or persons whose residence is served by the town water
utility and who is going to be absent from such residence for a period of
excess of 30 days, upon payment to the Clerk- Treasurer of said town of the sum
of $10, may request that his or her water service be turned off during the
period of his or her absence from said town, and that such service be turned on
again upon his or her return.
      (1)   The resident shall, upon payment of such sum, notify the Clerk-
Treasurer of the turn off date and the turn on date requested thereby.
      (2)   During such period when the water service is turned off to his or
her residence, such party shall not be charged any minimum billing by the water
utility or any other charge thereby, other than for such turn off/turn on
service as set out herein.
(Prior Code, § 3.7)
§ 50.02 NON-RESIDENT CUSTOMERS.
   (A)   (1)   Any non-resident may petition the town to be connected to the
town’s wastewater utility.
         (a)   A non-resident petition for connection shall be granted or
denied at the complete discretion of the Town Council.
         (b)   A petition for service shall include a waiver of objection to
annexation. A petition shall be signed by all property owners/customers of the
utility.
      (2)   A non-resident hookup fee of double the residential fee found in §
1 of Ord. 2008- 2, shall be charged to a non-resident whose petition is granted
and elects to be connected to the wastewater utility.
      (3)   If the non-resident has no water service, the non-resident shall
bear the expense of all necessary installments of acceptable metering equipment
to determine proper billing for services.
      (4)   Once all previous steps are complete, the non-resident’s wastewater
utility service is fully governed by Ord. 2008-2 and all amendments thereto.
   (B)   Any non-resident may petition the town to be connected to the town’s
water utility.
      (1)   A non-resident petition for connection shall be granted or denied
at the complete discretion of the Town Council. A petition for service shall
include a waiver of objection to annexation by the town. A petition shall be
signed by all property owners/customers of the utility.
      (2)   A non-resident hookup fee of double the residential fee found in §
51.02(C) shall be charged to a non-resident whose petition is granted and
elects to be connected to the water utility.
      (3)   If the non-resident has no water service, the non-resident shall
bear the expense of all necessary installments of acceptable metering equipment
to determine proper billing for services.
      (4)   Once all previous steps are complete, the non-resident’s water
utility service is fully governed by §
51.02(C) and all amendments thereto.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 9-8-2020; Ord. 2020-04, passed 9-8-2020)
ADMINISTRATIVE UTILITY PROCEDURES
§ 50.15 APPLICATION FOR NEW SERVICES.
   Concurrent with an application for a building permit, an application shall
be made for any new water, sanitary sewer, and storm sewer service related
thereto. Said application for a new utility service shall be on forms
established by the Utilities Superintendent, and shall be accompanied by a fee
of $50 to provide for the cost of the on-site inspection of all new utility
service connections contained in the application.
(Prior Code, § 3.2.1) (Ord. 1996-2, passed 3-5-1996)
§ 50.16 TAPPING CHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   The town will construct, or have constructed on its behalf, all
sanitary building sewers, water services, and storm sewer services located
within the public rights-of-way. The property owner for whom any such service
will be constructed shall pay the town for the cost thereof.
      (2)   If constructed by town forces, payment will be based on the cost of
equipment and labor as periodically established by the Utilities Superintendent
and adopted by the Town Council, plus the actual cost of materials used. If the
town employs a private contractor for such construction, the property owner
shall be charged for the entire contract cost.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to make
arrangements with, and pay for, a private excavation contractor to install
building sewers, water services, and storm sewer services from the public
right-of-way to the building being connected.
   (C)    Said services shall be designed to conform to minimum standards for
building services. It shall thereafter be the responsibility of the property
owner to maintain the services from the public right-of-way to the building
being served in a sanitary working condition so as to prevent contamination of
the town’s publicly owned system(s).
   (D)   A written agreement between the property owner and the town is
required prior to the construction of any new sanitary building sewer, water
service, or storm sewer service.
(Prior Code, § 3.2.1) (Ord. 1996-2, passed 3-5-1996)
Cross-reference:
   Water and sewer tap fees, see §
31.024
§ 50.17 WATER METER SECURITY DEPOSIT; AMENDMENT.
   (A)   A proposed customer of the water utility who does not own the property
at which service is requested shall deposit with the Clerk-Treasurer before
initiation of such service the sum of $80 as a security deposit.
   (B)   At such time that said customer discontinues use of such water
utility, and after the Clerk-Treasurer has determined that the customer has
paid all amounts due therefor, the said deposit shall be returned to the
depositor.
   (C)   No interest will accrue to the security deposit.
(Prior Code, § 3.2.1) (Ord. 1996-2, passed 3-5-1996)
§ 50.18 TRANSFER OF SERVICE.
   (A)   A final reading for water and sewage service may be requested by a
tenant who rents or leases a property or the property owner affected at or
after the time of permanently vacating the property, notwithstanding
contractual service agreements to the contrary.
      (1)   Upon receiving such a request, a final reading of the water meter
will be scheduled with the Utilities Superintendent.
      (2)   If the final reading is obtained prior to computation of the
current monthly water and sewage bills for which the normally scheduled monthly
meter reading has already occurred, the additional water consumption and sewage
usage will be added to the customer’s bill prior to mailing.
      (3)   There should be no assessment for additional base charges for
either the water utility or sewage works for any additional usage in this case.
      (4)   If the final water meter reading occurs after the calculation of
the current normally scheduled monthly meter reading, then the final bill will
include water base charge for one month plus commodity charge and sewage base
charge for one month, plus flow charge and sewage base charge for one month
plus flow charge for the period from the last monthly meter reading until the
final reading.
   (B)   In the case of rental or leased properties, after a final billing, the
account will immediately revert to the property owner or the succeeding tenant
may arrange simultaneous transfer. The property owner or successive tenant will
be charged the commodity charge for water and the flow charge for sewage from
the last water meter reading, plus monthly base charge for one month for water
and sewage.
   (C)   In the case where a property has been sold, the new owner will be
responsible for water and sewage flow charges and full monthly base charges
from the date of the final billing of the previous owner regardless of the date
on which the new owner requests initiation of service.
   (D)   There is no fee for final billing or initiation of water and/or sewage
service.
(Prior Code, § 3.2.1) (Ord. 1996-2, passed 3-5-1996)
§ 50.19 SERVICE TURN ON.
   (A)   (1)   A fee of $50 payable in advance is required for each water
service turn on whether it is a result of non-payment of water and/or sewage
bills, or for plumbing repairs, emergency, or other reasons.
      (2)   Turn ons will only be scheduled during regular working hours of the
town utility personnel, except when the Utilities Superintendent accedes to the
request as constituting an emergency, such turn on will be accommodated as
promptly as personnel availability permits.
   (B)   Shut off and/or non-use of water service for any reason will not
exempt the customer from base charges during the period of shut off or non-use.
   (C)   Shut off of water service at the curb stop shall not be done by anyone
other than town utility personnel, unless authorized in writing by the
Utilities Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3.2.1) (Ord. 1996-2, passed 3-5-1996; Ord. 2015-1, passed 1-13-
2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.20 PERMANENT DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   A customer may request in writing to the Clerk-Treasurer for permanent
discontinuance of service to forestall monthly payments of commodity and base
charges for water, and flow and base charges for sewage. If such request is
granted by the Utilities Superintendent, it will be conditioned upon the
property owner agreeing to:
      (1)   Arrange for and pay all costs associated with the permanent
disconnection of the sanitary building sewer at or near the public right-of-way
(property) line with appropriate plugging and marking of the end of the
sanitary building sewer at that location; and
      (2)   Arrange for and pay all costs associated with the permanent
disconnection of the building water service at or near the public right-of-way
(property) line or on the customer side of the meter vault both in accordance
with requirements of the town and under the inspection of the Utilities
Superintendent.
   (B)   Service at this property may only be reinstated when the property
owner arranges for and pays all costs associated with necessary re-connection
of divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) above.
   (C)   In the event that the town has determined or determines that the
sanitary building sewer or building water service in the public right-of-way
requires replacement for any reason, the property owner will also be assessed
the usual and customary charges for reinstalling these services.
   (D)   Town utilities can be turned off to vacant or unused commercial
properties in the town without having to permanently disconnect the utilities
to such properties.
(Prior Code, § 3.2.1) (Ord. 1996-2, passed 3-5-1996; Ord. 2006-6, passed 12-12-
2006)
§ 50.21 PAST DUE ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   Water and sewage accounts not paid in full by the twenty-sixth day of
the month in which the current billing was issued will be declared delinquent
and a 10% late fee added thereto.
      (1)   If the payment is not received by the twenty-sixth day of the month
following issuance of the billing for the prior month, then termination of
service will occur, subject to the conditions of division (C) below.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer may enter into agreements for collection of
past due accounts.
      (3)    Failure of the customer to meet agreed upon conditions in any such
agreement shall be cause for termination of service, subject to the conditions
of division (C) below.
   (B)   Any person who becomes more than 14 days overdue in the payment of his
or her monthly statement for water without making acceptable payment
arrangements with the Clerk-Treasurer shall have his or her water services shut
off, subject to the conditions of division (C) below.
   (C)   (1)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The town’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
         (a)   All bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth on
the bill;
         (b)   If any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
         (c)   Any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill shall
have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in person
and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may present
orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the town official
in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to order that
the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make
a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
      (2)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained;
only questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence
of payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
      (3)   When it becomes necessary for the town to discontinue utility
service to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only
after all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on
charge in the sum of $20.
(Prior Code, § 3.2.1) (Ord. 1996-2, passed 3-5-1996; Ord. 2007-03, passed 10-9-
2007)
§ 50.22 RETURNED CHECK FEES.
   (A)   A check returned to the town with insufficient funds to cover its
cashing will not be redeposited by the town.
   (B)   Upon notification, the customer must, within five days, bring the
water utility and sewage works accounts current through the last billing by
payment in full of all charges by either cash, money order, certified check, or
cashier’s check payable to the town.
   (C)   A charge of $25 shall be assessed for handling checks returned to the
town with insufficient funds. Such charge shall be added to any unpaid bills of
the customer and must be paid before service will be reinstated.
(Prior Code, § 3.2.1) (Ord. 1996-2, passed 3-5-1996; Ord. 2015-1, passed 1-13-
2015)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Fire hydrants; connection to system
   
51.02   Rates and charges
Cross-Connection Control
   
51.15   Definition
   
51.16   Usage prohibited
   
51.17   Inspections; possible health hazards
   
51.18   Authority; right to request entry
   
51.19   Discontinuance of service
   
51.20   Written findings; hearing
   
51.21   Proper equipment; installation
   
51.22   Other rules apply; list of hazards
   
51.23   Violations; failure to comply; approval required
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 FIRE HYDRANTS; CONNECTION TO SYSTEM.
   (A)   It shall be illegal for any person or concern to make connection to
the public water supply system of the town, including water hydrants or other
connections thereto, except for:
      (1)   Fire Department officials during the course of fighting fires and/
or training exercises directly related thereto; or
      (2)   Water Department and/or other town department officials for the
purpose of filling the town’s water-carrying vehicles, provided that such
vehicles have approved backflow prevention devices installed and properly
maintained.
   (B)   Any situation that may require connection otherwise to the fire
hydrant or other connections of the public water supply distribution system
that is not specifically covered by this section shall be at the discretion of
the Waterworks Superintendent who, in order to grant such connection(s), shall
be then certified by the State Department of Environmental Management Board as
to the operation of a public water supply distribution system.
(Prior Code, § 3.4.5) (Ord. 1993-9, passed 5-19-1993) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.02 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Phase I. The following shall be effective upon the adoption of the
ordinance codified into this section.
      (1)   Commodity. Commodity charge (per 1,000 gallons): $4.46.
      (2)   Base charge. In addition to the charge in division (A)(1) above,
the base charge (per month) shall be (each user shall pay a base charge in
accordance with the following applicable size of meter installed):
Size of Meter Ratio Billing Availability* Total
Size of Meter  Ratio Billing Availability* Total
5/8 - 3/4 inch 1.0   $2.78   $17.19        $19.97
1 inch         2.5   $2.78   $42.98        $45.76
1-1/2 inches   5.8   $2.78   $99.70        $102.48
2 inches       10.0  $2.78   $171.90       $174.68
3 inches       23.0  $2.78   $395.37       $398.15
4 inches       41.0  $2.78   $704.79       $707.57
6 inches       92.0  $2.78   $1,581.48     $1,584.26
8 inches       164.0 $2.78   $2,819.16     $2,821.94
Notes to Table:
* = Based on ratio
 
      (3)   Fire protection charge (per annum).
         (a)   Private hydrants (per hydrant): $1,000.12 charge, with a ratio
of 1.000.
         (b)   Public hydrant surcharge (per month):
Size of Meter Ratio Charge
Size of Meter  Ratio Charge
5/8 - 3/4 inch 1.00  $10.59
1 inch         2.50  $26.48
1-1/2 inch     5.00  $52.95
2 inches       8.00  $84.72
3 inches       15.00 $158.85
4 inches       25.00 $264.75
6 inches       50.00 $529.50
8 inches       80.00 $847.20
 
      (4)   Sprinklers. Sprinkler connections (per annum):
 
Size      Ratio  Charge
3 inches  0.2500 $250.05
4 inches  0.4444 $444.50
6 inches  1.0000 $1,000.15
8 inches  1.7778 $1,778.10
10 inches 2.7778 $2,778.25
 
      (5)   Drinking fountains. Municipal drinking fountains (per annum):
$800.15 charge, with a ratio of 0.8000.
      (6)   Temporary users. Water furnished to temporary users, such as
contractors, circuses, and the like, shall be charged on the basis of the
metered volume rates hereinbefore set forth as estimated and established by the
Water Utility Superintendent.
   (B)   Phase II. The following shall be effective January 1, 2024.
      (1)   Commodity. Commodity charge (per 1,000 gallons): $6.06.
      (2)   Base charge. In addition to the charge in division (B)(1) above,
the base charge (per month) shall be (each user shall pay a base charge in
accordance with the following applicable size of meter installed):
Size of Meter Ratio Billing Availability* Total
Size of Meter  Ratio Billing Availability* Total
5/8 - 3/4 inch 1.0   $3.77   $23.36        $27.13
1 inch         2.5   $3.77   $58.40        $62.17
1-1/2 inches   5.8   $3.77   $135.49       $139.26
2 inches       10.0  $3.77   $233.60       $237.37
3 inches       23.0  $3.77   $537.28       $541.05
4 inches       41.0  $3.77   $957.76       $961.53
6 inches       92.0  $3.77   $2,149.12     $2,152.89
8 inches       164.0 $3.77   $3,831.04     $3,834.81
Notes to Table:
* = Based on ratio
 
      (3)   Fire protection charge (per annum).
         (a)   Private hydrants (per hydrant): $1,359.13 charge, with a ratio
of 1.000.
         (b)   Public hydrant surcharge (per month):
Size of Meter Ratio Charge
Size of Meter  Ratio Charge
5/8 - 3/4 inch 1.00  $14.39
1 inch         2.50  $35.98
1-1/2 inches   5.00  $71.95
2 inches       8.00  $115.12
3 inches       15.00 $215.85
4 inches       25.00 $359.75
6 inches       50.00 $719.50
8 inches       80.00 $1,151.20
 
      (4)   Sprinklers. Sprinkler connections (per annum):
 
Size      Ratio  Charge
3 inches  0.2500 $339.80
4 inches  0.4444 $604.05
6 inches  1.0000 $1,359.15
8 inches  1.7778 $2,416.30
10 inches 2.7778 $3,775.45
 
      (5)   Drinking fountains. Municipal drinking fountains (per annum):
$1,087.35 charge, with a ratio of 0.8000.
      (6)   Temporary users. Water furnished to temporary users, such as
contractors, circuses, and the like, shall be charged on the basis of the
metered volume rates hereinbefore set forth as estimated and established by the
Water Utility Superintendent.
   (C)   Non-residential users.
      (1)   In the event two or more non-residential users use water from the
town’s water utility and the quantity of water is measured by a single water
meter, then in such case, for billing purposes, the bill shall be the base
monthly charge for the size of the meter used, plus the commodity charge for
the water used.
      (2)   In the event two or more dwelling units, such as, but not limited
to, mobile homes, apartments, or housekeeping rooms, use water from the town’s
water utility and the quantity of water is measured by a single water meter,
then in such case, for billing purposes, the bill shall be the multiple of the
base monthly charge and monthly public hydrant surcharge for a five-eighths
inch to three-fourths inch meter and the number of dwelling units, plus the
commodity charge for the water used. A dwelling unit shall be interpreted as
one or more connected rooms designed for occupancy by one family, and
containing permanent cooking accommodations and private bath facilities. In the
case of mobile home courts, apartment buildings, and housekeeping rooms, the
number of dwelling units shall be computed and interpreted as the total number
of mobile home spaces, apartments, or housekeeping rooms available for rent,
plus any other dwelling units served through the meter.
      (3)   For service rendered to the town, the town shall be subject to the
same rates and charges as hereinabove provided, or to rates and charges
established in harmony herewith.
(Ord. 2023-2, passed 2-14-2023)
CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
§ 51.15 DEFINITION.
   A CROSS-CONNECTION shall be defined as any physical connection or
arrangement between two otherwise separate systems, one of which contains
potable water from the town water system, and the other, water from a private
source, water of unknown or questionable safety, or steam, gases, or chemicals,
whereby there may be a flow from one system to the other, the direction of flow
depending on the pressure differential between the two systems.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 11-14-2017)
§ 51.16 USAGE PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall establish or permit to be established,
or maintain or permit to be maintained, any cross-connection. No
interconnection shall be established whereby potable water from a private,
auxiliary, or emergency water supply, other than the regular public water
supply of the town, may enter the supply or distribution system of said
municipality, unless such private, auxiliary, or emergency water supply, and
the method of connection and use of such supply, shall have been approved by
the town and by the State Department of Environmental Management in accordance
with 327 I.A.C. 8-10.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 11-14-2017) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.17 INSPECTIONS; POSSIBLE HEALTH HAZARDS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the town to cause inspections to be made of
all properties served by the public water system where cross-connections with
the public water system is deemed possible.
   (B)   The frequency of inspections and re-inspection, based on potential
health hazards involved, shall be established by the town.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 11-14-2017)
§ 51.18 AUTHORITY; RIGHT TO REQUEST ENTRY.
   (A)   Upon presentation of credentials, the representative of the town shall
have the right to request entry at any reasonable time to examine the property
served by a connection to the public water system of the town for cross-
connections. On request, the owner, lessee, or occupant of any property so
served shall furnish to the inspection agency any pertinent information
regarding the piping system or systems on such property.
   (B)   The refusal of access or refusal of requested pertinent information
shall be deemed evidence of the presence of cross-connections.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 11-14-2017)
§ 51.19 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   The town is hereby authorized and directed to discontinue water service to
any property wherein any connection in violation of this section exists, and to
take such other precautionary measures deemed necessary to eliminate any danger
of contamination of the public water system.
   (A)   Water service shall be discontinued only after reasonable notice is
served on the owner, lessee, or occupants of the property or premises where a
violation is found or suspected to exist.
   (B)   Water service to such property shall not be restored until the cross-
connection(s) has been eliminated in compliance with the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 11-14-2017)
§ 51.20 WRITTEN FINDINGS; HEARING.
   If it is deemed by the town that a cross-connection or an emergency
endangers public health, safety, or welfare and requires immediate action, and
a written finding to that effect is filed with the Clerk-Treasurer of the town
and delivered to the consumer’s premises, service may be immediately
discontinued. The consumer shall have an opportunity for hearing within ten
days of such emergency discontinuance.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 11-14-2017)
§ 51.21 PROPER EQUIPMENT; INSTALLATION.
   (A)   All consumers using toxic or hazardous liquids, all hospitals,
mortuaries, wastewater treatment plants, laboratories, and all other hazardous
users install and maintain a reduced pressure principal backflow preventer in
the main water line serving each building on the premises.
   (B)   The backflow preventer must be installed in an easily accessible
location not subject to flooding or freezing.
   (C)   The reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall not be
installed below ground level.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 11-14-2017)
§ 51.22 OTHER RULES APPLY; LIST OF HAZARDS.
   (A)   This section does not supersede the State Plumbing Code, or the IDEM
Rule 327 I.A.C. 8-10.
   (B)   In addition to IDEM Rule 327 I.A.C. 8-10-4(c), facilities that require
a backflow prevention device if the activities on the premises are listed
below, then the owner must have or install a state-approved cross-connection
control device on each water service line, and promptly submit test results to
the town Water Department.
   (C)   The state designates the following list of facilities as cross-
connection hazards (a state approved reduced pressure principle backflow
preventer shall be installed on the customer service line serving these
facilities, unless otherwise specified).
      (1)   All customers with land irrigation systems, including residential.
Either a pressure type vacuum breaker or a reduced pressure principle backflow
preventer can be used for cross- connection control.
      (2)   All customers fire service lines. Double check detector assembly
should be used for cross-connection control.
      (3)   Aircraft and missile manufacturing plants.
      (4)   Automotive plants, including those plants that manufacture
motorcycles, automobiles, trucks, recreational vehicles, and construction and
agricultural equipment.
      (5)   Beverage bottling plants, including dairies and breweries.
      (6)   Canneries, packing houses, and reduction plants.
      (7)   Car washes.
      (8)   Chemical, biological, and radiological laboratories, including
those in high schools, trade schools, colleges, universities, and research
institutions.
      (9)   Hospitals, clinics, medical buildings, autopsy facilities, morgues,
other medical facilities, and mortuaries.
      (10)   Metal and plastic manufacturing, fabricating, cleaning, plating,
and processing facilities.
      (11)   Plants manufacturing paper and paper products.
      (12)   Plants manufacturing, refining, compounding, or processing
fertilizer, film, herbicides, natural or synthetic rubber, pesticides,
petroleum or petroleum products, pharmaceuticals, radiological materials, or
any chemical that could be a contaminant to the public water supply.
      (13)   Commercial facilities that use herbicides, pesticides,
fertilizers, or any chemical that could be a contaminant to the public water
supply.
      (14)   Plants processing, blending, or refining animal, vegetable, or
mineral oils.
      (15)   Commercial laundries and dye works, including coin-operated
laundromats.
      (16)   Sewage, stormwater, and industrial waste treatment plants and
pumping stations.
      (17)   Waterfront facilities, including piers, docks, marinas, and
shipyards.
      (18)   Industrial facilities that recycle water.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 11-14-2017) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.23 VIOLATIONS; FAILURE TO COMPLY; APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   (A)   If, in the judgment of the Superintendent of Water, an approved
backflow prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public water
system, the Superintendent of Water will give notice to the water consumer to
install such an approved device immediately.
      (1)   The water consumer shall, at his or her own expense, install such
an approved device at a location and in a manner approved by the Superintendent
of Water, and as a condition to receiving water service, the customer shall
grant to the town, upon request, the right to enter the customer’s premises to
make periodic inspections of customer’s piping.
      (2)   The town will report any violations to both the customer and to the
respective regulatory authority, and shall have inspections and tests made of
such approved devices as required by the Superintendent of Water and in
accordance with the IDEM Rule 327 I.A.C. 8-10.
   (B)   The town will not assume responsibility for damage, sickness, or death
arising from the existence of an improper cross-connection or the use or
failure of a cross-connection prevention device. Failure to correct a non-
complying installation will lead to a disconnection of service.
   (C)   Booster pumps shall not be installed without the written approval of
the town.
      (1)   In all booster pump installations, the suction of the pump shall be
connected to an atmospheric tank with the public water supply entering the tank
being controlled by an automatic float valve and freely discharging into the
tank a minimum of six inches above the positive over-flow level of the tank. As
an alternative, an approved backflow prevention device may be installed on the
suction of the pump.
      (2)   The backflow prevention device must meet the State Board of Health
and State Department of Environmental Management guidelines, and must be tested
and maintained as per state guidelines with copies of test results submitted to
the Superintendent of Water.
      (3)   A set of plans and specification must be submitted to the town,
State Board of Health, and IDEM, as required for approval, before installation
of any booster pumps.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 11-14-2017) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the terms of §
51.01 may be fined in any sum not exceeding $100 for any single violation
hereof and the cost of any damages caused to town property as a result of any
improper connection hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 3.4.5)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Definitions
   
52.002   Violation notification; hearing; legal action
Discharges and Usage
   
52.015   Prohibitions and limitations
   
52.016   Obstructing or damaging sewers
   
52.017   Dilution of sewage
   
52.018   Background concentrations
   
52.019   Sampling
   
52.020   Contact cooling water
   
52.021   Toxic and other pollutants
   
52.022   Categorical standards
   
52.023   Removal credits
Control and Authority
   
52.035   Regulatory actions
   
52.036   Submission of plans
   
52.037   Pretreatment facilities operations
   
52.038   Admission to property
   
52.039   Accidental discharge; protection; reporting
Wastewater Monitoring and Reporting
   
52.050   Discharge reports
   
52.051   Compliance schedule reports and baseline reports
   
52.052   Records and monitoring
   
52.053   Inspection, sampling, and analysis
   
52.054   Upsets
Industrial Discharge Permit System
   
52.065   Wastewater discharge permits required
   
52.066   Permit application
   
52.067   Permit fees
   
52.068   Permit conditions
   
52.069   Permit duration
   
52.070   Permit transfer
   
52.071   Permit revocation
   
52.072   Confidential information
   
52.073   Falsifying information
 
   
52.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (Pub. Law No. 92-500), as
amended by the Clean Water Act (Pub. Law No. 95-217) of 1977, being 33 U.S.C.
§§ 1251 et seq.
   APPLICABLE PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any pretreatment limit or prohibitive
standard (federal, state, and/or local) contained in the chapter and considered
to be the most restrictive with which non-domestic users will be required to
comply.
   AVERAGE MONTHLY DISCHARGE LIMITATION. The highest allowable average of daily
discharges over a calendar month, calculated as the sum of all daily discharges
measured through a calendar month divided by the number of daily discharges
measured during that month.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD).
      (1)   Sewage, sewage effluent, polluted water, or industrial wastes shall
measure the quantity of dissolved oxygen in milligrams per liter required
during stabilization of the decomposable organic matter by aerobic biochemical
action under standard laboratory procedures for five days at 20°C.
      (2)   The laboratory determination shall be made in accordance with the
methods contained in 40 C.F.R. part 136 or in accordance with any other method
prescribed by the rules and regulations promulgated pursuant to this chapter.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any regulation containing pollutant
discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of
the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 317(b) and (c), which applies to a specific category
of industrial users.
   C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD).
      (1)   Sewage, sewage effluent, polluted waters, or industrial wastes is a
measure of the oxygen equivalent of that portion of the organic matter in a
sample that is susceptible to oxidation by a strong chemical oxidant.
      (2)   The laboratory determination shall be made in accordance with the
methods contained in 40 C.F.R. part 136 or in accordance with any other method
prescribed by the rules and regulations promulgated pursuant to this chapter.
   COMPOSITE SAMPLE.
      (1)   A COMPOSITE SAMPLE should contain a minimum of eight discrete
samples taken at equal time intervals over the composition period.
      (2)   More than the minimum number of discrete samples will be required
where the wastewater loading is highly variable.
   CONTACT COOLING WATER. Any water used for heat exchange in a manufacturing
process. The COOLING WATER may come in direct contact with a manufacturing
product, equipment, or contaminate, or anything else that alters the chemical
or physical characteristics of the water other than temperature.
   DAILY DISCHARGE.
      (1)   Discharge of a pollutant; and
      (2)   Measured during a calendar day or any 24-hour period that
reasonably represents a calendar day for purposes of sampling.
   EFFLUENT. Water, together with any wastes that may be present, flowing out
of a drain, sewer, receptacle, or outlet.
   EMERGENCY. A combination of unforseen circumstances which require an
immediate remedy. Said EMERGENCY shall be declared by the Town Council and
shall be limited to a specific time period.
   GARBAGE. Any solid wastes from the preparation, cooking, or dispensing of
food, and from the handling, storage, or sale of produce.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a wastestream on a one-time basis
with no regard to the flow in the wastestream and without consideration of
time.
   GROUND GARBAGE. Garbage that is shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely in suspension under the conditions normally prevailing
in public sewers, with no particle being greater than one-half inch in
dimension.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any industrial or commercial establishment that discharges
industrial (process) wastewater to a publicly owned treatment works.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE PERMIT. A permit to deposit or discharge industrial waste
into any sanitary sewer as issued by the city.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Any solid, liquid, or gaseous substance or form of energy
discharges, permitted to flow or escaping from an industrial, manufacturing,
commercial, or business process or from the development, recovery, or
processing of any natural resource.
   INFLUENT. The water, together with any wastes that may be present, flowing
into a drain, sewer, receptacle, or outlet.
   INTERFERENCE.
      (1)   The inhibition or disruption of the POTW treatment processes or
operations which contributed to a violation of any requirement of the city’s
N.P.D.E.S. permit.
      (2)   The term includes prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal by
the POTW in accordance with § 405 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1345) or any
criteria, guidelines, or regulations developed pursuant to the Solid Waste
Disposal Act (SWDA), being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq., the Clean Air Act, being
42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq., the Toxic Substances Control Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§
2601 et seq., or more stringent state criteria (including those contained in
any state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Title IV of the SWDA,
being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6941 et seq.) applicable to the method of disposal or use
employed by the POTW.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTOR.
      (1)   A contributor that has a flow of more than 25,000 gallons per
average workday;
      (2)   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in §
307 of the Federal Act;
      (3)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the total POTW influent;
      (4)   Has in its wastes toxic pollutants as defined pursuant to § 307 of
the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317, or state statutes and rules; or
      (5)   Is found by the city, state, or the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA) to have significant impact, either by itself or in combination
with other contributing industries, on the wastewater treatment system, the
quality of sludge, the system’s effluent quality, or air emissions generated by
the system.
   MASS EMISSION RATE. The amount of a pollutant to the town sewer system as
measured in a weight per unit time. The MASS EMISSION RATE may be expressed,
but not limited to, such terms as pounds per day, kilograms per day, or pounds
per hour.
   MAXIMUM DAILY DISCHARGE LIMITATIONS. Highest allowable daily discharge.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissible.
   NON-CONTRACT COOLING WATER. Any water used for heat exchange in a
manufacturing process. The COOLING WATER shall not at any time come into direct
contract with any manufacturing product, equipment contaminant, or anything
else that would alter the chemical or physical characteristics of the water
other than temperature.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Sewage having an average daily suspended solids
concentration of not more than 250 milligrams per liter, an average daily BOD
of not more than 200 milligrams per liter.
   N.P.D.E.S. PERMIT. National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit
which sets the conditions for the discharge of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants to the navigable waters of the United States pursuant to § 402 of
Pub. Law No. 92-500, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317.
   O & M. Operation and maintenance.
   OUTLET. Any outlet, natural or constructed, which is the point of final
discharge of sewage, or of treatment plant effluent, into any point of final
discharge of sewage, or of treatment plant effluent into any watercourse, pond,
ditch, lake, or other body of surface or groundwater.
   PERSON.
      (1)   Any and all persons, including any individual, firm, company,
municipal or private corporation, partnership, co-partnership, joint stock
company, trust, estate, association, society, institution, enterprise,
governmental agency, the state, the United States of America, or other legal
entity, or the legal representatives, agents, or assigns.
      (2)   The masculine gender includes the feminine, the singular includes
the plural where indicated by the context.
   pH. The logarithm (to the base of ten) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion
concentration of a solution expressed in gram-atom per liter of solution.
   POLLUTANT. 
      (1)   Any physical parameter or substance which, when discharged into any
of the following would alter the physical, chemical, biological, or
radiological integrity of those waters.
         (a)   The influent waters of the POTW.
         (b)   The waters of the state.
      (2)   The terms shall include, but not be limited to, dredged soil, solid
waste, incinerator residue, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical
wastes, biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked, or
discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, and industrial, municipal, and
agricultural waste.
   POTW. Public owned treatment works.
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of discharging or
otherwise introducing such pollutants into the POTW. The reduction or
alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical, or biological processes,
process changes, or by other means, except as prohibited by 40 C.F.R. § 403.6
(d).
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment, other than a national pretreatment standard imposed on an
industrial user.
   RECEIVING STREAM. The watercourse, stream, or body of water receiving the
waters finally discharged from the sewage treatment plant.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. Sewage discharged from the sanitary conveniences of
dwellings (including apartment houses and hotels), office buildings, factories,
or institutions, and from stormwater, surface water, and industrial wastes.
   SEWAGE. The water-carried wastes from residences, business buildings,
institutions, and industrial establishments, singular or in any combination,
together with such ground, surface, and stormwaters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT or WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT. The arrangement of
devices, structures, and equipment used for treating and disposing of sewage
and sludge.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage or other waste liquids.
      (1)   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer which carries both storm, surface, and
groundwater runoff and sewage.
      (2)   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting property have
equal rights and which is controlled by public authority.
      (3)   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm,
surface, and groundwater drainage excludes sewage.
      (4)   SEWER SYSTEM. The network of sewers and appurtenances used for
collecting, transporting, and pumping sewage to the sewage treatment plant.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SLUDGE. Any solid, semi-solid, or liquid waste generated from a municipal,
commercial, or industrial wastewater treatment plant, water supply treatment
plant, or air pollution control facility, or any other waste having similar
characteristics and effects as defined in standards issued under §§ 402 and 405
of the Federal Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1342 and 1345, and in the applicable
requirements under §§ 3001, 3004, and 4004 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act,
being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6921, 6924, and 6944, Pub. Law No. 94-580.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification pursuant to the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of the
President, Office of Management and Budget, 1972.
   STANDARD METHODS. The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition,
at the time of analysis, of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater prepared and published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association, and the Water Pollution
Control Federation.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the sewage treatment facilities (or
wastewater treatment plant) of the town, or its duly authorized representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids which either float on the surface or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquid and which are removable by
laboratory filtration. His or her concentration shall be expressed in
milligrams per liter. Quantitative determinations shall be made in accordance
with procedures set forth in Standard Methods.
   TOXIC AMOUNT. Concentrations of any pollutant or combination of pollutants
which, upon exposure to any organism, will cause adverse effects such as
cancer, genetic mutations, and physiological manifestations, as defined in
standards issued pursuant to § 307(a) of Pub. Law No. 92-500, being 33 U.S.C. §
1317(a).
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. Those substances referred to in § 307(a) of the Act, being
33 U.S.C. § 1317(a), as well as any other known potential substances capable of
producing toxic affects.
   TOWN. The Town of Bourbon, Indiana, or any duly authorized official’s action
in its behalf.
   UPSET. An exceptional incident in which a discharger unintentionally and
temporarily is in a state of non-compliance with the applicable standard due to
factors beyond the reasonable control of the discharger, and excluding non-
compliance to the extent caused by operational error, improperly designed
treatment facilities, inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventative
maintenance, or careless or improper operation of the facilities.
   U.S. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA). The U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency, or where appropriate, the term may also be used as a
designation for the Administrator or other duly authorized official of the
Agency.
   USER. Any person that discharges, causes, or permits the discharge of
wastewater into the sewage system.
   WASTEWATER, CONSTITUENTS, AND CHARACTERISTICS. The individual chemical,
physical, bacteriological, and radiological parameters, including volume, flow
rate, and other parameters, that serve to define, classify, or measure the
contents, quality, quantity, and strength of wastewater.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs either continuously
or intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 3.1)
§ 52.002 VIOLATION NOTIFICATION; HEARING; LEGAL ACTION.
   (A)   General. If the violation is not corrected by timely compliance, the
Superintendent may order any person who causes or allows an unauthorized
discharge to show cause before the Town Council why service should not be
terminated.
   (B)   Notice of violation. Whenever the Superintendent finds that any person
has violated or is violating this chapter, or any prohibition, limitation, or
requirement contained herein, the Superintendent shall serve upon such person a
written notice, either personally or by certified or registered mail, stating
the nature of the alleged violation. Within ten days of the date of receipt of
the notice, the discharger must respond personally or in writing to the town
advising of its position with respect to the allegations. Thereafter, the
parties must meet to determine the seriousness of the allegations and, where
necessary, establish a plan for the satisfactory correction of the violation.
   (C)   Service of notice. A notice shall be served on the offending party
specifying the time and place of the hearing to be held by the Town Council
regarding the violation, and directing the offending party to show cause before
said Town Council why an order should not be made directing the termination of
the service. The notice of the hearing shall be served personally, or by
registered or certified mail (return receipt requested), at least ten days
before the hearing. Service may be made on any agent or officer of a
corporation.
      (1)   The Town Council may itself conduct the hearing and take the
evidence, or may designate any of its members or any officer to:
         (a)   Issue in the name of the Town Council notices of hearings, and
requesting the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of such
evidence relevant to any matter involved in any such hearings;
         (b)   Take the evidence; and
         (c)   Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, including
transcripts and other evidence, together with recommendations to the Town
Council for action thereon.
      (2)   At any public hearing, testimony taken before the Town Council, or
any person designated by it, must be under oath and recorded stenographically.
The transcript, so recorded, will be made available to any member of the public
of any part of the hearing upon payment of the usual charges.
      (3)   After the Town Council has reviewed the evidence, it may issue an
order to the party responsible for the discharge, directing that, following a
specified time period, the sewer service be discontinued unless adequate
treatment facilities, devices, or other related appurtenances are properly
operated, and such further orders and directives as are necessary and
appropriate.
   (D)   Legal action.
      (1)   Any discharge in violation of the substantive provisions of this
section or an order of the Town Council shall be considered a public nuisance.
      (2)   If any user discharges sewage, industrial wastes, or other wastes
into the town treatment system contrary to the substantive provisions of this
section or any order of the Town Council, the Town Attorney shall commence an
action for appropriate legal and/or equitable relief.
   (E)   Annual publication of violators.
      (1)   A list of discharges which were subject of significant enforcement
proceedings pursuant to the provisions of this section, or state or federal
regulations during the previous calendar year, shall be published annually by
the town in the largest daily newspaper published in the town.
      (2)   The list shall summarize the enforcement actions taken against the
discharges during the calendar year in which violations:
         (a)   Remained uncorrected 45 or more days after notification of non-
compliance;
         (b)   Which have exhibited a pattern of non-compliance over that one-
year period;
         (c)   Which involves failure to accurately report non-compliance; or
         (d)   Which resulted in the town exercising its emergency authority.
   (F)   Discharger’s right of appeal.
      (1)    Any discharger has the right to request in writing an
interpretation or ruling by the town on any matter covered by the section, and
entitled to a written reply within 45 days.
      (2)   In the event that such an inquiry is by the affected discharger and
deals with matters of compliance with the section or deals with the permit,
receipt of the discharger’s request will delay all enforcement proceedings,
until he or she receives the written reply.
(Prior Code, § 3.1)
DISCHARGES AND USAGE
§ 52.015 PROHIBITIONS AND LIMITATIONS.
   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged to any public sewer any of the following described substances,
wastes, or waters:
   (A)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature that would inhibit biological
activity in the POTW resulting in interference, but in no case shall the
wastewater cause a temperature higher than 104°F at the introduction to the
POTW but in no way shall the temperature of the liquid or vapor exceed 104°F;
   (B)   Any non-contact cooling water with a total flow rate in excess of
10,000 gpd. Industry shall obtain N.P.D.E.S. and any other necessary permits
and discharge the non-contact cooling water to any approved discharge point;
   (C)   Industry may elect to recycle non-contact cooling water in lieu of
discharging;
   (D)   Any waters or wastes containing more than 100 milligrams per liter of
fats, oils, greases, or waxes;
   (E)   Any liquids, solids, or gases which, by reason of their nature or
quantity, are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction to cause
fire or explosion, or be injurious in any other way to the operation of the
POTW;
   (F)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance which, either alone or by
interaction with other wastes, is capable of creating a public nuisance or
hazard to life or of preventing entry into sewers for their maintenance and
repair;
   (G)   Any garbage that has not been properly ground;
   (H)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, shavings, wood, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, pauch manure, butchers offal, or any other solid or
viscous substances capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or any
other interference with the proper operation of the sewage system or the sewage
treatment plan;
   (I)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than six or higher than nine,
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damages or posing
hazards to the structures, equipment, or personnel of the sewage utility;
   (J)   Any substance which will cause the POTW to violate its N.P.D.E.S. and/
or other disposal system permits;
   (K)   (1)   Any pollutant, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD, and
the like) released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration
which will cause interference with the POTW.
      (2)   In addition, any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in
sufficient quantity, either alone or by interaction to injure or interfere with
any wastewater treatment process, or constitute a hazard to humans or animals;
   (L)   Any toxic radioactive isotopes, without a special permit. The
radioactive isotopes 1131 and P32 used in hospitals are not prohibited if they
are properly diluted before being discharged into the sewage system;
   (M)   Any slug load of pollutants including any oxygen demanding pollutants
such as BOD, suspended solids, and the like, released in a single extraordinary
discharge of such volume or strength as to cause interference to the POTW;
   (N)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of such character and
quantity that unusual provisions, attention, and expense would be required to
handle such materials in the collection system at the sewage treatment plant;
   (O)   Any water or wastes containing polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs);
   (P)   Any waters with objectionable color not removed in the treatment
process; and
   (Q)   Any water or flows from roof downspouts, exterior foundation drains,
areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a building
sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a
public sanitary sewer.
(Prior Code, § 3.1) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.016 OBSTRUCTING OR DAMAGING SEWERS.
   (A)   Any person violating any section provision, or who discharges or
causes a discharge that produces a deposit or obstruction, or causes damage to
the town’s wastewater disposal system, will be liable to the town for any
expense, loss, or damage caused by the violation or discharge.
   (B)   The town will bill the discharger for the costs incurred for any
cleaning, repair, or replacement work caused by the violation or discharge.
   (C)   Refusal to pay the assessed cost would constitute a violation
enforceable under chapter provisions.
(Prior Code, § 3.1) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.017 DILUTION OF SEWAGE.
   (A)   Dilution of the effluent from a treatment works or from any wastewater
source is not acceptable as a method of treatment of wastes in order to meet
the standards set forth in §§
52.015 and
52.021. Rather it shall be the obligation of any person discharging
contaminants of any kind to the waters of the state to provide the best degree
of treatment of wastewater consistent with technological feasibility, economic
reasonableness, and sound engineering judgment.
   (B)   (1)   In making determination as to what kind of treatment is the
“best degree of treatment” within the meaning of this division (B), any person
shall consider the following:
         (a)   What degree of waste reduction can be achieved by process
change, improved housekeeping, and recover of individual waste components for
reuse; and
         (b)   Whether individual process wastewater streams should be
segregated or combined.
      (2)   In any case, measurement of contaminant concentrations to determine
compliance with the effluent standards shall be made at the point immediately
following the final treatment process and before mixture with other waters,
unless another point is designated by the town. If necessary, the
concentrations so measured shall be recomputed to exclude the effect of any
dilution that is improper under §§
52.015 and
52.021
(Prior Code, § 3.1)
§ 52.018 BACKGROUND CONCENTRATIONS.
   (A)   Because the effluent standards in §§
52.015 and
52.021 are based upon concentrations achievable with conventional treatment
technology that is largely unaffected by ordinary levels of contaminants in
intake water, they are absolute standards that must be met without subtracting
background concentrations.
   (B)   However, it is not the intent of these regulations to require
treatment when only traces of contaminants are added to the background.
Compliance with the numerical effluent standards result entirely from influent
contamination, evaporation, and/or the incidental addition of traces of
materials not utilized or produced in the activity that is the source of the
waste.
(Prior Code, § 3.1)
§ 52.019 SAMPLING.
   Except as otherwise specifically provided in §§
52.015 and
52.021, compliance with the numerical standards in §§
52.015 and 52.21 shall be determined on the bases of a 24-hour composite
samples.
(Prior Code, § 3.1)
§ 52.020 CONTACT COOLING WATER.
   (A)   A penalty of ten times the normal sewer use rate of billing shall be
assessed to the industry each month for treatment of any contact cooling water
discharged to the town’s wastewater treatment facilities.
   (B)   Industries shall install flow metering devices that measure, totalize,
and record the amount of contact cooling water used in manufacturing processes.
      (1)   The flow meters shall be accurate to within 2% over the entire flow
range.
      (2)   The meter shall be accessible to town personnel at all times for
inspection of proper operation or tampering, and to record the amount of
cooling water discharged to the town sewers, each month.
(Prior Code, § 3.1)
§ 52.021 TOXIC AND OTHER POLLUTANTS.
   (A)   No existing discharger as of the effective date of this section shall
discharge wastewater containing concentrations of the following enumerated
materials in division (B)(3) below, exceeding the following value as measured
at the point where the entire wastewater flow from the industrial user enters
the town’s sewer system.
   (B)   Maximum daily discharge constituent limitations (mg/l) are as follows.
      (1)   A temperature higher than 104°F.
      (2)   A pH lower than 6.0 or higher than 9.0.
      (3)   The following materials:
0.1    Arsenic
mg/l
0.1mg/ Copper
l
0.1mg/ Cyanide
l
0.1mg/ Lead
l
0.1    Mercury
mg/l
0.1    Nickel
mg/l
0.1    Silver
mg/l
0.20   Cadmium
mg/l
0.50   Phenolic compounds which cannot be removed by the town’s wastewater treatment
mg/l   process
0.50   Zinc
mg/l
5.0
mg/l,  Hexavalent chromium (Cr+6) for one day, or chromium for any 30 consecutive day
0.09   average
mc/l
10 mg/ Phosphorus (total P)
l
20 mg/ Ammonia (as N)
l
100    Oil and grease (animal or vegetable origin)
mg/l
100    Oil and grease (mineral or petroleum oil)
mg/l
 
   (C)   Any of the above items listed in division (B) in other concentration
than stated above if applicable state or federal regulations, or regulations of
the Town Council set different maximum concentrations.
   (D)   Any other substance or concentration thereof prohibited to all users
or classes of users by state or federal law, or regulation, now or hereafter
adopted by the Town Council.
   (E)   The town may impose mass emission rate limitations on dischargers if
it is believed that dilution is being used to meet the pretreatment standards
or requirements of this section. These standards do not override the other
standards established by federal or state agencies or departments, or as may be
amended.
(Prior Code, § 3.1) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.022 CATEGORICAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   The town will enforce applicable federal, state, and local standards
and regulations. A discharger of industrial wastes shall meet the most
stringent applicable standard in all cases.
   (B)   These standards are required to be met at the point of discharge from
the industrial pretreatment system prior to mixing with any other wastestreams.
(Prior Code, § 3.1) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.023 REMOVAL CREDITS.
   Where applicable, the town may elect to initiate a program of removal
credits as part of this chapter to reflect the POTW’s ability to remove
pollutants in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.7. The program of removal credits
shall be explained in the wastewater permit of the user, as issued.
(Prior Code, § 3.1)
CONTROL AND AUTHORITY
§ 52.035 REGULATORY ACTIONS.
   (A)   If wastewaters containing any substance described enter into the sewer
system of the town or to any sewer system tributary thereto, the Superintendent
and Town Council may take action necessary to:
      (1)   Prohibit the discharge of such wastewater;
      (2)   Require a discharger to demonstrate that in-house modifications
will reduce or eliminate the discharge of such substance in conformity with
this section;
      (3)   Require pretreatment, including storage facilities, or flow
equalization necessary to reduce or eliminate the objectionable characteristics
or substances so that the discharge will not violate these rules and
regulations;
      (4)   Require the person making, causing, or allowing the discharge to
pay any additional cost or expense incurred by the town for handling and
treating excess loads imposed on the treatment system; and
      (5)   Take such other remedial action as may be deemed to be desirable or
necessary to achieve the purpose of this section.
   (B)   The town may suspend the wastewater treatment service and/or the
wastewater permit of a discharger if it appears to the town that an actual or
threatened discharge presents an imminent danger to the welfare of the persons,
to the environment, to the operation of the POTW, or violates any pretreatment
limits of any wastewater permit.
   (C)   Any discharger notified of the suspension of wastewater service and/or
the discharger’s wastewater permit must, within a reasonable period of time, as
determined by the town, cease all discharges. If the discharger fails to comply
voluntarily with the suspension order within the specified time, the town must
immediately commence with judicial proceedings to comply with the discharger’s
compliance with the order. The town can reinstate the wastewater permit and/or
the wastewater treatment service and terminate judicial proceedings, provided
the discharger can prove the elimination of the non-complying discharge or
conditions.
(Prior Code, § 3.1)
§ 52.036 SUBMISSION OF PLANS.
   (A)   Where pretreatment or equalization of wastewater flows prior to
discharge into any part of the wastewater treatment system is required, plans,
specifications, and other pertinent date or information relating to such
pretreatment or flow-control facilities shall first be submitted to the
Superintendent for review and approval.
   (B)   Such approval shall not exempt the discharge or such facilities from
compliance with any applicable code, section, rule, regulation, or other form
of any governmental authority. Any subsequent alterations or additions to such
pretreatment or flow control facilities shall not be made without due notice to
and prior approval of the Superintendent. All submissions will be reviewed and
approved in a timely manner.
(Prior Code, § 3.1) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.037 PRETREATMENT FACILITIES OPERATIONS.
   If pretreatment or control of waste flows is required, such facilities shall
be maintained in good working order and operated as efficiently as possible by
the owner or operator at his or her own cost and expense, subject to the
requirements of these rules and regulations and all other applicable codes,
sections, and laws.
(Prior Code, § 3.1) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.038 ADMISSION TO PROPERTY.
   (A)   Whenever it shall be necessary for the purpose of these rules and
regulations, the Superintendent, upon the presentation of credentials, may
enter upon any property or premises at reasonable times for the purpose of:
      (1)   Copying any records required to be kept under the provisions;
      (2)   Inspecting any monitoring equipment or method; and
      (3)   Sampling any discharge of wastewater to the treatment works.
   (B)   The Superintendent may enter upon the property at any hour under
emergency circumstances.
   (C)   The town shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises
established by the industrial users, and the user shall be held harmless for
injury or death to the town employees.
   (D)   The town shall indemnify the user against loss or damage to its
property by town employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the user and growing out of
the gauging and sampling operating, except as such may be cause by negligence
or failure of the user to maintain safe conditions.
(Prior Code, § 3.1)
§ 52.039 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE; PROTECTION; REPORTING.
   (A)   Each industrial or other user shall provide protection from accidental
discharge of prohibited materials or other wastes regulated by this section.
Facilities to prevent accidental discharge of prohibited materials shall be
provided and maintained at the owner or operator’s own cost and expense.
Detailed plans showing facilities and operating procedures to provide this
protection shall be submitted to the Superintendent for review, and shall be
approved before construction of the facility. Review and approval of such plans
and operating procedure shall not relieve the user from the responsibility to
modify its facility as necessary to meet the requirements of this section.
   (B)   If, for any reason, a user does not comply with or will be unable to
comply with any prohibition or limitation in this section, the user responsible
for such discharge shall immediately notify the Superintendent so that
corrective action may be taken to protect the treatment systems. In addition, a
written report addressed to the Superintendent detailing the date, time, and
cause of the accidental discharge, the quantity and the characteristics of the
discharge, and corrective action taken to prevent future discharge, shall be
filed by the responsible users within five days of the occurrence of the non-
complying discharge.
(Prior Code, § 3.1) Penalty, see §
52.999
WASTEWATER MONITORING AND REPORTING
§ 52.050 DISCHARGE REPORTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any discharger subject to applicable pretreatment standards
shall be required to file up to 12 times annually discharge reports with the
Superintendent.
      (2)   The Superintendent may require any other users discharging or
proposing to discharge into the treatment system to file such periodic reports
on forms provided by the Superintendent.
   (B)   (1)   The discharge report shall include, but shall not be limited to,
nature or process, volume, rates of flow, mass emission rate, production
quantities, hours of operation, concentrations of controlled pollutants, or
other information which relates to the generation of waste.
      (2)   Such reports may also include the chemical constituents and
quantity of liquid materials stored on-site, even though they are not normally
discharged. In addition to the discharge reports, the Superintendent may
require information in the form of industrial discharge permit applications and
self-monitoring reports.
(Prior Code, § 3.1)
§ 52.051 COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE REPORTS AND BASELINE REPORTS.
   (A)   In general.
      (1)   Any non-categorical industry which is not in compliance with the
town’s ordinance limitations must develop a compliance schedule during the time
the industry must meet the town’s standards. The schedule should contain
increments of progress (hiring engineers, starting construction, and the like),
which correspond to specific dates for his or her completion. These represent
major events leading to the operation of pretreatment equipment to meet the
town’s pretreatment standards.
      (2)   All users subject to these conditions must submit a progress report
to the town no later than 14 days following each date in the compliance
schedule. This report must include whether it complied with the increment of
progress to be met on that date, the reason for delay if the date was not met,
and the steps being taken to return to compliance. In no event can more than
nine months elapse between progress reports.
   (B)   Baseline reports. Within 180 days after the effective date of a
categorical pretreatment standard, or 180 days after the final administrative
decision made on a category, whichever is later, existing users subject to the
categorical pretreatment standards shall submit to the town a report containing
the information listed in 40 C.F.R. part 403, § 403.12(b).
   (C)   Compliance schedule reports for categorical industries.
      (1)   Whenever a user subject to categorical pretreatment standards is
not meeting the standards at the time of promulgation of that standard, a
compliance schedule report shall be filed with the Superintendent.
      (2)   The schedule shall contain increments of progress (for example,
hiring an engineer, completing plans, commencing construction, and the like)
which correspond to specific dates for his or her completion.
   (D)   Compliance date report. Within 90 days following the date for final
compliance with an applicable pretreatment standard, any user subject to those
standards must submit to the city a report indicating the nature and
concentration of all pollutants in the discharge generated from the regulated
process which are limited by categorical pretreatment standards. The report
must also state whether applicable standards are being met on a consistent
basis and, if not, what additional O & M and/or pretreatment is necessary to
bring the discharge into compliance. This statement should be signed by an
authorized representative of the user.
(Prior Code, § 3.1)
§ 52.052 RECORDS AND MONITORING.
   (A)   All users who discharge wastewaters to the wastewater treatment system
shall maintain such records of production and related factors, effluent flows,
and pollutant amounts or concentrations as are necessary to demonstrate
compliance with the requirements of this subchapter, and any applicable state
and federal pretreatment standards or requirements.
   (B)   Such records shall be made available upon request by the
Superintendent. All such records relating to compliance with pretreatment
standards shall be made available to officials of the U.S. Environmental Agency
upon demand. A summary of such data indicating the industrial user’s compliance
with this subchapter shall be prepared semi-annually and submitted to the
Superintendent as a part of the discharge report. All records must be kept on
file for a period of three years. If any action is being taken, records must be
kept through a period in which all appeals have been exhausted.
   (C)   The owner or operator of any premises or facility discharging wastes
into the system shall install at his or her own cost and expense suitable
monitoring equipment to facilitate the accurate observation sampling and
measurement of wastes. Such equipment shall be maintained in proper working
order and kept safe and accessible at all times.
   (D)   The monitoring equipment shall be located and maintained on the user’s
premises outside of the building. When such a location would be impractical or
cause undue hardship on the user, the Superintendent may allow such facility (a
below ground sampling manhole) to be constructed in the public street or
sidewalk area, with the approval of the public agency having jurisdiction over
such street or sidewalk, and located so that it will not be obstructed by
public utilities, landscaping, or parked vehicles.
   (E)   When more than one user can discharge into a common sewer, the
Superintendent may require installation of separate monitoring equipment for
each user. When there is a significant difference in wastewater constituents
and characteristics produced by different operations of a single user, the
Superintendent may require that separate monitoring facilities be installed for
each separate discharge.
   (F)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the monitoring
facilities shall be constructed in accordance with the Superintendent’s
requirements, and all applicable construction standards and specifications.
(Prior Code, § 3.1)
§ 52.053 INSPECTION, SAMPLING, AND ANALYSIS.
   (A)   Compliance determination. Compliance determination with respect to §§
52.015 through
52.023 may be made on the basis of either instantaneous grab samples or
composite samples of wastewater. Composite samples may be taken over a 24-hour
period or over a longer or shorter time span, as determined necessary by the
Superintendent, to meet the needs of specific circumstances.
   (B)   Analysis of industrial wastewaters. Laboratory tests of industrial
wastewater shall be performed in accordance with the procedures established by
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency contained in 40 C.F.R. part 136, as
amended.
   (C)   Sampling frequency. Sampling of industrial wastewater for the purpose
of compliance determination with respect to §§
52.015 through
52.023 will be done at such intervals as the Superintendent may designate.
However, it is the intention of the Superintendent to conduct compliance
sampling or to cause such sampling to be conducted for all major contributing
industries at least once per year.
(Prior Code, § 3.1)
§ 52.054 UPSETS.
   (A)   Any discharger that experiences an upset in operations which places
the discharger in a temporary state of non-compliance with this section or the
permit must inform the town within 24 hours of the upset occurrence. When such
information is given orally, a written report must be sent to the town within
five days. The report must specify:
      (1)   Description of the upset, the cause, and the upset’s impact on the
discharger’s compliance status;
      (2)   Duration of non-compliance, including times and dates of non-
compliance; and
      (3)   Steps taken or to be taken to reduce, eliminate, and prevent
recurrence of such an upset.
   (B)   A documented and verified operating upset can be an affirmative
defense to any enforcement action brought by the town against a discharger for
non-compliance if the requirements of 40 C.F.R. § 403.16(c) are met.
(Prior Code, § 3.1)
INDUSTRIAL DISCHARGE PERMIT SYSTEM
§ 52.065 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS REQUIRED.
   All major contributing industries proposing to connect to or discharge into
any part of the wastewater treatment system must first obtain a discharge
permit. All existing major contributing industries connected to or discharging
to any part of the town system must obtain a wastewater discharge permit within
90 days from and after the effective date of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3.1)
§ 52.066 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   (1)   Users seeking a wastewater discharge permit shall complete and
file with the town’s Clerk-Treasurer’s office an application on the form
prescribed by the Superintendent and accompanied by the applicable fee. This
application must be reviewed and approved by the Superintendent.
      (2)   In support of this application, the user shall submit the following
information:
         (a)   Name, address, and SIC number of the applicant;
         (b)   Volume of wastewater to be discharged;
         (c)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics including, but not
limited to, those set forth in §§
52.015 through
52.023 as determined by a reliable analytical laboratory;
         (d)   Time and duration of discharge;
         (e)   Average and 30-minute peak wastewater flow rates, including
daily, monthly, and seasonal variation, if any;
         (f)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and
details to show all sewers and appurtenances by size, location, and elevation;
         (g)   Description of activities, facilities, and plan processes on the
premises including all materials and types of materials and types of materials
which are, or could be discharged;
         (h)   Each product produced by type, amount, and rate of production;
         (i)   Number and type of employees and hours of work; and
         (j)   Any other information as may be deemed by the Superintendent to
be necessary to evaluate the permit application.
   (B)   (1)   The industrial user shall submit all current data applicable to
manufacturing and treatment processes, and shall submit to the Superintendent
in writing a description of planned changes in said processes within 30 days of
the changes if they impact the industrial user’s discharge.
      (2)   The Superintendent will review and evaluate the date furnished by
the user and may require additional information.
      (3)   After evaluation and acceptance of the date furnished, the Clerk-
Treasurer’s office may issue a wastewater discharge permit subject to the terms
and conditions herein.
(Prior Code, § 3.1)
§ 52.067 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this section to provide for the payment of fees
from industrial users to the town to compensate the town for the cost of
administration of the pretreatment program established herein. The Town Council
shall adopt fees and charges, which may include:
      (1)   Fees for monitoring inspections and surveillance procedure;
      (2)   Fees for permits;
      (3)   Fees for filing appeals; and
      (4)   Fees for reviewing accidental discharge procedures and
construction.
   (B)   Permit fees will be based on total program costs and reviewed annually
by the Town Council. The program cost will be prorated based on the total of
industrial wastewater contributed by each permitted industry and billed
annually. The percentage of flow contributed by each permitted industry will be
calculated using the average annual flow contributed in the preceding year.
(Prior Code, § 3.1)
§ 52.068 PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Wastewater discharge permits shall be expressly subject to all
provisions of this section and all other regulations, user charges, and fees
established by the town. The conditions of wastewater discharge permits shall
be uniformly enforced in accordance with this section and applicable state and
federal regulations.
   (B)   Permit conditions will include the following:
      (1)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
wastewater to be discharged to the system;
      (2)   The maximum wastewater constituents and characteristics;
      (3)   Limits on rate and time of discharge or requirements for flow
regulations and equalization;
      (4)   Requirements for installation of inspection and sampling
facilities, and specifications for monitoring programs;
      (5)   Requirements for maintaining and submitting technical reports and
plant records relating to wastewater discharges;
      (6)   Description of removal creditors granted by permit to the user by
the town;
      (7)   Compliance schedules; and
      (8)   Other conditions to ensure compliance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3.1)
§ 52.069 PERMIT DURATION.
   (A)   Permits shall be issued for a specified time period, not to exceed
five years.
   (B)   A permit may be issued for a period of less than one year or may be
stated to expire on a specific date.
   (C)   If the user is not notified by the Superintendent 30 days prior to the
expiration of the permit, the permit shall automatically be extended for three
months.
   (D)   The terms and conditions of the permit may be subject to modification
and change by the responsible official during the life of the permit as
limitations or requirements, as identified in § 2, are modified and changed.
   (E)   The user shall be informed of any proposed changes in its permit at
least 30 days prior to the effective date of change. Any changes or new
conditions in the permit shall include a reasonable time schedule for
compliance.
(Prior Code, § 3.1)
§ 52.070 PERMIT TRANSFER.
   Wastewater discharge permits are issued to a specific user for a specific
operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not be reassigned or
transferred, or sold, to a new or changed operation.
(Prior Code, § 3.1)
§ 52.071 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   (A)   If the governing state or federal regulations change, the town may
revoke the permit granted. Additionally, any user who violated the following
conditions in division (B) below of his or her permit or of this chapter, or of
applicable state and federal regulations, is subject to having his or her
permit revoked.
   (B)   Violations subjecting a user to possible revocation of his or her
permit include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Failure of a user to accurately report the wastewater constituents
and characteristics of its discharge;
      (2)   Failure of the user to report significant changes in operations or
wastewater constituents and characteristics;
      (3)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the purpose
of inspection or monitoring;
      (4)   Violation of conditions of the permit; and/or
      (5)   Falsifying reports or tampering with samples.
(Prior Code, § 3.1)
§ 52.072 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and dates furnished to the town with respect to the nature
and frequency of discharge will be made available to the public or other
governmental agencies without restriction unless the discharger specifically
requests and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the town that the
release of such information would divulge information, methods of production
entitled to protection as trade secrets, or proprietary information of the
discharger.
   (B)   When requested by a discharger furnishing a report, the portions of a
report which may disclose trade secrets or secret processes will not be made
available for inspection by the public but will only be made available upon
written request to governmental agencies for uses related to the permit, state
disposal system permit, and/or the pretreatment programs; provided, however,
that such portions of a report will be available for use by any state agency in
judicial review or enforcement proceedings involving the discharger furnishing
the report.
   (C)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics will not be recognized as
confidential information.
   (D)   Information accepted by the town as confidential will not be
transmitted to any governmental agency or to the general public by the town
unless a ten-day notification is given to the discharger.
(Prior Code, § 3.1)
§ 52.073 FALSIFYING INFORMATION.
   Any person who knowingly makes any false statement, representation, or
certification in any application, report, or other document required by the
section or other applicable regulations, or who tampers with or knowingly
renders inaccurate any monitoring device, will, upon conviction, be punished by
the imposition of a civil penalty as required by local and state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 3.1)
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any user who is found to have violated an order of the Town Council or
who failed to comply with any provision of this chapter, and the orders, rules,
and regulations issued hereunder, shall be fined not less than $100 nor more
than $1,000 for each offense. Each day on which a violation shall occur or
continue shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   In addition to the penalties provided herein, the town may recover its
reasonable attorney’s fees, court costs, court ordered fees, fines, or civil
penalties assessed against the town resulting from violations of this section
and other expenses of litigation by appropriate suit at law against the person
found to have violated this chapter or the orders, rules, and regulations
issued hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 3.1)
CHAPTER 53: STORMWATER
Section
   
53.01   Improvements
   
53.02   Definitions   
   
53.03   Equivalent residential units; formula; rates and billing
   
53.04   Revenue disbursement; bonds
§ 53.01 IMPROVEMENTS.
   It is necessary for the protection of the public health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the town and the safeguarding of the property within said town,
and will be of public utility and benefit, to construct certain drainage
improvements in accordance with preliminary studies heretofore prepared by
Bonar Group, consulting engineers, which have been provided to the Town Council
for its review.
(Ord. 2013-5, passed 12-10-2013)
§ 53.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of establishing stormwater service billings under I.C. 8-1.5-5-
7, the following definitions, procedures, and rates shall apply.
   AVERAGE VALUE (AV). The average of 50 residential properties selected at
random. This number is 3,284 square feet. (See Appendix A attached to the
ordinance codified herein.)
   EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT (ERU). The ISA divided by the average value.
This number, when multiplied by the user fee, yields the dollar amount to be
billed to the user.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE AREA (ISA). Square footage of a property that is covered
by concrete, bituminous material, buildings, and all other materials that do
not allow stormwater to percolate through to the ground surface below.
   TYPE A PROPERTY. Properties containing a single-family residence in which
only the owner, the owner’s family, or a single family reside, no apartment or
other form of rental agreement allowing for two or more families to live on
said property exists, and no business is conducted thereon.
   TYPE B PROPERTY. All properties not categorized as Type A. This includes,
but is not limited to, all businesses, churches and other places of religious
affiliation, schools, colleges, trailer parks, and condominium complexes that
are part of private residential communities, and centers, community centers,
apartment complexes, duplexes in which all or part are for rent, and properties
whose primary function is not as a single-family residence.
(Ord. 2013-5, passed 12-10-2013)
§ 53.03 EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNITS; FORMULA; RATES AND BILLING.
   (A)   An ERU of one is assigned to each Type A property.
   (B)   The ERU for each Type B property shall be determined by computation,
as follows:
   ERU = ISA/AV
      (1)   The minimum ERU for each property is one.
      (2)   The user fee for an ERU of one shall be $8 each month for
operation, debt service, and capital charges.
         (a)   For ERUs greater than one, the user fee shall be multiplied by
the ERU to determine the monthly user fee.
         (b)   For billing purposes, the ERU will be rounded to the nearest 0.1
per ERU.
      (3)   Service rates shall be effective January 1, 2014 and shall be
included in the combined billings issued by the town. Reasonable charges and
penalties may be added to each billing of delinquent charges to be determined
by the Council.
      (4)   (a)   For initial billing purposes, Appendix B “Determination of
Impervious Areas for Non-Residential Customers” attached to the stormwater user
fee report dated December 2000, prepared by Bonar Group, are approved and
adopted.
         (b)   Owners of property classified as Type B may appeal the
determination of ISA and classification as Type B to the Town Council, and the
Town Council, upon the owner’s showing of error, shall correct the ISA and
classification, and may order a refund of service charges collected in error.
(Ord. 2013-5, passed 12-10-2013)
§ 53.04 REVENUE DISBURSEMENT; BONDS.
   The estimated aggregate cost of the stormwater projects and the incidental
expenses in connection with those projects, and to be incurred on account of
the financing thereof, shall be paid out of revenues of the stormwater utility
and the issuance of the town stormwater utility revenue bonds when, and if,
necessary.
(Ord. 2013-5, passed 12-10-2013)
CHAPTER 54: SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
Section
   
54.01   Disposal and collection
   
54.02   Collection rates, charges
 
   
54.99   Penalty
§ 54.01 DISPOSAL AND COLLECTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn, bury, or dump garbage or
solid waste within the limits of the town, including the area formerly known as
the “Town Dump.”
   (B)   All garbage and solid waste shall be placed in suitable covered
containers for collection.
   (C)   All residents shall place his or her garbage in solid waste containers
at a convenient place for the collector to pick up at the appropriate times.
The current days for collection of garbage and solid waste are now Tuesday and
Friday of each week.
   (D)   The person or firm who is collecting the garbage and solid waste shall
have the right to refuse to collect the garbage or solid waste of any residents
who do not comply with the foregoing provisions.
   (E)   No resident of the town, nor any other person or firm, shall place any
grass clippings, leaves, limbs, or other natural materials with his or her
garbage or trash for collection by the concern contracted with by said town for
the collection of garbage, trash, or other solid waste for the town.
   (F)   No resident of the town, state, nor any other person or firm shall
place any grass clippings, leaves, limbs, or other natural materials with his
or her garbage or trash for collection by the concern contracted with by said
town for the collection of garbage, trash, or other solid waste for the town.
(Prior Code, § 3.6.1) (Ord. passed 8-15-1973; Ord. passed 5-5-1992) Penalty,
see §
54.99
§ 54.02 COLLECTION RATES, CHARGES.
   (A)   The following fee shall be established for refuse collection, which
fee is reasonably related to the cost of such collection services for the year
2023, to-wit: Residential, $15.83 per month per residence.
   (B)   The above rate is hereby established on the base of one pickup per
week, and such service shall not be provided to any commercial business, nor
shall there be a “Spring Cleanup” pickup provided for the year 2023 as had been
provided in the past.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, COMMERCIAL shall mean and include
restaurants and taverns, hospitals and nursing homes, filling stations, motels,
and retail stores, and other similar or like businesses.
(Prior Code, § 3.6.2) (Ord. 1986-4, passed 12-3-1986; Ord. 2010-01, passed - -;
Ord. 2022-05, passed 12-13-2022)
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who violates any provision of §
54.01(E) shall be subject to a fine of not less than $5 for each separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 3.6.1)
      (2)   Any person who violates §
54.01(F) shall be subject to a fine of not less than $100 for each separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 3.6.1A)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Authority of officers; applicability
Pedestrians
   
70.15   Pedestrian use of traffic signals
   
70.16   Pedestrian use of crosswalks
   
70.17   Pedestrian right-of-way
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 AUTHORITY OF OFFICERS; APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the officers of the Police Department, or such
officers as are assigned by the Chief of Police, to enforce all street traffic
laws of the town and all state vehicle laws applicable to street traffic in the
town.
   (B)   Officers of the Police Department, or such officers as are assigned by
the Chief of Police, are authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand, or
signal in conformance with traffic laws.
      (1)   However, in the event of a fire or other emergency, to expedite
traffic or to safeguard pedestrians, officers of the Police Department may
direct traffic as conditions may require, notwithstanding the provisions of the
traffic laws.
      (2)   Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct or assist the police in directing traffic.
   (C)   The state traffic laws regulating speed, turning, signs, and other
driving matters shall be applicable on all streets within the town.
(Prior Code, § 4.1)
PEDESTRIANS
§ 70.15 PEDESTRIAN USE OF TRAFFIC SIGNALS.
   (A)   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic-control signals unless there
are no traffic-control signals or said signals are not in operation which, in
said event, the driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down
or stopping if need be, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk
when the pedestrian is on the half of the roadway on which the vehicle is
traveling, or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite
half of the roadway as to be in danger.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and
walk or run into the path of the vehicle, which is so close that it is
impossible for the driver to yield.
(Prior Code, § 4.3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.16 PEDESTRIAN USE OF CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practical, upon the right half of the
crosswalks.
   (B)   No pedestrians shall cross a roadway at any place other than at right
angles to the curb or by the shortest route to the opposite curb, except in a
crosswalk.
(Prior Code, § 4.3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.17 PEDESTRIAN RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point other than within a marked
crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at any intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 4.3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   It is a misdemeanor for any person to do forbidden acts or fail to perform
any act required in this traffic code, and further no person shall willfully
fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or direction of the police
officer or Fire Department official.
(Prior Code, § 4.1)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Heavy trucks; parking
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 HEAVY TRUCKS; PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a semi-trailer, semi-
truck, or a truck exceeding five tons in weight anywhere in any residential
zone of the town, as designated by the zoning ordinances and zoning maps of the
town.
      (1)   This prohibition hereby imposed shall not apply to the parking or
standing of a semi-trailer, semi-truck, or other truck exceeding five tons for
the purpose of making pick-ups or deliveries from or to any building or
structure located within such residential zone, or for the purpose of
delivering materials to be used in the repair, alteration, remodeling, or
construction of any such building or structure for which a building permit has
been obtained.
      (2)   The prohibition imposed hereby shall apply not only on public
streets but also on private property, including, but not limited to, driveways
and parking areas even if off the street or right-of-way.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any semi-tractor, any
refrigerator trailer or any truck exceeding five tons to permit said vehicle or
refrigerator trailer to idle or operate its refrigerator unit for a period
greater than 15 minutes within the town limits.
      (2)   The Town Police Department shall enforce the provisions of this
section and, upon a violation, shall issue a citation directly to the operator
of such truck or trailer, or if he or she cannot be found or is not in the
immediate vicinity, by placing a copy of the citation under the windshield
wiper of such truck, or to otherwise affix the same to any refrigerated trailer
found in violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 4.5.5) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any violation of §
71.01 shall require the payment of a fine in an amount not to exceed $50 for
the first such violation, and then a fine of an amount not to exceed $250 for
any additional violations in any calendar year, plus anyone found to be in
violation of §
71.01 shall be responsible for and pay the town’s attorney fees and costs in
the enforcement of §
71.01.
(Prior Code, § 4.5.5)
CHAPTER 72: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Bicycles
   
72.01   Bicycle regulations
   
72.02   Bicycle traffic laws
   
72.03   Bicycle seats and infant carriers
   
72.04   Bicycles on roadways
   
72.05   Bicycle speed limits
   
72.06   Bicycles and motor vehicles
Skateboards and Other Toy Vehicles
   
72.20   Skateboard and roller blades
   
72.21   Use of protective gear
Golf Carts
   
72.35   Traffic control; golf carts
 
   
72.99   Penalty
BICYCLES
§ 72.01 BICYCLE REGULATIONS.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate bicycles during his or hers
operation upon any public street, alley, sidewalk, or bike-way for the town.
(Prior Code, § 4.4.1)
§ 72.02 BICYCLE TRAFFIC LAWS.
   Every person riding a bicycle within the town shall be subject to all
traffic laws, signs, and signals except those provisions of law or ordinances
which, by their nature, do not apply to bicycle riders.
(Prior Code, § 4.4.1)
§ 72.03 BICYCLE SEATS AND INFANT CARRIERS.
   A person riding a bicycle shall not ride other than upon a permanent and
regular seat attached thereto, nor carry any passenger other than upon a firmly
attached auxiliary seat, specifically designed for carrying infants. Not more
than one infant carrier seat shall be permitted on a bicycle.
(Prior Code, § 4.4.1) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 BICYCLES ON ROADWAYS.
   When operating a bicycle upon a roadway, bicycle riders shall drive as near
to the right-hand side as is practical, no more than two abreast.
(Prior Code, § 4.4.1) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 BICYCLE SPEED LIMITS.
   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under existing conditions.
(Prior Code, § 4.4.1) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 BICYCLES AND MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person riding any bicycle shall attach it or himself or herself to any
vehicle upon a roadway.
(Prior Code, § 4.4.1) Penalty, see §
72.99
SKATEBOARDS AND OTHER TOY VEHICLES
§ 72.20 SKATEBOARD AND ROLLER BLADES.
   (A)   No person shall ride or otherwise operate a skateboard on any of the
streets in said town.
   (B)   Failure to comply with this subchapter will result in the following
penalties.
      (1)   Upon the first violation hereof, the skateboard of the offending
party who was riding or otherwise operating the same shall be confiscated and
held by the Chief of Police for said town for a period of two weeks, after
which time such skateboard shall be returned to such party.
      (2)   Upon the second violation hereof in any calendar year, the
skateboard of the offending party who was riding or otherwise operating the
same shall be confiscated and destroyed after 30 days have expired from the
time of such confiscation.
      (3)   The Police Department, or any officer thereof, shall be charged
with the enforcement of this subchapter.
      (4)   Any party found to have violated this subchapter and which
violation may have resulted in the confiscation of his or her skateboard
hereunder may appeal such confiscation to the Town Council of such town and be
heard thereon at the next regular meeting of such Council members.
      (5)   The Town Council shall have the right to modify any confiscation
decision made hereunder or rescind any destruction order pursuant hereto so
long as such appeal request is filed with the Clerk-Treasurer of such town on
or before 30 days after such confiscation hereunder takes place.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.1) (Ord. 1988-3, passed 4-20-1988) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.21 USE OF PROTECTIVE GEAR.
   (A)   Any person who shall hereafter make use of the skateboarding/bicycle
ramps or related equipment located in the town park while doing so shall be
required to wear approved pads to protect his or her knees and his or her
elbows, and an approved helmet to protect his or her head.
   (B)   Any person who does not wear such protective gear as required
hereinabove shall be in violation of this subchapter and, upon the first
violation hereof, the skateboard or bicycle that such violator was using at the
time of such violation shall be confiscated by the enforcing officer for a
period of two weeks, at which point the same shall be returned to the violator;
and in any event, any person during any calendar year who is found to be in
violation hereof on more than one occasion shall have the skateboard and/or
bicycle that he or she shall then have been using permanently confiscated by
the enforcing officer upon such additional violation hereof during such
calendar year.
   (C)   Upon such permanent confiscation, the Town Police Department shall
endeavor to sell such skateboard or bicycle at public sale upon prior notice,
and any proceeds of such sale shall be transferred to the Park Fund for the
town.
   (D)   The Chief of Police of the town, or any office or reserve officer of
said town, shall be charged with the duty of enforcing the terms of this
section.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.2) (Ord. 1988-7, passed 9-21-1988) Penalty, see §
72.99
GOLF CARTS
§ 72.35 TRAFFIC CONTROL; GOLF CARTS.
   (A)   (1)   Only drivers who are properly licensed to operate motor vehicles
on the streets of the town shall be allowed to operate a golf cart, or other
like vehicles not already licensed for operation, on the streets of said town.
      (2)   Hereafter, any reference to golf cart in this section shall include
vehicles not already licensed for operation on public highways such as Gators
or other utility vehicles.
   (B)   Any golf cart to be operated within the limits of the town shall be
registered with the Clerk-Treasurer of said town before its operation, and an
annual calendar year registration fee of $20 paid at that time for such
privilege. Such registration fees shall be maintained in a separate fund by the
Clerk-Treasurer and used to assist with the enforcement of this section, unless
otherwise determined by the Town Council.
   (C)   It is recommended that any golf cart to be operated within the limits
of the town should be covered with general liability insurance.
   (D)   All golf carts so operated hereunder shall obey this traffic code as
amended, and all rules of the road either established thereby or by other
applicable law.
      (1)   Such golf cart shall also be required to display a proper slow-
moving vehicle sign on the rear of the golf cart, and a sticker to be provided
by the town showing that the golf cart has been registered for current
operation in the town.
      (2)   Any golf cart that is driven one hour before sunrise and/or one
hour after sunset must have both front and rear lights on it visible for at
least 500 feet.
   (E)   Operation of golf carts in the town shall be limited to streets or
alleys of the town, and shall not be allowed upon any state highways within the
town other than for the purpose of crossing the same. In no event shall golf
carts be operated on sidewalks of the town.
   (F)   Any golf cart to be operated on the streets of the town shall be
equipped with factory seating for no more than four occupants, and no more than
four occupants shall be allowed in the golf cart while it is being operated on
the streets or alleys of the town. All occupants shall be seated while the golf
cart is in operation.
   (G)   The Town Council may exempt certain golf carts from this section in
favor of town employees during special events of the town as determined by the
Town Council.
   (H)   Pursuant to state laws, no golf cart may be operated on any street or
highway on the streets of the town if the speed limit is greater than 35 mph.
(Ord. 2020-06, passed 12-8-2020; Ord. 2021-3, passed 5-18-2021) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   The penalty for failure to abide by §
72.35 as set out herein and upon a finding of such violation, the violator
shall be fined in a sum of $25 for the first violation hereof during any
calendar year hereafter and in a sum not to exceed $100 for the second
violation or subsequent violation of §
72.35 during any calendar year hereafter and in addition, any person found to
be in violation of §
72.35 shall be responsible for and pay any attorney fees incurred by the town
in the enforcement of §
72.35.
      (2)   In the event that any person may be found to be in violation of §
72.35 more than three times in any calendar year, the privilege of operating a
golf cart in the town by that person may be suspended by the Town Council upon
proper resolution thereof. For purposes of this provision, the violations
necessary for the suspension of golf cart driving privileges in the town shall
be considered against the golf cart being driven at the time of such violation
as well.
(Ord. 2021-3, passed 5-18-2023)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Stop intersections
      
II.   Yield right-of-way
      
III.   Through streets
      
IV.   Turning restrictions
      
V.   Speed limits
      
VI.   Truck routes
      
VII.   Directional traffic
      
VIII.   Toy vehicles
      
IX.   Weight restrictions
      
X.   School provisions
SCHEDULE I. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
Street(s) Location of Stop Sign Ordinance
Street(s)                 Location of Stop Sign      Ordinance
12B Rd. and Elm Rd.       NE, NW, SE, SW corners     Addition by Ord. 1996-7**
Aster Ct. and Rose Ln.    At the intersection        Addition by Ord. 1999-6*
Bourbon St., north- and   At Park Ave.               Addition by Ord. 1994-
south-bound                                          10***
Clay St.                  The intersection with      Addition by Ord. 1996-7**
                          Bourbon St.
Crocus St. and Rose Ln.   At the intersection        Addition by Ord. 1999-6*
E. Center St. and         SE corner
Bestmart Driveway
E. Center St. and Lincoln NW corner
St.
E. Center St. and Old     NE corner
U.S. 30 East
E. Center St. and Rose    NW corner
Ln.
E. Center St. and Thayer  SE and NW corners
St.
E. Center St. and         SE and NW corners
Washington St.
E. Clay St. and S. Harris SW corner
St.
E. Clay St. and S.        SW, SE, NW, NE corners
Washington St.
E. College St. and N.     NE corner
Harris St.
E. College St. and N.     NW and SE corners
Washington St.
E. Douglas St. and S.     SW corner
Washington St.
E. Florence St. and N.    SW, SE, NW, NE corners
Harris St.
E. Florence St. and N.    NW and SE corners, all     Addition by Ord. 1990-
Thayer St.                corners                    8****, modified
E. Florence St. and N.    NW and SE corners
Washington St.
E. Jackson St. and S.     SW corner
Harris St.
E. Jackson St. and S.     SE corner
Washington St.
E. Jefferson St. and N.   NE and SW corners
Harris St.
E. Jefferson St. and N.   NW and SE corners
Lincoln St.
E. Jefferson St. and N.   SE corner
Lincoln St.
E. Liberty St. and N.     NW and SE corners
Harris St.
E. Liberty St. and N.     NW and SE corners
Lincoln St.
E. Liberty St. and N.     NW and SE corners
Washington St.
E. North St. and N.       SW, SE, NW, NE corners
Thompson St.
E. North St. and N.       SW, SE, NW, NE corners
Washington St.
E. Park Ave. and N.       SW corner
Thayer St.
E. Pine St. and N. Thayer SW corner
St.
E. Sunset Ave. and N.     SW and NE corners
Harris St.
E. Sunset Ave. and S.     SW, SE, NW, NE corners
Washington St.
E. Quad St. and S. Harris SW corner
St.
E. Quad St. and S.        NW corner
Washington St.
Frank St., in both        Where it intersects        Addition by Ord. 2005-2
directions                Bourbon St.
Jefferson St., each       The intersection with Pine Addition by Ord. 1990-
corner                    St.                        8****
Jefferson St., each       The intersection with      Addition by Ord. 1990-
corner                    Thayer St.                 8****
Legend St.                At Old U.S. 30             Addition by Ord. 2006-7
Legend Dr., in both       Where it intersects        Addition by Ord. 2007-04
directions                Beechwood St.
Legend Dr., in both       Where it intersects W.     Addition by Ord. 2007-04
directions                Center St.
Maplewood St. and Liberty At the intersection        Addition by Ord. 1999-6*
St.
Old U.S. 30 E. and        NW corner
Bestmart Driveway
Old U.S. 30 E. and U.P.S. SE corner
Driveway
Old U.S. 30 W. and        NW corner
Beachwood Ave.
Old U.S. 30 W. and Ecker  NW corner
St.
Old U.S. 30 W. and Third  NW corner
St.
Old U.S. 30 W. and W.     NE corner
North St.
Rose Ln. and Aster Ct.    NE corner
Rose Ln. and Crocus Ct.   NE corner
Rose Ln. and Pansy Ct.    NE corner
Rose Ln. and Tulip Ct.    NE corner
S. Thompson St.           Between Clay St. and       Addition by Ord. passed 4-
                          Douglas St.                7-1992
Shaffer Rd. and E. School SE corner
Dr.
Shaffer Rd. and N. Harris NW and SE corners
St.
Shaffer Rd. and N.        NW corner
Lincoln St.
Shaffer Rd. and W. School SE corner
Dr.
Shaffer Rd. and N. Thayer NW and SE corners
St.
Shaffer Rd. and N.        NW and SE corners
Washington St.
Thayer St., both          The intersection with      Addition by Ord. passed 5-
directions                North St.                  2-1990
Tulip St. and Rose Ln.    At the intersection        Addition by Ord. 1999-6*
Virginia Ave. and N.      SE and NW corners
Washington St.
W. Center St. and Bourbon SE and NW corners
St.
W. Center St. and Old     SW corner
U.S. 30 West
W. Center St. and S.      SE corner
Ecker St.
W. Center St. and S.      SE corner
Fribley St.
W. Center St. and S.      SE corner
Greer St.
W. Center St. and         NW corner
Thompson St.
W. Clay St. and S.        NE corner
Bourbon St.
W. Clay St. and S.        NW corner
Thompson St.
W. College St. and N.     NW and SE corners
Thompson St.
W. Douglas St. and S.     NE, SW, NW corners
Bourbon St.
W. Florence St. and N.    NE corner, all corners     Ord. 2002-8, modified
Thompson St.
W. Jackson St. and S.     NE corner
Ecker St.
W. Jackson St. and S.     NW and SE corners
Thompson St.
W. Liberty St. and        SE corner
Caldwell Dr.
W. Liberty St. and N.     NE corner
Bourbon St.
W. Liberty St. and N.     NE and SW corners
Thompson St.
W. North St. and N.       SW, SE, NW, NE corners
Bourbon St.
W. North St. and N.       SW, SE, NW, NE corners
Thompson St.
W. Park Ave. and Caldwell NW corner
Dr.
W. Park Ave. and          SW corner
Maplewood Ave.
W. Park Ave. and N.       SW and NE corner
Bourbon St.
W. Park Ave. and N. Ecker SE corner
St.
W. Park Ave. and N.       SW and NE corner
Thompson St.
W. Park St. and Beechwood NE corner
Ave.
W. Pine St. and N.        NE corner
Thompson St.
W. Sunset Ave. and        NE corner
Beechwood Ave.
W. Sunset Ave. and S.     NE corner
Bourbon St.
W. Sunset Ave. and        SW and NE corners
Caldwell Dr.
W. Sunset Ave. and        SW corner
Maplewood Ave.
W. Quad St. and S.        NW and SW corners
Bourbon St.
W. Quad St. and S. Ecker  NW and SE corners
St.
W. Quad St. and S.        NE corner
Fribley St.
W. Quad St. and S. Greer  NW corner
St.
W. Quad St. and Third St. NW corner
W. Quad St. and S.        SE corner
Thompson St.
Notes to Table:
* = As codified in the town’s original prior code, § 4.2.15
** = As codified in the town’s original prior code, §§ 4.2.2 and 4.2.4
*** = As codified in the town’s original prior code, § 4.2.12
**** = As codified in the town’s original prior code, § 4.2.7
= As codified in the town’s original prior code, § 4.2.6
= As codified in the town’s original prior code, § 4.2.9
 
(Prior Code, §§ 4.2.1, 4.2.2, 4.2.4, 4.2.6, 4.2.7, 4.2.9, 4.2.12, 4.2.15)
(Ord. 2002-8, passed - -; Ord. 2006-7, passed - -; Ord. 2007-04, passed - -;
Ord. passed 5-2-1990; Ord. 1990-8, passed 12-18-1990; Ord. passed 4-7-1992;
Ord. 1994-10, passed 9-20-1994; Ord. 1997-6, passed 5-6-1997)
SCHEDULE II. YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY.
Street(s) Intersection Ordinance
Street(s)                        Intersection       Ordinance
E. Jefferson St. and N. Thayer   SW and NE corners
St.
E. Jefferson St. and N.          NW and SE corners
Washington St.
E. North St. and N. Harris St.   SE and NW corners
E. North St. and N. Thayer St.   SE and NW corners
E. North St. and Third St.       SE corner
E. Park St. and N. Harris St.    SW and NE corners
E. Park St. and N. Washington    SE and NW corners
St.
E. Pine St. and N. Washington    NE and SW corners
St.
E. Sunset Ave. and N. Washington SE and NW corners
St.
E. Sunset St. and N. Thayer St.  NW and SE corners
Legend Dr. and Beechwood         NE corner
Legend Dr. and Old U.S. 30 W.    SW corner
N. Harris St. and E. Pine St.    NW and SE corners
S. Thayer St., and the alley to                     Addition by Ord. 1998-4.27*
the water works
W. Jackson St. and S. Bourbon    SW and NE corners
St.
W. Jefferson St. and N. Thompson SW and NE corners
St.
W. Liberty St. and Maplewood     SE, NE, NW corners
W. Sunset Ave. and N. Thompson   SE and NW corners
St.
Notes to Table:
* = As codified in the town’s original prior code, § 4.2.13
 
(Prior Code, §§ 4.2.1, 4.2.13)
(Ord. 1998-4.27, passed 8-4-1998)
SCHEDULE III. THROUGH STREETS.
 
Street         Description
Center St.     Within the corporation limits
College St.    Between N. Main St. and N. Harris St.
E. Liberty St. From S. Bourbon St. and Triton High School
Rose Ln.       Between E. Center St. and the corporation limits
Shaffer Rd.    From N. Main St. to the corporation limits
W. Quad St.    Between S. Fribley St. and S. Main St.
 
(Prior Code, § 4.2.1)
SCHEDULE IV. TURNING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It is hereby authorized and ordered that no U-turn signs be placed at
the following intersection locations, and it shall be unlawful for any person
to violate said signs:
      (1)   State Road 331 (North Main) and Park Street;
      (2)   State Road 331 (North Main) and North Street; and
      (3)   State Road 331 (South Main) and Quad Street.
(Prior Code, § 4.2.1)
   (B)   (1)   It shall be permissible at the intersection of Main Street and
Center Street in the town (State Road 331 and Old U.S. 30) for a person to make
a right turn when the traffic signal at said intersection is red, after first
stopping to be sure that no traffic is coming, in accordance with the state law
as to right turns on a red signal.
      (2)   The State Highway Department is requested to remove the posted
signs from said intersection which signs presently state “No Turn On Red.”
(Prior Code, § 4.2.5) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE V. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   There shall be a speed limit of 20 mph on the specified locations of
the streets hereafter set forth, that signs indicating such speed limit shall
be placed in appropriate locations along said streets, and that it shall be
unlawful for any person to violate such speed limits in the following
locations:
      (1)   Beachwood Avenue, Liberty Avenue; Park Avenue, Maplewood Avenue,
all in the Westwood Park Addition;
      (2)   Center Street, between Bourbon Street and Harris Street;
      (3)   East Liberty Street from State Road 331 to Triton High School (to
and including);
      (4)   Rose Lane, Aster Court, Tulip Court, Crocus Court, and Pansy Court,
all in the Willard R. Lemler Addition;
      (5)   East Sunset Drive, to and including the town park;
      (6)   Thayer Street from Liberty to Florence;
      (7)   Florence Street from Thayer to Harris; and
      (8)   Pine Street from Thayer to Harris.
   (B)   In addition thereto, there shall be a speed limit of 30 mph on all
other streets within the town, and it shall be unlawful for any person to
travel on any street within the town at a speed greater than 30 mph.
 
Street(s)           Description               Mph    Ordinance
12B Rd.             From Fribley St. to Elm   40 mph Addition by Ord. 1998-
                    Rd.                              4.27*
E. Thayer St. alley Between Center St. and    5 mph  Addition by Ord. passed 4-
                    North St.                        7-1992**
Lincoln Highway     300 feet west of          45 mph Addition by Ord. 1997-6***
                    Beechwood Ave. to Elm Rd.
                    From Thayer St. to the           Addition by Ord. 1993-
Sunset Dr.          entrance of the Bourbon   15 mph 7****
                    Community Park
Notes to Table:
* = As codified in the town’s original prior code, § 4.2.14
** = As codified in the town’s original prior code, § 4.2.9
*** = As codified in the town’s original prior code, §§ 4.2.2 and 4.2.4
**** = As codified in the town’s original prior code, § 4.2.11
 
   (C)   The speed limit on the following streets shall be changed to 25 mph on
each, to-wit:
      (1)   Liberty Street; and
      (2)   Beechwood Street.
(Prior Code, §§ 4.2.1, 4.2.2, 4.2.4, 4.2.8, 4.2.9, 4.2.11, 4.2.14)
(Ord. 2007-04, passed - -; Ord. passed 4-7-1992; Ord. 1993-7, passed 4-20-1993;
Ord. 1997-6, passed 5-6-1997; Ord. 1998-4.27, passed 8-4-1998) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE VI. TRUCK ROUTES.
   LARGER TRUCKS shall be defined as any truck not used for personal use but
designed to haul commercial or industrial loads instead and that the traffic
control code shall be amended hereby to restrict such larger trucks using only
the following designated streets in and about said town, to-wit:
Street(s) Limits
Street(s)                 Limits
12 B Rd.                  From S. Fribley St. to Elm Rd.
Center St.                East and west
E. Jackson St.            From 331 to S. Harris St.
E. Liberty St.            From 331 to Triton Schools property line
E. North St.              From 331 to N. Washington St.
E. Shaffer Rd.            From 331 to the corporate line
E. Quad St.               From 331 to S. Harris St.
Elm Rd.                   From 12 B to Old 30 or Lincoln Highway
N. Washington St.         From E. Center St. to E. North St.
Old 30 or Lincoln Highway To Elm Rd.
S. Fribley St.            From W. Center St. to end of said street
S. Harris St.             From E. Center St. to E. Clay St.
S. Thayer St.             From E. Center St. to the end of S. Thayer St.
State 331                 North and south
W. Jackson St.            From 331 to S. Ecker St.
W. North St.              From 331 to N. Thompson St.
 
(Prior Code, § 4.2.3) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE VII. DIRECTIONAL TRAFFIC.
   The first alley west of Main Street between Park Avenue and North Street
shall upon the passage of this ordinance be used only by vehicular traffic
traveling south in such alley. The appropriate employee(s) is authorized to
place appropriate signage in and about such alley directing users thereof of
its one-way status from and after the passage of this schedule.
(Prior Code, § 4.2.10) (Ord. 1993-3, passed 1-5-1993) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE VIII. TOY VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall ride or otherwise operate a bicycle upon the sidewalks
running along Center Street from Washington Street to Bourbon Street, and along
Main Street from Park Street to the railroad in the town, it being understood
that walking alongside said bicycle upon such sidewalk shall not constitute
operation thereof.
      (2)   Failure to comply with this schedule will result in the following
penalties.
         (a)   Upon the first violation hereof, the bicycle of the offending
party who was riding or otherwise operating the same in violation hereof shall
be confiscated and held by the Chief of Police for said town for a period of
two weeks, after which time such bicycle shall be returned to such party.
         (b)   Upon second violation hereof in any calendar year, the bicycle
of the offending party who was riding or otherwise operating the same in
violation hereof shall be confiscated and sold after 30 days have expired from
the time of said confiscation, with the proceeds from any such sale to be paid
into the General Fund of said town.
         (c)   The Town Police Department, or any officer thereof, shall be
charged with the enforcement of this schedule.
         (d)   Any party found to have violated this schedule, and which
violation may have resulted in the confiscation of his or her bicycle
hereunder, may appeal such confiscation to the Town Council of such town and be
heard thereon at the next regular meeting of such members.
         (e)   The Town Council of such town shall have the right to modify any
confiscation decision made hereunder or rescind any order of sale pursuant
hereto so long as such appeal request is filled with the Clerk-Treasurer of
such town on or before 30 days after such confiscation hereunder takes place.
      (3)   No person shall ride or otherwise operate a skateboard or use
roller blades on the sidewalks running along Center Street from Washington
Street to Bourbon Street and along Main Street from Sunset Drive to the
railroad.
(Prior Code, § 4.4.2)
   (B)   No person shall ride or otherwise operate a skateboard or use roller
blades on the sidewalks running along Center Street from Washington Street to
Bourbon Street and along Main Street from Sunset Drive to the railroad.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.1A)
(Ord. passed 9-6-1989; Ord. 2000-2, passed 5-9-2000) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE IX. WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Vehicles of a weight exceeding ten tons, including any load
carried thereon or pulled thereby, shall be prohibited from operating on Rose
Lane and on the 400 block of east North Street, all in the town.
      (2)   The appropriate department of said town is requested to place signs
indicating that such use of said streets is prohibited and at appropriate
locations thereon.
      (3)   Any person violating this provision of this division (A) or failing
to comply with any provision of this division (A) shall be punished by a fine
not exceeding $50 for each violation thereof.
(Prior Code, § 4.6.1)
   (B)   (1)   Vehicles of a weight exceeding ten tons, including any load
carried thereon or pulled thereby, shall be prohibited from operating on Ecker
Street between west Center Street and west Quad Street, all in the town.
      (2)   The appropriate department of said town is requested to place signs
indicating that such use of said street is prohibited and at appropriate
locations thereon.
      (3)   Any person violating any provision of this division (B) or failing
to comply with any provision of this division (B) shall be punished by a fine
not exceeding $50 for each violation hereof.
(Prior Code, § 4.6.2)
   (C)   (1)   Vehicles of a weight exceeding ten tons, including any load
carried thereon or pulled thereby, shall be prohibited from operating on Legend
Drive in the town.
      (2)   The appropriate department of said town is requested to place signs
indicating that such use of said street is prohibited and at appropriate
locations thereon.
      (3)   Any person violating any provision of this division (C) for failing
to comply with any provision hereof shall be punished by a fine not exceeding
$50 for each violation hereof.
(Prior Code, § 4.6.3)
(Ord. 1988-1, passed 1-20-1988; Ord. 1989-2, passed 4-5-1989; Ord. 1992-6,
passed 9-1-1992)
SCHEDULE X. SCHOOL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Intergovernmental agreement. Pursuant to I.C. 9-21-1-2, this schedule
requires a contractual agreement between the Town Council and Triton School
Corporation setting forth the terms and responsibilities of the additional
traffic regulations.
      (1)   This schedule requires that the contractual agreement be recorded
in the office of the County Recorder after the passage of this schedule.
      (2)   Contemporaneously with the approval and adoption of this schedule,
the Town Council has entered into a memorandum of understanding with Triton
School Corporation. The memorandum of understanding shall be recorded after the
passage of this schedule in the office of the County Recorder.
   (B)   Adoption of specific traffic regulations. Pursuant to I.C. 9-21-1-
2 and I.C. 9-21-1-3, the Town Council does hereby establish and adopt the
following specific traffic regulations for Triton School Corporation to govern
traffic control on Triton School Corporation’s public school grounds, the
maximum lawful speed on Triton Drive shall be 20 mph.
   (C)   Adoption of general traffic regulations. Pursuant to I.C. 9-21-1-2 and
I.C. 9-21-1-3, the Town Council does hereby establish and adopt all of the
traffic laws and regulations under I.C. Title 9, which would not otherwise be
applicable to public school grounds, to govern traffic control on the public
school grounds of Triton School Corporation.
      (1)    Persons disobeying the regulations adopted under this schedule
shall be subject to the fines, penalties, and forfeitures specified by State
law.
      (2)   Citations under this schedule may be prepared and issued in
accordance with I.C. 34-28-5 and the following, as amended, and I.C. 9-30-3-6,
as amended, by the Police Department or other police agency, and prosecuted in
accordance with I.C. 34-28-5 and the following, as amended.
      (3)   Any fine assessed for violations of this schedule shall be
deposited in the General Fund of the town.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 3-10-2020)
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Two-hour parking
      
II.   Parking prohibited
      
III.   No parking signs
      
IV.   Parking of heavy trucks
      
V.   Parking in front of town offices
      
VI.   Disabled parking
SCHEDULE I. TWO-HOUR PARKING.
   (A)   There shall be two-hour parking from 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. on north
Main Street between Con-Rail Railroad and Park Avenue, and Center Street and
Thompson to Washington Street.
(Prior Code, § 4.2.1)
   (B)   Two-hour parking limits are removed on the south side of east North
Street from State Road 331 to the alley on said street.
(Ord. 2011-02, passed 1-11-2011)
SCHEDULE II. PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No-parking shall be as follows:
      (1)   On any portion of State Road 331 between Park Street and the
corporate limits of the town (north);
      (2)   The portion of State Road 331 running from Quad Street to the
corporate limits of the town (south);
      (3)   Shaffer Road from State Road 331 to the corporate limits;
      (4)   West Center Street from Old U.S. 30 on the north side to the
corporate limits;
      (5)   The area in front of Triton Elementary School from Shaffer Road to
Florence Street;
      (6)   There shall be no truck parking from Old U.S. 30 on west Center
Street to the corporate limits;
      (7)   Liberty Street from State Road 331 east to the east property line
of Triton Schools;
(Prior Code, §§ 4.2.2, 4.2.4)
      (8)   West side of Thayer Street from Jefferson Street to Florence
Street;
      (9)   East side of Thayer Street from Jefferson Street to Pine Street;
      (10)   Florence Street, both sides, from Harris Street to Thayer Street;
      (11)   Pine Street, both sides, from Thayer Street to the alley;
(Prior Code, § 4.2.7)
      (12)   Quad Street, both sides, from Ecker Street to South Fribley
Street;
(Prior Code, § 4.2.16)
      (13)   South side of Old U.S. 30 east (also known as east Center Street
from the stoplight in the center of town eastbound to the “Y”-type junction of
Center Street and Old U.S. 30 east), from Lincoln Street to the east corporate
limits;
(Prior Code, § 4.5.2)
      (14)   In the parking lot of the EMS Building located at the corner of
North and Main Streets, unless such vehicle is an emergency service unit or the
vehicle of a person operating the same or providing any other emergency service
from such location;
(Prior Code, § 4.5.3)
      (15)   Both sides of Jackson Street from State Road 331 west to Ecker
Street;
(Prior Code, § 4.5.4)
      (16)   Both sides of College Street from State Road 331 to Thompson
Street;
      (17)   Both sides of the 200 block of west Florence Street;
      (18)   West Center Street from south Bourbon Street to the start of Old
U.S. 30, west to Beechwood;
      (19)   West Center Street from N. Bourbon Street to the start of Old U.S.
30, west to Beechwood;
      (20)   North Thompson Street from Center Street to the end of curbs
thereon;
      (21)   West Center Street and Old U.S. 30 on both sides to the railroad
tracks;
      (22)   East Center Street from south Thayer Street to the start of Old
U.S. 30; and
      (23)   East Center Street from south Harris Street to the start of Old
U.S. 30.
      (24)   East Center and Old 30 to drive up bank entrance.
(Prior Code, § 4.2.1)
   (B)   (1)   From and after the passage of this division (B), with respect to
those streets bounded and including Park Street on the north to Quad Street on
the south and from Washington Street on the east to Thompson Street on the
west, no person during the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 12:00 p.m. each day shall
park any automobile or other motor vehicle on or along the side of any such
designated street with odd building numbers thereon, and no person during the
hours between 12:00 p.m. and 4:00 p.m. each day shall park any automobile or
other motor vehicle on or along the even numbered side streets as designated
herein, provided that this division (B) shall not apply to that portion of any
such street marked or posted, on either or both sides, with permanent parking
prohibition; provided further, that this division (B) shall not apply from
April 15 through November 15, inclusive of any year.
      (2)   Any person violating any provision of this division (B) or failing
to comply with any provision of this division (B) shall be punished by a fine
not exceeding $10, and any automobile or other motor vehicle illegally parked
in the violation of this division (B) may be impounded by the Police Department
and the owner of any such impound vehicle shall be liable to said Police
Department and the town for the costs of impounding, towing, and storage of
such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 4.5.1)
(Ord. 1984-5, passed 11-7-1984)
SCHEDULE III. NO PARKING SIGNS.
   (A)   No parking signs shall now be placed on the west side of Thayer Street
from Jefferson Street to Florence Street; on the east side of Thayer Street
from Jefferson Street to Pine Street; on both sides of Florence Street from
Harris Street to Thayer Street; and on both sides of Pine Street from Thayer
Street to the alley; and slow school signs shall be placed on the east side of
the Thayer Street at the center of the 600 block thereof; the south side of
Pine Street at the center of the 300 block thereof; and on the south side of
Florence Street at the center of the 300 block thereof.
(Prior Code, § 4.2.7)
   (B)   No parking signs shall be placed on both sides of Quad Street from
Ecker Street to south Fribley Street.
(Prior Code, § 4.2.16)
(Ord. 2002-2, passed - -; Ord. 2004-2, passed - -; Ord. 2007-04, passed - -
) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE IV. PARKING OF HEAVY TRUCKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a semi-trailer, semi-
truck, or a truck exceeding five tons in weight anywhere in any residential
zone of the town, as designated by the zoning ordinances and zoning maps of the
town. This prohibition hereby imposed shall not apply to the parking or
standing of a semi-trailer, semi-truck, or other truck exceeding five tons for
the purpose of making pick-ups or deliveries from or to any building or
structure located within such residential zone, or for the purpose of
delivering materials to be used in the repair, alteration, remodeling, or
construction of any such building or structure for which a building permit has
been obtained. The prohibition imposed hereby shall apply not only on public
streets but also on private property, including, but not limited to, driveways
and parking areas, even if off the street or right-of-way.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any semitractor, any
refrigerator trailer, or any truck exceeding five tons to permit said vehicle
or refrigerator trailer to idle or operate its refrigerator unit for a period
greater than 15 minutes within the town limits.
   (C)   The Police Department shall enforce the provisions of this schedule
and, upon a violation, shall issue a citation directly to the operator of such
truck or trailer, or if he or she cannot be found or is not in the immediate
vicinity, by placing a copy of the citation under the windshield wiper of such
truck or to otherwise affix the same to any refrigerated trailer found in
violation of this schedule.
   (D)   Any violation of this schedule shall require the payment of a fine in
an amount not to exceed $50 for the first such violation, and then a fine of an
amount not to exceed $250 for any additional violations in any calendar year
plus anyone found to be in violation of this schedule shall be responsible for
and pay the town’s attorney fees and costs in the enforcement of this schedule.
(Prior Code, § 4.5.5)
(Ord. passed 8-14-2001) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE V. PARKING IN FRONT OF TOWN OFFICES.
   Parking in front of the Clerk’s office, Police Department office, and the
town meeting room shall be limited to those who are taking care of business at
one of those offices or attending a meeting being held in the town meeting
room.
(Ord. 2011-09, passed 8-9-2011) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE VI. DISABLED PARKING.
   The disabled parking spot at west North and Main Streets shall be moved to
east Center and north Main Streets.
(Ord. 2011-13, passed 12-13-2011)
TITLE IX GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   FIRE PROTECTION
      
93.   FAIR HOUSING
      
94.   PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
Grass and Landscaping
   
90.01   Disposal of grass
   
90.02   Rank vegetation disposal
Junked and/or Abandoned Vehicles
   
90.15   Definitions
   
90.16   Prohibitions
   
90.17   Impound and removal
   
90.18   Notice tags
   
90.19   Responsibilities and liability of vehicle owner, license holder
   
90.20   Abandoned vehicle removal fund
   
90.21   Exceptions
   
90.22   Abandoned vehicles on private, rental property
   
90.23   Towing and storage charges
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Ordinance Violations Bureau, see §§
34.01 through
34.06
GRASS AND LANDSCAPING
§ 90.01 DISPOSAL OF GRASS.
   (A)   It shall prohibited for anyone to place grass clippings or other yard
debris on any street of the town.
   (B)   It is further stated that this shall be an section where the fines
from any violation of the same shall be paid to and/or collected by the
Ordinance Violation Bureau of the town, and that any attorney’s fees incurred
by the town in the event an attorney must take action to collect such fine, if
it is not voluntarily paid hereunder, shall be added to the fine that is due
for the violation of this section and collected as well.
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 10-8-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 RANK VEGETATION DISPOSAL.
   The town’s Zoning Inspector or other designated representative, before the
town removes such rank vegetation as allowed, shall notify the property owner
in writing that they are in violation of such section and that they will be
given five days from the date of such notice to remove such rank vegetation to
come into compliance with such section before the town might then remove the
same at the expense of such property owner as otherwise allowed under the
section.
(Ord. 2011-08, passed 8-9-2011)
JUNKED AND/OR ABANDONED VEHICLES
§ 90.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   BUREAU. The Bureau of Motor Vehicles of the state.
   COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of the Bureau.
   DISPOSAL AGENT. Any firm or individual engaged in the business of converting
vehicles and parts of vehicles into processed scrap or scrap metal.
   JUNKED. A vehicle that meets at least one of the following criteria:
      (1)   Is wrecked, dismantled, or partially dismantled, or discarded or
unattended on jack stands or blocks or other means;
      (2)   In a condition with one or more flat tires for 14 days or more, or
is missing one or more wheels for 14 days or more;
      (3)   Is used primarily for storage and remains unmoved for 14 days or
more;
      (4)   A habitat for rats, mice, snakes, or other vermin;
      (5)   Is substantially disfigured, damaged, or disintegrated;
      (6)   Is ruined, destroyed, or demolished;
      (7)   Is inoperable and has remained inoperable for more than 20 days on
private property;
      (8)   Is parked on grass, dirt, or other unpaved areas not ordinarily
used for parking a vehicle in regular use; or
      (9)   Does not have a current, valid license plate affixed to the
vehicle. This item cannot be the sole criteria for determining whether a
vehicle is a junked vehicle.
   OFFICER. Any regular member of the Town Police Department, or any individual
of the town designated by ordinance of the Town Council.
   OWNER. A person, other than a lien holder, that holds the property in, or
the title to, a vehicle, or is entitled to the use or possession of a vehicle
through a lease or other agreement intended to operate as a security.
   PARTS. All components of a vehicle that, as assembled, do not constitute a
complete vehicle.
   PERSON. All natural persons, firms, partnerships, and corporations,
excluding officer as defined in section (f).
   PRIVATE PREMISES. All privately owned property which is not classified
within the definition of public premises.
   PUBLIC AGENCY. Local agency given the responsibility by statute and/or
ordinance for the removal, storage, and disposal of abandoned vehicles.
   PUBLIC PREMISES. Any public right-of-way, street highway, alley, park, or
other state-, county-, or municipally-owned property.
   VEHICLE.
      (1)   Any motor vehicle, automobile, motorcycle, truck, trailer, semi-
trailer, truck tractor, bus, school bus, pickup truck camper, camper trailer,
horse drawn vehicle, utility trailer, boat and/or boat trailer, RV, snowmobile
and/or snowmobile trailer, jet ski, motor home, house car, or motorized
bicycle, or any portion or part thereof.
      (2)   ABANDONED, when used in conjunction with the term VEHICLE, means:
         (a)   A VEHICLE located on public property illegally;
         (b)   A VEHICLE left on public property without being moved for 24
hours;
         (c)   A VEHICLE located on public property in such a manner as to
constitute a hazard or obstruction to the movement of pedestrian or vehicular
traffic on a public right-of-way;
         (d)   A VEHICLE that has remained on private property without the
consent of the owner or person in control of that property for more than 48
hours;
         (e)   A VEHICLE from which the engine, transmission, or differential
has been removed or that is otherwise partially dismantled or inoperable and
left on public property;
         (f)   A VEHICLE that has been removed by a towing service or public
agency upon request of an officer enforcing a statute or an ordinance, other
than this subchapter, if the impounded vehicle is not claimed or redeemed by
the owner, or the owner’s agent, within 20 days after the vehicle’s removal;
         (g)   A VEHICLE that is at least three model years old, is
mechanically inoperable, and is left on private property continuously in a
location visible from public property for more than 20 days. For purposes of
this definition, a VEHICLE covered by a tarpaulin or other plastic, vinyl,
rubber, cloth, or textile covering is considered to be visible; and
         (h)   A VEHICLE:
            1.   Repaired or stored at the request of the owner;
            2.   Not been claimed by the owner; and
            3.   For which the reasonable value of the charges associated with
the repair or storage remain unpaid more than 30 days after the date on which
the repair work is completed or the vehicle is first stored.
   WRECKED. A vehicle that has been physically damaged or destroyed, has
substantial visible damage, and may be mechanically inoperable.
(Ord. 2021-4, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 90.16 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall abandon his or her vehicle on any public premises or
private premises in a location which is visible from public premises, except as
otherwise set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   The keeping, parking, or storing of any wrecked, junked, or abandoned
vehicle, or parts thereof, on private or public property, exposed to public
view, except as provided in this subchapter, is hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
(Ord. 2021-4, passed 6-8-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17 IMPOUND AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   The Town Police Department is the authorized agency assigned the
responsibility for removing vehicles defined as abandoned under the provisions
of this chapter and I.C. 9-22-1.
   (B)   When an officer discovers an abandoned vehicle as defined by §
90.15, or a vehicle in the possession of a person other than the owner of the
vehicle and the person cannot establish the right to possession of the vehicle,
the vehicle shall be taken to and stored in a suitable place as determined by
the officer.
      (1)   Seventy-two hours after having placed a tag on a vehicle, the
officer shall require the vehicle or parts to be towed to a storage yard or
towing service.
      (2)   If, in the opinion of the officer, the market value of the
abandoned vehicle or parts is at least $1,000, the officer, before placing a
notice tag on the vehicle or parts, shall make a reasonable effort to ascertain
the person who owns the vehicle or parts, or who may be in control of the
vehicle or parts.
      (3)   If the vehicle is a junk vehicle and the market value of an
abandoned vehicle or parts is less than $750, the towing service shall
immediately transfer the vehicle to a storage yard.
         (a)   A copy of the abandoned vehicle report and photographs, if
applicable, relating to the abandoned vehicle shall be provided to the storage
yard.
         (b)   A towing service or storage yard may dispose of an abandoned
vehicle not less than 30 days after the date on which the towing service
removed the abandoned vehicle.
      (4)   If a vehicle or a part tagged under division (C) below is not
removed within the applicable period, the officer shall prepare a written
abandoned vehicle report of the vehicle or parts, including information on the
condition and missing parts, prior to having the vehicle towed. Photographs may
be taken to describe the condition of the vehicle or parts.
      (5)   Within 72 hours after removal of a vehicle to a storage yard or
towing service under this section, the Police Department shall conduct a search
of national databases, including a database of vehicle identification numbers,
to attempt to obtain the last state of record of the vehicle in order to
attempt to ascertain the name and address of the person who owns or hold a lien
on the vehicle.
      (6)   If a vehicle or parts are in a condition that vehicle
identification numbers or other means of identification are not available to
determine the person who owns or holds a lien on the vehicle, the vehicle may
be disposed of without notice.
   (C)   Upon the determination of any vehicle to be a junked vehicle as
defined herein and therefore a public nuisance, the owner of said vehicle shall
be issued a citation. If the owner of said vehicle fails to abate said nuisance
within seven days of the date said citation is issued, the town shall file suit
to abate such nuisance and may request, but is not limited to, the following
relief:
      (1)   On order to abate said nuisance;
      (2)   Reimbursement for the costs to abate said nuisance;
      (3)   An entry of judgment for the fines assessed by each citation issued
hereunder;
      (4)   Court costs and costs of collection, including attorney’s fees; and
      (5)   All other relief allowed under the statutes of the state and the
town code.
(Ord. 2021-4, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 90.18 NOTICE TAGS.
   An officer who finds or is notified of a vehicle or parts believed to be
abandoned shall attach in a prominent place a notice tag containing the
following information:
   (A)   The date, time, officer’s name, the Police Department, and the address
and telephone number for the town Police Department to contact for information;
   (B)   The vehicle or parts are considered abandoned;
   (C)   The vehicle or parts will be removed after:
      (1)   Twenty-four hours, if the vehicle is located on or within the
right-of-way of an interstate highway or any highway that is designated as part
of the state highway system under I.C. 8-23-4;
      (2)   Seventy-two hours for any other vehicle;
      (3)   The person who owns the vehicle will be held responsible for all
costs incidental to the removal, storage, and disposal, and if the costs are
not paid, the person’s registration privileges will be suspended on the
vehicle; and
      (4)   The person who owns the vehicle may avoid costs by removal of the
vehicle or parts within:
         (a)   Twenty-four hours, if the vehicle is located on or within the
right-of-way of an interstate highway or any highway that is designated as part
of the state highway system under I.C. 8-23-4; or
         (b)   Seventy-two hours for any other vehicle.
(Ord. 2021-4, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 90.19 RESPONSIBILITIES AND LIABILITY OF VEHICLE OWNER, LICENSE HOLDER.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(3) below, the owner of an
abandoned vehicle or parts is responsible for the abandonment, and liable for
all of the costs incidental to the removal, storage, and disposal of the
vehicle or the parts under this chapter.
      (2)   The costs for storage of an abandoned vehicle may not exceed
$2,000.
      (3)   If an abandoned vehicle is sold by a person who removed, towed, or
stored the vehicle, the person who previously owned the vehicle is not
responsible for storage fees.
      (4)   If an abandoned vehicle is sold by a person who removed, towed, or
stored the vehicle, and proceeds from the sale of the vehicle covered the
removal, towing, and storage expenses, any remaining proceeds from the sale of
the vehicle shall be returned to the previous owner of the vehicle if the
previous owner is known.
   (B)   If the owner or lienholder under I.C. 9-22-1-8 does not appear to pay
all costs, or the owner of a vehicle cannot be determined by a search conducted
under I.C. 9-22-1-19, the vehicle is considered abandoned and must be disposed
of as set forth in this subchapter.
   (C)   If the properly identified person who owns or holds a lien on a
vehicle appears at the site of storage before disposal of the vehicle or parts
and pays all costs incurred against the vehicle or parts at that time, the
vehicle or parts shall be released.
      (1)   A towing service shall notify the appropriate public agency of all
releases under this section.
      (2)   The notification must include the name, signature, and address of
the person that owns or holds a lien on the vehicle, a description of the
vehicle or parts, costs, and the date of release.
(Ord. 2021-4, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 90.20 ABANDONED VEHICLE REMOVAL FUND.
   (A)   An Abandoned Vehicle Fund is established as required under I.C. 9-22-
1-30.
   (B)   (1)   The costs for removal and storage of an abandoned vehicle or
parts not claimed by the person who owns or holds a lien on a vehicle shall be
paid from the Abandoned Vehicle Fund.
      (2)   The charge payable by the person who owns or holds a lien on a
vehicle for towing, storing, or removing an abandoned vehicle or parts may not
exceed the limits established by ordinance of the town.
   (C)   The proceeds from the sale of abandoned vehicles or parts, including
charges for bills of sale, and money received from persons who own or hold
liens on vehicles for the cost of removal or storage of vehicles, shall be
deposited in the Abandoned Vehicle Fund by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (D)   The costs incurred by any authorized towing agency in administering
this subchapter shall be paid from the Abandoned Vehicle Fund.
   (E)   (1)   The Town Council shall annually appropriate sufficient money to
the fund to carry out this chapter.
      (2)   Money remaining in the fund at the end of a year remains in the
fund and does not revert to the General Fund.
(Ord. 2021-4, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 90.21 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   This subchapter does not apply to the following:
      (1)   A vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or constructed
for operation on privately-owned raceways;
      (2)   A vehicle stored as the property of a member of the Armed Forces of
the United States who is on active-duty assignment;
      (3)   A vehicle located on a vehicle sale lot or at a commercial vehicle
servicing facility;
      (4)   A vehicle located upon property licensed or zoned as an automobile
scrap yard;
      (5)   A vehicle registered and licensed under I.C. 9-18-12 as an antique
vehicle;
      (6)   A golf cart; or
      (7)   An off-road vehicle.
   (B)   The following are not liable for loss or damage to a vehicle or parts
occurring during the removal, storage, or disposition of a vehicle or parts
under this section:
      (1)   A person who owns, leases, or occupies property from which an
abandoned vehicle or its contents or parts are removed, or a junked vehicle is
removed by court order;
      (2)   The town;
      (3)   A towing service;
      (4)   An automobile scrapyard;
      (5)   A storage yard; and/or
      (6)   An agent of a person or entity listed in divisions (B)(1) through
(B)(5).
(Ord. 2021-4, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 90.22 ABANDONED VEHICLES ON PRIVATE, RENTAL PROPERTY.
   The procedure to be followed for abandoned vehicles on private or rental
properties shall be as set forth in I.C. 9-22-1-15.
(Ord. 2021-4, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 90.23 TOWING AND STORAGE CHARGES.
   The Town Council shall establish, by ordinance, the charges allowed for
towing and storage of abandoned and/or junked vehicles, which shall be filed
with the Bureau of Motor Vehicles, and shall be available for public inspection
at the office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2021-4, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   It is further stated that any violation of §
90.01 shall be subject to a fine of $25 for each such violation on condition
that such fine is paid within 72 hours of when the ticket or other notice of
such violation might be delivered, and if not paid within this time period,
then subject to a fine of $50 for each such violation.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
90.15 through
90.23 shall be deemed guilty of a Class C infraction and, upon conviction
thereunder, shall be fined not exceeding $500. Each day violation is committed
or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense, and shall be
punishable as such hereunder.
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 10-8-2013; Ord. 2021-4, passed 6-8-2021)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   General
   
91.03   Sale of animal
   
91.04   Animals in motor vehicles
   
91.05   Animal poisoning
   
91.06   Animal trapping
   
91.07   Prohibitions on maximum number of animals, types of animals
   
91.08   Deceased animals and waste
   
91.09   Animal bite reporting
   
91.10   Trespassing
   
91.11   Veterinary care
   
91.12   Abandoned animals
   
91.13   Rabies and quarantine
   
91.14   Animals within town limits
   
91.15   Honeybees
   
91.16   Livestock
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   ABANDON. To deposit, leave, drop off, or otherwise dispose of any live
domestic animal without providing immediate humane care on any public or
private property.
   AGENT. Person(s) 18 years or older authorized by an owner to act in the
owner’s behalf.
   ALTERED ANIMAL. Any animal that has been operated on to prevent it from
procreating.
   ANIMAL. Any live non-human vertebrate creature domestic, wild, or exotic.
   ANIMAL CONTROL AGENCY. Any governmental or private entity charged with or
contracted with, and given authority for the enforcement of the provisions of
this chapter for and on behalf of the town (including, but not necessarily
limited to, the Police Department).
   ANIMAL PERFORMANCES OR EXHIBITIONS. Any spectacle, performance, display,
act, exhibition, or event in which an animal or animals are used.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. A facility or vehicle operated by a governmental or private
entity for the purpose of providing or promoting animal welfare and humane
treatment of animals.
   AT LARGE. Any animal that is not under restraint.
   ATTACK DOG. Any dog trained to attack upon command, or those which do attack
or have attacked another animal or human being upon command. This definition is
intended to cover dogs bred for fighting, and shall include, but not be limited
to, the breed of dog commonly referred to as the American Pit Bull, or American
Pit Bull Terrier, or pit bull terrier, or cross-breeds therewith, which breed
is hereby found and considered to be unsafe and potentially hazardous to the
citizens of the town. This definition excludes K-9 Corps dogs in use by the law
enforcement agencies.
   AUCTION. Any place or facility where animals are regularly bought, sold, or
traded by means of auction sale, except for those facilities otherwise defined
in this chapter or state law.
   CONTROLLED ANIMAL. Any animal not defined as a domestic animal in this
chapter, with the exception of small, non-poisonous aquatic or non-poisonous
amphibious animals, non-poisonous reptilian, and small cage birds, and birds of
the parrot family, and possession of which requires a valid town-controlled
animal permit. Such CONTROLLED ANIMALS shall include, but not be limited to,
the following:
      (1)   All poisonous animals, including rear-fang snakes;
      (2)   Apes: chimpanzees (Pan), gibbons (Hylobates), gorillas (Gorilla),
orangutans (Pongo), and siamangs (Symphalangus);
      (3)   Baboon (Papoe, Mandrilluis);
      (4)   Bears (Ursidae);
      (5)   Bison (Bison);
      (6)   Cheetahs (Acinonyx jubatus);
      (7)   Crocodilians (Crocodilia);
      (8)   Constrictor snakes, including, but not limited to, boa, python, and
anaconda;
      (9)   Coyotes (Canis latrans);
      (10)   Deer (Cervidae), which includes all member of the deer family, for
example, white-tailed deer, elk, antelope, and moose;
      (11)   Elephants (Elephas and Loxodonta);
      (12)   Game cocks, and other fighting birds;
      (13)   Hippopotami (Hippopotamidae);
      (14)   Hyenas (Hyaenidae);
      (15)   Jaguars (Pathera onca);
      (16)   Leopards (Panthera pardus);
      (17)   Lions (Panthera leo);
      (18)   Lynxes (Lynx);
      (19)   Monkeys;
      (20)   Ostriches (Struthio);
      (21)   Piranha fish (Characidea);
      (22)   Pumas (Felis concolor), also known as cougars, mountain lions, and
panthers;
      (23)   Rhinoceroses (Rhinocero tidae);
      (24)   Sharks (class Chondrichthyes);
      (25)   Snow Leopards (Panthera uncia);
      (26)   Spiders and insects which are poisonous;
      (27)   Tigers (Panthera tigris); and
      (28)   Wolves (Canis Lupus).
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. Any animal:
      (1)   That has, off its owner’s property, attacked another animal or
livestock;
      (2)   Which has attacked or which has attempted to attack, unprovoked,
any human being, whether on or off the owner’s property;
      (3)   Which has bitten or attacked a person, causing wounds or injuries,
creating a potential danger to the health and life of the victim; or
      (4)   Which is found to be at large three times or more.
         (a)   However, no animal shall be a DANGEROUS ANIMAL if injury or
damage is inflicted by that animal upon a person or another animal if such
person or other animal, at the time such injury or damage was sustained, was
committing a willful trespass upon premises occupied by the owner or keeper of
the animal, or was teasing, tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the animal, or
was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
         (b)   This definition excludes K-9 Corps dogs in use by law
enforcement agencies.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal that is a member of one of the following
species:
      (1)   Dog (Canis Familiaris);
      (2)   Cat (Felis Cattus or Felis Domesticus);
      (3)   Rabbit (Oryctolagus Cuniculus); or
      (4)   Chicken.
   ESCAPE-PROOF ENCLOSURE. The owner’s home or an enclosure at least six feet
by 12 feet, constructed of ten-gauge commercial chain link steel wire at least
six feet high above grade unless covered with a roof of similar wire, and two
feet of similar wire buried below grade unless there is a cement floor. (If the
dog escapes the enclosure, a five-sided enclosure on concrete will be
required.)
   EXOTIC ANIMAL. Any animal whose normal native habitat is not indigenous to
the continental United States, excluding Alaska and Hawaii, except fish, and
fur-bearing animals commercially bred for the furrier trade and birds protected
under federal laws and regulations.
   EXPOSED TO RABIES. Any human or non-human warm blooded mammal that has been
bitten or in contact with any other animal known or reasonably suspected to
have been infected with rabies.
   FOR-PROFIT. All other types of businesses, associations, or entities.
   FOWL. Any kind of wild or domestic bird, excluding homing or racing pigeons,
canaries, parrots, or similar types of birds normally kept in cages.
   GUIDE DOGS. Dogs formally trained to assist handicapped persons.
   HARBORING . The actions of any person that permit any animal habitually to
remain or lodge, or to be fed within his or her home, store, enclosure, yard,
or place of business, or any premises on which such person resides or controls.
An animal shall be presumed HARBORED if it is fed or sheltered for three
consecutive days or more.
   HUMANE OFFICER(S). Any person(s) and/or agency designated by the state or
town as a person(s) who is qualified to perform the duties required by the law
of the town and state regarding animals.
   NOT-FOR-PROFIT. A business, association, or entity established or organized
as a NOT-FOR-PROFIT corporation under state law, or recognized as NOT-FOR
PROFIT by the Internal Revenue Service or the State Department of Revenue.
   OWNER. Any person age 18 years or older, partnership, or corporation owning,
keeping, or harboring one or more animals.
   PET. Any animal kept for pleasure rather than utility.
   PET SHOP. Any person, group of persons, partnership, or corporation, whether
operated separately or in connection with another business enterprise, engaged
in the humane care and possession for sale, display, and sale of pets.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any animal or animals which:
      (1)   Interferes with passerby or passing vehicles;
      (2)   Attacks other animals or persons;
      (3)   Is at large;
      (4)   Damages private or public property;
      (5)   Causes frequent or long continued loud noises or other sounds
common to its species which disturbs the comfort or repose of any person in the
immediate neighborhood;
      (6)   Causes foul or noxious odors which offend residents in the
neighborhood; and/or
      (7)   Is at large or on a public playground, swimming pool, or school
yard, unless the animal is authorized by school officials.
   RABIES VACCINATION. The injection by a licensed veterinarian of a dog or
cat, or other animal, with a rabies vaccine licensed by the U.S.D.A. and
approved by the State Board of Health.
   RESTRAINT. The securing of an animal by leash or lead, or confining it
within the real property limits of its owner or agent.
   STRAY. Any animal that is not within the real property limits of its owner
and is not under restraint or is unattended.
   VETERINARIAN. Any person licensed and accredited to practice veterinary
medicine in the state.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any animal not a domestic or exotic animal, with the exception
of small, nonpoisonous aquatic or amphibious animals and small cage birds,
which are normally found in the wild state.
   ZOOLOGICAL PARK. Any facility, other than a pet shop or kennel, displaying
or exhibiting one or more species or non-domesticated animals operated by a
person, partnership, corporation, or governmental agency that is established
for educational purposes and is properly zoned for such use, and which
possesses valid licenses and permits as required under federal or state law.
(Ord. 2021-8, passed 1-11-2022)
§ 91.02 GENERAL.
   (A)   Every owner and/or his or her agent within the town shall see that
each of his or her animals:
      (1)   Is kept in a clean, sanitary, and healthy manner, and is not
confined so as to be forced to stand, sit, or lie in its own excrement;
      (2)   Has sufficient and wholesome food and water, which is proper and
nutritional for that species of animals;
      (3)   Has a proper and adequate structure provided that it will protect
that animal from all elements of the weather, and will allow that animal to
stand, sit, and lie down without restriction, and is kept in a sanitary manner;
      (4)   If ill, diseased, or injured, receives proper veterinary care as
necessary to promote the good health of the animal and prevent the transmittal
of a disease to other animals or human beings;
      (5)   Is not beaten, cruelly ill-treated, overloaded, overworked,
tormented, or otherwise abused or neglected, nor shall any person cause,
instigate, or permit any dog fight, cockfight, bullfight, or other combat
between animals or between animals and humans;
      (6)   Is not physically altered in any manner by anyone other than a
veterinarian, with the exception of tattooing for identification purposes and
grooming;
      (7)   Is not abandoned, neglected, or tortured;
      (8)   Does not become a public nuisance;
      (9)   Does not become a dangerous animal;
      (10)   In the case of a dog or cat over the age of six months, is
properly vaccinated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian annually, or upon
such frequency as may be specified by the state code, and such animals shall be
licensed as required by this chapter and state law; and
      (11)   Is properly restrained. In mating season, the animal shall be kept
in a secure enclosure in such a manner that it cannot come into contact with
another animal of the same species, except for planned breeding.
(Ord. 2021-8, passed 1-11-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 SALE OF ANIMAL.
   (A)   No person shall display, sell, offer for sale, barter, or give away
any animal, reptile, fish, or bird as a novelty or as an advertising device.
   (B)   No rabbit, chick, gosling, duckling, turkey, or other fowl may be dyed
or otherwise colored artificially, nor may dyed or artificially colored
rabbits, chicks, goslings, ducklings, turkeys, or other fowl be sold, offered
for sale, displayed, used as barter, or given away.
   (C)   (1)   This section shall not be construed to prohibit the sale or
display of natural chicks, ducklings, goslings, turkeys, or other domestic fowl
in proper brooder facilities by hatcheries or stores engaged in the business of
selling them to be raised for commercial purposes.
      (2)   Nor shall this section prohibit a pet shop holding a valid permit
under this section, or a legitimate humane society or animal shelter, from
humanely caring for, adopting out, or selling animals as pets.
(Ord. 2021-8, passed 1-11-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 ANIMALS IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Any person operating a motor vehicle who knowingly hits, runs over, or
causes injury to an animal shall immediately notify the Police Department.
   (B)   Such notice shall include the motorist’s name, address, type of animal
hit, and the location of the animal.
   (C)   No animal shall be left in a motor vehicle when the conditions in that
vehicle would constitute a health hazard to such animal confined in said motor
vehicle; nor shall any person transport any animal in an unenclosed truck bed
or open portion of any vehicle unless the animal is enclosed in a cage or
attached to a harness designed for vehicles which is securely fastened to the
vehicle.
(Ord. 2021-8, passed 1-11-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 ANIMAL POISONING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or deposit any known poisonous
substance in any of the streets, alleys, parks, commons, yards, or other
places, whether public or private, within the town, so that the same shall be
liable to be consumed by any animal, provided that is shall not be unlawful for
a person to expose on his or her own property common rat or mouse poison or
insecticide, unmixed or mixed only with vegetable substances, if used so as to
restrict access to the poison only to the targeted rodents or insects.
(Ord. 2021-8, passed 1-11-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 ANIMAL TRAPPING.
   No person shall trap for animals or fowl within the town unless such trap(s)
are approved by a Humane Officer or the Town Animal Control Agency, and issued
for the control of nuisance animals. This prohibition shall not apply to any
trap specifically designed to kill rats, mice, gophers, or moles so long as the
owner of the property is aware of where the trap(s) are set.
(Ord. 2021-8, passed 1-11-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07 PROHIBITIONS ON MAXIMUM NUMBER OF ANIMALS, TYPES OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   Number of animals. No more than an aggregate of three dogs or cats
over the age of six months may be kept on any residential, commercial, or other
premises within the town unless the owner of the animals holds a valid pet
shop/breeder permit, whichever may be appropriate.
   (B)   Certain domestic animals prohibited.
      (1)   No person shall keep any of the following named domestic animals or
fowl in the town:
         (a)   Cow, ox, cattle, calves, or other livestock;
         (b)   Donkey, ass, burro, or mule;
         (c)   Sheep;
         (d)   Goat;
         (e)   Geese, turkeys, ducks, or other fowl, except racing or homing
pigeons; and/or
         (f)   Horses.
      (2)   Nothing in the section shall be deemed or construed to prohibit the
keeping of bees in a hive, stand, or box located or kept within a zoological
park, school, or university building for the purpose of study or observation,
as long as the public safety in ensured.
      (3)   Any person desiring to raise rabbits or pets, or racing or homing
pigeons, within the town must keep such animals and birds in safe and sanitary
conditions so that a public nuisance, as defined herein, is not created.
      (4)   No person may keep with the town, as presently or hereinafter
established, any swine, or pig pens or hog sties, which are hereby declared to
be a nuisance in the town.
(Ord. 2021-8, passed 1-11-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 DECEASED ANIMALS AND WASTE.
   (A)   Any owner, or his or her agent taking the owner’s dog(s) or cat(s)
outside of the owner’s real property limits, must immediately remove any
excrement deposited by the animal(s) on any such public or private property,
except in the case of a guide dog for a blind person or service dog for a deaf
or physically disabled person.
   (B)   The owner of any dead animal shall remove and properly dispose of the
animal within 24 hours after its death. The real property owner is responsible
for removal of any strange animal carcass on such real property.
(Ord. 2021-8, passed 1-11-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.09 ANIMAL BITE REPORTING.
   (A)   If any person is a victim of an animal bite, he or she shall
immediately notify the County Health Department and/or Police Department of the
incident, and provide a description of the animal and the identification, if
possible, of the owner. When an animal is determined to have bitten a person,
the animal shall be confined in quarantine for a period of not less than 14
days.
   (B)   If the owner of an animal which has bitten a person has proof of
current rabies inoculations, the animal may be left in the charge of the owner,
under quarantine, unless, in the judgment of the Humane Officer and/or police
officer, and based upon considerations of public safety, the Humane Officer
determines or that it should be removed to an animal shelter or veterinary
hospital for the period of observation.
   (C)   In addition to any other legal obligations prescribed by law, the
owner shall be liable for all costs incurred in the quarantine of the animal.
   (D)   If the ownership of the biting animal cannot be determined, or if the
owner does not furnish proof of current rabies inoculation, the animal shall be
impounded under the authority of the Police Department and confined in the
town’s Animal Control Facility for the period of observation of not less than
14 days.
   (E)   Police officers shall be empowered to enter onto private property for
the purpose of impounding animal(s) which are known to have bitten a person and
shall obtain legal process to do so if necessary.
   (F)   Unless otherwise provided, the town and any of its agents shall comply
with the standards set forth in I.C. 15-1.1-6-1 through 15-2.1-6-13, entitled
“Rabies.”
(Ord. 2021-8, passed 1-11-2022)
§ 91.10 TRESPASSING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation being the
owner or keeper of any dog or cat to suffer or permit such dog or cat to
trespass on the property of any person within the limits of the town or suffer
to permit such dog or cat to be or go unattended upon or over the premises of
any person, firm, or corporation or upon a street, sidewalk, alley, or public
place within the limits of the town or upon a park or cemetery of the town.
   (B)   (1)   Dogs or cats causing such annoyance may be picked up by a police
officer of the town and forthwith destroyed, unless claimed by the owner under
the provisions of section 8 of the ordinance codified herein.
      (2)   If, in the best judgment of the Town Marshal, it is necessary for
any good reason to retain a dog or cat in order to protect the citizens, said
Town Marshal shall be authorized to retain, according to the state statute,
said dog or cat.
   (C)   It shall be required for anyone walking an animal covered by such
section to do so with a leash or other appropriate method of controlling such
animal, and to retrieve and properly dispose of any waste caused by such animal
during any such walk.
(Prior Code, § 5.1.1) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.11 VETERINARY CARE.
   (A)   It is hereby made the duty of the Town Marshal, or anyone acting under
his or her authority, to take to a veterinarian clinic or any other facility
designated by the Town Council, all dogs and cats found running on the streets,
alleys, or public places, or upon the property of one other than the owner of
such dog or cat.
   (B)   All dogs or cats which are placed in the designated facility or
veterinarian clinic by the Police Department must properly be kept in such
facility or clinic for at least three days, after which such dog or cat may be
destroyed or given to a new owner; provided, that such new owner shall first
secure a dog license tag and have the animal properly vaccinated.
   (C)   (1)   It is further provided that in every case before a dog or cat is
released from the facility or clinic, a fee shall be paid to the operator of
the designated facility or clinic.
      (2)   Such fee shall be the standard fee for which that facility or
clinic charges for keeping of a dog or cat.
(Prior Code, § 5.1.1) (Ord. 2008-7, passed 11-13-2008)
§ 91.12 ABANDONED ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons not residents of said town to
release any dog, cat, or other animal within the corporate limits of said town
for the purpose of abandoning such animal therein.
(Prior Code, § 5.1.1) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.13 RABIES AND QUARANTINE.
   (A)   Every animal which bites a person shall be promptly reported to the
Town Marshal and shall thereupon be securely quarantined at the direction of
the Town Marshal for a period of ten days, and shall not be released from such
quarantine, except by written permission of the Town Marshal.
   (B)   At the discretion of the Town Marshal, such quarantine may be on the
premises of the owner, or at the owner’s option and expense in a veterinarian
clinic of his or her choice. In the case of stray animals, or in the case of
animals whose ownership is not known, such quarantine shall be at the
discretion of the Town Marshal.
   (C)   The owner, upon demand made by the Town Marshal, shall forthwith
surrender any animal which has bitten a human or which is suspected of having
been exposed to rabies or supervised quarantine, which expense shall be borne
by the owner.
(Prior Code, § 5.1.1) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.14 ANIMALS WITHIN TOWN LIMITS.
   In the event that the Town Marshal, or any other town employee, shall come
into the possession of a dog, cat, or other animal which is not being properly
attended to or cared for in violation of this chapter, there shall be a service
charge of $20 per day, per animal taken possession over assessed to the owner
of said animal prior to the release of the same thereto.
(Prior Code, § 5.1A) (Ord. 1992-3, passed 7-21-1992)
§ 91.15 HONEYBEES.
   A person shall be permitted to maintain not more than two colonies of
domestic honeybees within the town limits, provided that the hives therefor:
   (A)   Are placed not less than ten feet away from the property lines in all
directions;
   (B)   Are housed in a stable, appropriate apiary; and
   (C)   Are enclosed by a fence not less than four feet high.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed 10-11-2016)
§ 91.16 LIVESTOCK.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or any person in charge of any
cattle, sheep, swine, roosters, or fowl to keep or to suffer or permit any such
animals to be kept within the town for more than 48 hours at any time, unless
Sunday intervenes, and then not more than 72 hours.
   (B)   Rabbits and chickens (hens only) will be permitted within town limits,
but must be kept inside appropriate hutches, coops. Goats used for 4-H purposes
shall also be kept within town limits, but must be kept inside appropriate
pens.
(Ord. passed 5-8-2012) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
91.10 through
91.13 shall, upon conviction, be fined any sum not exceeding the sum of $50 for
each offense.
(Prior Code, § 5.1.1)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PROTECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Storage of inflammable liquids
   
92.02   Public burning   
Fire Department
   
92.15   Volunteer Fire Department members
   
92.16   Fire Department rules and duties
Fireworks
   
92.30   Unlawful sale
   
92.31   Unlawful displays
   
92.32   Lawful displays
   
92.33   Prerequisite for lawful display
   
92.34   Fireworks within town limits
Smoke Detectors
   
92.45   Definitions
   
92.46   Location requirements
   
92.47   Maintenance
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 STORAGE OF INFLAMMABLE LIQUIDS.
   The storage of benzine, benzol, gasoline, naptha, their compounds, or any
other highly inflammable liquid in any home or residence is limited to three
gallons, and said inflammable liquid shall be kept in a metal container with a
metal top or some other legally-approved container.
(Prior Code, § 5.8) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 PUBLIC BURNING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or other organization to burn
leaves, grass, garbage, rubbish, or organic materials in the town, unless such
burning might be authorized by the Town Council thereof by special resolution
setting out during what times of the year and what time of day such burning
might be accomplished. Personal recreational fires are permitted from April 1
to October 31 each year from the hours of 6:00 p.m. to 12:00 a.m. A
recreational fire must be attended by at least one person at all times, can
only be fueled by clean firewood and absolutely no other materials, and can
only be allowed to burn during the time period previously described. The
officers of the Town Police Department are hereby authorized and instructed to
order the extinguishing of any fire that does not comply with this section, or
has not been authorized by special resolution by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 5.8.13) (Ord. 2008-04, passed 7-8-2008) Penalty, see §
92.99
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 92.15 VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Fire Department of the town shall be a Volunteer Fire Department,
as authorized by the statutes of the state.
   (B)   The Town Council shall appoint a Chief and an Assistant Chief of the
Volunteer Fire Department.
   (C)   The Assistant Chief of the Fire Department shall possess all of the
powers of the Chief in the absence from the town of the Chief, or his or her
temporary disability, function as Chief.
   (D)   The Chief of the Fire Department shall appoint such persons willing to
serve as a member of the Volunteer Fire Department who shall obey the rules and
regulations promulgated by the Chief and approved by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 5.8)
§ 92.16 FIRE DEPARTMENT RULES AND DUTIES.
   (A)   All appointees shall serve in their respective offices as such members
during the period they shall continue qualified, and be physically able to
perform their duties as such members and faithfully discharge such duties in
accordance with such rules and regulations.
   (B)   The Chief of the Department shall be responsible for transmittal to
the Clerk-Treasurer, at least once in each month, of a complete record of all
alarms to which the Department responded within the limits of such town, and
the names of all members of the Department who responded thereto and the time
each such member devoted to such alarm response.
   (C)   (1)   The Chief of the Fire Department of said town is hereby
empowered at all times to enter into any house, building, cellar, or place that
shall be kept, maintained, or permitted to remain within the corporate limits
of the town in such a manner as shall be a menace to the public safety from
fire, or to enter any house, building, cellar, or place as he or she shall have
reasonable cause to believe to be so kept, maintained, or permitted to remain,
and such Chief is hereby clothed with police authority to enable him or her to
discharge such duty.
      (2)   It shall be the further duty of such Chief whenever, upon
examination, he or she shall determine that any such house, building, cellar,
or place that has become a menace to public safety from fire, to immediately
notify the owners or occupants of such house, building, cellar, or place to at
once remedy or remove the menace aforesaid, and at the same time he or she
shall make written report of his or her action to the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 5.8)
FIREWORKS
§ 92.30 UNLAWFUL SALE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale any
firecrackers, bombs, or fireworks of any nature in the town.
(Prior Code, § 5.8) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.31 UNLAWFUL DISPLAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to shoot or set off any firecrackers,
bombs, or fireworks of any nature whatsoever within the limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 5.8) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.32 LAWFUL DISPLAYS.
   Provisions of this section of this code shall not apply to the licensed and
supervised display of fireworks.
(Prior Code, § 5.8)
§ 92.33 PREREQUISITE FOR LAWFUL DISPLAY.
   Any person desiring to have an organized display of fireworks shall comply
with the following rules.
   (A)   Obtain a permit from the Chief of the Fire Department.
   (B)   Said permit must be signed by the State Fire Marshal.
   (C)   Said display must be under direct supervision of the Chief of the Fire
Department.
(Prior Code, § 5.8) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.34 FIREWORKS WITHIN TOWN LIMITS.
   Use of consumer fireworks within the limits of th town shall be expressly
prohibited, except at the following times:
   (A)   As permitted by I.C. 22-11-14-10.5; and
   (B)   Each Friday and Saturday between the hours of 5:00 pm and 11:00 pm,
other than a Friday or Saturday that falls on a date set out in I.C. 22-11-14-
10.5.
(Ord. 2019-3, passed 7- -2019) Penalty, see §
92.99
SMOKE DETECTORS
§ 92.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   MOBILE HOME RENTAL. Any mobile home or trailer occupied by or offered for
occupancy of an individual or individuals as a residence on a rental basis.
   MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING UNIT. Any building that contains living quarters for
two or more occupancies, and shall include hotels, motels, boarding houses,
sleeping room houses, buildings of mixed occupancy having any residential unit,
nursing homes, convalescent homes, licensed half-way houses, or lodging houses.
   SLEEPING AREA. The area of a unit in which bedrooms or sleeping rooms are
located. Bedrooms or sleeping rooms separated by another use area, such as a
kitchen or living room, are separate sleeping areas, but bedrooms or sleeping
rooms separated by a bathroom are not separate SLEEPING AREAS.
   SMOKE DETECTOR. A device which detects particles of products of combustion
other than heat, approved by Underwriters Laboratories, Inc. or Factory Mutual,
equipped with a test button and may be either battery powered, minimum 9 volt
or 120 volt A.C.
(Prior Code, § 6.4)
§ 92.46 LOCATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All multi-family dwelling units, motels, hotels, boarding houses,
sleeping room houses, mobile home rentals, and buildings of mixed occupancy
having any residential units located in the town shall be equipped with
approved smoke detectors.
   (B)   Every owner, manager, or agent of any multiple dwelling shall install
in every dwelling unit not less than one approved smoke detector on the
ceiling, not less than seven inches from any wall or on a wall located from six
to 12 inches from the ceiling and within 15 feet of all rooms used for sleeping
purposes.
      (1)   Smoke detectors shall be mounted on the ceiling or wall at a point
centrally located in the corridor or area giving access to the rooms used for
sleeping purposes.
      (2)   Where a common hallway is used, smoke detectors shall be spaced not
more than 30 feet apart in such hallway.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not be required in buildings
which contain an approved automatic sprinkler system throughout.
(Prior Code, § 6.4) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.47 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   (1)   At every change of tenant in every multi-dwelling, it shall be
the responsibility of the owner, manager, or agent to test and ascertain that
the approved smoke detectors are in operable condition. It shall be unlawful
for any person to tamper or remove any smoke detector, except when it is
necessary for maintenance or inspection purposes.
      (2)   Any smoke detector removed for repair or replacement must be
reinstalled or replaced so that it is in place during normal sleeping hours.
   (B)   Between January 1 and January 31 each year, the owner of each dwelling
unit or mobile home in which a smoke detector has been installed shall certify
in writing on forms prescribed by the town to the Fire Department that the
required maintenance has been performed on all detectors in the owner’s units,
and that the detectors are in good working condition as of the date of
certification. Each owner shall certify to each new occupancy of any dwelling
unit and mobile home covered by this division (B) that all smoke detectors
required have been installed and are in proper working condition.
(Prior Code, § 6.4) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
92.01,
92.15,
92.16, and
92.30 through
92.34 shall be deemed guilty of a Class A misdemeanor and that further, any
person violating any of the provisions of §§
92.01,
92.15,
92.16, and
92.30 through
92.34 shall, upon judgment, be responsible for said violation in a sum not to
exceed $1,000, and it is further provided that each day such violation or non-
compliance shall be permitted to exist shall constitute a separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 5.8)
   (C)   Any person violating the terms of this §
92.02 may be fined in any sum not exceeding $100 for any single violation
hereof, and further shall be subject to any other appropriate civil or
administrative action to enforce the provisions hereof.
(Prior Code, § 5.3.2)
(Ord. 2008-04, passed 7-8-2008)
CHAPTER 93: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
93.01   Policy
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Unlawful Practices
   
93.04   Discrimination in sale or rental of housing
   
93.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
93.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
93.07   Intimidation and prevention of intimidation; HUD programs
   
93.08   Exemptions
   
93.09   Administration and enforcement
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 POLICY.
   It shall be the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 3601
et seq., the Federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended,
being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq., and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord.2018-1, passed 3-13-2018)
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Any person who claims to have been injured by a
discriminatory housing practice or believes that such person will be injured by
a discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur.
   COMMISSION. The State Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-9-
1-4 et seq. (I.C. 22-9.5-2-3.)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6. (I.C. 22-9.5-2-3.)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
93.04 through
93.07, or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families. (I.C. 22-9.5-2-8.)
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual with the status of such family being
further defined in FAMILIAL STATUS.
   FAMILIAL STATUS. Discrimination on the basis of familial status means
discrimination because the person is:
      (1)   Pregnant;
      (2)   In the process of obtaining legal custody of an individual younger
than 18 years of age; or
      (3)   Domiciled with an individual under the age of 18 years of age in
regard to whom the person is:
         (a)   The parent or legal custodian; or
         (b)   Has the written permission of the parent or legal custodian for
domicile with that person.
   HANDICAP.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the Federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.; or
         (e)   Any other impairment defined under I.C. 22-9-5-6.
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or
addictions to a controlled substance as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802 (I.C. 22-9-
5-6(b)); nor does the term HANDICAP include an individual solely because that
individual is a transvestite. (I.C. 22-9-5-6(d)(3)).
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under 11 U.S.C., receivers, and fiduciaries.
   TO RENT. To lease, to sublease, to let, and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the rights to occupy the premises not owned by the occupant.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 3-13-2018)
§ 93.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICES.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, §
93.07(C), and I.C. Title 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in
the sale or rental of housing set forth I.C. Title 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
93.04 shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by subsection (B) and I.C. Title 22-
9.5-3.
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
93.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided, that in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period.
      (2)   The private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have
owned or reserved on his or her behalf, title to or any right to all or a
portion of the proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-
family houses at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single-family
house shall be exempted from application of this section only if such house is
sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent, or salesperson, or any person in
the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of
any such broker, agent, or salesperson, or person;
         (b)   Without the publication, posting, or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
93.04(C), but nothing in this section shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies, and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title; or
      (3)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended
for occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 3-13-2018) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 DISCRIMINATION IN SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
93.03 and except as exempted by §§
93.03(B), and 93.07(C), it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin;
   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or
published, any notice, statement, or advertisement, with respect to the sale or
rental of a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or
discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status,
or national origin, or an intention to make any such preference, limitation, or
discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale, or rental when such dwelling is in fact so
available;
   (E)   For profit, to induce, or attempt to induce, any person to sell or
rent any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry
into the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin;
   (F)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
      (1)   That buyer or renter;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (G)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
      (1)   That person; or
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (H)   For purposes of this section, DISCRIMINATION includes:
      (1)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises, except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may, where it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification
on the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
      (2)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
      (3)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
         (a)   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
         (b)   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
         (c)   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
            1.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
            2.   Light, switches, electrical outlets , thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations; and
            3.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (I)   Compliance with the appropriate requirement of the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., and of the American
National Standard for Buildings and Facilities providing accessibility an
usability for physically handicapped people (commonly cited as ANSIA117.1)
suffices to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (3)(C)(iii); and
   (H)   Nothing in this subsection requires that a dwelling be made available
to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health
of safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 3-13-2018) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this section prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial status.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 3-13-2018) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’
organization, or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national
origin.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 3-13-2018) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 INTIMIDATION AND PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION; HUD PROGRAMS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere
with any person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her
having exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or
encouraged any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted
or protected by §§
93.03 through
93.06.
   (B)   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat
of force willfully injures, intimidates, or interferes with, or attempt to
injure, intimidate, or interfere with:
      (1)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin, and because he or she is or has
been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing, or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization, or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
      (2)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to
intimidate such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
         (a)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in division (A)
above;
         (b)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate; or
      (3)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in
any of the activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in
division (B)(1) above, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly
opposing any denial of the opportunity to participate shall be fined according
to local, state, and federal law.
   (C)   Pursuant to 24 C.F.R. § 5.403 and 24 C.F.R. § 574.3 the definition of
FAMILY is revised to include family regardless of the actual or perceived
sexual orientation, gender identity, or marital status of its members.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 3-13-2018) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.08 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-5-3, et seq. shall
be exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, society, or any non-profit institution or organization operated,
supervised, or controlled by, or in conjunction with, a religious organization,
association, or society, from lining the sale, rental, or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color, or
national origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not
in fact open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or
purposes provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a
commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to
its meters or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing or older persons. As used in this section, HOUSING FOR OLDER
PERSONS means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Apartment of Housing and Urban Development or the State Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly persons (as defined in the state or federal program);
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, person 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 3-13-2018)
§ 93.09 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral/complaints hereunder to the Commissioner, as set forth in
division (B) below hereof, shall be vested in the Chief Elected Official of the
town.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the town, because
of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under the chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the sections of this
chapter by complainants to the State Civil Rights Commission for administrative
enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6, and the Chief Elected Official
of the town shall refer all said complaints to the Commission as provided for
under division (A) above to said Commission for purposes of invention,
resolution, and appropriate relief as provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the town shall administer
their departments, programs, and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter,
and shall cooperate with the Chief Elected Official and the Commission to
further such purpose
   (D)   The Chief Elected Official of the town, or the Chief Elected
Official’s designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any
aggrieved persons complaint requesting such information.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 3-13-2018)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   If bodily injury results from the prohibition of the standards set in
§
93.07, the perpetrator shall be fined not more than $10,000 or imprisoned not
more than ten years, or both, and if death results, the perpetrator shall be
subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 3-13-2018)
CHAPTER 94: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
94.01   Curfew; town parks
   
94.02   Excluded pets
   
94.03   Alcohol in town parks
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 CURFEW; TOWN PARKS.
   (a)   All parks owned and operated by the town, shall close each evening at
11:00 p.m. and shall not reopen until 6:00 a.m. the following day. This section
shall not apply to League or other organized activities that may continue on
beyond such hour of closing although it is the intent of this section that such
activities be planned otherwise to end by such hour of closing or as soon as
possible thereafter. In the event of any such activities extending beyond such
hour of closing, participants or spectators thereof shall have 15 minutes after
the conclusion of such activities to vacate the park area and not otherwise be
in violation of this section. It shall be considered a violation of this
section for any person charged by law with the care, custody, and control over
any child who has not reached the age of 18 years of age or any parent,
parents, person, or persons, or any individual having temporary care, custody,
and control of any child under the age of 18 years of age to allow or permit
such child, ward, or other person under 18 years of age to remain in the town
parks beyond the hours set for closing of the same.
   (B)   Each member of the Town Police Department is directed to take into
custody any person under the age of 18 years violating the provisions of this
section and transport such minor person to his or her place of residence and
thereupon determine the name of the parent, guardian, or other person have the
legal custody of such minor person. It shall be the duty then of the
apprehending officer to cause a citation for violation of this section to be
issued to said offending parent, guardian, or other custodial person of said
minor child.
(Prior Code, § 5.11) (Ord. 1993-11, passed 8-3-1993) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 EXCLUDED PETS.
   (A)   No pet animal of any kind shall be allowed in any of the parks of said
town at any time whether on a leash or other restraint or not, with the
exemption of seeing eye dogs or trained service animals actively assisting
persons with disabilities.
   (B)   The Town Police Department, or any officer thereof, shall be charged
with the enforcement of this section.
(Prior Code, § 5.9) (Ord. 1988-4, passed 4-20-1988) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 ALCOHOL IN TOWN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic beverages of any
kind within the parks of the town.
(Ord. 2011-11, passed 12-13-2011) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Failure to comply with §
94.01 shall result in the following penalties.
      (1)   For the first instance of violation of §
94.01, the violator shall be verbally warned by the first apprehending officer
who shall then make a report of such first violation and to the effect that
said individual has been found to be in violation of §
94.01.
      (2)   For the second instance of violation in any calendar year, the
violator shall be fined in the sum of $25, and for each violation thereafter in
such calendar year shall be fined additionally in the sum of $100 for each such
violation.
      (3)   It is understood that any parent, guardian, or other custodial
person shall be penalized in the same way as set out hereinabove for any minor
child in their charge who violates §
94.01.
(Prior Code, § 5.11)
   (C)   Failure to comply with §
94.02 shall result in the following penalties.
      (1)   For the first instance of violation of §
94.02, the violator shall be warned in writing sent by regular U.S. Mail to the
last known address of such violator and to the effect that they have been found
to be in violation of §
94.02.
      (2)   For the second instance of violation of §
94.02 in any calendar year, the violation shall be fined in the sum of $25, and
for each violation thereafter shall be fined in the sum of $100 for each
violation.
(Prior Code, § 5.9)
   (D)   The penalty for failure to abide by §
94.03 shall be $50 for each occurrence.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 4-20-1988; Ord. 1993-11, passed 8-3-1993; Ord. 2011-11,
passed 12-13-2011)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   SOLICITATION
      
111.   VENDING MACHINES
CHAPTER 110: SOLICITATION
Section
   
111.01   Solicitation
Cross-reference:
   Ordinance Violations Bureau, see §§
34.01 through
34.06
§ 110.01 SOLICITATION.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation either
individually or by or through any agent, to solicit patronage, either by the
sale of products or the furnishing of service, upon any of the streets or in
any other public places within the incorporated town.
      (2)   It shall further be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation,
either individually or by or through any agent, to solicit patronage, either by
the sale of products or the furnishing of service upon any of the streets or in
any other public places within the incorporated town, without the person
soliciting such patronage first procuring a license therefor.
   (B)   Any person desiring to solicit patronage in any private location in
the town shall be required to make application to the Town Clerk-Treasurer for
a license for such solicitation. The application for license shall set forth
specifically the type of solicitation contemplated, including any goods or
services to be sold or furnished, the price or prices to be charged, and the
manner in which such goods or services are to be furnished or provided. The
license fee for a license under this section shall be $100 per day, which sum
shall be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer of the town in advance with the filing of
an application therefor.
(Prior Code, § 6.1) (Ord. 1975-2, passed 8-6-1975) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 111: VENDING MACHINES
Section
   
111.01   Vending machines
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 VENDING MACHINES.
   (A)   No person shall maintain any vending machines to be placed on the area
of any street, alley, or sidewalks within the town. In addition, no person
shall maintain or permit any vending machine to be so placed that any person
using said vending machine must of necessity be on the area of any street,
alley, or sidewalk to operate said vending machine.
   (B)   No person shall place or maintain, nor permit to be placed or
maintained on his or her property any vending machine, unless there is
available in the vicinity of said vending machine, exclusive of all street
area, alley area, or sidewalk area, sufficient space for persons using said
vending machine to approach the same, and to use the same.
   (C)   Any person who places or maintains any vending machine within the town
or who permits the placement and maintenance of any vending machines within the
town shall be obligated to provide, adjacent to such vending machines, adequate
receptacles for disposition of all paper, cans, or other refuse likely to
result from use of said vending machines, which containers shall be so placed
that they do not occupy any street, alley, or sidewalk area, and it is not
necessary to use any street, alley, or sidewalk area to approach said
receptacles and place any such refuse in said receptacles.
(Prior Code, § 6.2) (Ord. 1977-4, passed - -) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the terms of §
111.01 may be fined in any sum not exceeding $100 for any single violation
hereof, and shall be subject to any appropriate civil action to enforce the
provisions hereof.
(Prior Code, § 6.2) (Ord. 1977-4, passed - -)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL REGULATIONS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
130.01   Payment of legal expenses
   
130.02   Police recordings
   
130.03   Curfew
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 PAYMENT OF LEGAL EXPENSES.
   In any instance where the town incurs legal or other expenses in the
enforcement of any ordinance or other provision of its municipal code, the
person or party found to have violated such ordinance or provision shall in
addition to any fine or other penalty ordered as a result of any violation
thereof be required to reimburse the town for any such legal or other expenses
incurred thereby in the enforcement of such ordinances or provisions; however,
said legal expenses may not exceed $2,500.
(Prior Code, § 2.11) (Ord. 1999-7, passed 12-14-1999)
§ 130.02 POLICE RECORDINGS.
   (A)   Copies of video tapes taken by cameras operating from town police cars
may be obtained for the fee set out hereafter by the following parties, to-wit:
      (1)   Any person who has been videotaped;
      (2)   Any party who has the consent to receive such copy from a person
who has been videotaped thereon; and/or
      (3)   Any party who obtains a valid subpoena for the production of such
copy.
   (B)   An appropriate party requesting a copy of such videotape as set out
hereinabove shall be charged $50 for the provision of such videotape copy.
   (C)   Criminal defendants that request copies of relevant video tapes for a
discovery shall not be required to pay the fee described in divisions (A) and
(B) above.
(Prior Code, § 2.12) (Ord. passed 10-6-1998)
§ 130.03 CURFEW.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this section establishing a curfew for
certain individuals 17 years old or younger, or an individual who is 15, 16, or
17 years of age, to be in a public place:
      (1)   Between 12:00 a.m. on Friday and Saturday, and 5:00 a.m. on
Saturday and Sunday;
      (2)   After 10:00 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or
Thursday; and
      (3)   Before 5:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this section and the curfew established
hereby for an individual under 15 years of age to be in a public place after
10:00 p.m. or before 5:00 a.m. on any day.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to an individual who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by his or her parents, guardian, or legal custodian;
      (2)   Accompanied by an adult specified by his or her parent, guardian,
or legal custodian;
      (3)   Participating in, going to, or returning from:
         (a)   His or her lawful employment;
         (b)   A school sanctioned event;
         (c)   A religious event;
         (d)   An emergency involving the protection of a person or property
from an imminent threat of serious bodily injury or substantial damage;
         (e)   An activity involving the exercise of the child’s rights
protected under the First Amendment to the United States Constitution or
Article 1, § 31 of the Constitution of the State of Indiana, or both, such as
freedom of speech and the right of assembly; or
         (f)   An activity conducted by a nonprofit or governmental entity that
provides recreation, education, training, or other care under the supervision
of one or more adults:
            1.   Participating in an activity undertaken at the prior written
direction of the child’s parent, guardian, or custodian; or
            2.   Engaged in interstate or international travel from a location
outside Indiana to another location outside the state of Indiana.
   (D)   The custodial parent, legal guardian, or legal custodian of any
individual who commits a curfew violation as defined by this section violates
this section as does the individual over whom they hold legal custody or legal
guardianship, and all shall be subject to the penalties provided for the
violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 5.12) (Ord. 1996-1, passed 3-5-1996) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any violation of §
130.03 shall require the payment of a fine in an amount not to exceed $500.
(Prior Code, § 5.12) (Ord. 1996-1, passed 3-5-1996)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
   
131.01   Loitering
   
131.02   Littering
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 LOITERING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for three or more persons to assemble on any
sidewalk, street corner, street crossing, or at or near the mouth of any alleys
of the town, or at the park built and maintained by First State Bank of Bourbon
at the intersection of Center and Main Streets of the town for the purpose of,
or resulting in the obstruction of, the same or so as to hinder or delay any
person passing in, upon, or along the same or so as to bother or annoy the
owners or occupants of the property adjacent thereto.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to be in any town park after 10:00
p.m. unless such presence is because of an organized activity or game or being
a spectator of the same which was started prior to such time with presence in
the park to then end upon completion of such activity or game.
   (C)   The custodial parent, legal guardian, or legal custodian of any
individual under the age of 18 years of age who violates this section also then
shall be considered in violation of this section as is the child or individual
over whom they hold parental rights, legal custody, or legal guardianship, and
all shall be subject to the penalties provided for the violation of this
section.
(Prior Code, § 5.13) (Ord. 1996-4, passed 6-18-1996) Penalty, see §
131.99
Cross-reference:
   Related provisions, see §
94.01
§ 131.02 LITTERING.
   No person shall throw, place, deposit, or leave upon any public park,
playground, street, alley, or other public place or property in the town any
tin cans, glassware, broken glass, containers, paper, rubbish, or refuse of any
kind or character. Whenever the town shall have provided for the placing of
refuse containers or receptacles on public parks, playgrounds, streets, alleys,
or other public places or property, it shall be unlawful to deface, mark,
damage, or overturn the containers or receptacles.
(Prior Code, § 7.1) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any violation of §
131.01 shall require the payment of a fine in amount not to exceed $500 for
each instance of violation.
(Prior Code, § 5.13)
   (C)   Any person violating any of §
131.02 shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $100.
(Prior Code, § 7.1)
(Ord. 1996-4, passed 6-18-1996)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
Section
   
132.01   Prohibition of firearms
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01 PROHIBITION OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except law enforcement in the course of
their duties, to discharge a pistol, gun, or other firearm within the town
limits. It shall be unlawful for any person discharge a pump air gun, a gun
shooting pellets, or archery within the town limits in an unsafe manner to
protect persons and property.
(Ord. 2011-12, passed 12-13-2011) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The penalty for failure to abide by §
132.01 shall be $50 for each occurrence.
(Ord. 2011-12, passed 12-13-2011)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   TREES
      
152.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
      
153.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
154.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
   
150.01   Building Code adopted; permit fees
   
150.02   Address posting
   
150.03   Unsafe buildings
   
150.04   Vacant structures
   
150.05   Building standard enforcement
   
150.06   Building Inspector
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 BUILDING CODE ADOPTED; PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Establishment of Building Code.
      (1)   The ordinance of the Board of Commissioners of the county known as
the “Building Code of Marshall County, Indiana,” and denominated as “Ordinance
No. 1980-2,” a copy of which is on file and available for public inspection and
copying at the office of the Clerk-Treasurer, be and hereby is adopted as an
ordinance of the town, and herein by reference.
      (2)   All of the rules, regulations, and codes, as adopted by the
Building Code of the county, shall be and hereby are adopted by reference as
the rules, regulations, and codes concerning the construction and alterations
of buildings and structures in the town.
(Prior Code, § 8.2.1)
   (B)   Building permit fees.
Construction Fee
Construction                                                                Fee
Above ground pools with additional decking attached                         $50
Accessory buildings over 576 sq. ft. unattached (example: personal workshop $35
or general storage)
All above ground pools installed permanently                                $25
Car ports - attached or unattached                                          $25
Decks - attached or unattached                                              $25
Garages - attached or unattached                                            $35
Inground pools together with required fencing                               $50
Mansford roof or canopy to commercial building                              $25
Permanent advertising sign, as allowed by town ordinance and secured on     $35
structure or inground
Play structure fixed in ground posts                                        $10
Satellite dish                                                              $15
Storage building from 120 sq. ft. to 575 sq. ft.                            $20
 
(Prior Code, § 8.2.2)
§ 150.02 ADDRESS POSTING.
   (A)   The owner or other person having an interest in all homes, businesses,
premises, and improved parcels within the town shall prominently display the
road/street address of their property or properties in numerals not less than
three inches in height in a location clearly visible from the nearest road
where such property might be situated.
   (B)   The town may cause due notice of non-compliance to be sent to each
affected property owner or other person having an interest in such property,
and said person(s) shall be given 30 days within which to comply with the terms
of this section.
   (C)   Failure to comply with this section shall constitute a violation of a
town ordinance subject to fine and costs, including the town’s reasonable
attorney fees for the enforcement of this section as otherwise provided in the
code of ordinances.
(Ord. 2011-07, passed 5-10-2011) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.03 UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   (A)   I.C. 36-7-9-1 through I.C. 36-7-9-28 is hereby adopted by reference as
the “Town of Bourbon Unsafe Building Ordinance.” All proceedings within the
town for the inspection, repair, and removal of unsafe buildings shall be
governed by said law and the provisions of this section. In the event the
provisions of this section conflict with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-
1 through I.C. 36-7-9-28, the provisions of the state statute shall control.
   (B)   All buildings and properties, or portions thereof, within the town
which are determined after inspection by the Town Code Enforcement Officer or
the County Building Commissioner to be unsafe, as defined by statute or in this
section, are hereby declared to be a public nuisance and shall be abated by
repair, rehabilitation, demolition, or removal.
   (C)   The Town Code Enforcement Officer shall be authorized to administer
and to proceed under the provisions of said law and this section in ordering
the repair or removal of any buildings or materials found to be unsafe as
specified therein or as specified thereafter.
   (D)   In lieu of a hearing authority, the town shall pursue enforcement
action and/or sanctions in the County Circuit or superior courts.
   (E)   Wherever in the building regulations or statutes of the state, or the
“Town of Bourbon Unsafe Building Ordinance,” that it is provided that anything
must be done to the approval of, or subject to, the direction of the Town Code
Enforcement Officer, or any other officer of the town, this shall be construed
to give such officer only the discretion to determine whether the property in
question complies with the rules and standards established by this chapter. No
such provision shall be construed as giving any officer discretionary authority
to determine what such regulations and/or standards shall be, the authority to
require conditions not prescribed within said ordinance, or to enforce
ordinance provisions in an arbitrary or discretionary manner. The Town Council
has the authority to establish policy and standard operating procedures.
   (F)   The description of an unsafe building and unsafe premises described in
I.C. 36-7-9-4 is hereby supplemented to provide the minimum standards for
building condition, property conditions, or maintenance in the town by adding
the following definition:
      UNSAFE BUILDING. Any building or structure which has any or all of the
conditions or defects hereinafter described shall be deemed to be an UNSAFE
BUILDING, provided that such conditions or defects exist to the extent that
life, health, property, or safety of the public or its occupants are in danger:
         (a)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway, or other means of exit is
not of sufficient width or size, or is not so arranged as to provide an
adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
         (b)   Whenever the street in any materials, member, or portion
thereof, due to all dead and live loads, is more than one and one-half times
the working stress or stresses allowed for new buildings of a similar
structure, purpose, or location;
         (c)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire,
earthquake, wind, flood, or by any other cause, to such an extent that the
structural strength or stability thereof was materially less than it was before
such a catastrophe, and is less than the minimum requirements for new buildings
for a similar structure, purpose, or location;
         (d)   Whenever any portion, member, or appurtenance thereof is likely
to fall, to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and thereby injure
persons or damage property;
         (e)   Whenever any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance,
or ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or
stability or is not so anchored, attached, or fastened in place, so as to be
capable of resisting a wind pressure of one-half of that specified for new
buildings or a similar structure, purpose, or location without exceeding the
working stresses permitted for such buildings;
         (f)   Whenever any portion thereof has racked, warped, buckled, or
settled to such an extent that walls or other structural portions have
materially less resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case
of similar new construction;
         (g)   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion thereof,
because of the following, is likely to partially or completely collapse:
            1.   Dilapidation, deterioration, or decay;
            2.   Faulty construction;
            3.   The removal, movement, or instability of any portion of the
ground necessary for the purpose of supporting such building;
            4.   The deterioration, decay, or inadequacy of its foundation; or
            5.   Any other cause.
         (h)   Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure, or any
portion thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being
used;
         (i)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members
list, lean, or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the
center of gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third of the base;
         (j)   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundation,
shows 33% or more damage or deterioration of its supporting member or members,
or 50% damage or deterioration of its non-supporting members, enclosing, or
outside walls or coverings.
         (k)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire,
wind, earthquake, flood, or other natural disaster, or has become so
dilapidated or deteriorated so as to become:
            1.    An attractive nuisance to children; or
            2.   Freely accessible to persons for the purpose of committing
unlawful acts.
         (l)   Whenever any building or structure has been constructed, exists,
or is maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition
applicable to such building or structure provided by the building regulations
of the town, or of any law or ordinance of the state, the county, or the town
relating to the condition, location, or structure of buildings;
         (m)   Whenever any building or structure which, whether or not erected
in accordance with applicable laws and ordinances, has in any non-supporting
parts, member, or portion less than 50%, or in any support part, member, or
portion less than 66% of the (as required by law in the case of a newly
constructed building of like area, height, and occupancy in the same location):
            1.   Strength;
            2.   Fire-resisting qualities or characteristics; or
            3.   Weather-resisting qualities or characteristics.
         (n)   Whenever a building or structure, used or intended to be used
for dwelling purposes, because of inadequate light, air, or sanitation
facilities, or otherwise, is determined by the County Building Commissioner to
be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation, or in such a condition that is
likely to cause sickness or disease;
         (o)   Whenever any building or structure, because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, lack of
sufficient fire-resistive construction, faulty electric wiring, gas
connections, or heating apparatus, or other cause, is determined by the County
Building Commissioner to be a fire hazard; and/or
         (p)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a
site after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure, or
whenever any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six
months so as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive
nuisance or hazard to the public.
   (G)   The definition of SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST set forth in I.C. 36-
7-9-2 is hereby incorporated by reference herein as if copied in full.
   (H)   All work for the reconstruction, alteration, repair, or demolition of
the buildings and other structures shall be performed in a good workmanlike
manner according to the accepted standards and practices of the trade. The
provisions of the rules pertaining to construction, plumbing, electrical,
mechanical, and one- and two-family dwellings, promulgated by the Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission of the state shall be considered
standard and acceptable practice for all matters covered by this section, or
orders issued pursuant to this section by the County Building Commissioner.
   (I)   An Unsafe Building and Unsafe Premises Fund is hereby designated and
established in the operating budget of the town in accordance with the
provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-14.
   (J)   No person, firm, or corporation, whether as owner, lessee, sub-lessee,
or occupant, shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve,
remove, demolish, equip, use, occupy, or maintain any building or premises, or
cause or permit the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of any of the
provisions of this section, or any order issued by the Town Code Enforcement
Officer or the County Building Commissioner.
(Ord. 2019-2, passed 5-14-2019) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.04 VACANT STRUCTURES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
      OWNER. Any person who alone, jointly, or severally with others:
         (a)   Shall have legal title to any premises wherein a structure is
located, with or without accompanying actual possession thereof; and
         (b)   Shall have the charge, care, or control of any such premises as
the OWNER or agent of the owner, as land contract buyer, or as executor,
administrator, trustee, or guardian of the estate of the OWNER.
      STRUCTURE. Any building of any nature whatsoever, including, but not
limited to, houses, garages, sheds, storehouses, storerooms, and industrial
buildings.
      VACANT STRUCTURE. Any structure not being inhabited as a home or
outbuilding not being used in conjunction with residential habitation, or any
commercial or industrial structure not being used for commercial or industrial
purposes.
   (B)   The purpose of this section is to promote the health, safety, and
general welfare of the residents of the town by establishing standards for the
removal of the vacant structures located on real estate within the town limits,
when such structures are determined to be substandard or detrimental to the
health, safety, and general welfare of the persons inhabiting adjacent premises
or to the residents of the town in general.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the owners of any vacant structure to maintain
such structure in accordance with the following minimum standards.
      (1)   Every vacant structure shall be kept in a clean and sanitary manner
with windows, doors, gutters, porches, screens, chimneys, roofs, and all other
fixtures kept in good repair.
      (2)   Every premises wherein a vacant structure is located shall be kept
free of rubbish, trash, garbage, and other waste materials.
      (3)   Every vacant structure shall be kept free of rodents, insects, and
other pests, together with the premises upon which the structure is located.
      (4)   Every premises where a vacant structure is located shall be kept
free of high grass and weeds, and trees and shrubs shall be kept trimmed.
      (5)   Every vacant structure shall have a safe and unobstructed means of
ingress and egress, and all steps and walks shall be kept in good repair.
      (6)   Every vacant structure shall have a foundation, floors, walls,
ceilings, and roofs which shall be reasonably weathertight, watertight, and
rodent-proof.
      (7)   The yards and premises of every vacant structure shall be drained
so as to prevent the accumulation of surface water.
   (D)   Any appropriate town official so designated by the Town Council shall
diligently make inspections of all vacant structures to determine whether such
structures are being maintained in compliance with the standards prescribed
under division (C) above. For the purpose of making inspections, such officer
shall conform to all applicable state laws regarding right of entry.
   (E)   Whenever, after inspection, the appropriate town officer determines
that a violation of the minimum requirements under division (C) above exists,
he or she shall notify the owner of the premises involved, and such notice
shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a statement of the reasons why it is being issued;
      (3)   Allow at least 60 days for the performance of any act required to
correct any violations cited in such notice;
      (4)   Be served on the owner; provided, that such notice shall be deemed
sufficient if a copy served personally upon such owner, or if a copy is sent by
certified mail to the owner’s last known address and a copy is posted in a
conspicuous place on or about the vacant structure; and
      (5)   Contain an outline of the remedial action which, if taken, will
effect compliance with the provisions of this section.
   (F)   If the owner of a vacant structure shall fail to comply with any
written order of the appropriate town officer, such town officer shall report
such failure to the Town Council, which Town Council shall notify the owner of
a hearing on such matters contained in the written orders of the appropriate
town official, and shall set a hearing date at least ten days subsequent to the
notice of hearing to the owner of the vacant structure involved.
   (G)   After a hearing, the Town Council shall make a finding as to whether
or not the vacant structure is in violation of division (C) above, and shall
make such orders as are deemed proper in regard to the structure and premises
involved.
   (H)   Any person who may be aggrieved by the action of the Town Council in
affirming an order of the appropriate town official shall have the right to
appeal to the Circuit Court in accordance with the law of the state.
   (I)   (1)   If any owner fails to comply with the order made under the
provisions of this section, the appropriate officer of the town shall cause the
vacant structure to be removed or demolished, and the premises to be placed in
such condition as to comply with this section.
      (2)   The cost of removing or demolishing such vacant structure and of
improving the premises shall be a lien against the real property. Such costs
shall be placed upon the tax rolls as a lien, and may be foreclosed in any
manner as the town may determine.
      (3)   Upon a final order to remove or demolish a vacant premises, the
owner shall have 72 hours to elect in writing whether to retain the materials
salvaged. In the event of such election, the owner shall show to the
appropriate town official proof of prior arrangements to have such materials
hauled from the premises.
      (4)   If the town shall have such salvaged materials removed, such
materials shall be sold by the town, if such sale is practical, and any funds
received shall be applied to the cost of removal and improving the premises.
Should any funds remain after all the costs are paid, such funds shall be
returned to the property owner.
   (J)   In addition to all other remedies prescribed by the section, the
violation of any part of this section shall be deemed sufficient to declare any
vacant structure to be a public nuisance, and the same shall be subject to
injunctive relief to abate such nuisances.
(Prior Code, § 5.5) (Ord. 1970-4, passed 11-4-)
§ 150.05 BUILDING STANDARD ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   The Town Council does hereby adopt I.C. 36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-
28 as a town ordinance. Further, pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9-3, the Department
responsible for enforcement of this chapter shall be the Buildings Standards
Department, which is hereby created in this section which shall consist of the
person to be appointed by the Town Council, which appointment may be revoked at
any time by a majority of the Town Council.
      (2)   The term of office for the Buildings Standards Department Inspector
shall be for a period of two years unless sooner removed. Said designee shall
also be the Enforcement Authority pursuant to the said statute. The hearing
authority shall be the Town Council.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9-3, this section does hereby incorporate by
reference the definition of SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTERESTS as defined by I.C.
36-7-9-2.
(Prior Code, § 8.2.4) (Ord. 1998-9, passed 11-3-1998)
§ 150.06 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The Building Inspector, as used in said Building Code of the county, is
hereby designated the Building Inspector for the town, and that said Building
Inspector shall have the delegated authority from the Town Council to direct,
administer, and enforce all of the provisions of this title.
(Prior Code, § 8.3)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
150.03 or I.C. 36-7-9-28 shall commit a Class C infraction for each day such
violation continues.
(Ord. 2019-2, passed 5-14-2019)
CHAPTER 151: TREES
Section
   
151.01   Tree maintenance
   
151.02   Tree waste removal
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 TREE MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Cutting; duty of owner. It shall be the duty of any owner or the
owners of each lot, part of a lot, or parcel of ground situated within the
limits of the town, to trim the shade trees along the sidewalk and lawns
adjacent to their said real estate and abutting thereon.
   (B)   It shall be the further duty of any owner or owners of each lot, part
of a lot, or parcel of ground situated within the limits of the town to trim
and maintain all trees and foliage on, or adjacent to, their real estate on any
town right-of-way or tree lawn so that such trees and/or foliage do not limit
the vision of any drivers as they drive on town streets or pedestrians as they
walk on town sidewalks.
(Prior Code, § 5.7) (Ord. 2011-4, passed 3-8-2011) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.02 TREE WASTE REMOVAL.
   (A)   Any and all commercial tree services operating within the town limits
of the town shall be required to notify the town at least 24 hours prior to any
operation involving tree or tree limb removal. Said notice shall be given by
contacting the Town Clerk-Treasurer and giving verbal notice; written notice
may also be submitted but is not required.
   (B)   Following the removal or cutting of any limbs of trees, any and all
commercial tree services and the contracting homeowners shall ensure that all
debris and waste resulting from said removal shall be cleaned up within 24
hours of the operation taking place. It shall be the duty of the commercial
tree services and homeowner, jointly, to remove such waste.
   (C)   In the event that tree limbs or trees are removed on behalf of a
public utility, the public utility shall be responsible for any and all tree
waste removal in the same manner as prescribed in division (B) above.
(Ord. 2021-06, passed 9-14-2021) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Failure for any commercial tree service, homeowner, or public utility
to remove said tree waste and debris, as stated in §
151.02, shall result in a written warning being issued by the Town Police
Department to the party in question. If, after 24 hours of the written notice
being issued, the tree waste and/or debris has not been removed by the
responsible party, the Town Police Department shall issue a written ordinance
violation allowing a fine up to $200 per day until the tree waste and/or debris
is fully removed from the premises.
(Ord 2021-06, passed 9-14-2021)
CHAPTER 152: STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Street construction standards
   
152.02   Construction, excavation in rights-of-way
   
152.03   Digging fees
Sidewalks
   
152.15   Construction materials
   
152.16   Dimensions
   
152.17   Grades; conformance required
   
152.18   Replacement procedure; repair resolution required
   
152.19   Notice required
   
152.20   Failure to comply; procedure by Board
   
152.21   Letting bids
   
152.22   Acceptance, rejection of bids
   
152.23   Enforcement
   
152.24   Obstruction of sidewalks
   152.25   Fees
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 STREET CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   The town shall not be required to accept the dedication on any municipal
streets constructed other than to the attached standards of the ordinance
codified in this section, and may refuse to issue building permits for houses
to be constructed along any such streets which are not constructed to such
standards.
(Prior Code, § 8.8) (Ord. 1996-9, passed 11-19-1996)
§ 152.02 CONSTRUCTION, EXCAVATION IN RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct the free passage along
and upon any street, sidewalk, space between sidewalk and curbing, or commonly
traveled portion of the street, or other public place, and to place or permit
to be placed upon such street, sidewalk, space between sidewalks and curbing,
or commonly traveled portion of the street, or any other public place, any
thing or object whatsoever so as to obstruct or block the use thereof or so to
endanger the life or limb, or property, of others using such passage.
   (B)   The town, through its Street Superintendent, may grant a permit to
exempt any person or organization from the prohibition set out in division (A)
above.
   (C)   The town, by and through its Street Superintendent, shall enact rules
and regulations governing the use of rights-of-way by those persons or
organizations granted a permit pursuant to division (B) above, if necessary.
Those rules and regulations may include:
      (1)   The price of the permit;
      (2)   Limitation of the size, location, and duration of any structure
placements on the rights-of-way;
      (3)   A requirement that the permitee indemnify the town against any loss
arising out of the use of the permit; and/or
      (4)   Any other matter affecting the public health, safety, and welfare.
   (D)   The rules and regulations enacted by the Street Superintendent shall
be subject to subsequent ratification by resolution of the Town Council.
(Ord. 2021-07, passed 8-10-2021) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.03 DIGGING FEES.
   There shall be a permit fee of $100 charged to any party applying for a
permit under this chapter which fee shall be paid and received by the Clerk-
Treasurer before the requested permit shall issue to the applicant.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 7-10-2012)
SIDEWALKS
§ 152.15 CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS.
   All sidewalks constructed within the town shall be either dimension stone or
cement, and shall be constructed or repaired in compliance with the provisions
of this subchapter and all ordinances, amendatory thereof, hereafter passed, as
to the size quality, composition, grading, and foundation.
(Prior Code, § 5.6)
§ 152.16 DIMENSIONS.
   (A)   All sidewalks hereafter constructed or repaired within the town shall
be of the following width: On Main Street in the Business District from the
Pennsylvania Railroad on the south to Third Street on the north; and on Center
Street between East Main Street on the east and Thompson Street on the west
shall be not less than eight feet in width, and all other sidewalks on Main
Street and Center Street shall not be less than five feet in width.
   (B)   All other sidewalks within the town shall not be less than four feet
in width.
(Prior Code, § 5.6) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.17 GRADES; CONFORMANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   All sidewalks shall conform in general to the grades heretofore
established and to conform in height with sidewalks that may heretofore have
been installed and constructed so that any new sidewalks may meet any sidewalk
theretofore constructed without any step or break, and so that all may present
a smooth walking surface.
   (B)   When any question exists as to the grade, application should be made
to the Council members of the town, who will take steps to establish a grade
therefor, which grade so fixed shall be taken as the fixed and established
grade for sidewalks on that street.
   (C)   All sidewalks five feet in width shall be built with the interline of
the walk on the street line of the lot, and all walks four feet in width shall
be built with the inside of the walk one foot from the street line of the walk.
(Prior Code, § 5.6) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.18 REPLACEMENT PROCEDURE; REPAIR RESOLUTION REQUIRED.
   Whenever the Town Council deem it necessary to improve, construct, or repair
any sidewalk or sidewalks within the town they shall, by resolution, declare
the necessity therefor and adopt a final resolution, and shall therein order
and require the owner or owners of abutting property to improve, construct, or
repair their own sidewalk or sidewalks, designated in such resolution, the kind
of walk to be constructed or the repairs required.
(Prior Code, § 5.6)
§ 152.19 NOTICE REQUIRED.
   A description of the lot, lots, or parcels of ground in front of which a
walk is proposed to be constructed or repaired, the name or names of the owner
or owners of the abutting property shall be included in the notice of the
passage of the resolution given to the owner or owners by the Clerk-Treasurer
in person or by mail; provided, that it shall be sufficient in said notice to
give the name or names of the abutting property owners as they appear on the
assessor’s books of the county. Such property owners shall have 30 days from
the date of the notice within which to construct such walk or walks, or to make
repairs required by said resolution and notice.
(Prior Code, § 5.6)
§ 152.20 FAILURE TO COMPLY; PROCEDURE BY BOARD.
   Should any property owner fail to construct his or her walk or make such
repairs, within the time fixed in this subchapter, the town, by and through its
proper officers and agents, may cause such walk or walks to be constructed or
repaired without notice to any person, or further order from the Town Council,
by independent contract, as provided for in this subchapter, and the entire
cost of the improvement herein provided for shall be assessed against the lot,
lots, or parcels of land abutting upon such walk, and collected as special
assessment in the manner provided by law. If any person shall build or repair
his or her own walk, he or she must do so in conformity with the resolutions
for the construction and repair of the same, and to the approval of the
Council.
(Prior Code, § 5.6.6) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.21 LETTING BIDS.
   The Town Council shall meet on the first Thursday evening of the month of
June of each year at the Town Hall at 7:30 p.m. At which time and place sealed
bids shall be publicly opened and duly considered for the letting of a general
contract for the improvement, construction, and repairing of all sidewalks of a
specified material within the town for the succeeding year, which the property
owner shall fail to construct or repair within the time fixed in this
subchapter. Each bid must be accompanied by a statutory affidavit of non-
collusion and a certified check to be drawn on the First State Bank of Bourbon,
and made payable to the town, for the sum of $100 to ensure the execution of
the contract for which said bids are made, and that he or she will give a bond
with surety to be approved by the Town Council ensuring the faithful
performance of such work as is required in the improvement resolution, and to
comply with all the terms, stipulations, and conditions of the contract. The
letting of such contract shall be in a manner provided by law, and the entire
cost of such sidewalk improvement or repair shall be assessed against the
property owner abutting upon such sidewalk or sidewalks, and the assessment
thereof shall be levied and collected as authorized by law.
(Prior Code, § 5.6)
§ 152.22 ACCEPTANCE, REJECTION OF BIDS.
   The Town Council reserves the right to reject any and all bids. In case any
bid is not accepted, the check accompanying the same will be returned to the
bidder, but if the bid is accepted and the bidder shall refuse or neglect to
enter into any contract with the town within ten days from the time he or she
shall have been notified of acceptance of the same, said check shall be
forfeited to the town as ascertained and liquidated damages for failure to do
so, and if after any contract has been let by said Council it shall be made to
appear that the successful bidder has been guilty of collusion, combination,
understanding, or agreement as defined in such affidavit of noncollusion, then
such contractor shall forfeit such contract and such work shall be relet by the
Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 5.6)
§ 152.23 ENFORCEMENT.
   The enforcement of this chapter shall be by the Town Council, or such town
officials as the said Town Council shall from time to time designate for the
enforcement of said chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5.6)
§ 152.24 OBSTRUCTION OF SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or organization to obstruct any
sidewalk or walkway whether temporary or permanent within the town with the
exception of the Downtown Business District, which is defined as Main Street
between Quad and Park Avenue.
   (B)   (1)   Downtown businesses may place temporary outdoor seating,
barriers to surround the seating, small temporary signs for special events and
sales, or planters. Any such seating, sign, barrier, or planters may not extend
over 50% of the sidewalk from the exterior of the building or structure to
allow access for foot traffic, ADA compliance, or emergency services safe
passage. However, if ADA compliance makes the placement of any of the above
impossible, downtown businesses may not place anything on such sidewalks. No
alcohol may be served or consumed outside of the sidewalk area directly
permitted for use as prescribed above. Also, no item that a downtown business
places onto the sidewalk area, including installation of a fence, may be a
permanent fixture; all items must be removable from the sidewalk.
      (2)   If a downtown business elects to utilize the sidewalk for the above
purposes, the downtown business shall be fully liable for any and all injuries
or claims that arise out a patron, customer, or other individuals utilization
of the above area utilized by the downtown business.
      (3)   The town reserves the right to request that any and all items be
removed from the sidewalk area for a special event, which includes, but is not
limited to, parades.
   (C)   It shall also be considered a violation under this section when anyone
shall remove, without permission of the then sitting Town Council, or otherwise
make impassable any sidewalk now existing in the town, unless such removal
shall be for the purpose of the immediate replacement of the sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 5.4) (Ord. 1977-3, passed - -; Ord. 2023-09, passed 8-8-2023)
Penalty, see §
152.99
Cross-reference:
   Vending machines, see §
111.01
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
152.15 through
152.23 shall, upon judgment, be responsible for said violation in a sum not to
exceed $1,000, and it is further provided that each day such violation or non-
compliance shall be permitted to exist shall constitute a separation violation.
(Prior Code, § 5.6.11)
   (C)   Any person violating any of the terms of §
152.24 may be fined in any sum not exceeding $100 for any single violation
hereof, and shall be subject to any appropriate civil cation to enforce the
provisions hereof.
(Prior Code, § 5.4)
(Ord. 1977-3, passed - -)
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Purpose
   
153.02   Establishment of control
   
153.03   Definitions
Requirements and Principles
   
153.15   Design
   
153.16   Required improvements
   
153.17   Variance and modification
Procedure
   
153.30   Application
   
153.31   Preliminary plat
   
153.32   Approval of preliminary plat
   
153.33   Final plat
   
153.34   Plat approval
   
153.35   Plat certificates
   
153.36   Exception
   
153.37   Certiorari procedure
   
153.38   Enforcement
 
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 PURPOSE.
   An ordinance, as codified in this chapter, providing for the control of the
subdivision of land and the approval of plats and replats of land, within the
jurisdiction of the Town Plan Commission, as a part of the Master Plan for the
town.
(Prior Code, § 8.4.1)
§ 153.02 ESTABLISHMENT OF CONTROL.
   No plat or replat of a subdivision of land located within the territorial
jurisdiction of the Plan Commission shall be filed with the Auditor or recorded
by the Recorder of the county until it shall have been approved by the Plan
Commission, and such approval shall have been entered in writing on the plat by
the President and Secretary of the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 8.4.1)
§ 153.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A public thoroughfare, which affords only secondary means of
vehicular access to abutting property, and not less than 20 or more than 30
feet in width.
   BLOCK. Property abutting on one side of a street and lying between the two
nearest intersecting and intercepting streets, or nearest intersecting or
intercepting street and railroad right-of-way or waterway.
   BUILDING SET BACK LINE. The line nearest the front and across a lot
establishing the minimum open space to be provided between the front of
buildings and structures and the front lot line.
   COMMISSION. The Town Plan Commission.
   COUNTY. The County of Marshall, Indiana.
   LOT. A portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land intended as a unit
for transfer of ownership or for development.
   MASTER PLAN. The complete plan, or any of its parts, for the development of
the town, prepared by the Commission and legally adopted.
   PLAT. A map or chart indicating the subdivision or re-subdivision of land,
intended to be filed for record.
   STREET. A public thoroughfare, whether designated as a street, highway,
parkway, road, avenue, lane, boulevard, or however otherwise designated, 50
feet or more in width between property lines, which affords principal means of
vehicular access to abutting property.
   SUBDIVISION. A division of a lot, tract, or parcel of land into two or more
immediate lots or other divisions of land for the purpose, immediate or future,
of transfer of ownership or development, including all changes in street or lot
lines. Divisions of land for agricultural purposes in parcels of five or more
acres, not involving any new street or easement of access, shall not be
interpreted as a SUBDIVISION. The term includes RESUBDIVISION, and, when
appropriate to the context, shall relate to the process of sub-dividing or to
the land subdivided; provided, however, that this definition shall not include
the first two recorded lots less than five acres in area, subsequently divided
from a lot, tract, or parcel of land recorded in office of the County Recorder,
prior to July 1, 1974; the number of lots eligible for exemption under this
provision shall not be increased by subsequent changes in ownership since the
number of exempt lots shall run with the land and not with the ownership. This
definition shall apply further after two lots have been divided by any person,
or persons, from the parcel as described on record prior to July 1, 1974.
(Prior Code, § 8.4.1B)
   TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION. The unincorporated portions of land under the
planning jurisdiction of the Town Plan Commission.
   THOROUGHFARE PLAN. The part of the Master Plan which sets forth the
location, alignment, and dimensions of existing and proposed public streets,
highways, and other thoroughfares.
(Prior Code, § 8.4.1)
REQUIREMENTS AND PRINCIPLES
§ 153.15 DESIGN.
   (A)   Suitability of land. No land shall be subdivided for residential use
if such land is considered by the Commission to be unsuitable for such use by
reason of flooding or improper drainage, objectional earth, and rock formation
topography, or any other feature harmful to the health and safety of possible
residents and the community as a whole.
   (B)   Development thoroughfare plan. All proposed subdivisions shall conform
to the Development Thoroughfare Plan. Whenever a tract to be subdivided
embraces any part of a major street, boulevard, or parkway so designated on the
Thoroughfare Plan, such part of such proposed public way shall be platted by
the subdivider in the locations and of the width indicated on the Thoroughfare
Plan. Due consideration shall also be given by the subdivider and the owners of
adjoining property for the provision of school sites, park sites, rights-of-way
for public utility lines, sites for business centers, industrial locations, and
other features as indicated on the Master Plan.
   (C)   Street and alley location and arrangement.
      (1)   The street and alley layout shall conform to the Neighborhood Plan
of the commission, if such Plan has been adopted as part of the Master Plan,
for the development of the neighborhood in which the proposed subdivision is
located.
      (2)   Proposed streets shall be adjusted to the contour of the land so as
to produce usable lots and streets of reasonable gradient.
      (3)   Wherever there exists a dedicated or platted subdivision of a
street or alley adjacent to the tract to be subdivided, the other portion of
the street or alley to the prescribed width shall be platted.
   (D)   Minimum street and alley widths, right-of-way.
      (1)   Major streets shall have widths not less than indicated on the
Thoroughfare Plan.
      (2)   Streets in the Business Districts designated by the zoning
ordinance shall have widths not less than 80 feet.
      (3)   Other streets shall have widths not less than 50 feet.
      (4)   Alleys shall have widths not less than 20 feet or more than 30
feet.
      (5)   Dead end streets, 50 feet. All dead end streets shall not exceed
600 feet in length and shall terminate in a circular right-of-way within a
minimum diameter of 80 feet, unless the Commission approves an equally safe and
convenient form of space instead of the required turning circle.
   (E)   Minimum radii of curvature on centerlines. Where a deflection angle of
more than ten degrees in the alignment of a street occurs, a curve shall be
introduced, providing for:
      (1)   Major streets, a minimum radius of 300 feet, but should be much
greater wherever possible; and
      (2)   Other streets, a minimum radius of 100 feet, but should be much
greater wherever possible.
   (F)   Tangents. Between reversed curves there shall not be less than a
minimum tangent for:
      (1)   Major streets, of 200 feet; and
      (2)   Other streets, of 50 feet.
   (G)   Intersections.
      (1)   At street intersections, property line corners shall be rounded by
an arc at least 20 feet in radius.
      (2)   All streets intersecting a major street shall do so at right angles
or as nearly as is possible. If the intersection angle is less than 60 degrees,
the foregoing radii shall be increased not less than 40%.
   (H)   Blocks.
      (1)   The width of blocks shall be sufficient to allow two tiers of lots
as described in divisions (I)(1) and (I)(2) below.
      (2)   Blocks shall not exceed 1,320 feet in length.
      (3)   In blocks over 750 feet in length, the Commission may require, at
or near the middle of the block, public walk connection adjacent streets, or
other public areas, and such walkway shall be at least ten feet in width and
shall be intended for the use of pedestrians only.
   (I)   Lots.
      (1)   In any Agricultural or Residence District the minimum width and
area for lots shall conform to the requirements of the zoning ordinance, but in
no case shall the width be less than 60 feet at the set back line and the area
contain less than 6,000 square feet if a public water supply and sanitary
sewers are provided; 8,000 square feet if a public water supply, but no
sanitary sewers, are provided; and 10,000 square feet if neither a public water
supply nor sanitary sewers are provided. Where property is located in a
Business or Manufacturing District, the minimum permissible lot size and
frontage shall be at the discretion of the Commission.
      (2)   The depth-to-width ration of the usable area of a lot shall not be
greater than 3.5 to 1.0.
      (3)   Building set back lines shall not be less than those required by
the zoning ordinance.
      (4)   Whenever possible, side lines of lots shall be at right angles or
radial to street lines.
      (5)   Every lot shall abut on a street.
      (6)   Through lots having frontage on two parallel, or approximately
parallel, streets will be permitted only at the discretion of the Commission.
      (7)   Except where alleys are provided for the purpose, each lot shall
have an easement for utilities along the rear lot line and along the side lot
line where necessary. No easement shall be less than six feet wide on each lot,
making an overall easement width of 12 feet.
      (8)   When the terrain so requires, easements for the sanitary sewers
along lot lines, other than the rear lot lines, shall be provided.
   (J)   Public spaces. Whenever a park, recreation area, school site, or other
open space shown on the Master Plan is located in whole or in part in the
proposed subdivision, the Commission may require the dedication of those spaces
of their reservation for a period of not more than one year after the approval
of the proposed subdivision.
   (K)   Monuments and markers.
      (1)   Monuments shall be concrete with a diameter of not less than six
inches and 36 inches long, case in place, with a copper dowel three-eighths
inch in diameter, at least two and one-half feet in length imbedded so that the
top of the dowel shall not be more than one-fourth inch above the surface at
the center of the monument.
      (2)   Monuments shall be set so that the top is level with the
established grade adjoining it and placed so that the marked point on the metal
center shall coincide exactly with the intersection of street property lines,
the intersection of all angles in the boundary line and at the beginning and
ending of all curves along streets, and at the center of the monument.
      (3)   Lot corners not marked by concrete monuments, as required above,
shall be marked by galvanized or wrought iron pipe, or iron or steel bars at
least three feet in length and not less than five-eights inch in diameter, the
top of the pipe or bar to be set level with the established grade of the ground
adjoining it.
(Prior Code, § 8.4.1) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.16 REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Streets and alleys.
      (1)   All streets and alleys shall be completed to grades shown in plans,
profiles, and cross-sections provided by the subdivider, prepared by a
registered professional engineer or registered land surveyor, and approved by
the Plan Commission and Town Council. The streets shall conform to the
dimensions required by the Thoroughfare Plan, and the work shall be performed
in a manner prescribed by the Town Council.
      (2)   The streets shall be graded, surfaced, and improved to the
dimensions shown in approved cross-sections. The work shall be performed as
prescribed in Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction and
Maintenance, current issue, of the State Highway Commission.
      (3)   The type of materials and the thickness of pavement shall be in
accordance with plans and specifications submitted to the Plan Commission and
the Town Council.
      (4)   Upon the completion of the street and alley improvements, plans,
and profiles as built shall be filed with the Town Council, and said
improvements must be completed and the plans and profiles as built must be
filed with the town prior to any application for final approval by the town of
the final plat.
   (B)   Sewers.
      (1)   The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with a complete public
sewer system which shall connect with the sanitary sewer outlet on the sewer
system of the town. In the event that a proposed subdivision is located such a
distance from any sanitary sewer constructed or maintained by the town that
connect therewith is impracticable, such arrangements shall be made for sewage
as shall meet all requirements of the State Board of Health, the County Health
Department, or any reasonable requirements established by the Town Council.
      (2)   Any sewage system in any such plan shall be constructed at the
expense of the developer and upon the completion of the installation of the
sewer system, the plans shall be filed with the Town Council.
   (C)   Water. The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with a complete
water main supply system which shall be connected with the town water supply
system. In the event that the town water supply system is not available at the
location of said proposed subdivision, any water supply provision for said
subdivision shall be planned and installed in accordance with all minimum
requirements of the State Board of Health, the County Health Department, and
all appropriate regulations adopted by the Town Council.
   (D)   Storm drainage. The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with an
adequate stormwater sewer whenever the evidence available to the Commission
indicates that the natural surface drainage is inadequate. When the surface
drainage is an adequate easement for such surface, drainage shall be provided.
   (E)   Street signs. The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with
standard street signs at the intersection of all streets.
(Prior Code, § 8.4.1A) (Ord. passed 12-31-1980) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.17 VARIANCE AND MODIFICATION.
   (A)   Where the subdivider can show that provision of §
153.15(E),
153.15(F),
153.15(G), and §
153.16(A)(2) with regard to the exact location of the surfaced area of the
street, would cause unnecessary hardship if strictly adhered to and where, in
the opinion of the Commission, because of topographical or other conditions
peculiar to the site, a departure may be made without destroying the intent of
such provision, the Commission may authorize a variance. Any variance thus
authorized is required to be entered in writing in the minutes of the
Commission and the reasoning on which the departure was justified set forth.
   (B)   The foregoing requirements and principles of land subdivision may be
modified by the Commission in the case of a subdivision large enough to be
developed as a community center or a neighborhood unit in accordance with a
plan prepared by the subdivider and adopted as a part of the Master Plan.
(Prior Code, § 8.4.1)
PROCEDURE
§ 153.30 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Whenever any subdivision of land is proposed to be made, the
subdivider, or his or her agent shall submit a written application for a
certificate of approval, and two copies of a preliminary plat of said
subdivision, with the Commission, and file said application with the Plan
Commission at least ten days before the meeting at which the Commission is
expected to consider said application and plat.
   (B)   The application shall specify the intent of the subdivider with
respect to the land use, drainage, sewage disposal, water supply, and street
improvements proposed for the subdivision; shall include satisfactory evidence
that the proposed water systems meet the minimum requirements for such systems
established by the State Board of Health; and of any deed restrictions to be
placed upon the property to be subdivided, and the expected date of this
development.
   (C)   (1)   At the time of filing an application for approval of a plat, the
application shall be accompanied by a certified check or money order payable to
the Clerk-Treasurer in the amount of $5.25 for each lot in the proposed
subdivision, with a minimum total charge of $10 dollars to cover the cost of
checking and verifying the proposed plat.
      (2)   Upon the acceptance of the application by the Commission, the
Secretary shall surrender the check or money order to the Clerk-Treasurer for
deposit in the General Fund of the town.
(Prior Code, § 8.4.1)
§ 153.31 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   The preliminary plat shall be prepared in accordance with §§
153.15 through
153.17, and shall be presented as follows.
   (A)   The plat shall be drawn at a scale of 100 feet to one inch on a sheet
not more than 17 inches by 21 inches, or more than 30 inches by 36 inches in
size, except that when the drawing at that scale required more than a sheet 30
inches by 36 inches in size, the plat may be drawn at a scale of 200 feet to
one inch.
   (B)   The plat shall include a vicinity key map at an appropriate scale
showing the layout of the proposed subdivision and all existing subdivisions,
streets, and tract lines of acreage parcels of land immediately adjoining the
proposed subdivision, and between it and the nearest existing thoroughfares. It
shall also show how streets and alleys in the proposed subdivision may connect
with existing and proposed streets and alleys in the neighboring subdivisions
or undeveloped property to produce the most advantageous development of the
entire neighboring area.
   (C)   The plat shall contain the following information.
      (1)   Description.
         (a)   Proposed name of the subdivision.
         (b)   Location, with complete legal description.
         (c)   Name and address of the subdivider.
         (d)   Name, address, and seal of the registered professional engineer
or land surveyor preparing the plat.
         (e)   Scale of plat, including graphic scale, north point, and date.
      (2)   Existing conditions.
         (a)   Boundary lines of the proposed subdivision indicated by solid
heavy lines.
         (b)   Location, width, and names of all existing or prior platted
streets or other public ways, railroads and utility rights-of-way, parks and
other public open spaces, permanent buildings or structures, and section and
municipal corporation lines, within or adjacent to the tract.
         (c)   In case of a replat, all descriptive lines of the original plat
being vacated shall be shown by dotted lines in the proper position in relation
to the new arrangement of the plat, the new plat being clearly shown in solid
lines so as to avoid ambiguity or confusion.
         (d)   Existing drainage ditches, sewers, water mains, culverts, or
other underground facilities within the tract indicating pipe sizes, grades,
and exact locations, as obtained from public record.
         (e)   Boundary lines of adjacent unsubdivided and subdivided land,
showing the owners’ names.
         (f)   Existing zoning of proposed subdivision and adjacent tracts.
         (g)   Contours based on a fixed and easily recognizable datum, at not
more than five feet nor less than one foot vertical intervals as required by
the Commission.
         (h)   Location and results of soil percolation tests if individual
sewage disposal systems are disposed.
      (3)   Proposed conditions.
         (a)   Layout of streets, their names and widths, and also widths of
alleys, crosswalks, and easements. The names of the streets shall conform, as
far as practicable, to the names of corresponding streets existing in the
vicinity of the subdivision.
         (b)   Layout, dimensions, and numbers of lots.
         (c)   Parcels of land to be dedicated or reserved for public use or
set aside for use of property owners in the subdivision.
         (d)   Building setback lines showing dimensions.
(Prior Code, § 8.4.1)
§ 153.32 APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   The Commission shall consider the application and preliminary plat at the
first regular meeting following its proper submittal. If the Commission is
satisfied that all conditions have been satisfactorily met by the subdivider,
it shall tentatively approve the application and set a date for a public
hearing on the proposed plat, giving written notification to the subdivider and
publish a notice of the hearing in a newspaper of general circulation printed
and published in the town, at least ten days prior to the date set for the
hearing. The cost of publishing the notice of the hearing shall be paid to the
publisher by the subdivider at the time of inserting the notice. After the
public hearing the Commission may give its approval of the preliminary plat
which shall be governed by the following qualifications.
   (A)   The approval of a preliminary plat by the Commission is strictly
tentative, involving merely the general acceptability of the layout as
submitted.
   (B)   The Commission may introduce such changes or revisions as are deemed
necessary to the interests and needs of the community.
   (C)   Tentative approval shall be effective for a maximum period of six
months unless, upon application of the subdivider, the Commission grants an
extension. If the final plat has not been recorded within this time, the
preliminary plat must again be submitted to the Commission for approval.
   (D)   Any person feeling himself or herself aggrieved at any action of the
Commission upon any proposed plat or replat may apply in writing to the
Commission, prior to its next regular meeting, for modification of the action
complained of, and such application shall be considered by the Commission at
such time and in such manner as it may determine, but within 40 days following
the regular meeting.
(Prior Code, § 8.4.1)
§ 153.33 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   After approval of the preliminary plat by the Commission, and the
fulfillment of the requirements of these regulations, one tracing of the final
plat of the subdivision, drawn with India ink on the best grade of tracing
cloth, and one reproduction of the tracing on tracing cloth, shall be submitted
to the Commission upon the final approval of the plat, and the reproduction
shall become the property of the Commission. The final plat may be submitted
for approval immediately after hearing, and upon approval of the preliminary
plat by the Commission. In case the final plat is not ready, the date for
hearing on such final plat shall be set within 40 days from the date requested
by the subdivider. The final plat, if desired by the subdivider, may constitute
only that portion of the approved preliminary plat which he or she proposed to
record and develop at the time, provided, however, that such portion conforms
to all requirements of these regulations.
   (B)   The final plat shall be prepared at the same scale as the preliminary
plat and shall show:
      (1)   Name of subdivision;
      (2)   Location by section, township, and range, or by other legal
description;
      (3)   The name and certificate of the registered professional engineer or
land surveyor;
      (4)   Scale shown geographically, date, and north point;
      (5)   Boundary of the plat, based upon an accurate traverse with angular
and lineal dimensions;
      (6)   Exact location, width, and name of all streets within and adjoining
the plat, and the exact location and widths of all alleys and crosswalks;
      (7)   True courses and distances to the nearest established street lines
of official monuments, which shall accurately describe the location of the
plat;
      (8)   City, township, county, or section line accurately tied to the
lines of the subdivision by distances and courses;
      (9)   Radii, internal angles, central angles, points of curvature and
tangency, lengths of tangents, and lengths of all arcs;
      (10)   All easements for rights-of-way provided for public services of
utilities;
      (11)   All lot and block numbers and lines, with accurate dimensions in
feet and hundredths. Blocks in numbered additions to subdivisions bearing the
same name may be numbered consecutively through the several additions;
      (12)   Lines of all streets with accurate dimensions in feet and
hundredths, showing angles to the street, alley, and lot lines;
      (13)   Accurate location of all monuments;
      (14)   Accurate outlines and legal description of any area to be
dedicated or reserved for public use, with the purpose indicated thereon and in
the dedication; and of any area to be reserved by deed covenant for common uses
of all owners;
      (15)   Building set back lines accurately shown with dimensions;
      (16)   A description of the property platted, which shall be the same as
that recorded in preceding transfer of the property, or that portion of said
transfer covered by plat;
      (17)   Restrictive covenants of all types which run with the land;
      (18)   Property numbers based on the official property numbering system
of the town; and
      (19)   Certificates for approval by the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 8.4.1)
§ 153.34 PLAT APPROVAL.
   (A)   In submitting the final plat to the Commission, it shall be
accompanied by a notice from the Town Council stating that there has been filed
with, and approved by, the Council one of the following:
      (1)   A certificate that all improvements and installations to the
subdivision required for its approval have been made or installed in accordance
with the specifications; or
      (2)   A bond which shall:
         (a)   Run to the town;
         (b)   Be in an amount determined by the Plan Commission to be
sufficient in amount to complete the improvements and installations in
compliance with this chapter;
         (c)   Be with security satisfactory to the Plan Commission; and
         (d)   Specify the time for the completion of improvements and
installations.
   (B)   Any funds received from these bonds shall be used by the Town Council
only for the completion of the improvements and installations for which they
were provided, and said Council is authorized to complete such improvements and
installations on the failure of the applicant to do so.
   (C)   After hearing and within a reasonable time after application for
approval of the plat, the Commission shall approve or disapprove it. If the
Commission approves it, it shall affix the Commission’s seal upon the plat,
together with the certifying signature of its President and Secretary. If it
disapproves it shall set forth its reasons in its own records and provide the
applicant with a copy.
(Prior Code, § 8.4.1)
§ 153.35 PLAT CERTIFICATES.
   The following forms shall be used in final plats.
   Certificates
 
1.   UNDER THE AUTHORITY PROVIDED BY CHAPTER 174 — ACTS OF 1947 ENACTED BY THE
GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE STATE OF INDIANA AND ORDINANCE ADOPTED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL,
BOURBON, INDIANA, THIS PLAT WAS GIVEN APPROVAL AS FOLLOWS:
Approved by the Bourbon Plan Commission at a meeting held on the ____ day of
_________, 20___.
                                                ________________ President
                                                ________________Secretary
2.   Each final plat submitted to the Commission for approval shall carry a
certificate signed by a registered Professional Engineer or Land Surveyor in
substantially the following form:
In  (Name) , hereby certify that I am a Professional Engineer (or a Land Surveyor),
licensed in compliance with the laws of the State of Indiana; that this plat
correctly represents a survey completed by me on  (Date) ; and that all the
monument shown thereon actually exist; and that their location, size, type, and
material are accurately shown.
                                             (SEAL) (Signature)
3.   Each final plat submitted to the Commission for approval shall carry a deed of
dedication in substantially the following form:
“We the undersigned,  (Name) , owners of the real estate shown and described
herein, do hereby certify that we have laid off, platted, and subdivided, and do
hereby lay off, plat, and subdivide, said real estate in accordance with the within
plat.
This subdivision shall be known and designated as  (Name) , and addition to  (Name)
. All streets and alleys shown and not heretobefore dedicated are hereby dedicated
to the public.
 
Front and side yard building setback lines are hereby established as shown on this
plat, between which lines and the property lines of the street, there shall be
erected or maintained no building or structure.
 
There are strips of ground  (Number)  feet in width as shown on this plat and
marked “Easement,” reserved for the use of public utilities for the installation of
water and sewer mains, poles, ducts, lines, and wires, subject at all times to the
proper authorities and to the easements herein reserved. No permanent or other
structures are to be erected or maintained upon said strips of land, but owners of
lots in this subdivision shall take their titles subject to the rights of the
public utilities.
 
(Additional dedications and protective covenants, or private restrictions, would be
inserted here upon the sudvider’s initiative or recommendation of the Commission;
important provisions are those specifying the use to be made of the property and,
in the case of Residential use, the minimum habitable flood area).
The foregoing covenants (or restrictions), are to run with the land and shall be
binding on all parties and all persons claiming under them until January 1, 20__,
(a fifteen (15) to twenty-five (25) year period is suggested), at which time said
covenants (or restrictions), shall be automatically extended for successive period
of ten (10) years unless by vote of a majority of the then owners of the building
sites covered by these covenants (or restrictions), it is agreed to change such
covenants (or restrictions), which shall remain in full force and effect.
The right to enforce these provisions by injunction, together with the right to
cause the removal, by due process of law, of any structure or part thereof erected
or maintained in violation hereof, is hereby dedicated to the public, and reserved
to the several owners of the several lots in this subdivision and to their heirs
and assigns.”
   Witness their hands and seals this _____ day of _____________, 20 ___.
                                                __________________________
                                                __________________________
 
                                                __________________________
 
STATE OF INDIANA
               SS
COUNTY OF MARSHALL
 
Before me the undersigned Notary Public, in and for the County and State,
personally appeared  (Name) ,
(Name) ,  (Name) , and each separately and severally acknowledged the execution of
the foregoing instrument as his or her voluntary act and deed, for the purposes
therein expressed.
 
Witness my hand and notarial seal this ______ day of __________, 20 ___.
 
                                       _____________________
                                       Notary Public
 
(Prior Code, § 8.4.1)
§ 153.36 EXCEPTION.
   (A)   In cases involving a subdivision of five lots or less, the Plan
Commission may by majority vote of its membership waive the requirements for
preparation of preliminary plats.
   (B)   The requirements of the chapter, insofar as designed, standards,
specifications, required data on plats, and other procedural requirements may
not be waived.
(Prior Code, § 8.4.1)
§ 153.37 CERTIORARI PROCEDURE.
   In any decision by the Town Plan Commission under this chapter, any person
aggrieved may petition the Circuit Court of the county by writ of certiorari,
as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 8.4.1)
§ 153.38 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Plan Commission may institute a suit for injunction to restrain
individuals or governmental units from violating the provisions of this
chapter, as well as enacted pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-501 et seq., provided,
however, that nothing herein contained shall be construed as to limit the
rights of the town, to otherwise enforce this chapter by invoking any legal,
equitable, or special remedy provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 8.4.1)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less than $10 and not more
than $300 and for violations continued or renewed after one conviction, each
day’s violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 8.4.1)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Purpose
   
154.002   Short title
   
154.003   Identification
   
154.004   Interpretation
   
154.005   Non-interference with greater restrictions otherwise imposed
   
154.006   Amendments
   
154.007   Remedies
   
154.008   Duty of Clerk-Treasurer
   
154.009   Definitions
Districts and Zone Maps
   
154.020   Districts
   
154.021   Zone maps
   
154.022   Determination and interpretation of district boundaries
   
154.023   Procedure relating to annexed or vacated areas
Specifications
   
154.035   Use
   
154.036   Height
   
154.037   Yards, lot area, size of building
   
154.038   Lots
   
154.039   Vehicle parking space; loading, unloading berths
Dwellings, Building Specifications
   
154.050   Single-family dwellings; residential use
   
154.051   Two-family dwellings
   
154.052   Group houses, garden apartments
   
154.053   Apartment houses
   
154.054   Conditional uses generally
   
154.055   Conditional exceptions generally
Businesses, Commercial Uses Specifications
   
154.070   Commercial uses; local business uses
   
154.071   General business use
   
154.072   Conditional uses
   
154.073   Conditional exceptions
Industrial Uses Specifications
   
154.085   Limited industrial uses
   
154.086   Light industrial uses
   
154.087   Heavy industrial uses
   
154.088   Conditional uses
   
154.089   Conditional exceptions
Contingent Uses Specifications
   
154.100   Specifications
   
154.101   Paving; lighting
   
154.102   Conditional uses
   
154.103   Conditional exceptions
Non-Conforming Use Specifications
   
154.115   Continuation thereof and reconstruction
   
154.116   Extension
   
154.117   Change
   
154.118   Erection and re-erection of buildings
   
154.119   Temporary permits
   
154.120   Right to construct if permit issued
   
154.121   Use to conform after discontinuance
   
154.122   Discontinuance of non-conforming use of land
   
154.123   Discontinuance of non-conforming use created by amendment
Mobile, Manufactured Homes
   
154.135   Manufactured home regulations
   
154.136   Definitions
   
154.137   Mobile home parks; minimum requirements
Vehicle Parking Space
   
154.150   Specific requirements
   
154.151   Permits for parking lots in residential zones
Unit Development Plan
   
154.165   Residential development plan
   
154.166   Community shopping center development plan
Administration
   
154.180   Enforcement by whom
   
154.181   Improvement location permits, plats
   
154.182   Certificate of occupancy
   
154.183   Fees
Board of Zoning Appeals
   
154.195   Establishment
   
154.196   Composition and appointment
   
154.197   Organization
   
154.198   Rules of procedure
   
154.199   Meetings and records
   
154.200   Appeals from Building Commissioner
   
154.201   Powers and duties of the Board
   
154.202   Restrictions on Board action
 
   
154.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 PURPOSE.
   (A)   An ordinance, as codified in this chapter, establishing a zoning plan
for the town and contiguous unincorporated territory under the jurisdiction of
the Town Plan Commission, to conserve the value of property, and to the end
that adequate light, air, convenience of access, and safety from fire and other
dangers may be secured; that congestion in the public streets may be lessened
or avoided; and that the public health, safety, convenience, comfort, and
general welfare may be promoted in a manner which recognizes the needs of
industry and business in the future growth of the town, and which will
encourage the development of healthy surroundings for family life in
residential neighborhoods; all in accordance with a Master Plan designed to
assure efficiency and economy in the process of development of the town, and
for the purpose of:
      (1)   Classifying, regulating, and limiting the height, area, bulk, and
use of buildings and premises hereafter erected;
      (2)   Regulating and determining the area of front, rear, and side yards,
and other open spaces about buildings;
      (3)   Regulating and determining the use and intensity of use of land and
lot areas;
      (4)   Classifying, regulating, and restricting the location of trades,
industries, commercial enterprises, and the location of buildings designed for
specified uses; and
      (5)   Dividing the town into districts of such kind, character, number,
shape, and area as may be deemed necessary to carry out the purpose of this
chapter.
   (B)   And furthermore, providing for its administration and enforcement,
creating a Board of Zoning Appeals, and providing for review of the decisions
of such Board by the Court.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1)
§ 154.002 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter, and ordinance supplemental or amendatory thereto, shall be
known, and may be cited hereafter, as the “Zoning Ordinance of Bourbon,
Indiana.”
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1)
§ 154.003 IDENTIFICATION.
   Wherever the word TOWN appears in this chapter, it shall be deemed to refer
to the “Town of Bourbon, Indiana.”
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1)
§ 154.004 INTERPRETATION.
   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, they shall be
held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public health,
safety, comfort, morals, convenience, and general welfare.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1)
§ 154.005 NON-INTERFERENCE WITH GREATER RESTRICTIONS OTHERWISE IMPOSED.
   It is not intended by this chapter to interfere with, or abrogate or annul,
any easements, covenants, or other agreements between parties, nor to interfere
with, or abrogate or annul, any ordinances, other than expressly repealed
hereby, rules, regulations, or permits previously adopted or issued, and not in
conflict with any of the provisions of this chapter, or which shall be adopted
or provided, except that where this chapter imposes a greater restriction upon
the use of buildings or land, or upon the height of buildings, or requires
larger open spaces or greater lot area per family, than are required by or
imposed by such easements, covenants, or agreements between parties, or by such
ordinances, rules, regulations, or permits, the provisions of this chapter
shall control.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1)
§ 154.006 AMENDMENTS.
   All amendments to this chapter shall be in conformance with the provisions
of I.C. 36-7-4-501 et seq. Any proposed amendment shall be submitted to the
Plan Commission for report and recommendation prior to any action thereon by
the Town Council. If the Plan Commission does not approve the enactment of any
proposed amendments, it shall become effective only by a three-fourths vote of
the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1)
§ 154.007 REMEDIES.
   The Plan Commission, the Board of Zoning Appeals, the Building Commissioner,
or any designated enforcement official, or person or persons, firm, or
corporation jointly or severally aggrieved, may institute a suit for injunction
in the County Circuit Court to restrain an individual or a governmental unit
from violating the provisions of this chapter. The Plan Commission or the Board
of Zoning Appeals may also institute a suit for mandatory injunction directing
an individual, a corporation, or a governmental unit to remove a structure
erected in violation of any provisions of this chapter or the requirements
thereof. Any building erected, raised, or converted, or land or premises used
in violation of any provisions of this chapter, or the requirements thereof, is
hereby declared to be a common nuisance and as such may be abated in such
manner as nuisances are now or may hereafter be abated under existing law.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1)
§ 154.008 DUTY OF CLERK-TREASURER.
   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town is hereby directed to keep on file two
copies of the zone maps referred to in §
154.021, and of the specifications referred to in § 154.040, and said maps and
specifications shall be available for public inspection during all regular
hours of the said Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1)
§ 154.009 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use which is incidental to the main use of the premises.
   ALLEY. A public thoroughfare which affords only secondary means of vehicular
access to abutting property, and less than 30 feet in width.
   BASEMENT. A story partly underground, but having more than one-half of its
clean height below ground level which, unless subdivided into rooms and used
for tenant purposes, shall not be included as a story for the purpose of height
measurement.
   BLOCK. Property having frontage on one side of a street and lying between
the two nearest intersecting or intercepting streets, or nearest intersecting
or intercepting street and railroad right-of-way, waterway, or other barriers.
When intersecting or intercepting street and railroad right-of-way, waterway,
or other barriers do not exist, the unit of 1,320 feet shall be used and may
begin at a quarter section line, and terminate each 1,320 feet unless
intersected by a street.
   BOARD. The Board of Zoning Appeals.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A building not open to transients, where lodging and/or
meals are provided for compensation for three or more, but not over 30 persons
regularly; a lodging house.
   BUILDING. A structure having a roof supported by columns and walls for the
shelter, support, enclosure, or protection of persons, animals, chattels, or
property. When separated by party walls, without openings through such walls,
each portion of such a BUILDING shall be considered a separate structure.
   BUILDING ACCESSORY. A subordinate building, or a portion of a main building,
which is located on the lot of the main building, the use of which is
incidental to that of the main building, but such ACCESSORY BUILDING shall not
be used as a separate family dwelling.
   BUILDING AREA. The maximum horizontal projected area of the principal and
accessory building, excluding open steps or terraces, unenclosed porches not
exceeding one story in height, or architectural appurtenances projecting not
more than two feet.
   BUILDING, FRONT LINE OF. The line of that face of the building nearest the
front lot line.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance measured from the lot ground
level to the highest point of the roof for a flat roof, to the deck line of a
mansard roof, and to the mean height between eaves and ledges for gable, hip,
and gambel roofs.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the main or principal
use of the lot on which said building is located. Where a substantial part of
the wall of an accessory building is part of the wall of the PRINCIPAL
BUILDING, or where an accessory building is attached to the main building in a
substantial manner by a roof, such accessory building shall be counted as part
of the PRINCIPAL BUILDING.
   BUSINESS. The engaging in the purchase, sale, barter, or exchange of goods,
wares, merchandise, or services, the maintenance or operation of offices, or
recreational and amusements enterprises for profit.
   CAMP, PUBLIC. Any area or tract of land used or designed to accommodate two
or more automobile house trailers, or two or more camping parties, including
cabins, tents, or other camping outfits.
   COMMERCIAL. See BUSINESS.
   DISTRICT. A section of the town or the jurisdictional area for which uniform
regulations governing the use, height, area, size, and intensity of such use of
buildings and land, and open spaces about buildings, are herein established.
   FAMILY. A group of one or more persons occupying a building and living as a
single housekeeping unit. No unrelated group living as a single housekeeping
unit shall consist of more than six persons, as distinguished from a group
occupying a lodging house or hotel.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building with capacity for not more than three
motor vehicles for storage only, nor more than one of which may be a commercial
vehicle of not more than three tons capacity. Provided, however, that a garage
designed to house one motor vehicle for each family housed in an apartment
shall be classed as a PRIVATE GARAGE.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. Any building or premises, except those defined herein as a
private garage, used for the storage or care of motor vehicles, or where such
vehicles are equipped for operation, repaired, or kept for remuneration, hire,
or sale.
   GROUND FLOOR AREA. The square foot area of a residential building within its
largest outside dimensions computed on a horizontal plane at the ground level,
exclusive of open porches, breeze ways, terraces, garages, exterior, and
interior stairways.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation, carried on by a member of the family
residing on the premises, in conjunction with which no commodity is sold or
stock in trade is kept on the premises; no person is employed other than a
member of said family; and no sign, other than a nameplate, not exceeding one
square foot in area, is displayed, and no change in the external appearance of
the building shall be caused thereby, and that no accessory building shall be
used as such HOME OCCUPATION.
   HOTEL. A building in which lodging is provided and offered to the public for
compensation, and which is open to transient guests in contradiction to a
boarding or lodging house.
   JUNK YARD, INCLUDING AUTOMOBILE WRECKING. A lot or part thereof used for the
storage, keeping, or abandonment of junk, including scrap metal and/or
vehicles, machinery, and/or parts thereof.
   KENNEL. Any lot or premises on which four or more dogs, at least four months
of age, are kept.
   JURISDICTIONAL AREA. For planning and zoning, the area incorporated within
the town and the contiguous unincorporated territory shown on a map filed by
the Town Plan Commission with the Recorder of the county.
   LODGE or CLUB. An association of persons for some common purpose, but not
including a group organized primarily or which is actually engaged to render a
service which is customarily carried on as a business.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied or intended for occupancy by a use permitted
in this chapter, including one principal building and its accessory buildings,
and the open space required by this chapter, and having its principal frontage
on a street or an officially designated and approved place.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersection.
   LOT COVERAGE. The percentage of the lot covered by the building area.
   LOT, DEPTH OF. The mean horizontal distance between the front line and the
rear line of the lot, measured in the general direction of the side lot lines.
   LOT, GROUND LEVEL.
      (1)   For buildings having walls adjoining one street only, the elevation
of the ground at the center of the wall adjoining the street.
      (2)   For buildings having walls adjoining more than one street, the
average of the elevation of the ground at the center of all walls adjoining the
streets.
      (3)   For buildings having no wall adjoining the street, the average
level of the ground adjacent to the exterior walls of the building.
      (4)   Any wall approximately parallel to and not more than five feet from
a street is to be considered as adjoining the street.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot or through lot.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. In the case of an interior lot, a line separating the lot
from the street or place; and in the case of a corner lot, from a line
separating the narrowest street frontage of the lot from the street, except in
cases where deed restrictions in effect specify another line as the FRONT LOT
LINE.
   LOT LINE, REAR. A lot line which is opposite and most distant from the front
lot line and, in the case of an irregular or triangular shaped lot, a line ten
feet in length within the lot, parallel to and at the maximum distance from the
front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot boundary line not a front lot line or a rear lot
line.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot having frontage on two streets at opposite ends of the
lot.
   LOT, WIDTH OF. The distance between the side lot lines at the front building
line of building measured at right angles to the depth of the lot.
   MOBILE HOME COURT. Any area or tract of land used or designed to accommodate
two or more mobile homes for non-transient use meeting the standards
established by the State Board of Health for such park or court.
   MOTEL. A building or group of buildings in which lodging is provided and
offered to the public for compensation, and catering primarily to the public
traveling by motor vehicle.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. A building or premises which does not conform in its use
or otherwise with all of the regulations of the district in which such building
or premises is located.
   PARKING LOT. A parcel of land devoted to unenclosed parking space for five
or more motor vehicles for compensation or otherwise.
   PROFESSIONAL OFFICE. When conducted in a residential district, a
PROFESSIONAL OFFICE shall be incidental to the residential occupation, shall be
conducted by a member of the resident family entirely within a residential
building and accessory building, and shall include only the offices of doctors
or practitioners, ministers, architects, landscape architects, professional
engineers, lawyers, authors, musicians, and other recognized professional
occupations occasionally conducted within residences.
   PLACE. An open unoccupied space other than a street or alley, permanently
reserved for use as the principal means of access to abutting property.
   SANITARIUM. A private hospital, whether or not such facility is operated for
profit.
   STORY. The portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
other than the basement and the surface of the floor next above it. If there is
no floor above it, then the space between such floor and the ceiling next above
it shall be the STORY.
   STORY, HALF. The portion of a building under a sloping gable, hip, or gambel
roof, the wall plates on at least two opposite exterior walls of which are not
more than three feet above the floor level of such HALF-STORY.
   STREET. A public thoroughfare 30 feet or more in width in between property
lines, which affords principal means of vehicular access to abutting property.
   STRUCTURE. Anything construed or erected, the use of which requires more or
less permanent location on the ground which is attached to something
permanently located on the ground.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams, or girders, or any
substantial change in the exterior walls or the roof, excepting such alteration
as may be required for the safety of the building.
   TOURIST HOME. A dwelling in which overnight accommodations for not more than
ten transient guests is offered for compensation.
   VEHICLE PARKING SPACES. The area required for parking one automobile which,
in this chapter, is held to be an area nine feet wide and 20 feet long, plus 70
square feet of maneuver area for each vehicle parking space making a total of
250 square feet.
   VISION CLEARANCE ON CORNER LOTS. A triangular space at the street corner of
a corner lot, free from any kind of obstruction to vision between the height of
three and one-half and 12 feet above established grade, determined by a
diagonal line connecting two points measured equidistant from the corner along
each property line.
   YARD, FRONT. Horizontal space measured at 90 degrees with the property line,
between the front line of the principal building and the property line of the
street upon which the building faces, unoccupied other than by steps, walks,
terraces, and open, unroofed, unenclosed porches, or architectural
appurtenances projecting not more than 24 inches from the building.
   YARD, REAR. Horizontal space measured at 90 degrees to the rear lot line,
between the rear of the principal building and the rear line of the lot,
unoccupied other than by vehicle parking space, architectural appurtenances, or
accessory buildings which do not occupy more than 30% of the required REAR
YARD.
   YARD, SIDE. Horizontal space measured at 90 degrees to the side lot line
between the side of the building and the adjacent side line of the lot,
unoccupied other than by architectural appurtenances projecting not more than
30% of the required rear yard.
   ZONE. Same as DISTRICT.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1)
DISTRICTS AND ZONE MAPS
§ 154.020 DISTRICTS.
   The town and the jurisdiction area are hereby divided into seven districts
in order to carry out the purposes of this chapter. The Districts shall be
known and designated through this chapter as follows.
Name of District Designation Hereafter
Name of District                                   Designation Hereafter
“A” Single Family Residential District         “A”
“B” Two Family and Group Home Residential Distr“B”
“GB” General Business District                 “GB”
“HI” Heavy Industrial District                 “HI”
“LB” Local Business District                   “LB”
“LI” Light Industrial District                 “LI”
“S” Suburban District                          “S”
 
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1)
§ 154.021 ZONE MAPS.
   (A)   The zone maps, dated _______ 19__, are hereby declared to be a part of
this chapter.
   (B)   The zone maps show the areas included in the Districts listed in §
154.020. Notations, references, indications, and other matters shown on the
zone maps are as much a part of this chapter as if they were fully described in
the text of this chapter. Two copies of said zone maps are on file in the
office of the Clerk-Treasurer of the town.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1)
§ 154.022 DETERMINATION AND INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   In determining the boundaries of Districts, and establishing the
regulations applicable to each District, due and careful consideration has been
given to existing conditions, the character of buildings erected in each
District, the most desirable use for which the land in each District may be
adapted, and the conservation of property values throughout the town.
   (B)   Where uncertainty exists as to the exact boundaries of any District as
shown on the zone maps, the following rules shall apply.
      (1)   Where District boundaries are indicated as following street, alley,
or lot lines, or approximately along such lines, such lines shall be construed
to be the District boundaries.
      (2)   In unsubdivided areas, or where a District boundary subdivided a
lot, the exact location of the boundary shall be determined by the use of the
scale of the zone maps.
      (3)   In the case of further uncertainty, the Board of Zoning Appeals
shall interpret the intent of the zone maps as to the location of the boundary
in question.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1)
§ 154.023 PROCEDURE RELATING TO ANNEXED OR VACATED AREAS.
   (A)   Territory which may hereafter be annexed to the town shall remain
zoned unless changed by amendment of this chapter.
   (B)   Whenever any street, alley, public way, railroad right-of-way,
waterway, or other similar area is vacated by proper authority, the districts
adjoining each side of such street, alley, public way, railroad right-of-way,
waterway, or other similar areas shall be extended automatically to the center
of such vacation, and all areas included in the vacation shall then and
thenceforth be subject to all appropriate regulation of the extended Districts.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1)
SPECIFICATIONS
§ 154.035 USE.
   No building or land shall be used and no building shall be erected,
reconstructed, or structurally altered which is arranged, intended, or designed
to be used for any purpose other than a use which is permitted and specified in
a District in which such building or land is located.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.036 HEIGHT.
   No building shall be erected, reconstructed, or structurally altered to
exceed in height the limits established and specified for the use, and the
District in which such building is located.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.037 YARDS, LOT AREA, SIZE OF BUILDING.
   No building shall be erected, reconstructed, or structurally altered in any
manner which will encroach upon, or reduce in any manner, the yards, lot area
per family, ground floor area of residential buildings, or lot coverage
regulations, established and specified for the use, and the District in which
such building is located.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.038 LOTS.
   Every building hereafter erected shall be located on a lot which fronts on a
street.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.039 VEHICLE PARKING SPACE; LOADING, UNLOADING BERTHS.
   Every building hereafter erected shall provide off-street parking space for
motor vehicles, and loading and unloading berths as specified hereinafter for
the use to which such building is devoted.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1) Penalty, see §
154.999
DWELLINGS, BUILDING SPECIFICATIONS
§ 154.050 SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS; RESIDENTIAL USE.
   (A)   Specifications A detached building designed for or occupied by one
family exclusively.
   (B)   Location permitted. In all Districts, except LI and HI, provided it is
located:
      (1)   On a lot which was single ownership or included in a subdivision
recorded in the office of the Recorder of the county, on or before the date of
passage of this chapter; or
 
      (2)   On any lot with a minimum area in square feet and width in feet as
follows:
 
District                                                                 Lot    Lot
                                                                         Area   Width
“A”                                                                  7,200  60
“B,” “LB,” and “GB”                                          6,000  60
“S” (where no public water supply is available, no public sewers are 10,000 90
available)
“S” (where public water supply is available)                         7,200  60
 
   (C)   Height of buildings. For principal buildings, the normal maximum of 35
feet or two and one-half stories.
   (D)   Conditional exceptions. The height of the principal building may be
increased above 35 feet, but not higher than 45 feet or three stories if two
side yards of 15 feet each are provided.
   (E)   Front yard. Twenty percent of the average depth of lots in the block
with a minimum depth of 25 feet, and need not exceed 40 feet in depth in
unincorporated areas.
   (F)   Side yard. The sum of the side yards shall equal not less than 20% of
the lot width with a minimum width of five feet for either side yard. On a
corner lot, the side yard facing the street shall not be less than 15 feet.
   (G)   Rear yard. Twenty percent of the depth of the lot, with a minimum
depth of 15 feet and need not exceed 25 feet in depth.
   (H)   Ground floor area. Not less than the following.
 
District            Ground Floor Area
“A,” and “S”720 sq. ft.
“B,” “LB,” a576 sq. ft.
 
   (I)   Lot coverage. Thirty-five percent maximum on corner lots; 30% maximum
on interior lot.
   (J)   Accessory building. Uses permitted shall be private garage storage,
exclusive of industrial or commercial use.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1)
§ 154.051 TWO-FAMILY DWELLINGS.
   (A)   Specifications. A detached building designed for or occupied by two
families. A duplex dwelling has one family above the other. A double dwelling
has one family beside the other.
   (B)   Location permitted. Only in the Districts designated below on any lot
with a minimum area in square feet and a minimum width in feet as follows.
 
District                                                                 Lot    Lot
                                                                         Area   Width
“B”                                                                  7,200  60
“LB” and “GB”                                                    6,000  60
“S” (Where no public water supply is available, no public sewers ate 15,000 90
available)
“S” (Where public water supply is available)                         10,000 80
 
   (C)   Height of buildings. For principal buildings, the normal maximum of 35
feet or two and one-half stories.
   (D)   Conditional exceptions. The height of the principal building may be
increased above 35 feet, but not higher than 45 feet or three stories if the
two side yards of 15 feet are each provided.
   (E)   Front yard. Twenty percent of the average depth of lots in the block
with a minimum depth of 25 feet and need not exceed 40 feet in depth in
unincorporated areas, and a minimum depth of 50 feet and need not exceed 50
feet in unincorporated areas.
   (F)   Side yard. The sum of the side yards shall equal not less than 20% of
the lot width with a minimum width of five feet for each side yard. On a corner
lot, the side yard facing the street shall not be less than 15 feet.
   (G)   Rear yard. Twenty percent of the depth of the lot, with a minimum
depth of 15 feet and need not exceed 40 feet in depth.
   (H)   Ground floor area. Not less than the following.
 
District      Ground Floor Area
“A” and Double: 1,000 sq. ft.; duplex: 720 sq. ft.
“LB” and Double: 900 sq. ft.; duplex: 576 sq. ft.
 
   (I)   Lot coverage. Forty percent maximum on a corner lot; 35% maximum on an
interior lot.
   (J)   Accessory building, uses permitted. Private garage storage, exclusive
of industrial or commercial use.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1)
§ 154.052 GROUP HOUSES, GARDEN APARTMENTS.
   (A)   Specifications. A building designed for or occupied by three or more
families, exclusively for dwelling purposes, not exceeding two and one-half
stories in height.
   (B)   Location permitted. Only in the Districts designated below, on any lot
with a minimum area in square feet and a minimum width in feet as follows.
 
                                                                                Lot
District                                                                        Area   Lot
                                                                                Per    Width
                                                                                Family
“B,” “LB,” and “GB”                                                 3,000  60
“S” as a conditional use (where no public water supply and no public sewers 9,000  90
available)
“S” as a conditional use (where public water supply is available)           6,000  80
 
   (C)   Height of building. For principal buildings, the maximum of 35 feet.
   (D)   Front yard. Twenty percent of the average depth of lots in the block
with a minimum depth of 25 feet, but need not exceed 40 feet in depth in
unincorporated areas and a minimum depth of 50 feet and need not exceed 50
feet, in unincorporated areas.
   (E)   Side yard. The sum of the side yards shall not equal less than 20% of
the lot width with a minimum width of five feet for either side yard. On a
corner lot, the side yard facing the street shall not be less than 15 feet.
   (F)   Rear yard. Twenty percent of the depth of the lot, with a minimum
depth of 15 feet and need not exceed 25 feet in depth.
   (G)   Ground floor area. Minimum of 450 square feet for each first-floor
family.
   (H)   Lot coverage. Fifty percent maximum on corner lots; 40% maximum on
interior lots.
   (I)   Accessory building, uses permitted. Private garage storage, exclusive
of industrial or commercial use.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1)
§ 154.053 APARTMENT HOUSES.
   (A)   Specifications. A building designed for or occupied by three or more
families, exclusively for dwelling purposes, three or more stores in height.
   (B)   Location permitted. Only in the Districts designated below, on any lot
with a minimum area in square feet as follows.
 
District      Lot Area per Family
“LB” and 1,500 sq. ft.
 
   (C)   Front yard. Twenty percent of the average depth of the lots on the
block.
   (D)   Side yard. The sum of the side yards shall equal not less than 20% of
the lot width, with a minimum width of five feet from either side yard.
   (E)   Rear yard. Twenty percent of the depth of the lot, with a minimum
depth of 20 feet.
   (F)   Ground floor area. Not less than one by 200 square feet.
   (G)   Lot coverage. Sixty percent maximum on corner lots, 50% maximum on
interior lots.
   (H)   Accessory buildings, uses permitted. Private garages, exclusive of
industrial or commercial use.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1)
§ 154.054 CONDITIONAL USES GENERALLY.
   (A)   Lot dimensions. In no case shall the width of a lot be less than 60
feet at the set back line, and the depth be less than 100 feet, and the depth-
to-width ratio of the usable area of a lot shall be not greater than three-to-
one, except by approval of the Board of Zoning Appeals after public hearing.
   (B)   Front yard. No fences shall be hereafter built or erected between the
front set back line of the buildings or building and the front lot line, except
natural fences of hedges, trees, or shrubbery.
   (C)   Rear yard. One-half of an alley abutting the rear lot may be included
in the required rear yard.
   (D)   Vision clearance on corner lots. Eight feet from the intersection of
property lines.
   (E)   Vehicle parking space. One space on the lot for each family housed in
the principal building.
   (F)   Accessory buildings.
      (1)   Shall not be permitted prior to the erection of the principal
building, except for strictly storage purposes and not for human occupancy,
except by approval of the Board of Zoning Appeals after public hearing, for a
period of not more than one year from the date of such permit.
      (2)   No detached accessory building shall be located closer to a side
lot line than five feet, provided, however, that the side yard requirements for
accessory buildings shall not be less than three feet, if such accessory
building is ten feet or more to the rear of the residence building and is
located behind the rear line of such residence building.
      (3)   The normal maximum height permitted shall be 18 feet or one and
one-half stories.
      (4)   No accessory building shall be located closer to the rear lot line
than three feet if no easement is located along such rear lot line.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.055 CONDITIONAL EXCEPTIONS GENERALLY.
   (A)   Front yard.
      (1)   Where 25% or more of the lots in a block are occupied by buildings,
the average set back of such buildings determine the dimension of the front
yard in the block, but the maximum front yard need not exceed 40 feet in “A”
and “B” Districts, or 25 feet in other districts in incorporated areas; and 50
feet in other districts in unincorporated areas.
      (2)   Front yard or set back lines established in recorded subdivisions
established the dimensions of front yards in such blocks, except when such set
back lines may be less restrictive, as provided in Article II, section 8.5.15.
      (3)   On lots extending through from one street to another, a front yard
is required on each street.
      (4)   On four-lane federal and state highways, a distance of 60 feet is
required on lots not included in a recorded subdivision.
      (5)   On two-lane federal and state highways, a distance of 75 feet is
required on lots not included in a recorded subdivision.
      (6)   On all other roads and streets, except those in incorporate areas,
a distance of 50 feet is required on lots not included in a recorded
subdivision.
   (B)   Side yard. Whenever a side yard abuts a street or road in an
unincorporated area, the following minimum width shall be the standard on lots
not included in a recorded subdivision:
      (1)   Sixty feet on four-lane federal and state highways;
      (2)   Seventy-five feet on two-lane federal and state highways; and
      (3)   Twenty-five feet on all other roads and streets.
   (C)   Tapered yard. Where a reversed interior lot abuts a corner lot, or on
an alley separating such lots, any accessory building located on the rear lot
line of a corner lot shall set back from the side street as far as the dwelling
on the reversed interior lot; for each foot that such accessory building is
places from the rear line toward the front line corner lot, the accessory
building may be set four inches closer to the side street line, but in no case
closer than five feet in incorporated areas on lots not included in a recorded
subdivision.
   (D)   Accessory buildings. The height of an accessory building may be
increased to 25 feet or two stories, provided the minimum required three-foot
distance from side lot lines is increased by one foot for each two feet above
the normal maximum height permitted.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1)
BUSINESSES, COMMERCIAL USES SPECIFICATIONS
§ 154.070 COMMERCIAL USES; LOCAL BUSINESS USES.
   (A)   Specifications. Commercial uses primarily of a retail or service
nature.
   (B)   Interpretation. The following named uses shall be deemed to include
those uses or buildings in general keeping with and appropriate to the uses
hereinafter specified.
   (C)   Location permitted. The following classifications of business uses
specifically stated or implied are permitted in the “LB,” “GB,” “LI,” and “HI”
Districts.
      (1)   Automobile service:
         (a)   Filling station;
         (b)   Commercial garage;
         (c)   Commercial parking lot;
         (d)   Sales room; and
         (e)   Automobile repair, entirely within enclosed buildings.
      (2)   Business service:
         (a)   Bank;
         (b)   Office;
         (c)   Postal station; and
         (d)   Telegraph office.
      (3)   Clothing service:
         (a)   Laundry agency using cleaning fluids which are non-explosive and
non-flammable;
         (b)   Self-service laundry;
         (c)   Laundry and dry cleaning establishment using not more than two
clothes cleaning units, neither of which shall have a rated capacity of more
than 40 pounds;
         (d)   Dressmaking;
         (e)   Millinery;
         (f)   Tailor and pressing shop; and
         (g)   Shoe repair shop.
      (4)   Equipment service:
         (a)   Radio shop;
         (b)   Electric appliance shop;
         (c)   Record shop;
         (d)   Locksmith shop; and
         (e)   Upholstery shop.
      (5)   Food service:
         (a)   Grocery;
         (b)   Meat market;
         (c)   Supermarket;
         (d)   Restaurant;
         (e)   Delicatessen;
         (f)   Cold storage lockers, for individual use;
         (g)   Roadside sales stands; and
         (h)   Catering establishments.
      (6)   Personal service:
         (a)   Barbershop;
         (b)   Beauty shop;
         (c)   Reducing salon; and
         (d)   Photographic studio.
      (7)   Retail service, retail stores generally:
         (a)   Drugstore;
         (b)   Hardware;
         (c)   Stationer;
         (d)   Newsdealer;
         (e)   Show room, for articles;
         (f)   Commercial greenhouse not exceeding 1,000 square feet in area;
         (g)   Apparel shop;
         (h)   Flower shop;
         (i)   Painting and decorating shop;
         (j)   Printing shop;
         (k)   Department stores; and
         (l)   Furniture stores.
      (8)   Commercial recreational uses (conducted only within buildings so
constructed that no noise of any kind produced therein shall be audible beyond
the confines of the building):
         (a)   Theater;
         (b)   Bowling alley;
         (c)   Billiard room; and
         (d)   Dancing academy.
      (9)   Hotel.
      (10)   Private club or lodge.
      (11)   Advertising sign or billboard.
      (12)   Veterinary hospitals (excluding kennels).
 
Height of Building District Normal Maximum Height
“GB” and “HI”       60 feet or five stories
“LB” and “LI”       45 feet or four stories
 
   (D)   Front yard. Fifteen feet.
   (E)   Side yard.
      (1)   Along the side street line of a corner lot in an “LB” District,
where the block is adjoined by a residential block, the minimum dimension shall
be five feet.
      (2)   Where an “LB” District adjoins an “S,” “A,” or “B” District within
the block, there shall be a side yard of at least five feet.
      (3)   In blocks included entirely in “LB,” “GB,” “LI,” or “HI” Districts,
no side yards are required. However, if a side yard is provided, the minimum
dimension shall be five feet.
   (F)   Rear yard. Ten percent of the depth of the lot with a minimum depth of
15 feet, and need not exceed 25 feet in depth.
   (G)   Lot coverage. Ninety percent, but this shall not waive provisions of
yards where required.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1)
§ 154.071 GENERAL BUSINESS USE.
   (A)   Specifications. Commercial uses, including wholesale and storage uses
conducted within enclosed, substantially constructed buildings.
   (B)   Location permitted. The following classifications of business uses
specifically states or implied are permitted in the “GB,” “LI,” and “HI”
Districts:
      (1)   Local business uses as listed above;
      (2)   Storage warehouse;
      (3)   Wholesale establishment;
      (4)   Open agricultural implement, automobile, or trailer sales area;
      (5)   Tavern and night club, only in conformity with requirements of laws
or ordinances governing such uses;
      (6)   Motor bus or railroad passenger station; and
      (7)   Any commercial use not specifically stated or implied elsewhere in
this chapter, and complying with division (A) above.
   (C)   Height of buildings.
 
District             Normal Maximum Height
“GB”, “LI,” a60 feet or five stories
 
   (D)   Front yard. Ten feet.
   (E)   Side yard. None required. However, if a side yard is provided, the
minimum dimensions shall be five feet.
   (F)   Rear yard. Ten percent of the depth of lot with a minimum depth of 15
feet and need not exceed 25 feet in depth.
   (G)   Lot coverage. Ninety percent, but this shall not waive provision of
yards where required.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1)
§ 154.072 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Vehicle parking space.
      (1)   Parking spaces shall be provided on the lot, or within 300 feet
thereof on a site approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals, as follows.
 
Category        Use        Number of Parking Spaces      (2)   Loading and unloading berths shall be provided
                           on the lot as follows.
                Gross
Use             Floor Area Loading and Unloading Berths
                (square
                feet)
                100,000 or
                less
Hotels, office  100,001 to 1
buildings       336,000    2
                Each       1 additional
                200,000
                additional
Retail stores,  3,000 to
department      15,000
stores,         15,001 to  1
wholesale       40,000     2
establishments, Each       1 additional
storage uses,   additional
other           25,000
commercial use
 
   (B)   Paving. Open parking area, and unloading and loading berths, shall be
paved with dustproof or hard surface meeting the standard specifications of the
town.
   (C)   Front yard. No fences shall be hereafter built or erected between the
front set back line of the building or buildings and the front line, except
natural fences of hedges, trees, or shrubbery.
   (D)   Rear yard. One-half of an alley abutting the rear of a lot may be
included in the rear yard to satisfy rear yard requirements, but such alley
space shall not be included for loading and unloading berths.
   (E)   Vision clearance on corner lots. Eight feet from the intersection of
property lines.
   (F)   Incidental use. Any building primarily used for any of the uses
enumerated under local business uses and any commercial use not specifically
stated or implied elsewhere in this chapter, and complying with the definition
of commercial uses under general business uses may have not more than 40% of
the floor area devoted to an industry or storage purpose strictly incidental to
such primary use; provided, that not more than five employees shall be engaged
at any time on the premises in any such incidental use.
   (G)   Lighting facilities. Outside lighting facilities, if provided, shall
be so arranged so as to be reflected away from property residentially zoned or
used.
   (H)   Performance standard. No commercial use and/or incidental use
associated with the commercial use will be permitted which is injurious to
health or safety of humans or animals, or injurious to vegetation; and which is
noxious or offensive by reason of the emission of smoke, dust, gas fumes,
odors, noises (including music), or vibrations beyond the limits of the
premises upon which such use is conducted.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.073 CONDITIONAL EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Maximum height. The normal maximum height of structures may be
increased as follows.
      (1)   Buildings may be erected higher than the normal maximum if they are
set back from front and rear property lines, one foot for each two feet of
additional height above the normal maximum height.
      (2)   Chimneys, cooling towers, elevator bulkheads, fire towers,
penthouses, stacks, tanks, water towers, transmission towers, or essential
mechanical appurtenances may be erected to any height not prohibited by other
laws and ordinances.
   (B)   Front yard.
      (1)   Where 25% or more of the lots in a block area are occupied by
buildings, the average setback of such buildings determines the dimension of
the front yard in the block, but the maximum front yard need not exceed 25 feet
in incorporated areas, and 50 feet in unincorporated areas.
      (2)   On four-lane federal and state highways in unincorporated areas, a
distance of 60 feet on lots or parcels of land not included in an existing
recorded subdivision.
      (3)   On a two-lane federal and state highway in unincorporated areas, a
distance of 75 feet on lots or parcels of land not included in an existing
recorded subdivision.
      (4)   On all other roads and streets in unincorporated areas, a distance
of 50 feet on lots or parcels of land not included in an existing recorded
subdivision.
   (C)   Side yard. Whenever a side yard abuts on a street or road in an
unincorporated area, the following minimum widths shall be standard on lots or
parcels of land not included in an existing recorded subdivision.
      (1)   Sixty feet on four-lane federal or state highways;
      (2)   Seventy-five feet on two-lane federal or state highways; and
      (3)   Twenty-five feet on all other streets and roads.
   (D)   Vehicle parking space.
      (1)   Groups of uses requiring vehicle parking space may join in
establishing group parking areas with capacity aggregating that required for
each participating use.
      (2)   Vehicle parking requirements shall not apply in a block, 50% or
more of the area of which was occupied by business or industrial structures at
the time of passage of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1)
INDUSTRIAL USES SPECIFICATIONS
§ 154.085 LIMITED INDUSTRIAL USES.
   (A)   A LIMITED INDUSTRIAL USE is one which ordinarily uses only light
machinery, is conducted entirely within enclosed, substantially constructed
buildings, does not use the open area around such buildings for storage or raw
materials or manufactured products or for any other industrial purpose, other
than loading and unloading operations in the rear, and which is not noxious or
offensive by reason of the emission of smoke, dust, fumes, gas, odors, noises,
or vibrations beyond the confines of the building.
   (B)   Locations in which limited industrial uses permitted are the “GB,”
“LI,” and “HI” Districts.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1)
§ 154.086 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL USES.
   (A)   Specifications. A LIGHT INDUSTRIAL USE is one which requires both
buildings and open area for manufacturing, fabricating, processing, heavy
repairing, dismantling, storage, or disposal of raw materials, manufacturing
products, or waste, which is not injurious to health or safety of humans or
animals, or injurious to vegetation, and which is not noxious or offensive by
reason of the emission of smoke, dust, gas fumes, odors, or vibrations beyond
the limits of the premises upon which such industry is conducted.
   (B)   Industrial uses. Included in this classification are all industrial
uses fully complying with the above definition; plus:
      (1)   Automobile wrecking and/or junk storage as conditional uses
permitted in accordance with the procedure specified for conditional uses, §
154.088, and provided that the use is confined within enclosed buildings or in
yards completely enclosed and surrounded by solid walls or solid fences at
least eight feet in height. Automobile wrecking and/or junk storage yards not
completely enclosed and surrounded by solid walls or solid fences at least
eight feet in height shall be discontinued within two years from the passage of
this chapter, unless solid walls or fences at least eight feet high are
constructed completely around such automobile wrecking and/or junk storage yard
prior to the expiration date;
      (2)   Poultry slaughtering and wholesaling;
      (3)   Veterinary hospital or kennel;
      (4)   Bulk storage or inflammable fluids in above ground tanks, but not
oil refinery tanks;
      (5)   Truck terminal;
      (6)   Railroad freight house;
      (7)   Utilities storage yard;
      (8)   Coal, coke, or wood yard;
      (9)   Lumber yard;
      (10)   Contractor’s plant or storage yard;
      (11)   Bus line shops or garage;
      (12)   Building material storage yard; and
      (13)   Carting, express, hauling, or storage yard.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1)
§ 154.087 HEAVY INDUSTRIAL USES.
   (A)   Specifications. A HEAVY INDUSTRIAL USE is one which requires buildings
and open area for manufacturing, fabricating, processing, heavy repair,
dismantling, storage, or disposal of raw materials, manufactured products, or
wastes, which is not injurious to the health or safety of humans or animals, or
injurious to vegetation, and which has not been declared a nuisance in any
court of record.
   (B)   Locations permitted. The following classifications of industrial uses
are permitted in the “HI” District:
      (1)   Any industry complying with the definition in division (A) above;
      (2)   Railroad yards and shops;
      (3)   (a)   Automobile wrecking or junk storage as conditional uses
permitted in accordance with the procedure specified for conditional uses, §
154.088, and provided that the use is confined within enclosed buildings or in
yards completely enclosed and surrounded by solid walls or solid fences at
least eight feet in height.
         (b)   This provision applies to automobile wrecking and junk storage
uses existing in conforming districts, provided, however, that such conforming
uses need not adhere to the provisions of §
154.102.
      (4)   Any uses permitted in the “LB,” “GB,” and “LI” Districts, unless
otherwise excluded.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1)
§ 154.088 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Height of buildings.
 
District      Normal Maximum Height
“GB” and 60 feet or five stories
 
   (B)   Front yard.
 
District      Depth in Feet
“GB”      10
“LI” and 15HI”
 
   (C)   Side yard. None required. However, if a side yard is provided, the
minimum dimensions shall be five feet.
   (D)   Rear yard. Ten percent of the depth of lot with a minimum requirement
of 15 feet but need not exceed 25 feet in depth (one-half of an alley abutting
the rear of a lot may be included in the rear yard to satisfy rear yard
requirements, but such alley space shall not be included for loading or
unloading berths).
   (E)   Lot coverage. Ninety percent, but this shall not waive provisions of
yards where required.
   (F)   Vision clearance on corner lots. Eight feet.
   (G)   Vehicle parking space. One vehicle parking space for each three
employees shall be provided on the lot, or within 300 feet thereof on a site
approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (H)   Loading and unloading berths. Provided on the lot as follows.
 
Gross Floor Area (sq. ft.) Loading and Unloading Berths
15,000 or less             1
15,001 to 40,000           2
40,001, to 100,000         3
Each 40,000 additional     1 additional
 
   (I)   Paving. Open parking areas and loading and unloading berths shall be
paved with a dustproof or hard surface meeting the standard specifications of
the town.
   (J)   Lighting facilities. Outdoor lighting facilities, if provided, shall
be so arranged as to be reflected away from property residentially zoned or
used.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.089 CONDITIONAL EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Maximum height.
      (1)   Buildings may be erected higher than the normal maximum height if
they are set back from front and rear property lines, one foot for each two
foot of additional height above the normal maximum height.
      (2)   Chimneys, cooling towers, elevator bulkheads, fire towers,
penthouses, tanks, water towers, transmission towers, or essential mechanical
appurtenances may be erected to any height not prohibited by other laws or
ordinances.
   (B)   Front yard.
      (1)   On four-lane federal and state highways in unincorporated areas, a
distance of 60 feet.
      (2)   On two-lane federal and state highways in unincorporated areas, a
distance of 75 feet.
      (3)   On all other streets or roads in unicorporated areas, a distance of
50 feet.
   (C)   Side yard. Whenever a side yard abuts a street or road in
unincorporated areas, the following minimum width shall be the standard:
      (1)   Sixty feet on four-lane federal and state highways;
      (2)   Seventy-five feet on two-lane federal and state highways; and
      (3)   Twenty-five feet on all other roads and streets.
   (D)   Vehicle parking space.
      (1)   Groups of uses requiring vehicle parking space may join in
establishing group parking space with capacity aggregating that required for
each participating use.
      (2)   Vehicle parking requirements may be waived by the Board of Zoning
Appeals in a block 50% or more of the area of which was occupied by business or
industrial structures at the time of passage of this chapter.
   (E)   Buffer requirements. Where an Industrial District borders upon a
Residential District, not separated by a street, railroad right-of-way, or
natural barrier, a suitable buffer in terms of set back and/or screening shall
be provided.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1)
CONTINGENT USES SPECIFICATIONS
§ 154.100 SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Specification. Uses which are likely or liable, but not certain to
occur, and which are not inappropriate to the principal use of the District in
which located.
   (B)   Location permitted and vehicle parking space required. Contingent
uses, as listed herein, are permitted in the District indicated below. Each use
shall provide on the lot, or within 300 feet thereof on a site approved by the
Board of Zoning Appeals, parking space, open or enclosed, as follows.
Contingent Use Location Permitted Parking Spaces Required
                                                                                                 Parking
Contingent Use                                                         Location Permitted        Spaces
                                                                                                 Required
                                                                                                 One for
Boarding or loading house                                              “B,” “LB,” and “each three
                                                                                                 occupants
Bulletin board for a church public building                            All
                                                                                                 One for
                                                                                                 each six
Church or temple                                                       All except “LI” and seats in
                                                                                                 main
                                                                                                 auditorium
                                                                                                 One for
College or university                                                  All except “LI” and each three
                                                                                                 students
                                                                                                 or staff
                                                                                                 One for
Community center                                                       All                       each six
                                                                                                 seats
Farm, vegetable, or flower garden, or plant nursery, anywhere, but     All
without raising of livestock and poultry within the town limits
Home occupation                                                        All                       One
                                                                                                 additional
                                                                                                 One for
                                                                                                 each 125
Lodge or private club (which is of non-commercial character)           “LB,” “GB,” and sq. ft. of
                                                                                                 ground
                                                                                                 floor area
                                                                                                 One fore
Mortuary                                                               “B,” “LB,” “GB,each sixLI”
                                                                                                 seats in
                                                                                                 chapel
                                                                                                 One for
                                                                                                 each 125
Municipal or governmental building                                     All                       sq. ft. of
                                                                                                 ground
                                                                                                 floor area
                                                                                                 One for
Nursing home or homes for the aged                                     “B,” “LB,” and “each seven
                                                                                                 persons
Professional office in residence of practicing professional person     All except “HI”       Two
                                                                                                 additional
                                                                                                 One for
                                                                                                 each 125
Public library or museum                                               All                       sq. ft. of
                                                                                                 ground
                                                                                                 floor area
Public park or public recreational facility                            All
                                                                                                 One for
Public utilities building right-of-way, including purposes essential                             each three
to utilities operation, but not including commercial or industrial     All                       employees
structures of uses in “S,” “A,” “B,” or “LB” Districts                           in the
                                                                                                 building
Roadside stands, for the sale by the producer of agricultural and      All
plant nursery products raised on the premises
                                                                                                 One for
                                                                                                 each three
                                                                                                 members of
                                                                                                 the staff,
School, public or parochial                                            All except “LI” and plus one
                                                                                                 for each
                                                                                                 eight
                                                                                                 seats in
                                                                                                 auditorium
                                                                                                 One for
Tourist home                                                           “B,” “LB,” and “each
                                                                                                 sleeping
                                                                                                 room
Temporary sign pertaining to lease, hire, or sale of a building or     All
premises
 
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1)
§ 154.101 PAVING; LIGHTING.
   (A)   Paving. Open parking space shall be paved with a dustproof or hard
surface meeting the standard specifications of the town.
   (B)   Lighting facilities. Outdoor lighting facilities, if provided, shall
be so arranged as to be reflected away from property residentially zoned or
used.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1)
§ 154.102 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   The following uses, or structural alterations thereto, which are
classified as conditional uses, may be permitted by the Board of Zoning
Appeals, in accordance with the procedure specified herein:
      (1)   Airport or aircraft landing field;
      (2)   Amusement park and enterprises (permanent or transient);
      (3)   Baseball park;
      (4)   Cemetery or crematory;
      (5)   Country club or golf course;
      (6)   Fair ground;
      (7)   Fire station;
      (8)   Group house and garden apartments in “S” District;
      (9)   Hospital or sanatarium;
      (10)   Medical center or clinic;
      (11)   Mobile home or house trailer;
      (12)   Nursing home or home for the aged in “S” District only;
      (13)   Outdoor theater;
      (14)   Philanthropic or charitable institution;
      (15)   Practice golf driving range;
      (16)   Race track;
      (17)   Radio or television transmitting tower;
      (18)   Sanitary fill or refuse dump;
      (19)   Sewage disposal or garbage disposal;
      (20)   Trailer court, public camp, or mobile home court (meeting State
Health Department standards);
      (21)   Truck terminal (in Suburban District only); and
      (22)   Removal of soil, sand, loan, and gravel (except in conjunction
with construction of a building street or utility).
   (B)   (1)   Upon receipt of an application for a conditional use by the
Board of Zoning Appeals, it shall be referred to the Town Plan Commission for
investigation as to the manner in which the proposed location and character of
the conditional use will affect the Master Plan of the town.
      (2)   The Town Plan Commission shall report the results of its study of
the proposal to the Board of Zoning Appeals, and if the report is favorable to
the proposal, the Board of Zoning Appeals, may, after public notice and hearing
according to law, grant a permit, including the imposition of conditions of
use, which the Board deems essential to ensure that the conditional use is
consistent with the spirit, purpose, and intent of this chapter, will not
substantially and permanently injure the appropriate use of neighboring
property, and will substantially serve the public convenience and welfare.
   (C)   The following uses may be permitted in the “HI” Districts, only in
accordance with the procedure specified in division (B) above, and the
inclusion of a report by the Town Health Officer of the State Board of Health
and the State Fire Marshal that the uses applied for will not be injurious to
the public health or safety:
      (1)   Acid manufacture;
      (2)   Atomic plants;
      (3)   Arsenal;
      (4)   Cement, lime, gypsum, or plaster of paris manufacture;
      (5)   Distillation of bones, coal, or wood;
      (6)   Explosives manufacture or storage;
      (7)   Fertilizer plants and/or plant food plants;
      (8)   Incineration or reduction of garbage, dead animals, offal, or
refuse, except for municipal purposes;
      (9)   Packing plants or slaughter yards;
      (10)   Slag, stone, cinder, or coal crushing or pulverizing; and
      (11)   Any other use which may, under some circumstances, be injurious to
public health, safety, or established uses, but which may, with adequate
safeguards, be designed so as to not be injurious in such manner.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.103 CONDITIONAL EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Parking requirements. A church or temple requiring parking areas at
times when nearby uses do not need their parking facilities may, by agreement
approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals, utilize such facilities in lieu of
providing their own parking facilities.
   (B)   Height permitted.
      (1)   Permitted building heights are as follows.
 
District             Normal Maximum Height
“GB,” “LI,” a70 feet or five stories
“LB”             45 feet or four stories
“S,” “A,” and35 feet or two and one-half stories
 
      (2)   Buildings may be erected to heights in excess of the normal
maximum, if they are set back from required front, side, and rear yard lines,
or property lines where yards are not required, as follows.
 
District                   Setback
“LB,” “GB,” “LI,One foot for each two feet of additional height
“S,” “A,” and “BOne foot for each foot of additional height
 
   (C)   Other regulations. In all Districts, spires, church steeples,
chimneys, cooling towers, elevator bulkheads, fire towers, scenery lofts, water
towers, transmission towers, and other essential mechanical appurtenances may
be erected to any height prohibited by other laws and ordinances. The
provisions for yards, vision clearances, and accessory buildings as they
pertain to group houses in Residential Districts, local business uses in “LB,”
“LI,” and “HI” Districts, or general business uses in “GB” Districts, shall
apply to contingent uses listed herein.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1)
NON-CONFORMING USE SPECIFICATIONS
§ 154.115 CONTINUATION THEREOF AND RECONSTRUCTION.
   The lawful use of a building or premises, existing at the time of passage of
this chapter, may be continued, although such use does not conform to all the
provisions of this chapter, except as in hereafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1)
§ 154.116 EXTENSION.
   A non-conforming use may be extended throughout a building, provided no
structural alterations are made therein, except those required by law.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1)
§ 154.117 CHANGE.
   (A)   A non-conforming use may be changed to another non-conforming use of
the same or greater restrictions, provided no structural changes are made in
the building.
   (B)   Whenever a non-conforming use has been changed to a conforming use or
to a use permitted in a District of greater restrictions, it shall not
thereafter be changed to a non-conforming use or a less restricted one.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.118 ERECTION AND RE-ERECTION OF BUILDINGS.
   (A)   No building shall be erected upon any premises devoted to a non-
conforming use, and no building located upon any such premises, which has been
damaged by fire or other causes, to the extent of more than 75% of its
appraised valuation.
   (B)   A building devoted to a non-conforming use which has been damaged by
fire or other causes to the extent less than 75% of its appraised valuation
must be reconstructed within a period not to exceed 12 months in order to
continue to use such a building devoted to a non-conforming use.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.119 TEMPORARY PERMITS.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals may authorize, by written permit in a
Residential District for a period of not more than one year from the date of
such permit, a temporary building for commercial or industrial use incidental
to the residential construction and development of said District.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1)
§ 154.120 RIGHT TO CONSTRUCT IF PERMIT ISSUED.
   Nothing herein shall require any change in the plans, construction, or
designated use of a building for which a building permit has been heretofore
issued, and the construction of which has been diligently prosecuted within 90
days of the date of such permit, and which the entire building shall be
completed according to such plans, as filed within three years from the date of
passage of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1)
§ 154.121 USE TO CONFORM AFTER DISCONTINUANCE.
   In the event that a non-conforming use of any building or premises is
discontinued for a period of one year, the use of the same shall thereafter
conform to the uses permitted in the District in which it is located.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1)
§ 154.122 DISCONTINUANCE OF NON-CONFORMING USE OF LAND.
   The lawful use of land for junk yards and open storage purposes, which does
not conform to the provisions of this chapter, shall be discontinued within two
years of written notification by the Plan Commission, and the use of land for
storage purposes, which may become a non-conforming use by reason of an
amendment to this chapter, shall be discontinued with two years of written
notification by the Plan Commission.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1)
§ 154.123 DISCONTINUANCE OF NON-CONFORMING USE CREATED BY AMENDMENT.
   These provisions apply in the same manner to a use which may be become a
non-conforming use due to a later amendment to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1)
MOBILE, MANUFACTURED HOMES
§ 154.135 MANUFACTURED HOME REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Manufactured homes shall be permitted in any of the Residential
Districts, as long as they meet the following specifications:
      (1)   Minimum roof width of four-twelfths’ roof pitch (a roof slope that
rises four inches for every 12 inches across);
      (2)   All exterior walls, bearing walls, columns, and piers shall be
supported on continuous solid masonry or concrete footings, and concrete or
wood foundations. Foundations shall extend not less than the frostline depth of
36 inches below the finished grade. Footing sizes are based on soil with an
allowable soil pressure of 2,000 pounds per square foot. Footings on soil with
a lower allowable soil pressure shall be designed in accordance with accepted
engineering practices. Footing projections shall not exceed the footing
thickness;
      (3)   Eight-inch roof overhang, exclusive of gutters, on all roof ends
and edges, minimum;
      (4)   Removal of any towing hitch, axles, and wheels;
      (5)   Minimum square footage of 960 square feet of occupied space and
with a minimum width of 24 feet;
      (6)   Utilities connected in conformance with the One and Two Family
Dwelling Code and with the manufacturer’s installation specifications;
      (7)   Constructed after January 1, 1994;
      (8)   Exterior materials compatible with exterior materials on other
residential structures in the immediate area (for example, roofing material,
vinyl siding, aluminum siding, or brick facing);
      (9)   Pre-existing manufactured homes on a lot not located in a
manufactured home park licensed by the state which does not meet the above
specifications may not be replaced by another home which does not meet these
same specifications;
      (10)   Temporary placement for a construction office at a construction
site must be promptly removed, upon the completion of the construction; and
      (11)   A change of ownership of any kind or nature in a mobile home or
the real estate it is located on which was permitted to be located within the
town by virtue of a special exception, or other variance approved heretofore,
shall immediately revoke such prior permission to locate said mobile home
thereon, and such mobile home shall be removed from that location within 30
days of such change in ownership or thereafter be considered in violation of
the town’s zoning ordinance and subject to the penalty provisions thereof.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1B)
   (B)   Modular homes shall be permitted in any Residential District.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1A) (Ord. 1997-4, passed 3-18-1997; Ord. passed 10-7-1997)
Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.136 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A dwelling unit designed and built in the factory which
bears a seal certifying that it was built in compliance with the Federal
Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards law (42 U.S.C. § 5402)
as it existed on January 1, 1994.
   MOBILE HOMES. A vehicular, portable structure, built on a chassis and
designed to be used on a permanent foundation as a dwelling unit when connected
to the necessary utilities. For the purpose of this subchapter, the term MOBILE
HOME shall not include modular homes or manufactured homes.
   MODULAR HOME. Any residence which is constructed in a manufacturing facility
and transported to its final site by means completely separate from the
residence, and which meets the code requirements of the Building Officials and
Code Administrators National Building Code (BOCA).
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1A)
§ 154.137 MOBILE HOME PARKS; MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
      MOBILE HOME. Any vehicle or portable structure designed for long-term
occupancy, containing sleeping accommodations, sanitary facilities, kitchen
facilities, and plumbing and electrical connections; which structure shall be
designed to be transported after fabrication on its own wheels, on a flat bed
truck, or on detachable wheels, which, when arriving at the site where it is to
be occupied as a dwelling unit, including major appliances, is ready for
occupancy.
      MOBILE HOME PARK. A tract of land in single ownership which has been
developed with all necessary facilities and services in accordance with a site
development plan meeting all the requirements of this chapter and which is
intended for the express purpose of providing a satisfying living environment
for mobile home residents on a long-term basis.
   (B)   No person shall own, operate, conduct, occupy, or use any mobile home
and/or mobile home park unless such person complies with all the provisions and
standards relating to health, sanitation, and safety, as provided in the state
statutes under I.C. 16-41-27-1 et seq. and related sections, and unless he or
she further complies with all such conditions contained in the ordinances to
the town.
   (C)   (1)   All mobile home parks within the jurisdictional zoning of the
town shall be established only after proper application for conditional use has
been made to the Board of Zoning Appeals, referred to the Plan Commission, and
a permit granted by the Board of Zoning Appeals after a hearing in accordance
with Section 19-60 of the town code.
      (2)   In the event that at the time a permit for a mobile home park is
granted by the Board of Zoning Appeals, said Board of Zoning Appeals imposes
certain conditions for use, said conditions of use not be maintained, the Board
of Zoning Appeals, after such public notice and hearing according to law, may
revoke such permit, and the operation of a mobile home park under such permit
shall be discontinued.
   (D)   The following design standards shall be construed as minimum
requirements for all mobile home parks.
      (1)   Mobile home parks shall meet all requirements as set forth in the
state statutes and the ordinances of the town, and in any appropriate
regulations of any state regulatory agency applicable to mobile home parks.
      (2)   Each mobile home lot shall be provided with water, sewage,
electricity, and any other utility connection common to the area.
      (3)   Each mobile home lot shall be provided with submerged or hidden
refuse containers with tight sealing lids.
      (4)   The minimum area of a mobile home park shall be ten acres with
access to major thoroughfare as approved by the Town Plan Commission and Board
of Zoning Appeals.
      (5)   The minimum area per mobile home lot shall be 4,000 square feet.
      (6)   Except at established entrances and exits serving the mobile home
park, a dense greenbelt of evergreen trees and/or shrubs, not less than six
feet high after one full growing season and which at maturity is not less than
12 feet high, shall be located and effectively maintained at all times along
the boundary of the mobile home park.
      (7)   Any mobile home park shall be adequately lighted as determined by
the particular plan for said mobile home park as approved by the Town Plan
Commission and the Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (8)   Each mobile home lot shall be provided with a foundation designed
to support the maximum anticipated foundation loads during all seasons, and
approved by the Building Commissioner. When solid concrete slabs are not used,
the area between the foundation shall be filled with a four-inch layer of
washed rock.
      (9)   Off-street parking must be provided to accommodate at least one and
one-half vehicles per mobile home lot. There shall be conveniently located
areas for visitor parking at a ratio of one-half spaces per lot with a minimum
of 25 spaces provided per park.
      (10)   All roads within a mobile home park must have a concrete or hot or
cold bituminous concrete surface of at least 20 feet in width. Entrance roads
must have a pavement width of at least 34 feet.
      (11)   No addition shall be made to a mobile home except a canopy and/or
porch open on three sides, or an addition made by the mobile home manufacturer.
      (12)   At least 250 square feet per mobile home lot, not to include
streets, parking areas, park service area, and not a part of the mobile home
lots, shall be provided in one or more locations on the premises for
recreational purposes. The minimum of such a recreation area shall be 20,000
square feet or the above, whichever is greater.
      (13)   The mobile home park shall be designed so as not to increase the
stormwater run-off to adjoining property that will result from the development.
      (14)   Each mobile home shall have properly attached to it a skirt or
extension of adequate nonflammable material or other material acceptable to the
Building Commissioner, covering the opening from the bottom of the unit to the
ground.
(Prior Code, § 8.7) (Ord. passed 7-7-1974) Penalty, see §
154.999
VEHICLE PARKING SPACE
§ 154.150 SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS.
   The specifications of §§
154.050,
154.070,
154.085, and
154.100, described in §
154.005, specify the off-street parking requirements for each type of use
permitted under the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1)
§ 154.151 PERMITS FOR PARKING LOTS IN RESIDENTIAL ZONES.
   (A)   In order to meet the requirements for vehicle parking space, where
such space is not available on the lot occupied by a building, as specified in
§§
154.070 through
154.100, the Board of Zoning Appeals may, after receipt of a favorable report
from the Plan Commission on the proposal and after public hearing and notice,
grant a permit for the establishment of a parking lot in an “S,” “A,” or “B”
District, provided that the entire area of the parking lot is within 300 feet
of an “LB,” “GB,” “LI,” or “HI” District, immediately adjacent to such church
or other place of congregation, and provided further that:
      (1)   There shall be no sales, storage, repair work, dismantling, or
servicing of any kind on said parking lot;
      (2)   Entrances and exits shall be approved as to location by the Plan
Commission;
      (3)   No parking shall be permitted nearer than two feet from the front
or side lot line;
      (4)   Except for otherwise approved entrances and exits, a curb or rail
not more than two feet in height and not less than eight inches in height shall
be erected so as to conform with the required front lot line, and may be
required along boundaries of the parking lot as determined by the Plan
Commission for the protection of adjoining residentially zoned or used
property;
      (5)   The lot shall be surfaced with a dustproof or hard surface meeting
the standard requirements of the town;
      (6)   No advertising signs shall be erected upon such lot, except not
more than one sign on each street side to indicate the operator and purpose of
the lot. Such sign shall not exceed 20 feet in area and shall not extend more
than ten feet in overall height above the ground level; and
      (7)   Lighting facilities, if provided, shall be so arranged as to be
reflected away from property residentially zoned or used.
   (B)   If, at any time after the issuance of the required permits, any of the
provisions of this section are not complied, with the permits shall be revoked.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1) Penalty, see §
154.999
UNIT DEVELOPMENT PLAN
§ 154.165 RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   The owner or owners of any tract of land comprising an area not less
than ten acres may submit to the Town Council a plan for the use and
development of the land, primarily for residential purposes. The proposed
development plans shall be submitted to the Plan Commission for examination,
study, and report, and for a public hearing in conformance with the
recommendations of the Plan Commission which shall be embodied in a report to
the Town Council, stating the reasons for the approval or disapproval of the
plan and application, and specific evidence and facts showing that the proposed
residential development plan has or has not considered and made provision for
the following essential elements.
      (1)   The appropriate use of property adjacent to the area included in
the plan will be fully safeguarded.
      (2)   The plan is consistent with the intent of this chapter to promote
public health, safety, and general welfare.
      (3)   The buildings shall be used primarily for single-family dwellings,
apartments, or group houses, and the usual accessory uses such as garages,
storage space, and community activities.
      (4)   The area of the tract, excluding street area, but including the
area to be devoted to parks, parkways, and other open spaces, will provide the
minimum lot area per family, counting all families to be housed under the unit
development plan, which is required for the most intensive use normally
permitted in the District which such development is located.
   (B)   If the Town Council approves the proposed residential development
plan, improvement location permits, and certificates of occupancy shall be
issued, even though the use of the land, the location of the buildings to be
erected in the area, and the yards and open spaces provided in the plan do not
conform in certain respects to the regulations for the District in which the
development is to be located.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1)
§ 154.166 COMMUNITY SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   The owner or owners of any tract of land, comprising an area of not
less than four acres, may submit in a similar manner a development plan for a
community shopping center, which shall be processed in the manner prescribed in
§
154.165(A). The plan, together with the recommendations of the Plan Commission,
shall be embodied in a report to the Town Council, stating the reason for the
approval or disapproval of the plan and application, and specific evidence and
facts showing that the proposed Community Shopping Center Development Plan has
or has not considered and made provision for the following elements.
      (1)   The commercial uses included in the Plan are limited to those
permitted in the “LB” District.
      (2)   The entire development is designed as a single architectural unit,
with appropriate landscape architectural treatment of the entire unit area.
      (3)   At least twice the gross floor area of the stores to be included
within the development, plus one vehicle parking space for each six seats in
any theater or place of congregation included within the Plan, is provided in
the off-street parking area, which are integral parts of the design of the unit
Plan.
      (4)   The appropriate use of the property adjacent to the area included
in the plan will be fully safeguarded.
      (5)   The Plan is consistent with the intent of this chapter to promote
the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   If the Town Council approves the proposed development for a community
shopping center, improvement location permits and certificates of occupancy
shall be issued as prescribed in §
154.165(B), herein.
   (C)   Land uses permitted in specific districts shall be as follows.
      (1)   “S” Districts.
         (a)   Agricultural uses of all types;
         (b)   Single-family dwellings;
         (c)   Two-family dwellings; and
         (d)   Special uses as indicated in §§
154.100 through
154.103,
154.150,
154.151,
154.165, and
154.166.
      (2)   “A” Districts.
         (a)   Single-family dwellings; and
         (b)    Special uses as indicated in §§
154.100 through
154.103,
154.150,
154.151,
154.165, and
154.166.
      (3)   “B” Districts.
         (a)   Single-family dwellings;
         (b)   Two-family dwellings;
         (c)   Group houses and garden apartments; and
         (d)   Special uses as indicated in §§
154.100 through
154.103,
154.150,
154.151,
154.165, and
154.166.
      (4)   “LB” Districts.
         (a)   Single-family dwellings;
         (b)   Two-family dwellings;
         (c)   Group houses, garden apartments, and apartments;
         (d)   Local business uses; and
         (e)   Special uses as indicated in §§
154.100 through
154.103,
154.150,
154.151,
154.165, and
154.166.
      (5)   “GB” Districts.
         (a)   Single-family dwellings;
         (b)   Two-family dwellings;
         (c)   Group houses, garden apartments, and apartments;
         (d)   Local business uses;
         (e)   General business uses;
         (f)   Limited industrial uses; and
         (g)   Special uses as indicated in §§
154.100 through
154.103,
154.150,
154.151,
154.165, and
154.166.
      (6)   “LI” Districts.
         (a)   Local business uses;
         (b)   General business uses;
         (c)   Limited industrial uses;
         (d)   Light industrial uses; and
         (e)   Special uses as indicated in §§
154.100 through
154.103,
154.150,
154.151,
154.165, and
154.166.
      (7)   “HI” Districts.
         (a)   Local business uses;
         (b)   General business uses;
         (c)   Limited industrial uses;
         (d)   Light industrial uses;
         (e)   Heavy industrial uses; and
         (f)   Special uses as indicated in §§
154.100 through
154.103,
154.150,
154.151,
154.165, and
154.166.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 154.180 ENFORCEMENT BY WHOM.
   The Building Commissioner is hereby designated and authorized to enforce
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1)
§ 154.181 IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMITS, PLATS.
   (A)   Within the jurisdictional area of the Town Plan Commission, no
structure, improvement, or use of land may be altered, changed, placed,
erected, or located on platted or unplatted lands, unless the structure,
improvement, or use, and its location, conform with the Master Plan and
ordinances of the town, and an improvement location permit for such structure,
improvement, or use has been issued, except that no permit is required for
buildings used exclusively for agricultural purposes on a tract of land
containing five acres or more, unless used for residence purposes.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner of the town shall issue an improvement
location permit, upon written application, when the proposed structure,
improvement, or use and its location conform in all respects to the Master Plan
of the town.
   (C)   Every application for an improvement location permit shall be
accompanied by a site plan, drawn to scale, showing the location of the
structure, improvement, or use to be altered, changed, placed, erected or
located, the dimensions of the lot to be improved, the size of yards and open
spaces, existing and proposed streets, and alleys adjoining or within the lot,
and the manner in which the location is to be improved. Application for an
improvement location permit for new construction of a principal building shall
be accompanied by a fee of $7, and application for an improvement location
permit for an accessory building or for alteration of an existing building
shall be accompanied by a fee of $4.
   (D)   Any decision of the Building Commissioner of the town concerning the
issuance of an improvement location permit may be appealed to the Board of
Zoning Appeals by any person claiming to be adversely affected by such
decision.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1)
§ 154.182 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   No land shall be occupied or used, and no building hereafter erected,
reconstructed, or structurally altered shall be occupied or used, in whole or
in part, for any purpose whatsoever, until a certificate of occupancy shall
have been issued by the Building Commissioner stating that the building and use
comply with all of the provisions of this chapter applicable to the building or
premises, or the use in the district in which it is to be located.
   (B)   No change in use shall be made in any building or part thereof, now or
hereafter erected, reconstructed, or structurally altered, without a
certificate of occupancy having been issued by the Building Commissioner, and
no such permit shall be issued to make such change unless it is in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Certificate of occupancy shall be applicable for coincidentally with
the application for an improvement location permit shall be issued within ten
days after the lawful erection, reconstruction, or structural alteration of
such building shall have been completed.
   (D)   A record of all certificates of occupancy shall be kept on file in the
office of the Building Commissioner, and copies shall be furnished upon request
to any person having a proprietary or tenancy interest in the building or land
affected.
   (E)   No improvement location permit shall be issued for excavation for or
the erection, reconstruction, or structural alteration of any building before
application has been made for a certificate of occupancy.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.183 FEES.
   (A)   Fees pertaining to this chapter are as follows.
Board of Zoning Appeals Fees
Board of Zoning Appeals Fees
Special use/exception               $75
Use variance                        $75
Variance of developmental standards $75
Plan Commission Fees
Planned Unit Development            $150
   Plus, per lot                 $2
Subdivision Applications
(Primary/Secondary)                 $150
   Major                         $100
   Minor                         $2
   Plus, per lot
Zoning ordinance change, re-zoning  $75
 
   (B)   The proceeds from such fees shall be deposited into the fund entitled
General Fund and the appropriation titled “Other Services and Charges.”
(Ord. 2021-5, 9-14-2021)
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
§ 154.195 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A Board of Zoning Appeals is hereby established in accordance with I.C. 36-
7-4-501 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1)
§ 154.196 COMPOSITION AND APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   The Board shall be composed of six members, five of whom shall be
residents of the town and one whom shall be a resident of the jurisdictional
area, and none of whom shall hold other elective or appointive office, except
that two of the six members shall be appointed from the Town Plan Commission’s
citizen membership.
   (B)   Of the original five members residing in the town, two shall be
appointed to serve four years, one for three years, one for two years, and one
for one year, and the appointee from the jurisdictional area shall be appointed
for a term of four years.
   (C)   Terms of these members shall expire on the first day of January in the
year in which their original appointments terminate. Thereafter, as the terms
expire, each new appointment shall be for a term of four years.
   (D)   All members of the Board residing in the town shall be appointed by
the President of the Town Council and the member from the jurisdictional area
shall be appointed by the Judge of the Circuit Court of the county.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1)
§ 154.197 ORGANIZATION.
   At the first meeting of each year, the Board shall elect a Chairperson and a
Vice-Chairperson from among its members, and it may appoint and fix the
compensation of a secretary and such employees as are necessary for the
discharge of its duties, all in conformity to and compliance with salaries and
compensations therefor fixed by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1)
§ 154.198 RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   The Board shall adopt rules and regulations as it may deem necessary to
effectuate the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1)
§ 154.199 MEETINGS AND RECORDS.
   All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public. The Board shall keep
minutes of its proceedings, keep records of its examinations and other official
actions, prepare findings, and record the vote of each member voting upon each
question. All minutes and records shall be filed in the office of the Board and
shall be a public record.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1)
§ 154.200 APPEALS FROM BUILDING COMMISSIONER.
   Any decision of the Building Commissioner made in enforcement of this
chapter may be appealed to the Board of Zoning Appeals by any person claiming
to be adversely affected by such decision.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1)
§ 154.201 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD.
   (A)   The Board shall have the following powers, and it shall be its duty
to:
      (1)   Hear and determine appeals from and review any order, requirement,
decision, or determination made by the Building Commissioner in the enforcement
of this chapter;
      (2)   Hear and decide on permits for conditional uses, development plans,
or other uses upon which the Board is required to act under this chapter; and
      (3)   Authorize upon appeal in specific cases such variances from the
terms of this chapter as will not be contrary to the public interest, where
owing to special conditions, fully demonstrated on the basis of the facts
presented, a literal enforcement of the provisions of the chapter will result
in unnecessary hardship, and so that the spirit of this chapter shall be
observed and substantial justice be done.
   (B)   In exercising its powers, the Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or
partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision, or determination
appealed from as in its opinion ought to be done in the premises, and to that
end shall have all the powers of the Building Commissioner from whom the appeal
is taken.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1)
§ 154.202 RESTRICTIONS ON BOARD ACTION.
   (A)   Every decision of the Board shall be subject to review by certiorari.
   (B)   No variance in the application of the provisions of this chapter shall
be made by the Board relating to the buildings, land, or premises now existing
or to be constructed unless after a public hearing, the Board shall find that
such variance will not:
      (1)   Alter the land use characteristics of the district;
      (2)   Impair the adequate supply of light and air to adjacent property;
      (3)   Increase the hazard from fire, flood, and other dangers to said
property;
      (4)   Diminish the marketable value of adjacent land and buildings;
      (5)   Increase the congestion in the public streets; and/or
      (6)   Otherwise impair the public health, safety, convenience, comfort,
or general welfare.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   Any person or corporation who shall violate any of the provisions of this
chapter or fail to comply therewith, or with any of the requirements thereof,
or who shall alter the use of land or build, reconstruct, or structurally alter
any building without first securing an improvement location permit, or who
shall build, reconstruct, or structurally alter any building in violation of
any detailed statement or plan submitted and approved thereunder, or who shall
occupy such altered land use or new or structurally altered building prior to
securing a certificate of occupancy, shall, for each and every violation or
non-compliance, be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined
not less than $10 and not more than $300.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS
      
III.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
      
IV.   LAND VACATIONS
      
V.   ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AREAS
      
VI.   PUBLIC PROPERTY
      
VII.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
-             - -         Expired cable television franchise, 1980.
                          (Prior Code, § 6.3.1)
-             - -         Amendment of cable television franchise, Ord. 1980-1.
                          (Prior Code, § 6.3.2)
                          Amendment of cable television franchise, Ord. 1980-1,
1989-3        - -         concerning the granting of a non-exclusive franchise.
                          (Prior Code, § 6.3.3)
                          Fifteen-year franchise agreement with Mediacom
2000-5        10-10-2000  Indiana, LLC, for cable television service.
                          (Prior Code, § 6.3.4)
                         
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS
Ord./Res. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. Date Passed Description
                      Annexation of all of the highway right-of-way of State
                      Road 331 (being the extension of Main Street), which lies
1970-7    - -         North of the present corporation limits of the town, and
                      South of the new U.S. Highway 30.
                      (Prior Code, § 9.1.6)
                      Annexation of the property located in Section 24,
1969-1    3-5-1969    Township 33 North, Range 3 East, containing 0.6 acres,
                      more or less.
                      (Prior Code, § 9.1.8)
                      Annexation of the property located in Section 24,
1970-2    2-3-1971    Township 33 North, Range 3 East, containing 66 acres.
                      (Prior Code, § 9.1.5)
                      Annexation of the property located in Section 18,
1972-1    5-17-1972   Township 33 North, Range 4 East.
                      (Prior Code, § 9.1.3)
                      Annexation of the property located in Section 19,
1975-1    8-6-1975    Township 33 North, Range 4 East.
                      (Prior Code, § 9.1.4)
                      Annexation of the property located in Section 19,
1975-4    12-17-1975  Township 33 North, Range 4 East, Lot 6.
                      (Prior Code, § 9.1.2)
                      Annexation of the property located in Section 23,
1977-2    3-2-1977    Township 33 North, Range 3 East, containing 9.19 acres.
                      (Prior Code, § 9.1.1)
                      Annexation of the property located in Section 24,
1983-4    10-19-1983  Township 33 North, Range 3 East.
                      (Prior Code, § 9.1.9)
                      Annexation of the property located in Section 24,
1983-6    11-2-1983   Township 33 North, Range 3 East.
                      (Prior Code, § 9.1.11)
                      Annexation of the property located in Section 23,
-         5-6-1987    Township 33 North, Range 3 East, containing 14.53 acres.
                      (Prior Code, § 9.1.7)
                      Correction of Ord. 1987-3, which annexed property located
-         2-1-1989    in Section 23, Township 33 North, Range 3 East.
                      (Prior Code, § 9.1.12)
                      Annexation of the property located in Section 24,
-         5-21-1991   Township 33 North, Range 3 East, containing 9.52 acres.
                      (Prior Code, § 9.1.13)
                      Annexation of the property located in Section 19,
1994-6    8-16-1994   Township 33 North, Range 4 East, containing 2.3 acres.
                      (Prior Code, § 9.1.14)
                      Annexation of the South half of 12B Road from the
                      corporate limits of the town to Elm Road; Lincoln Highway
                      from the West corporate limits of the town to Elm Road;
1997-2    3-18-1997   and any portion of the North half of Shaffer Road not
                      already annexed to the town from Highway 331 to Triton
                      School corporation boundary.
                      (Prior Code, § 9.1.16)
1997-8    8-5-1997    Annexation of specific property within the town.
                      (Prior Code, § 9.1.15)
                      Annexation of the property located in Section 19,
1998-2    2-3-1998    Township 33 North, Range 4 East, containing 2.1 acres.
                      (Prior Code, § 9.1.17)
                      Annexation of the property located in Section 19,
1999-4    9-14-1999   Township 33 North, Range 4 East, containing 2.9 acres.
                      (Prior Code, § 9.1.18)
                      Annexation of the property located in Section 19,
-         6-12-2001   Township 33 North, Range 4 East, containing 3.55 acres.
                      (Prior Code, § 9.1.19)
2014-01   4-24-2014   Annexation of the property located in Section 18,
                      Township 33 North, Range 4 East, containing 75.36 acres.
2014-3    7-8-2014    Annexation of specific property within the town.
2015-2    2-10-2015   Annexation of two parcels, both of which begin in Section
                      18, Township 33 North, Range 4 East.
                     
 
TABLE III: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
1979- 5-2-   Rezoning two areas from Agricultural and Suburban to Commercial.
2     1979   (Prior Code, § 8.5.3)
1983- 11-1-  Rezoning an area from B-2 to A.
5     1983   (Prior Code, § 9.1.10)
1983- 11-2-  Rezoning an area from A to B-2.
5     1983   (Prior Code, § 8.5.5)
1974- 7-3-   Rezoning an area to Commercial, containing 8.4 acres.
2     1984   (Prior Code, § 8.5.2)
1987- 3-4-   Replacing the town zoning map, as prepared on October 2, 1986.
1     1987   (Prior Code, § 8.5.6)
1988- 5-4-   Rezoning an area to “Two Family and Group House Residential District.”
5     1988   (Prior Code, § 8.5.7)
1998- 8-4-   Rezoning an area to B-2.
7     1998   (Prior Code, § 8.5.4)
2012- 5-8-   Rezoning an area within the town.
1     2012
2023- 5-9-   Rezoning an area from A to B.
08    2023
 
TABLE IV: LAND VACATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Descriptionv
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Descriptionv
No.
             Vacation of a 12-foot wide alley running East and West between Bourbon Street
1991- - -    and Third Street lying between Lots 35, 36, and 37, and Lots 45, 46, and 47 in
1            John F. Park’s continued addition.
             (Prior Code, § 8.6.8)
1986- 3-5-   Vacation of the land on Jefferson Street, located on the North line of Section
2     1986   19, Township 33 North, Range 4 East.
             (Prior Code, § 8.6.1)
      3-18-  Vacation of the land within Grant Street between Jefferson Street and Sunset
-     1987   Drive.
             (Prior Code, § 8.6.2)
1990- 9-4-   Vacation of a portion of Thayer Street in the Southwest quarter of Section 19,
3     1990   Township 33 North, Range 4 East.
             (Prior Code, § 8.6.5)
1990- 10-2-  Vacation of Lot 13 in Linn’s addition, Lot 14 in Linn’s addition, and Lot 1 in
6     1990   Linn’s addition.
             (Prior Code, § 8.6.6)
1993- 1-19-  Vacation of the land located in Lot 2 of William J. Ball’s addition.
5     1993   (Prior Code, § 8.6.3)
             Vacation of an unimproved platted street located between Lots 5 and 6, and
1994- 9-6-   Lots 13 and 14, running North and South between W. Park Avenue and W. North
7     1994   Street in Ball’s addition.
             (Prior Code, § 8.6.4)
             Vacation of the East 15 feet and the West 10 feet of the street right-of-way
1998- 1-6-   known as Greer Street running North and South between Center and Jefferson
2     1998   Streets and between Lots 4, 5, 12, and 13 of the James M. Greer, Sr. addition.
             (Prior Code, § 8.6.7)
2011- 4-12-  Vacation of an alley in Ball’s and Benton’s additions.
05    2011
             Vacation of the right-of-way found between parcel numbers 503419301199000000 2
2022- 3-8-   and 503419301206000002; with Jackson Street at the South of said right-of-way
1     2022   and parcel number 503419301404000002 on the Northernmost boundary; and the
             Northwestern parcel of 503419301195000002.
2023- 4-11-  Vacation of land located in parcel numbers 503324400222200000 2 and
7     2023   503324402230000002, running along Thompson Street and Quad Street, and dead
             ending into the railroad tracks.
            
 
TABLE V: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AREAS
 
Ord./Res. Date Passed Description
No.
R. 2021-  - -2021     Approval of Res. 2021-IRDC concerning property to become
01PC                  an Economic Development Area.
R. 2021-  5-27-2021   Declaratory resolution amending the Economic Development
IRDC                  Area originally established in “Resolution No. 1.”
                      Approval of Res. 2021-1PC concerning the property
2021-11   12-14-2021  located at 12340 Elm Road to become an Economic
                      Development Area.
 
TABLE VI: PUBLIC PROPERTY
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Authorizing the condemnation of real estate for a
2001-8        9-11-2001   drainage easement.
                          (Prior Code, § 8.9)
2012-05       9-10-2012   Renaming State Road 331 as Main Street.
                         
 
TABLE VII: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Approving a street lighting contract with Northern
1985-2        8-7-1985    Indiana Public Service Company.
                          (Prior Code, § 3.5)
2020-07       11-10-2020  Reimbursement of public health and public safety
                          payroll costs with the CARES Act Funding.
                         
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
Indiana Code Code Section
Indiana Code           Code Section
1-1-1-5                10.04
1-1-1-7                10.12
1-1-1-8                10.06
1-1-4-5                10.05
1-1-5-1                10.11
1-1-6-1                10.08
4-6-15                 31.06
5-3-1                  31.071
5-14-3-2               33.01
5-14-3-3               33.01
6-3.6-9-17             31.003
6-3.6-9-17(h)(1)(A)    31.03
6-7-1-0.3 et seq.      31.001
8-1.5-3-4(a)           35.16
8-1.5-5-6              35.16
8-1.5-5-7              53.02
8-14-1-1               31.02
8-22-2                 31.03
8-22-3-1               31.03
8-23-4                 90.18
8-23-30                31.03
9-18-12                90.21
9-21-1-2               Ch. 73, Schd. X
9-21-1-3               Ch. 73, Schd. X
9-22-1                 90.17
9-22-1-8               90.19
9-22-1-15              90.22
9-22-1-19              90.19
9-22-1-30              90.20
9-30-3-6               Ch. 73, Schd. X
15-1.1-6-1—15-2.1-6-191.09
16-41-27-1 et seq.     154.137
22-9-1-4 et seq.       93.02
22-9-5-6               93.02
22-9-5-6(b)            93.02
22-9-5-6(d)(3)         93.02
22-9.5-1 et. seq.      93.01
22-9.5-2-3             93.02
22-9.5-2-8             93.02
22-9.5-4-8             93.09
22-9.5-5               93.02
22-9.5-5-3 et seq.     93.08
22-9.5-6               93.02;
                       93.09
22-11-14-10.5          92.34
34-28-5                Ch. 73, Schd. X
36-1-3-8(a)(10)        10.99
36-4-9-2               35.16
36-4-9-12              35.16
36-5-2-2               10.15
36-5-2-4.1(g)          30.02
36-7-9-1—36-7-9-28   150.03;
                       150.05
36-7-9-2               150.03;
                       150.05
36-7-9-3               150.05
36-7-9-4               150.03
36-7-9-14              150.03
36-7-9-28              150.99
36-9-15.5              31.07
36-10-5-2(b)(1)        35.01
Title 9                Ch. 73, Schd. X
                       
 
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Code Section
Prior Code Code Section
2.1        30.01
2.2        30.03
2.3        30.02
2.4        31.001
2.6.2      32.01
2.6.3      32.01
2.6.4      32.01
2.6.5      32.01
2.9.3      31.035
2.10       31.008
2.11       130.01
2.12       130.02
2.15       31.009
2.16.1     31.050—
           31.052
2.16.2     31.050
2.18.1     31.065
2.18.2     31.066—
           31.075
2.20       35.16
           52.001;
           52.002;
           52.015—
           52.023;
           52.035—
3.1        52.039;
           52.050—
           52.054;
           52.065—
           52.073;
           52.999
3.2.1      50.15—
           50.22
3.4.5      51.01;
           51.99
3.5        TSO Table VII
3.6.1      54.01;
           54.99
3.6.1A     54.99
3.6.2      54.02
3.7        50.01
4.1        70.01;
           70.99
           Ch. 73, Schd. I;
           Ch. 73, Schd. III;
4.2.1      Ch. 73, Schd. V;
           Ch. 74, Schd. I;
           Ch. 74, Schd. II
           Ch. 73, Schd. I;
4.2.2      Ch. 73, Schd. V;
           Ch. 74, Schd. II
4.2.3      Ch. 73, Schd. VI
           Ch. 73, Schd. I;
4.2.4      Ch. 73, Schd. V;
           Ch. 74, Schd. II
4.2.5      Ch. 73, Schd. IV
4.2.6      Ch. 73, Schd. I
           Ch. 73, Schd. I;
4.2.7      Ch. 74, Schd. II;
           Ch. 74, Schd. III
4.2.8      Ch. 73, Schd. V
4.2.9      Ch. 73, Schd. I;
           Ch. 73, Schd. V
4.2.10     Ch. 73, Schd. VII
4.2.11     Ch. 73, Schd. V
4.2.12     Ch. 73, Schd. I
4.2.13     Ch. 73, Schd. II
4.2.14     Ch. 73, Schd. V
4.2.15     Ch. 73, Schd. I
4.2.16     Ch. 74, Schd. II;
           Ch. 74, Schd. III
4.3        70.15-
           70.17
4.4.1      72.01-
           72.06
4.4.2      Ch. 73, Schd. VIII
4.5.1      Ch. 74, Schd. II
4.5.2      Ch. 74, Schd. II
4.5.3      Ch. 74, Schd. II
4.5.4      Ch. 74, Schd. II
           71.01;
4.5.5      71.99;
           Ch. 74, Schd. IV
4.6.1      Ch. 73, Schd. IX
4.6.2      Ch. 73, Schd. IX
4.6.3      Ch. 73, Schd. IX
5.1A       91.14
           91.10—
5.1.1      91.13;
           91.99
5.3.2      92.99
5.4        152.24;
           152.99
5.5        150.04
           152.15—
5.6        152.23;
           152.99
5.7        151.01
           92.01;
           92.15;
5.8        92.16;
           92.30—
           92.33;
           92.99
5.8.13     92.02
5.9        94.02;
           94.99
5.10.1     72.20
5.10.1A    Ch. 73, Schd. VIII
5.10.2     72.21
5.11       94.01
5.12       130.03;
           130.99
5.13       131.01;
           131.99
6.1        110.01
6.2        111.01;
           111.99
6.3.1      TSO Table I
6.3.2      TSO Table I
6.3.3      TSO Table I
6.3.4      TSO Table I
6.4        92.45—
           92.47
7.1        131.02;
           131.99
8.2.1      150.01
8.2.2      150.01
8.2.4      150.05
8.3        150.06
           153.01—
           153.03;
           153.15;
8.4.1      153.17;
           153.30—
           153.38;
           153.99
8.4.1A     153.16
8.4.1B     153.03
           154.001—
           154.009;
           154.020—
           154.023;
           154.035—
           154.039;
           154.050—
           154.055;
           154.070—
           154.073;
           154.085—
           154.089;
8.5.1      154.100—
           154.103;
           154.115—
           154.123;
           154.135;
           154.150;
           154.151;
           154.165;
           154.166;
           154.180—
           154.182;
           154.195—
           154.202;
           154.999
8.5.1A     154.135;
           154.136
8.5.1B     154.135
8.5.2      TSO Table III
8.5.3      TSO Table III
8.5.4      TSO Table III
8.5.5      TSO Table III
8.5.6      TSO Table III
8.5.7      TSO Table III
8.6.1      TSO Table IV
8.6.2      TSO Table IV
8.6.3      TSO Table IV
8.6.4      TSO Table IV
8.6.5      TSO Table IV
8.6.6      TSO Table IV
8.6.7      TSO Table IV
8.6.8      TSO Table IV
8.7        154.137
8.8        152.01
8.9        TSO Table VI
9.1.1      TSO Table II
9.1.2      TSO Table II
9.1.3      TSO Table II
9.1.4      TSO Table II
9.1.5      TSO Table II
9.1.6      TSO Table II
9.1.7      TSO Table II
9.1.8      TSO Table II
9.1.9      TSO Table II
9.1.10     TSO Table III
9.1.11     TSO Table II
9.1.12     TSO Table II
9.1.13     TSO Table II
9.1.14     TSO Table II
9.1.15     TSO Table II
9.1.16     TSO Table II
9.1.17     TSO Table II
9.1.18     TSO Table II
9.1.19     TSO Table II
           
 
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No.  Date Passed Code Section
2021-01PC - -2021     TSO Table V
2021-IRDC 5-27-2021   TSO Table V
2023-06   9-12-2023   31.024
                     
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.  Date Passed Code Section
-         - -         TSO Table I
-         - -         TSO Table I
1970-7    - -         TSO Table I
1977-3    - -         152.24;
                      152.99
1977-4    - -         111.01;
                      111.99
1986-7    - -         32.01
1989-3    - -         TSO Table I
1991-1    - -         TSO Table IV
1997-12   - -         32.01
2002-2    - -         Ch. 74, Schd. III
2002-8    - -         Ch. 73, Schd. I
2004-2    - -         Ch. 74, Schd. III
2006-7    - -         Ch. 73, Schd. I
                      Ch. 73, Schd. I;
2007-04   - -         Ch. 73, Schd. III;
                      Ch. 73 Schd. V
2010-01   - -         54.02
1970-4    11-4-       150.04
1-1965    6-16-1965   31.001
1969-1    3-5-1969    TSO Table II
1970-2    2-3-1971    TSO Table II
1972-1    5-17-1972   TSO Table II
-         8-15-1973   54.01
-         7-7-1974    154.137
1975-1    8-6-1975    TSO Table II
1975-2    8-6-1975    110.01
1975-4    12-17-1975  TSO Table II
1977-2    3-2-1977    TSO Table II
1978-1    1-18-1978   30.03
1979-1    1-17-1979   30.03
1979-2    5-2-1979    TSO Table III
-         12-31-1980  153.16
1983-4    10-19-1983  TSO Table II
1983-5    11-1-1983   TSO Table III
1983-5    11-2-1983   TSO Table III
1983-6    11-2-1983   TSO Table II
1974-2    7-3-1984    TSO Table III
1984-5    11-7-1984   Ch. 74, Schd. II
1985-2    8-7-1985    TSO Table VII
1986-2    3-5-1986    TSO Table IV
1986-4    12-3-1986   54.02
1986-5    12-3-1986   31.008
1987-1    3-4-1987    TSO Table III
-         3-18-1987   TSO Table IV
-         5-6-1987    TSO Table II
1988-1    1-20-1988   Ch. 73, Schd. IX
1988-3    4-20-1988   72.20
1988-4    4-20-1988   94.02;
                      94.99
1988-5    5-4-1988    TSO Table III
1988-7    9-21-1988   72.21
-         2-1-1989    TSO Table II
1989-2    4-5-1989    Ch. 73 Schd. IX
-         9-6-1989    Ch. 73, Schd. VIII
-         5-2-1990    Ch. 73, Schd. I
1990-3    9-4-1990    TSO Table IV
1990-6    10-2-1990   TSO Table IV
1990-8    12-18-1990  Ch. 73, Schd. I
-         5-21-1991   TSO Table II
1991-8    6-18-1991   32.01
-         4-7-1992    Ch. 73, Schd. I;
                      Ch. 73, Schd. V
-         5-5-1992    54.01
1992-3    7-21-1992   91.14
1992-6    9-1-1992    Ch. 73, Schd. IX
1993-3    1-5-1993    Ch. 73, Schd. VII
1993-5    1-19-1993   TSO Table IV
1993-7    4-20-1993   Ch. 73, Schd. V
1993-9    5-19-1993   51.01
1993-11   8-3-1993    94.01;
                      94.99
1993-12   10-5-1993   32.01
1994-6    8-16-1994   TSO Table II
1994-7    9-6-1994    TSO Table IV
1994-10   9-20-1994   Ch. 73, Schd. I
1996-1    3-5-1996    130.03;
                      130.99
1996-2    3-5-1996    50.15—
                      50.22
1996-4    6-18-1996   131.01;
                      131.99
1996-6    7-2-1996    35.050—035.52
1996-5    10-15-1996  31.009
1996-7    10-15-1996  35.16
1996-9    11-19-1996  152.01
1997-2    3-18-1997   TSO Table II
1997-4    3-18-1997   154.135
1997-6    5-6-1997    Ch. 73, Schd. I;
                      Ch. 73, Schd. V
1997-7    7-15-1997   30.02
1997-8    8-5-1997    TSO Table II
-         10-7-1997   154.135
1998-2    1-6-1998    TSO Table IV
1998-2    2-3-1998    TSO Table II
1998-5    7-21-1998   31.065
1998-6    7-21-1998   31.066—
                      31.075
1998-4.27 8-4-1998    Ch. 73, Schd. II;
                      Ch. 73 Schd. V
1998-7    8-4-1998    TSO Table III
-         10-6-1998   130.02
1998-9    11-3-1998   150.05
1999-2    1-19-1999   31.035
1999-4    9-14-1999   TSO Table II
1999-7    12-14-1999  130.01
2000-2    5-9-2000    Ch. 73, Schd. VIII
2000-5    10-10-2000  TSO Table I
-         6-12-2001   TSO Table II
2001-4    6-12-2001   35.050
-         8-14-2001   Ch. 74, Schd. IV
2001-8    9-11-2001   TSO Table VI
2006-6    12-12-2006  50.20
2007-03   10-9-2007   50.21
2008-4    7-8-2008    92.02;
                      92.99
2008-7    11-13-2008  91.11
-         - -2010     30.01
2011-02   1-11-2011   Ch. 74, Schd. I
2011-03   2-8-2011    32.01
2011-4    3-8-2011    151.01
2011-05   4-12-2011   TSO Table IV
2011-06   5-10-2011   32.01
2011-07   5-10-2011   150.02
2011-08   8-9-2011    90.02
2011-09   8-9-2011    Ch. 74, Schd. V
2011-10   12-13-2011  34.01—
                      34.01
2011-11   12-13-2011  94.03;
                      94.99
2011-12   12-13-2011  132.01;
                      132.99
2011-13   12-13-2011  Ch. 74, Schd. VI
-         5-8-2012    91.16
2012-1    5-8-2012    TSO Table III
2012-02   7-10-2012   152.03
2012-3    8-14-2012   34.05
2012-4    8-14-2012   34.06
2012-05   9-10-2012   TSO Table VI
2013-1    3-12-2013   34.05
2013-3    10-8-2013   90.01;
                      90.99
2013-5    12-10-2013  53.01—
                      53.04
2013-7    12-10-2013  32.01
2013-8    2-11-2014   32.01
2014-01   4-24-2014   TSO Table II
2014-3    7-8-2014    TSO Table II
2014-6    11-11-2014  35.15
2014-8    12-9-2014   31.020
2015-1    1-13-2015   50.19;
                      50.22
2015-2    2-10-2015   TSO Table II
2016-1    6-14-2016   31.003
2016-2    10-11-2016  91.15
2017-1    2-14-2017   34.04
2017-2    7-11-2017   31.002
2017-3    10-10-2017  31.004
2017-5    11-14-2017  51.15—
                      51.23
                      93.02—
2018-1    3-13-2018   93.09;
                      93.99
2018-3    9-11-2018   30.04
2019-2    5-14-2019   150.03;
                      150.99
2019-3    7- -2019    92.34
2019-4    9-10-2019   35.01
2020-01   2-11-2020   31.021
2020-02   3-10-2020   Ch. 73, Schd. X
2020-03   9-8-2020    50.02
2020-04   9-8-2020    50.02
2020-05   11-10-2020  33.01;
                      33.99
2020-07   11-10-2020  TSO Table VII
2020-06   12-8-2020   72.35
2021-02   4-13-2021   31.005
2021-01   4-14-2021   31.023
2021-3    5-18-2021   72.35;
                      72.99
                      90.15—
2021-4    6-8-2021    90.23;
                      90.99
2021-07   8-10-2021   152.02
2021-5    9-14-2021   154.183
2021-06   9-14-2021   151.02
2021-11   12-14-2021  TSO Table V
2021-8    1-11-2022   91.01—
                      91.09
2022-1    3-8-2022    TSO Table IV
2022-02   10-11-2022  31.022
2022-03   10-11-2022  31.006
2022-05   12-13-2022  54.02
2023-2    2-14-2023   51.02
2023-5    4-11-2023   31.007
2023-7    4-11-2023   TSO Table IV
2023-08   5-9-2023    TSO Table III
2023-6    6-13-2023   32.01
2023-09   8-8-2023    152.24
                     
 
 
