BREMEN, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Current through Ord. 6-2024, passed 5-28-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
DIRECTORY OF OFFICIALS
of the
TOWN OF BREMEN, INDIANA
TOWN COUNCIL
William Daily
Michael Leman
Alex Mikel
Bryan Miller
CLERK-TREASURER
Janet Anglemyer
DIRECTOR OF OPERATIONS
Keith Fraine
SPECIAL THANKS:
Rick Graverson
James Leeper
Trend Weldy
 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Adoption of code
   
10.02   Short title
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Repeal of general ordinances; ordinances unaffected
   
10.05   Limitation periods
   
10.06   Preservation of existing rights
   
10.07   Subsequent ordinances
   
10.08   Numbering of ordinances
   
10.09   Construction of code
   
10.10   Definitions
   
10.11   Rules of construction
   
10.12   Reference to other sections
   
10.13   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.14   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.15   Errors and omissions
   
10.16   Annual revision
   
10.17   Public availability
   
10.18   Severability
 
   
10.99   General penalty
Cross-reference:
   Ordinance and resolution procedures, see
Ch. 30
   Penalty fee schedules, see
Ch. 34
   Town policies and procedures, see
Ch. 33
§ 10.01 ADOPTION OF CODE.
   The substantive general ordinances shall constitute and be designated as the
“Town Code of Bremen, Indiana,” and may be so cited.
(Prior Code, § 1.01)
§ 10.02 SHORT TITLE.
   For brevity herein, the “Town Code of Bremen, Indiana” will sometimes be
referred to as “the code” or “this code,” and any use of said phrases shall be
construed to mean the “Town Code of Bremen, Indiana,” unless the context
clearly requires some other meaning.
(Prior Code, § 1.02)
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES; ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   All of the provisions of this code shall be in full force and effect
two weeks from the date of publication and the filing thereof in the office of
the Clerk-Treasurer. All ordinances of a general and permanent nature in force
at that time are hereby repealed from and after said date.
   (B)   The repeal of any ordinance by this code shall not affect any suit,
proceeding, right, forfeiture or penalty instituted, given, secured or accrued
under any ordinance prior to the effective date of this code, but may be
prosecuted, enjoyed or recovered as fully as if such ordinance had continued in
force.
   (C)   The following types of ordinances are not repealed by this section:
      (1)   Any ordinance relative to the purchase or sale of property;
      (2)   Any ordinance accepting gifts and dedications of real estate;
      (3)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment
of money by the town, or authorizing the issuance of bonds of the town, or
other evidence of the town’s indebtedness, or any contract or obligation
assumed by the town;
      (4)   Any administrative ordinances or resolutions of the Town Council
not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this code;
      (5)   Any ordinances which are transfer or appropriation ordinances;
      (6)   Any ordinances concerning the annexation or disannexation of
territory to or from the town, or binding boundaries of the town;
      (7)   Any ordinances changing or concerning names of streets, or opening
or closing streets;
      (8)   Any ordinances which constitute amendments to the zoning map of the
town; and
      (9)   Any ordinances accepting, releasing or abandoning easements.
(Prior Code, § 1.03)
§ 10.05 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code shall not be affected by
the repeal and reenactment, but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.06 PRESERVATION OF EXISTING RIGHTS.
   The repeal of any ordinance or portion thereof or any prior municipal code
by the adoption of this code shall not affect or impair any act done or right
vested or accrued, or any proceeding, suit or prosecution had or commenced in
any cause, before such repeal takes effect; but every such act done, or right
vested or accrued, or proceeding, suit or prosecution had or commenced, shall
remain in full force and effect to all intents and purposes as if such repeal
had not taken place. No offense committed and no liability, penalty or
forfeiture, either civilly or criminally incurred prior to the time when any
such ordinance or part thereof shall be repealed by the adoption of this code,
shall be discharged or affected by such repeal; but prosecutions and suits for
such offenses, liabilities, penalties or forfeitures shall be instituted and
proceeded with in all respects as if such prior ordinance or part thereof or
prior municipal code had not been repealed.
(Prior Code, § 1.07)
§ 10.07 SUBSEQUENT ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Ordinances passed after the effective date of this code shall be
incorporated into the same at its annual revision as herein provided (or as
directed by the Town Council). Said ordinances shall be passed as amendments or
additions to this code unless they are of limited or special application, or
are otherwise deemed to be not a part of this code.
(Prior Code, § 1.04)
   (B)   (1)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing
chapter or section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically
repealed and a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment,
substituted in its place.
      (2)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.08 NUMBERING OF ORDINANCES.
   Ordinances as passed shall be numbered in consecutive chronological order on
a yearly basis, regardless of whether or not such subsequent ordinances are
included in whole or in part in this code.
(Prior Code, § 1.05)
§ 10.09 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.10 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Generally. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CODE. The words CODE, THE CODE or THIS CODE may be used as short title
for the “Town Code of Bremen, Indiana.”
(Prior Code, § 3.02)
      COUNCIL. The words COUNCIL, THE COUNCIL or SUCH COUNCIL shall mean the
Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 3.03)
      COUNTY. The words THE COUNTY or THIS COUNTY shall mean the County of
Marshall, State of Indiana.
(Prior Code, § 3.04)
      MONTH. A calendar month.
(Prior Code, § 3.05)
      OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases which, by law, an affirmation
may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases, the word SWEAR shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM or AFFIRMED.
(Prior Code, § 3.06)
      OWNER. Applied to a building or land, includes any person, group of
persons, firm or firms, corporation or corporations or any other legal entity
having legal title to or sufficient proprietary interest of the whole or part
of such building or land.
(Prior Code, § 3.07)
      PERSON. Includes a corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, trustee or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a natural
person.
(Prior Code, § 3.08)
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property. The words PERSONAL
PROPERTY shall include every species of property except real property, and the
words REAL PROPERTY shall include lands, tenements and hereditaments.
(Prior Code, § 3.09)
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any street or highway, sidewalk, park, cemetery, schoolyard
or open space adjacent thereto, and any lake or stream or any other place of
public resort or accommodation.
(Prior Code, § 3.10)
      REASONABLE TIME. In all cases where any provision shall require any act
to be done in a reasonable time, or reasonable notice to be given to any
person, such REASONABLE TIME OR NOTICE shall be deemed to mean such time only
as may be necessary in the prompt execution of such duty or compliance with
such notice.
(Prior Code, § 3.11)
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of the street between the curb line and the
adjacent property line intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
(Prior Code, § 3.12)
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when a person cannot write.
(Prior Code, § 3.13)
      STATE. The words THE STATE or THIS STATE shall mean the State of Indiana.
(Prior Code, § 3.14)
      STREET. Includes streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, viaducts
and all other public highways in the town.
(Prior Code, § 3.15)
      TENANT. The words TENANT or OCCUPANT, applied to a building or land,
shall include any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies
the whole or a part of, such building or land, either alone or with others.
(Prior Code, § 3.16)
      TOWN. Shall be construed as if the words “of Bremen, Marshall County,
Indiana” follow it.
(Prior Code, § 3.17)
      VEHICLE. Any device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human power.
(Prior Code, § 3.18)
      YEAR. A calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 3.19)
   (B)   Definitions in chapters. Certain chapters of this code contain other
definitions applicable particularly to such chapters. In case of any conflict
between the definitions provided in this chapter and such other definitions,
the other definitions shall prevail in the chapters where applicable.
(Prior Code, § 3.20)
   (C)   State definitions to apply. Unless clearly in conflict with
definitions or other provisions of this code, or otherwise clearly
inapplicable, definitions established for this state by statute or case shall
apply to this code.
(Prior Code, § 3.21)
§ 10.11 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Generally. In the absence of a contrary intent by the Town Council,
the words and phrases used in all ordinances shall be construed in their plain,
ordinary and usual sense.
(Prior Code, § 2.01)
   (B)   Gender. Words used in the masculine gender shall include feminine and
neuter.
(Prior Code, § 2.02)
   (C)   Singular and plural. Words importing the singular shall include the
plural, and words importing the plural shall include the singular.
(Prior Code, § 2.03)
   (D)   Time. The use of either past, present or future tense shall include
the other tenses.
(Prior Code, § 2.04)
   (E)   Joint authority. Words giving a joint authority to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority
of such persons or officers.
(Prior Code, § 2.05)
   (F)   Computation of time. The time within which an act shall be done, as
herein provided, shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the
last. If the last day be a Sunday or legal holiday, it shall be excluded.
(Prior Code, § 2.06)
   (G)   Agents. Whenever this code requires an act to be done, said act may
legally be performed by an agent or employee as well as by the principal; such
requirement shall be satisfied by the performance of such act by an authorized
agent or employee.
(Prior Code, § 2.07)
   (H)   Filing, notification and the like at town offices. Whenever this code
shall require filing, payment to or notification of any town official or
department, said requirement shall be satisfied by filing, payment or
notification at the regular office of such town official or department during
normal business hours on any business day.
(Prior Code, § 2.08)
   (I)   “And” and “or”. The words AND and OR may be read as interchangeable
where the sense requires it.
(Prior Code, § 2.09)
   (J)   Preceding and following. The words PRECEDING and FOLLOWING shall mean
next before and next after, respectively.
(Prior Code, § 2.10)
   (K)   Written. The words WRITTEN or IN WRITING shall be construed to include
any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by printing or
otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 2.11)
   (L)   Section headings. The capitalized or bold print section headings of
this code are intended as mere catchwords for emphasis on the contents only and
as such shall not be construed as a part of the section.
(Prior Code, § 2.12)
   (M)   Repeal, revival of ordinance. When any ordinance or provision
repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision shall itself be repealed,
such repeal shall not be construed to revive such former ordinance, clause or
provision unless the intent to do so shall be clearly stated. The repeal of any
provision shall not be construed to abate, annul or otherwise affect any
proceeding had or commenced under or by virtue of the repealed provision, and
the same shall be as effectual as if the said provision had not been repealed
unless a contrary intent is clearly indicated.
(Prior Code, § 2.13)
   (N)   Liberal construction. In order that the true intent of the provisions
contained in this code may be fully carried out, all general provisions, terms,
phrases and expressions contained herein shall be liberally construed.
(Prior Code, § 2.14)
   (O)   Intent. This code is intended as a codification of the existing law
and shall be construed in accordance with such intent.
(Prior Code, § 2.15)
   (P)   State rules of construction to apply. The rules of construction
established for this state by statute or case law shall apply in the
construction of this code unless they are clearly in conflict with the
provisions herein or otherwise clearly inapplicable.
(Prior Code, § 2.16)
§ 10.12 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.13 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.14 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
      (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-
1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
      (I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the town published and subsequently amended, the previous code
section number shall be indicated in the history by “(Prior Code, §      ).”
§ 10.15 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, then the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.16 ANNUAL REVISION.
   The Town Council, with the advice of the Town Attorney, shall annually make
arrangements for the work necessary to prepare such revised and additional
pages as are needed to keep this code current and up-to-date at all times.
(Prior Code, § 1.06)
§ 10.17 PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.
   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town shall permanently maintain a copy of this
code which shall be open to public inspection.
(Prior Code, § 1.12)
§ 10.18 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended, or
its application to any person or circumstances, is held invalid, the invalidity
does not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid
section or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter or section are severable as provided in division (B) above
does not affect the operation of division (B) above with respect to that
chapter, subchapter or section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Penalty. Any act or omission to act that has been declared to be
unlawful by the Town Council by this code or by an ordinance, rule or
regulation, where no specific penalty is provided for, shall be punished by a
fine not exceeding $500. Every day any violation of this code or any such
ordinance, rule or regulation shall continue shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 1.09)
   (B)   Offenses punishable under separate provisions. In all cases where the
same offense may be made punishable by different clauses or sections of the
ordinances of the town, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to
proceed. Such election by the prosecuting officer shall constitute a bar to
subsequent prosecution of the same individual for the same act under all
alternate ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1.10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   TOWN GOVERNMENT
      
31.   TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   PUBLIC SAFETY AND PROTECTION
      
33.   TOWN POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
      
34.   ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU; FEE SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 30: TOWN GOVERNMENT
Section
Elected and Appointed Officials
   
30.01   Form of government
   
30.02   Election of officers
   
30.03   Town Council; residency, oath and term
   
30.04   Town Council President
   
30.05   Powers of the Town Council
   
30.06   Clerk-Treasurer; duties and authority
   
30.07   Town Attorney
   
30.08   Director of Operations
   
30.09   Building Commissioner
Council Procedures
   
30.20   Regular meeting time
   
30.21   Special meetings; procedures
   
30.22   Quorum
   
30.23   Vacating of Council seat for absence
   
30.24   Calling meetings to order
   
30.25   Voting at meetings
   
30.26   Order of business
   
30.27   Meeting procedures
Ordinances
   
30.40   Introduction of ordinances and resolutions
   
30.41   Readings
   
30.42   Unanimous consent
   
30.43   Ties; tie-breaking votes
   
30.44   Adoption
   
30.45   Effective date of ordinances
ELECTED AND APPOINTED OFFICIALS
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The town shall be governed by a Town Council composed of four Council
members and one Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 11.01) (Ord. 1-98, passed 2-9-1998)
§ 30.02 ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
   (A)   Elections for town officers shall be held in November 1991 and every
four years thereafter.
   (B)   The first Tuesday after the first Monday in May 1991 and every four
years thereafter, a primary election shall be held to nominate candidates for
said November elections in accordance with the provisions of state law.
(Prior Code, § 11.02)
§ 30.03 TOWN COUNCIL; RESIDENCY, OATH AND TERM.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of Bremen.
         TOWN. The Town of Bremen.
      (2)   The Council consists of four members.
      (3)   The members of the Council shall be elected at large by the voters
of the whole town in accordance with I.C. 36-5-2-5.
      (4)   The Council members shall reside in the town when they file their
declaration of candidacy and at the time of their election and taking office. A
Council member who moves his or her residence outside the town limits
immediately vacates his or her seat and shall be replaced.
      (5)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town shall forward a signed copy of this
code to the Circuit Court Clerk of the county and shall request the Clerk to
include the copy of the code section in the records of the County Election
Board.
(Prior Code, § 11.03)
   (B)   Residency. Candidates for the office of Town Council shall reside in
the town in which they are nominated and elected. Candidates shall be citizens
of the United States and be of legal voting age.
(Prior Code, § 11.04)
   (C)   Oath of office. Each candidate shall, prior to taking office, take and
subscribe to the usual oath or affirmation for the faithful performance of the
duties of his or her respective office.
(Prior Code, § 11.05)
   (D)   Term. An elected term of office is four years. If a vacancy occurs,
the Council shall fill such vacancy by appointing a person to serve in that
office for the remainder of the unexpired term unless otherwise provided by
state law.
(Prior Code, § 11.06)
(Ord. 16-92, passed 12-28-1992; Ord. 1-98, passed 2-9-1998)
§ 30.04 TOWN COUNCIL PRESIDENT.
   The election of a President shall be done at each annual meeting of the Town
Council.
(Prior Code, § 11.07)
§ 30.05 POWERS OF THE TOWN COUNCIL.
   The powers of the Town Council are to:
   (A)   Elect a President;
   (B)   Make and establish such bylaws, ordinances and regulations as may be
necessary and not repugnant to the laws of this state, and to repeal, alter or
amend the same as deemed necessary;
   (C)   Determine the salaries to be received by the Council members, Clerk-
Treasurer, appointive personnel and employees of the town as consistent with
the state statutes, and to have the right to change the salaries at any time it
deems proper, such change to be affected by a majority vote;
   (D)   Codify and publish town ordinances;
   (E)   Appoint a Town Attorney;
   (F)   Appoint a Fire Chief; organize fire companies and provide equipment;
   (G)   Appoint a Street Commissioner; lay, open, pave and maintain streets,
alleys, sewers and sidewalks and regulate travel upon streets and
thoroughfares;
   (H)   Levy taxes within statutory limitations, subject to review by the
county’s Board of Tax Adjustment and the state’s Board of Tax Commissioners;
   (I)   Purchase and hold real estate necessary for carrying out town
functions;
   (J)   Build and repair municipal structures;
   (K)   Insure public property of the town;
   (L)   Purchase and maintain cemeteries;
   (M)   Plant trees and acquire land for park purposes;
   (N)   Rent or lease park lands to individuals or organizations for the
purpose of constructing, maintaining and operating a public swimming pool;
   (O)   Provide recreation facilities for the town and establish a Board of
Parks and Recreation to conduct playground and recreational centers;
   (P)   Create a Plan Commission to promote orderly development of its
governmental units and environs;
   (Q)   Provide for the lighting of streets and public places;
   (R)   Regulate rail travel within the town and require the lighting of
railroad crossings;
   (S)   Contract with owners of real estate for the construction of storm and
sanitary sewers within the town, or within four miles of the corporate limits;
   (T)   May establish a town drainage district upon petition;
   (U)   May establish and regulate markets and build market houses;
   (V)   Provide for a town pound;
   (W)   Determine what constitutes a public nuisance and provide for its
abatement;
   (X)   Regulate salespersons, merchants, itinerant vendors and street
auctions;
   (Y)   Carry out other necessary functions of the town corporation;
   (Z)   Maintain electric and water utilities;
   (AA)   Remove, or contract for the removal of, garbage, trash and refuse;
and
   (BB)   All other powers not prohibited by law.
(Prior Code, § 11.08)
§ 30.06 CLERK-TREASURER; DUTIES AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Generally. The Office of Clerk-Treasurer is a combined office with the
following duties:
      (1)   To have custody of the town seal, records, books and papers of the
Town Council;
      (2)   To record the proceedings of the Council;
      (3)   To issue licenses;
      (4)   To administer oaths and take depositions;
      (5)   To be responsible for the town funds under the direction of the
Town Council;
      (6)   Office Manager of town utilities; and
      (7)   Payment of claims approved by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 11.09)
   (B)   Pre-approved payment of claims.
      (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby granted the authority to issue any
checks between Town Council meetings which would otherwise incur late charges,
loss of discount, penalties or other constraints for the following types of
expenses:
         (a)   Property or services purchased or leased from:
            1.   The United States government; or
            2.   An agency or a political subdivision of the United States
government.
         (b)   License fees or permit fees;
         (c)   Insurance premiums;
         (d)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
         (e)   Federal grant programs if:
            1.   Advance funding is not prohibited; and
            2.   The contracting party provides sufficient security for the
amount advanced.
         (f)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
         (g)   Maintenance agreements or service agreements;
         (h)   Lease agreements or rental agreements;
         (i)   Principal and interest payments on bonds;
         (j)   Payroll; and
         (k)   State, federal or county taxes.
      (2)   The Town Council or the board having jurisdiction over the
allowance of the claim shall review and allow the claim at the Council or
board’s next regular or special meeting following the pre-approved payment of
the expense.
(Prior Code, § 11.10)
(Ord. 6-92, passed 8-10-1992)
§ 30.07 TOWN ATTORNEY.
   The duties of the Office of Town Attorney shall be:
   (A)   Management of the town’s law business and of the legal affairs of each
department within the town government;
   (B)   Prosecution of all violations of town ordinances;
   (C)   Service as legal advisor to all town departments;
   (D)   Preparation of all cases, ordinances, contracts and other legal papers
for all departments;
   (E)   Handling of all town litigation;
   (F)   Making all title searches and examining all abstracts necessary to
opening or improving streets or other public property;
   (G)   Employing of assistants within ordinance limits; and
   (H)   Instituting all proceedings necessary to protect the rights of the
town or the public.
(Prior Code, § 11.11)
§ 30.08 DIRECTOR OF OPERATIONS.
   The Office of Director of Operations is established. Said Director has the
principal responsibility of ensuring the efficient operation of each
department, individually and jointly, and for the smooth administration of the
services provided by the town government, and shall be appointed by the Town
Council and report directly to the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 11.15)
§ 30.09 BUILDING COMMISSIONER.
   The Office of Town Building Commissioner is established. Said Building
Commissioner has the principal responsibility for ensuring compliance with all
ordinances related to zoning and shall be appointed by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 11.13)
COUNCIL PROCEDURES
§ 30.20 REGULAR MEETING TIME.
   The regular, stated and fixed meetings of the Town Council shall be the
second and fourth Mondays of each month and at such hours as the Council may
determine.
(Prior Code, § 10.01)
§ 30.21 SPECIAL MEETINGS; PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Generally. Special meetings may be convened at any time other than the
regular scheduled meetings. Such meetings may be called by the President of the
Council or by a majority of the members of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 10.02)
   (B)   Procedures.
      (1)   The call for such special meetings shall be written or printed and
shall be signed by the person(s) calling, sealed with the town seal and
countersigned by the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   The service of such notice shall be made by the President or his or
her appointed agent as follows:
         (a)   By delivering a copy of said notice to each Council member or by
leaving a copy at his or her usual place of residence;
         (b)   By posting a copy of the notice at the Town Hall; and
         (c)   By mailing a copy of the notice to all news media which have
filed an annual written request in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 5-14-
1.5-1 et seq.
      (3)   All notices required hereunder shall be given at least 48 hours
before the meeting, except when the meeting is called to deal with an emergency
as defined by I.C. 5-14-1.5-5(d), in which case, notice of said meeting will be
made by posting a copy thereof and by giving the same notice to all news media
who have requested notice as is given to Council members.
(Prior Code, § 10.03)
§ 30.22 QUORUM.
   A quorum shall consist of not less than three members of the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 10.04)
§ 30.23 VACATING OF COUNCIL SEAT FOR ABSENCE.
   The seat of any member of the Council may be declared vacant by a two-thirds
vote of the Council upon the failure of any member to be present during the
sitting of the Council unless excused by the members of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 10.05)
§ 30.24 CALLING MEETINGS TO ORDER.
   At the hour fixed for the opening of the meeting, the President shall take
the chair and call the Council to order. Once determined that a quorum is
present, he or she shall direct the Clerk-Treasurer to read the minutes of the
preceding meeting unless the reading of the minutes be dispensed with.
(Prior Code, § 10.06)
§ 30.25 VOTING AT MEETINGS.
   Every Council member shall be present within the designated meeting room
during the meeting of the Council and shall vote on each question put unless he
or she has a personal or pecuniary interest in the event of such question.
(Prior Code, § 10.07)
§ 30.26 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   Business shall be taken up by the Council in the following order:
      (1)   Roll call;
      (2)   Reading the minutes of the previous meeting;
      (3)   Reading and referring claims and bills;
      (4)   Reception of petitions and remonstrances;
      (5)   Reports from department heads and special committees;
      (6)   Unfinished business;
      (7)   New business;
      (8)   Miscellaneous; and
      (9)   Adjournment.
   (B)   The Council may, by a majority vote, suspend the rules.
(Prior Code, § 10.11)
§ 30.27 MEETING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Rules of order. Robert’s Rules of Order shall govern, except where
inconsistent with standing rules.
   (B)   Change of rules. Any rule or rules of this Council may be changed,
altered or amended by a majority vote of the Council, but the same shall not be
passed at the same meeting it is or they are submitted.
   (C)   Addressing the Council. When any member is about to speak, he or she
shall address the Chair, and upon being recognized, shall confine himself or
herself to the question before the Council, avoiding all personalities.
   (D)   Censure. If any member, in speaking or in any other manner,
transgresses the rules of the Council, the Chair shall immediately call such
member to order. Said member shall immediately sit down and not be at liberty
to proceed, except by consent of the other Council members. If the violation be
of such magnitude as to require censure, he or she shall be liable thereto,
subject to Council discussion.
   (E)   Motions. When a motion has been made and seconded, the Chair shall
state it, or if in writing, cause it to be read aloud by the Clerk-Treasurer
and attached to said ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 10.12)
ORDINANCES
§ 30.40 INTRODUCTION OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   All ordinances, orders or resolutions shall be introduced by a member of the
Town Council, or by any committee of said Council, or by the Board of Health.
All ordinances, upon introduction, shall be consecutively numbered.
(Prior Code, § 4.01)
§ 30.41 READINGS.
   Every proposed ordinance shall receive three separate readings by the Town
Council previous to passage.
   (A)   First reading. The first reading of a proposed ordinance shall be for
information, but may be read by title only, and such title shall clearly set
forth the nature of the contents, and the proposed ordinance shall be
immediately referred to the proper committee, or such may be taken up by the
entire Council.
   (B)   Second reading. Every proposed ordinance shall be read through by
sections at its second reading, and at such reading, it shall be in order to
commit, to amend, to lay upon the table, to postpone or to pass to its third
reading by a majority vote of all members-elect. Any proposed ordinance failing
to receive a majority vote of all the members-elect at its second reading be
considered lost. A proposed ordinance may be stricken from the files by a vote
of three-fourths of all the members-elect before or after it has passed its
second reading.
   (C)   Third reading. On the third reading of any proposed ordinance, no
amendment shall be in order, except by a vote of three-fourths of the members-
elect of the Town Council, and in no case shall the reading of any such
proposed ordinance by sections be dispensed with on the third reading, except
by unanimous vote. At any time before the final passage, a proposed ordinance
may be recommitted. Failing to receive a majority of the votes of all members
present on the third reading, an ordinance is lost and shall be stricken from
the files.
(Prior Code, § 4.03)
§ 30.42 UNANIMOUS CONSENT.
   No ordinance shall be passed on the same day or at the same meeting that it
is introduced, except by unanimous consent and a motion to suspend the rules,
and then only in case there are present and voting at least three-fourths of
all the members-elect of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 4.02)
§ 30.43 TIES; TIE-BREAKING VOTES.
   The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town Council shall cast a vote in instances where
the vote cast by the members of the Council has resulted in a tie.
(Prior Code, § 4.04)
§ 30.44 ADOPTION.
   Every ordinance, order or resolution of the Town Council shall be considered
adopted upon its passage, enrollment, attestation and signature by the Clerk-
Treasurer and the presiding officer, and upon a record having been signed by
all members of the Council present.
(Prior Code, § 4.05)
§ 30.45 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed by the Town Council requiring publication shall
take effect on the date of publication unless therein otherwise expressly
provided.
   (B)   Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage and upon being signed and attested to unless otherwise expressly
provided.
   (C)   Wherever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the part of such ordinance thus repealed or
modified shall continue in force until the publication of the ordinance
repealing or modifying the same. When publication is not required, the
repealing or modifying ordinance shall take effect immediately upon passage
unless therein otherwise expressly provided.
(Prior Code, § 10.13)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Departments
   
31.01   Department heads
   
31.02   Department of Redevelopment
Boards
   
31.15   Board of Zoning Appeals
Committees
   
31.30   Standing committee appointments
   
31.31   Special committee appointments
Commissions
   
31.45   Economic Development Commission
   
31.46   Plan Commission
   
31.47   Unsafe Building Commission
Authorities
   
31.60   Redevelopment Authority
 
   
31.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Police Department or Fire Department, see
Ch. 32
   Utilities departments, see Title V
DEPARTMENTS
§ 31.01 DEPARTMENT HEADS.
   (A)   The department heads shall be appointed by a majority vote of the
Council. The department heads shall be responsible for the administration and
operation of the respective departments, and each department head shall have
the power and duty to direct such department, subject to the ratification and
approval of the Council.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of each department head to report to the Town
Council at any time the Council calls upon it to do so, or when he or she may
deem it necessary so to do.
   (C)   Personnel in the respective departments shall report to the department
heads.
(Prior Code, § 10.09)
§ 31.02 DEPARTMENT OF REDEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby establishes the Department of Redevelopment of
the Town. The Department will be controlled by a board of five members known as
the Redevelopment Commission.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-14 (the “Act”), all of the territory within the
corporate boundaries of the town will be a taxing district, to be known as the
Redevelopment District of the town for the purpose of levying and collecting
special benefit taxes for redevelopment purposes as provided in the Act. The
Town Council finds and determines that all of the taxable property within this
special taxing district will be considered to be benefitted by the
redevelopment projects carried out under the Act to the extent of the special
taxes levied under the Act.
(Ord. 1-89, passed 1-23-1989)
BOARDS
§ 31.15 BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   (A)   Membership.
      (1)   A Board of Zoning Appeals is established, with membership as
follows:
         (a)   Five members appointed by the Town Council President, two of
whom must be members of the Plan Commission; and
         (b)   One member appointed by the Judge of the County Circuit Court
from the jurisdictional area.
      (2)   At the first meeting in each calendar year, the Board shall elect
from among its members a Chair and a Vice-Chair.
(Prior Code, § 14.01)
   (B)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The function of the Board is to hear and determine appeals for
exceptions to town zoning ordinances.
      (2)   Consistent with state law, it may appoint and fix the compensation
of a Secretary and such employees as it considers necessary to discharging its
duties.
      (3)   The Board shall prescribe such regulations as it considers
necessary to carry out the town zoning ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 14.02)
   (C)   Public availability. Meetings of the Board shall be open to the
public. The Board shall keep minutes of its meetings, keep records of all
examinations and other official actions, make all findings in writing and
record the vote of each member on each question. Minutes and records shall be
filed in the office of the Board and made available to the public.
(Prior Code, § 14.03)
   (D)   Hearings. Upon application for a special exception or variance, and
upon appeal from a decision of the Building Commissioner, the Board shall hold
a public hearing. Public notice setting forth the time and place shall be given
at least 15 days before the date of the hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation in the county. Interested parties shall be notified as provided by
the Board. The cost of such notices shall be borne by the person applying or
appealing.
(Prior Code, § 14.04)
   (E)   Variances. The Board may grant a variance with respect to specific
property or an intended use if, after a hearing under division (D) above, it
finds that:
      (1)   There are special circumstances relating to the property or
intended use that do not generally affect other property or other uses of the
same kind in the same district and vicinity;
      (2)   The special circumstances create hardship in that, if the variance
is not granted, a substantial property right that is enjoyed by other
properties in that district and vicinity cannot be enjoyed;
      (3)   The granting of the variance will not be materially detrimental to
the public welfare or materially injurious to other property or uses in that
district and vicinity; and
      (4)   The granting of the variance will not materially change the
character of that district and vicinity, materially lower the market value of
adjacent property or materially increase congestion in the streets.
(Prior Code, § 14.05)
   (F)   Appeals.
      (1)   A decision of the Building Commissioner enforcing a zoning
ordinance may be appealed to the Board by any person who is adversely affected
by the decision.
      (2)   On an appeal under the above, the Board may reverse, modify or
uphold any decision that the Building Commissioner might have made.
      (3)   A decision of the Board is subject to review by certiorari.
(Prior Code, § 14.06)
   (G)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Any person may, by suit in the Circuit or Superior Court of the
county, enjoin the violation of the zoning ordinance.
      (2)   The Commission or the Board may, by mandatory injunction in the
Circuit or Superior Court of the county, require the removal of a structure
erected in violation of the ordinance.
      (3)   A use that violates an ordinance shall be treated as if it were a
common nuisance, and it may be abated in the same manner as such a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 14.07)
   (H)   Filing fees.
      (1)   Applications and petitions filed pursuant to the provisions of this
section shall be accompanied by a filing fee, which filing fee shall be in
accordance with a schedule established by the Board of Zoning Appeals, and
approved by the Town Council, and placed on file in the office of the Town
Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   The office of the Clerk-Treasurer shall also serve as the office of
the Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Prior Code, § 14.08)
   (I)   Amendments. All amendments to this section shall be in accordance with
the laws of this state.
(Prior Code, § 14.09)
   (J)   Remedies. Action on the violation of any provision of this section and
the rights of injunction against such violation shall be as provided by Ch.
174, Acts of 1957 of the state’s General Assembly, and all acts amendatory
thereto.
(Prior Code, § 14.10)
Penalty, see §
31.99
Editor’s note:
   Forms for requesting a variance and/or special exception or for applying for
an improvement location permit are available through the town, as well as
example improvement location permits.
COMMITTEES
§ 31.30 STANDING COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS.
   (A)   At the first annual meeting of the Town Council, it shall be the duty
of the President to appoint such standing committees as deemed necessary for
the operation of the town. At such time, the President shall assign Council
members as liaison to assist in the administration and operation of the
departments as follows:
      (1)   Electric Utility;
      (2)   Police and Fire;
      (3)   Streets, Water and Sewers;
      (4)   Public Buildings and Real Estate;
      (5)   Parks and Recreation;
      (6)   Zoning;
      (7)   Wastewater Treatment; and
      (8)   Economic Development.
   (B)   The Council President shall be a member of each committee by virtue of
his or her office. The committee shall consist of the liaison, the department
head and the President of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 10.08)
§ 31.31 SPECIAL COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS.
   The President may appoint committees for special purposes. Such committees
shall expire when their purpose has been accomplished, or at such time as the
Council may deem appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 10.10)
COMMISSIONS
§ 31.45 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   Creation. There is hereby created the Economic Development Commission
to carry out the provisions as set forth below and as enacted by the General
Assembly of the state in the “Promotion of Economic Development” (the “Act,”
I.C. 36-7-2-7) and as may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 20.01)
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of said Commission shall be to investigate, study
and survey the need for job opportunities, industrial diversification and
economic stability, development and general welfare of the town, and to carry
out the duties and powers as set forth in the Act.
(Prior Code, § 20.02)
   (C)   Members. The members of said Commission shall be appointed and shall
perform the duties and exercise the powers all as set forth in the Act.
(Prior Code, § 20.03)
   (D)   Director of Economic Development. There is hereby created the position
of Director of Economic Development, who shall be responsible for coordinating
efforts to promote and plan economic development in the town. The Director
shall be subject to the supervision and direction of the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 20.05)
Editor’s note:
   Documents explaining fees and procedures for the issuance of economic
development revenue bonds, as well as application forms, are available from the
Economic Development Commission.
§ 31.46 PLAN COMMISSION.
   (A)   Establishment. There is hereby created a Plan Commission for the town,
which Commission shall exercise all powers and duties as provided by law. The
Commission shall serve in an advisory capacity to presently established boards
and officials.
(Prior Code, § 13.01)
   (B)   Members.
      (1)   The Plan Commission shall consist of nine members.
      (2)   Membership shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Three Commission members shall be from the Town Council;
         (b)   The President of the Council shall appoint four citizen members,
not more than two of whom shall be members of the same political party; and
         (c)   Two members from the jurisdictional area, each of whom shall be
of a different political party, shall be appointed according to law by the
Judge of the Circuit Court.
(Prior Code, § 13.02)
   (C)   Powers. The Commission has the power to establish its own rules and
regulations within the statutes, and to appoint a Secretary and professional
consultants whom it deems necessary for the making of surveys, studies, maps,
plans, charts, ordinances or such other data as falls within the scope of the
Commission’s authority.
(Prior Code, § 13.03)
§ 31.47 UNSAFE BUILDING COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Unsafe Building Commission (hereinafter “the Commission”) is
designated as the hearing authority for the enforcement of the Unsafe Building
Ordinance in the town.
   (B)   The Commission shall consist of five members appointed by the Town
Council.
   (C)   For the initial appointments, two of the initial appointees shall
serve terms of the remainder of 2024 and three years so that the appointments
to the Commission shall be staggered. Thereafter, each member shall serve a
term of four years.
   (D)   There shall be no limit upon the number of terms, consecutive or
otherwise, that a member may serve.
   (E)   The Commission shall reorganize annually at its first meeting and
shall select a president, a vice president and a secretary from among its
members.
   (F)   The Commission shall meet as needed. A quorum of three members must be
present to conduct business.
(Ord. 3-2024, passed 4-8-2024)
AUTHORITIES
§ 31.60 REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The town hereby creates a redevelopment authority under I.C. 36-7-14.5
(the “Act”), to be known as the Redevelopment Authority, as a separate body
corporate and politic and as an instrumentality of the town.
   (B)   The Authority is organized for the following purposes:
      (1)   Financing, constructing and leasing local public improvements to
the Redevelopment Commission;
      (2)   Financing and constructing additional improvements to local public
improvements owned by the Authority and leasing them to the Redevelopment
Commission;
      (3)   Acquiring all or a portion of one or more local public improvements
from the Redevelopment Commission by purchase or lease and leasing these local
public improvements back to the Commission, with any additional improvements
that may be made to them;
      (4)   Acquiring all or a portion of one or more local public improvements
from the Redevelopment Commission by purchase or lease to fund or refund
indebtedness incurred on account of those local public improvements to enable
the Commission to make a savings in debt service obligations or lease rental
obligations, or to obtain relief from covenants that the Commission considers
to be unduly burdensome; and
      (5)   Any other purpose permitted by the Act, including the issuance of
bonds to finance local public improvements.
   (C)   The Board of Directors of the Authority shall be composed of three
members who are residents of the town and shall be appointed by the President
of the Council for three-year terms.
(Ord. 11-89, passed 8-28-1989)
§ 31.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   In addition to the remedies provided under §
31.15(J) of this chapter, any violation of any provision of §
31.15 shall be deemed to be an infraction punishable by a fine of up to $300.
This shall include, but not be limited to, a failure to obtain an improvement
location permit prior to initiating construction.
(Prior Code, § 14.10)
CHAPTER 32: PUBLIC SAFETY AND PROTECTION
Section
Police Department
   
32.01   Definitions
   
32.02   Police Chief
   
32.03   Assistant Police Chief
   
32.04   Board of Police Commissioners
   
32.05   Police Pension Fund Board of Trustees
   
32.06   Probationary period
   
32.07   Leaves of absence
   
32.08   Auxiliary Police Department
Fire Department
   
32.20   Definitions
   
32.21   Fire Marshal and Chief of the Volunteer Fire Department
   
32.22   Duties of the Fire Marshal/Chief; reports
   
32.23   Assistant Fire Chief
   
32.24   Volunteer Fire Department; compensation
   
32.25   Response to alarms; false alarms
   
32.26   Fees
   
32.27   Appeal of imposition of fees
Civil Emergencies
   
32.40   Definitions
   
32.41   Proclamation of civil emergency by Town Council President
   
32.42   Emergency powers of Town Council President
   
32.43   Imposition of curfew
   
32.44   Additional regulations
   
32.45   Congregating so as to obstruct prohibited
 
   
32.99   Penalty
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE PAY. The annual compensation paid to the police officers as determined
on an annual basis by the Council, and the monthly BASE PAY shall be the amount
of said compensation divided by 12.
   POLICE OFFICER. All police officers employed by the town or to be employed
by the town, whether such police officer be a chief, assistant chief, captain,
sergeant or patrol officer, or other type or classification as may be created
by the Town Council, but does not mean a volunteer or part-time police officer.
   YEARS OF SATISFACTORY SERVICE. Years of continuous, uninterrupted active
duty as a police officer of the town, except as provided in §
32.07 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 15.03)
§ 32.02 POLICE CHIEF.
   (A)   The Town Police Chief is appointed by the Council and is subject to
dismissal by the Council.
   (B)   The duties of the Police Chief include:
      (1)   Enforcement of all laws and ordinances;
      (2)   Directing and taking charge of the town’s Police Department;
      (3)   Performance of all duties of the Traffic Engineer as per §
70.098 of this code; and
      (4)   All other duties necessary to promote safety and security within
the town.
(Prior Code, § 11.14) (Ord. 5-2006, passed 6-26-2006)
§ 32.03 ASSISTANT POLICE CHIEF.
   (A)   The Assistant Police Chief is appointed by the Town Council and is
subject to dismissal by the Council.
   (B)   The duties of the Assistant Police Chief include:
      (1)   Subject to direction from higher authority, supervise all officers
and be personally responsible for the efficiency and effectiveness of his or
her subordinates;
      (2)   Direct personnel to assure the proper performance of duties and
adhere to established policies, procedures, regulations and rules of the town’s
Police Department;
      (3)   Provide for the continuation of command and/or supervision in his
or her absence;
      (4)   Develop and maintain espirit de corps and loyalty to the
Department;
      (5)   Maintain discipline and morale. Investigate and, where appropriate,
act upon complaints by personnel. Promote harmony and cooperation with all
other units of the Police Department;
      (6)   Assign officers to such special duties as are required to meet such
needs;
      (7)   Ensure that each officer has an up-to-date copy of the town’s
Police Department Manual. Additionally, to take positive steps to ensure that
officers understand and are adhering to the policies, procedures, rules,
regulations, duty requirements and other materials that are applicable to the
officers’ responsibilities;
      (8)   Encourage all officers to submit suggestions for the improvement of
the Police Department;
      (9)   Ensure that the chain of command is adhered to;
      (10)   Issue such command directives as are deemed appropriate;
      (11)   Maintain the chain of command by passing orders through
subordinate officers and keeping superior officers informed of current
developments and results;
      (12)   Keep a daily account of the regular and extra duties performed by
the officers and report to the Chief at regular intervals the activities of the
officers;
      (13)   Maintain a current, accurate record of the name, address,
telephone number and the like of any officer and notify the Chief of any change
of address of any member;
      (14)   Complete and submit, and ensure that all officers complete and
submit, all forms, records, reports and the like that are required by the
town’s current Police Department procedures;
      (15)   Be accountable for the acts or omissions of those which are
contrary to Department policy as defined in the manual and other orders and
could have been avoided if the Assistant Police Chief had been properly
exercising his or her responsibilities; and
      (16)   Perform any other duties assigned by higher authority in the
Department.
(Prior Code, § 11.14) (Ord. 5-2006, passed 6-26-2006)
§ 32.04 BOARD OF POLICE COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Metropolitan Board of Police Commissioners
for the town, which Board shall have full powers and duties as set forth under
the laws of the state and as modified from time to time hereafter.
(Prior Code, § 15.01)
   (B)   (1)   The Board shall consist of three members, who shall be appointed
by the Town Council. All members shall be legal residents of the town, and not
more than two shall be of the same political party. Each member shall serve a
three-year term, with terms staggered such that one Commissioner is appointed
on January 1 of each year.
      (2)   The Town Council may appoint members of the Town Council to serve
on the Board. The Town Council may appoint up to three Town Council members to
serve on the Board, subject to the political party limitations described above.
A Town Council member serving on the Board shall vacate his or her position on
the Board at any time that the member’s term on the Town Council ends for any
reason. Each of such Commissioners shall be subject to removal by the Town
Council for any cause which the Town Council may deem sufficient.
      (3)   Before entering upon his or her duties, each member shall take and
subscribe an oath of office before the Clerk-Treasurer and shall also take and
subscribe before such Clerk-Treasurer the further oath or affirmation that, in
any and every appointment or removal to be made by him or her to and from the
police force created and to be organized by him or her under the laws of the
state, he or she shall in no case and under no pretext appoint or remove any
police officer, officer of the police, or other person because of any political
affiliation of such person, or for any cause or reason other than that of
fitness or unfitness of such person. A Town Council member who is a member of
the Board is excused from this provision.
      (4)   A Board member shall give bond in the penal sum of $5,000, payable
to the state and conditioned upon the faithful and honest discharge of the
member’s duties. The bond must be approved by the Town Council. A Town Council
member who is a member of the Board is excused from this provision.
      (5)   The salary of the Board members shall be $400 per year, payable
annually out of the Treasury of the town. A member of the Town Council serving
on the Board shall receive no salary.
      (6)   The Town Council shall not appoint a police officer employed by the
town to serve on the Board.
(Prior Code, § 15.02)
(Ord. 7-2014, passed 4-28-2014)
§ 32.05 POLICE PENSION FUND BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   (A)   Fund Board of Trustees. The town’s Police Pension Fund shall be
governed and managed by a Board of Trustees, to be composed of the President of
the Town Council, the Town Clerk-Treasurer, the Chief of Police and three
members (one retired and two active) elected by the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 16.03)
   (B)   Board Elections.
      (1)   The retired member and the active members of the police force who
are elected to Board membership shall be so elected at a meeting of the members
of the police force which shall be held at the police station on the second
Monday in February of each year.
      (2)   There shall be selected on the second Monday in February of each
year two Trustees, for a term of three years, to succeed Board of Trustees
members whose terms of office shall expire on such date, and such Trustees
shall hold their offices until their successors shall be elected and qualified.
(Prior Code, § 16.04)
   (C)   Board officers.
      (1)   The Pension Fund Board of Trustees shall have the following
officers, with duties as described herein:
         (a)   President. The President of the Town Council shall be the
President of this Board. It shall be the duty of the President to preside over
all meetings of the Board of the Pension Fund, to call special meetings of the
police force of the town and to preside over the annual and called meetings of
the same held with relation to the Fund.
         (b)   Treasurer. The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall be the Treasurer of
the Fund. Said Treasurer shall have the custody of all moneys, notes, bonds and
other securities due or belonging to said Fund and shall collect the principal
and interest of the same. He or she shall be liable on his or her bond as the
town’s Clerk-Treasurer for the faithful accounting of all moneys and securities
which may come into his or her hands belonging to the Fund. He or she shall
keep a separate account which shall show at all times the true condition of the
Fund, and upon the expiration of his or her term of office, shall account to
the Board for all moneys, notes, bonds and other securities and the proceeds of
the same, and shall turn over to his or her successor all funds belonging to
the Fund remaining in his or her hands.
         (c)   Secretary. The Pension Fund Board shall select one of its
members to act as Secretary. Such Secretary shall be paid out of the Fund such
sum for his or her services as may be fixed by the Board of Trustees. The
Secretary shall keep a true account of the Board proceedings, and of the police
force when acting upon matters relating to the Fund. He or she shall also keep
a statement of the accounts of each member with the Pension Fund to collect and
turn over to the Treasurer all moneys belonging to the Fund. The Secretary
shall prepare a bill of the assessments made against each member of the Police
Department by name, and he or she shall provide the Board with a monthly
account of his or her acts and services as such and turn over to his or her
successor all books and papers pertaining to the office. The Secretary shall
further execute a bond, to be approved by the Board of Trustees in such amount
as may be fixed by the Board, conditioned for the faithful discharge of the
duties of his or her position.
      (2)   The Secretary and Treasurer shall make full reports of their trusts
to the Board of Trustees on the first Monday in February of each year and shall
file copies of the same with the Town Clerk-Treasurer. The books of the
Secretary and Treasurer shall at all times be open to examination by any member
of the Pension Fund Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 16.05)
   (D)   Vacancies. In the event of a vacancy in the office of any of the
Trustees selected by the police force, then such police force shall, within a
reasonable time thereafter, upon the call of the President of the Town Council,
hold a special meeting and elect a successor for the remainder of the term of
such member.
(Prior Code, § 16.06)
   (E)   Expenses. Pension Fund Trustees shall receive no pay for their
services and shall be paid only their necessary expenses. Trustees shall,
however, be paid out of the Fund their necessary traveling expenses when acting
upon matters pertaining to the Police Pension Fund.
(Prior Code, § 16.07)
   (F)   Powers. The Board of Trustees of the Police Pension Fund shall have
the following powers:
      (1)   To make all necessary bylaws for meetings, the manner of their
election and the counting and canvassing of the votes therefor;
      (2)   To collect all money and other property due or belonging to such
fund; and
      (3)   To adopt rules for the operation of such fund in accordance with
the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 16.08)
   (G)   Source of charge and control. Source of charge and control of the
Police Pension Fund of the town which shall be derived from all sources
permitted under I.C. 36-8-6, as amended.
(Prior Code, § 16.09)
   (H)   Investment and payment of benefits. The Board of Trustees of the Fund
shall have the powers and duties concerning the investment of said funds and
the payment of benefits as required by I.C. 36-8-6, as amended.
(Prior Code, § 16.10)
   (I)   Additional provisions incorporated. All provisions of I.C. 36-8-6 are
incorporated herein by reference insofar as applicable.
(Prior Code, § 16.11)
§ 32.06 PROBATIONARY PERIOD.
   A police officer shall be considered as a probationary police officer for a
period of one calendar year from the date of his or her employment as a police
officer, and he or she shall be subject to dismissal at the suggestion of the
Police Chief with the approval of the Metropolitan Board of Police
Commissioners. His or her salary for the probationary period shall be
considered his or her “base pay” for the purposes of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 15.04)
§ 32.07 LEAVES OF ABSENCE.
   The Board of Police Commissioners shall have the right, upon application by
a police officer and for good cause, to grant a leave of absence for a period
of time determined by said Board. A police officer shall not lose his or her
previously accumulated “years of satisfactory service” while on a leave of
absence, but the time during which the police officer is on a leave of absence
shall not be included in determining the total number of years of satisfactory
service.
(Prior Code, § 15.05)
§ 32.08 AUXILIARY POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Establishment. There is hereby established pursuant to I.C. 36-8-3-20
a police reserve for the town, to be known as the town’s Auxiliary Police
Department.
(Prior Code, § 15.50)
   (B)   Membership. The Auxiliary Police Department shall consist of 20
members appointed by the Police Commission and shall have the police powers and
authority authorized by state statutes, except as limited by the rules and
regulations adopted by the Police Commission.
(Prior Code, § 15.51)
   (C)   Eligibility. Police reserves may not be members of the regular Police
Department and are not eligible to participate in any pension program and shall
receive those benefits as provided by town ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 15.52)
   (D)   Training. No member of the police reserves shall be appointed until he
or she has completed the training and probationary period specified by the
rules of the Department. Further, those officers appointed after June 30, 1993,
shall complete a pre-basic course set out under I.C. 502-1-9(f).
(Prior Code, § 15.53)
(Ord. 1-93, passed 2-22-1993)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM SYSTEM. Any mechanism, equipment or device which is designed or used
for the detection of an unauthorized entry into a building, structure, facility
or enclosed area or a device utilized to alert others of the commission of an
unlawful act or a fire within a building, structure, facility or enclosed area,
said device emitting a sound or transmitting a signal message when activated.
Provided, however, that this definition does not include local alarm systems.
   FALSE ALARMS. The activation of an alarm where the causal factor lacks
validity in its notification of the appropriate department. A nonexclusive
listing of examples of factors lacking validity shall include intentional,
knowing, reckless or negligent activity on the part of the user or person on
the property; improper installation, equipment misuse, malfunction or failure;
and the performance of alarm system maintenance work without having first
notified the Fire Department or Police Department. A nonexclusive listing of
alarms lacking validity, but which are exempted from the preceding definition,
shall be telephone line interruptions occurring outside of the premises where
the alarm is located, alarms triggered by severe weather conditions or any
other act of God, alarm trouble indications and prearranged alarm system tests.
   LOCAL ALARM SYSTEM. A device alerting only individuals located upon the
premises which is subject to the commission of an unlawful act or fire, or the
threat of an unlawful act or fire. An example of a LOCAL ALARM SYSTEM includes,
but is not limited to, a home smoke detector or a home burglar alarm that does
not directly alert the Police Department by direct telephonic or other means.
   SECOND-PARTY ALARM MONITORING AGENCY. Any private business providing an
alarm monitoring service to another person or entity which, in the event of an
activated alarm, would telephone or otherwise notify the appropriate department
to report said alarm. Such a SECOND-PARTY ALARM MONITORING AGENCY is not
considered a local alarm system.
(Prior Code, § 18.51) (Ord. 1-2001, passed 4- -2001)
§ 32.21 FIRE MARSHAL AND CHIEF OF THE VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   The Town Council shall appoint the Town Fire Marshal, who shall be known as
the Chief of the Volunteer Fire Department. The Chief shall serve at the
pleasure of the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 18.01)
§ 32.22 DUTIES OF THE FIRE MARSHAL/CHIEF; REPORTS.
   (A)   The Fire Marshal and Chief of the Volunteer Fire Department is
delegated the responsibility for the organization and operation of the fire
department known as the “Bremen Community Fire Department,” and said Chief
shall report to and be under the direction of the Town Council and shall have
such other duties and obligations as may from time to time be assigned to him
or her by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 18.02)
   (B)   The Chief shall be responsible for providing to the Town Council an
annual report, to include the activities of the Volunteer Fire Department,
which report shall be submitted on or before the first meeting in January of
each year for the prior year’s activities, or at such other time, and also such
other reports, as the Council may from time to time require.
(Prior Code, § 18.06)
§ 32.23 ASSISTANT FIRE CHIEF.
   The Chief of the Volunteer Fire Department shall nominate and appoint an
Assistant Fire Chief, subject to the approval of the Town Council, and said
Assistant shall serve at the pleasure of the Chief.
(Prior Code, § 18.03)
§ 32.24 VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The Volunteer Fire Department shall be under the supervision and
direction of the Chief, and such Department shall consist of such membership,
and adopt and promulgate such rules and regulations as the membership shall
determine, subject to the acceptance and approval of the Chief and the Town
Council.
(Prior Code, § 18.04)
   (B)   The Town Council shall determine and establish the monetary
compensation and other compensatory benefits for the Chief and the other
members of the Volunteer Fire Department, and said Council may from time to
time alter, amend and change said compensation and benefits as allowed by law.
(Prior Code, § 18.05)
§ 32.25 RESPONSE TO ALARMS; FALSE ALARMS.
   (A)   Whenever an alarm system is activated in the town, thereby requiring
an emergency response on the premises by the Police or Fire Department and to
which the Police or Fire Department responds, the senior officer on the
premises where said alarm system is activated shall inspect the area protected
by the system and shall determine whether the emergency response was required
as indicated by the alarm system. If the senior officer on the premises of the
activated alarm system determines the alarm to be false, the officer shall make
a report of the false alarm and shall submit the same to the chief of the
department. If the chief concurs that the alarm was false, then notice of a
false alarm shall be sent to the owner of the real property upon which the
alarm system has been installed.
   (B)   The chief shall keep a record of the number of false alarms for any
particular property owner for each calendar year. Upon the occurrence of the
fourth false alarm in any calendar year, the notice shall reflect the
imposition of fees equal to those referred to herein.
(Prior Code, § 18.53) (Ord. 1-2001, passed 4- -2001)
§ 32.26 FEES.
   The owner of the property upon which an alarm has been installed shall be
the party against whom fees shall be imposed under this subchapter. There shall
be no fees imposed for three false alarms in any calendar year. However, upon
the fourth false alarm in any calendar year, a fee of $25 shall be imposed
against the owner of the real property upon which the alarm system has been
installed. Upon the fifth false alarm in any calendar year, a fee of $50 shall
be imposed. Upon the sixth and every subsequent false alarm in any calendar
year, the fee shall be $100.
(Prior Code, § 18.52) (Ord. 1-2001, passed 4- -2001)
§ 32.27 APPEAL OF IMPOSITION OF FEES.
   The owner of property in which an alarm system has been installed may object
to the imposition of fees based upon this subchapter and/or the determination
that false alarms have occurred on the premises. The owner may appeal the
decision to impose fees by filing a written objection with the chief of the
department within 30 days of the date of the notice. This appeal shall be to
the Town Council, who shall make the final decision on the imposition of any
fees pursuant to this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 18.54) (Ord. 1-2001, passed 4- -2001)
CIVIL EMERGENCIES
§ 32.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CIVIL EMERGENCY.
      (1)   A riot of unlawful assembly characterized by the use of actual
force or violence, or any threat to use force if accompanied by the immediate
power to execute such force, by three or more persons acting together without
the authority of law; or
      (2)   Any natural disaster or human-made calamity, including flood,
conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake or explosion, within the corporate
limits of the town resulting in the death or injury of persons or the
destruction of property to such an extent that extraordinary measures must be
taken to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
   CURFEW. A prohibition against any person or persons walking, running
loitering, standing or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public
property or vacant premises within the corporate limits of the town during the
hours in which a curfew has been imposed, excepting persons officially
designated to duty with reference to said civil emergency.
(Prior Code, § 76.01) (Ord. 10-91, passed 12-9-1991)
§ 32.41 PROCLAMATION OF CIVIL EMERGENCY BY TOWN COUNCIL PRESIDENT.
   When, in the judgment of the President of the Town Council, a civil
emergency as defined herein is deemed to exist, he or she may forthwith
proclaim in writing the existence of the same. In case of the absence of the
President of the Town Council from the town, the Chief of Police shall be
authorized to act in his or her stead.
(Prior Code, § 76.02) (Ord. 10-91, passed 12-9-1991)
§ 32.42 EMERGENCY POWERS OF TOWN COUNCIL PRESIDENT.
   During the period of a declared state of emergency, the President of the
Town Council may have the power to invoke any or all of the following
provisions.
   (A)   Alcoholic beverages. No person shall consume any alcoholic beverages
in a public street or place which is publicly owned, or in any motor vehicle
driven or parked thereon, which is within a duly designated restricted area.
   (B)   Weapons. No person shall carry or possess any rock, bottle, club,
brick or weapon who uses or intends to use the same unlawfully against the
persons or property of another.
   (C)   Incendiary missiles. No person shall make, carry, possess or use any
type of “Molotov cocktail,” gasoline- or petroleum-based fire bomb or other
incendiary missile.
   (D)   Restricted areas. No person shall enter any area designated by the
President of the Town Council as a restricted area unless in the performance of
official duties or with written permission from the President of the Town
Council or his or her duly designated representative, or such person shall
prove residence therein.
(Prior Code, § 76.05) (Ord. 10-91, passed 12-9-1991) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.43 IMPOSITION OF CURFEW.
   After the proclamation of a civil emergency by the President of the Town
Council, he or she may order a general curfew applicable to such geographical
areas of the town, or to the town as a whole, as he or she deems advisable and
as he or she deems necessary in the interest of the public safety and welfare.
(Prior Code, § 76.03) (Ord. 10-91, passed 12-9-1991) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.44 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   After the proclamation of a civil emergency by the President of the Town
Council, he or she may also, in the interest of public safety and welfare, make
any or all of the following orders:
   (A)   Order the closing of all retail liquor stores;
   (B)   Order the closing of all taverns;
   (C)   Order the closing of all private clubs, or portions thereof wherein
the consumption of intoxicating liquor and/or beer is permitted;
   (D)   Order the discontinuance of the sale of beer;
   (E)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing or giving away
gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle;
   (F)   Order the closing of gasoline stations and other establishments the
chief activity of which is the sale, distribution or dispensing of liquid
flammable or combustible products;
   (G)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing or
giving away firearms and/or ammunition and other explosives; and
   (H)   Issue such other orders as are imminently necessary for the protection
of life and property.
(Prior Code, § 76.04) (Ord. 10-91, passed 12-9-1991) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.45 CONGREGATING SO AS TO OBSTRUCT PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for three or more persons to assemble, except in public
meetings of citizens, on any sidewalks, street corners, street crossings or
near the mouths of the alleys of the town to the obstruction of the same so as
to hinder or delay any person passing in, upon or along the same, or the owners
or occupants of the property adjacent thereto.
(Prior Code, § 76.10) (Ord. 10-91, passed 12-9-1991) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating §§
32.40 to
32.44 of this chapter shall be guilty of a Class C misdemeanor, and any other
violation of a provision of §§
32.40 to
32.45 shall constitute a Class A infraction as defined by the state statutes.
      (2)   A first offense is $25, a second offense is $50 and a third offense
is $75. All penalties shall be reduced by 50% if paid within 72 hours of notice
to the offender.
(Prior Code, § 76.30) (Ord. 10-91, passed 12-9-1991)
CHAPTER 33: TOWN POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Municipal purchasing agency
   
33.02   Returned check fee
Capital Asset Policy
   
33.15   Capital Asset Policy adopted by reference
Internal Control Standards and Procedures
   
33.30   Internal control standards and procedures adopted by reference
Urban Development Areas
   
33.45   Administration
   
33.46   Scope and limitations
   
33.47   Fees
   
33.48   Printed forms
   
33.49   Recommendations and final approval
   
33.50   Expiration of permit
   
33.51   Expiration of status
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 MUNICIPAL PURCHASING AGENCY.
   (A)   The Town Council (the “Purchasing Agency”) is established as the
purchasing agency for the town.
   (B)   The Purchasing Agency shall have all the powers and duties authorized
under I.C. 5-22, as may be supplemented from time to time by ordinances adopted
by the Council and policies adopted by the Purchasing Agency.
   (C)   The Town Council shall act as the purchasing agency for every agency,
board, office, branch, bureau, commission, council, department or other
establishment of the town.
   (D)   The Town Council may designate in writing any employee of the town as
a purchasing agent.
(Ord. 6-98, passed 6-22-1998)
§ 33.02 RETURNED CHECK FEE.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer’s office will charge a fee not to exceed the
amount set by state law for returned or dishonored payments. This includes
accounts closed/checks dishonored for any other reason.
   (B)   If checks are not paid within ten days, they will be turned over to
the prosecuting attorney per I.C. 26-2-7.
(Ord. 4-94, passed 6-27-1994)
CAPITAL ASSET POLICY
§ 33.15 CAPITAL ASSET POLICY ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The town’s Capital Asset Policy as set out in Ord. 9-2022 is hereby adopted
by reference and enforceable as if set out at length herein in full.
(Ord. 9-2022, passed 9-12-2022)
INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES
§ 33.30 INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The town’s internal control standards and procedures as set out in Ord. 4-
2016 are hereby adopted by reference and enforceable as if set out at length
herein in full.
(Ord. 4-2016, passed 7-11-2016)
URBAN DEVELOPMENT AREAS
§ 33.45 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Plan Commission is hereby designated as the agency of the town which
shall receive all applications from persons, firms, organizations or
corporations requesting that certain real estate be designated as an Urban
Development Area.
(Prior Code, § 21.01)
§ 33.46 SCOPE AND LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   This subchapter shall apply only to structures on real estate located
in the town zoned Industrial.
(Prior Code, § 21.05)
   (B)   This subchapter shall not give any person, firm, organization or
corporation any rights as to tax abatement status as would be a longer period
of time or greater than as provided by state law.
(Prior Code, § 21.08)
§ 33.47 FEES.
   The fees, unless waived by the Town Council, to be paid by the applicants on
the real estate to be designated as an Urban Development Area shall be paid to
the Clerk-Treasurer and shall thereafter remain the property of the town, and
are as follows.
 
Fee  Value of Proposed Improvements
$50  $0 to $25,000.99
$150 $25,001 to $75,000.99
$300 $75,001 to $500,000.99
$500 $500,001 and over
 
(Prior Code, § 21.02)
§ 33.48 PRINTED FORMS.
   (A)   The Plan Commission of the town shall prepare printed forms and
require all applicants applying for the designation of real estate as an Urban
Development Area to use such forms in making application for such designation.
   (B)   The Plan Commission shall consider the following items in preparing
such printed forms:
      (1)   Proposed use of real estate;
      (2)   Proposed type and cost of buildings and equipment if improvements
are proposed;
      (3)   Proposed operation and number of jobs to be created;
      (4)   Real estate description; and
      (5)   Proposed development of the real estate if improvements or
buildings are not immediately contemplated.
(Prior Code, § 21.03)
§ 33.49 RECOMMENDATIONS AND FINAL APPROVAL.
   The Plan Commission, after receiving an application requesting Urban
Development Area designation, shall investigate the applicant to determine the
best interests of the town, shall hold public hearings thereon, if necessary or
advisable, and shall thereafter make written recommendations to the Town
Council as to the desirability or non-desirability of designating the area
described in the application as an Urban Development Area. The Town Council
shall make final approval of all applications, and the application shall be
attached to the ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 21.04)
§ 33.50 EXPIRATION OF PERMIT.
   If improvements as proposed in the application for urban development status
are not started within one year from the date of designation, the urban
development permit therefor shall expire; however, the applicant may reapply,
and the application fee therefor shall be 50% of the original fee. Such
reapplication shall be made within 90 days from the date of expiration of the
one-year period.
(Prior Code, § 21.06)
§ 33.51 EXPIRATION OF STATUS.
   Where an area has been designated as an Urban Development Area, such status
shall expire five years after the date of designation; however, such expiration
shall not affect any persons, firms, organizations or corporations who have
applied for and received tax abatement status in accordance with the law.
(Prior Code, § 21.07)
CHAPTER 34: ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU; FEE SCHEDULES
Section
Ordinance Violations Bureau
   
34.01   Establishment
   
34.02   Violations Clerk
   
34.03   Administration
   
34.04   Penalty enforcement and payment provisions
   
34.05   Deposit of penalties paid
Fee Schedules
   
34.20   General violations fee schedule
   
34.21   Traffic Code violations fee schedule
ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
§ 34.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is created an Ordinance Violations Bureau for the town pursuant to
I.C. 33-36-2-1 et seq.
(Ord. 1-2012, passed 5-29-2012)
§ 34.02 VIOLATIONS CLERK.
   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is hereby appointed and shall serve as the
Violations Clerk and shall administer the Ordinance Violation Bureau.
(Ord. 1-2012, passed 5-29-2012)
§ 34.03 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Town Clerk-Treasurer and his or her staff, as agents thereof, shall
accept written appearance, waiver of trial, admissions of violations and
payment of civil penalties in the amount and for the violations as provided
herein.
(Ord. 1-2012, passed 5-29-2012)
§ 34.04 PENALTY ENFORCEMENT AND PAYMENT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of the town that may be enforced through the Ordinance
Violations Bureau created hereby and the penalties for the violation thereof
are hereby designated in §§
34.20 and
34.21 of this chapter. All fines must be paid within 72 hours, or three town
working days, of the service of the violation notice to the violator in order
for the reduced penalty to apply.
   (B)   Any fine not paid within such three working days in order to receive
the reduced penalty for the applicable ordinance violation shall be paid within
15 days of the service of the violation notice.
   (C)   The violation notice shall be served in person to the violator or by
regular United States mail to the last known address of the violator. The
service date for such violation notice shall be as of the date of personal
service thereof or two days after such violation notice might be mailed to the
violator as allowed hereby.
   (D)   Nothing contained herein shall prevent the Town Council from otherwise
enforcing any of the provisions listed in §§
34.20 and
34.21 for the abatement of any nuisance or other prohibited activities under
such listed provisions and from recovering any expenses, costs and fees allowed
by such provision(s), or from pursuing any other legal remedy said Town Council
may have under the listed provisions rather than pursuing the violator of any
such provision(s) through the Ordinance Violations Bureau created hereby.
   (E)   In the event that the ordinance violation is filed in any court in
this county, the costs of collection, including court costs and reasonable
attorney fees, shall be added to any amount described herein.
(Ord. 1-2012, passed 5-29-2012)
§ 34.05 DEPOSIT OF PENALTIES PAID.
   The Town Clerk-Treasurer, as Violations Clerk hereunder, shall deposit any
penalties paid to the Violations Bureau created hereby, or any other amounts
received as a result of the creation of such Violations Bureau, to the town’s
General Fund and account for all proceeds received in that capacity.
(Ord. 1-2012, passed 5-29-2012; Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014)
FEE SCHEDULES
§ 34.20 GENERAL VIOLATIONS FEE SCHEDULE.
   All penalties below shall be reduced by 50% if paid within 72 hours of
notice to the offender.
Offense Code Location First Offense Second Offense Third Plus Offense
Offense           Code Location First Offense     Second Offense Third Plus
                                                                 Offense
Anti-noise
regulations,      §            $25               $50            $75
motor vehicle     95.05
noises*
Anti-noise        §
regulations,      95.02         $25               $50            $75
other noises*
Circuses,         §
carnivals and     115.01        $100              $150           $250
parades*
Curfew            §            $25               $50            $75
                  130.01
Dogs and animals  Ch. 91        $25               $50            $75
Dogs and animals, §
controlled animal 91.071        $100              $250           $250
permits
Dogs and animals,
impoundment                     Licensed animals:
(subsequent       §            $15;
offenses defined  91.057        Unlicensed        $50            $75
as within 3                     animals: $25
months of prior
violation
Garage and yard   Ch. 112       $25               $50            $100
sales*
Garbage and       §
rubbish, lawn and 50.10         $100              $150           $250
garden waste
Garbage and       §
rubbish,          50.03         Fine not to exceed $500 per day
incineration
Itinerant
merchants,        §            $50               $75            $100
peddlers and      110.02
solicitors
Junk cars         Ch. 94        Fine not to exceed $500 per day
                  §§
Junk dealers*     114.01 to     $100              $150           $250
                  114.07
Light motor       §
vehicle noise     95.05         $25               $50            $75
control
Littering         §            $25               $50            $75
                  93.01
Loitering and     §§
curfew            32.43;        $25               $50            $75
                  32.45
Parks, alcohol    §            $25               $50            $75
and tobacco       96.08
Parks, animals    §            $25               $50            $75
and nature        96.05
Parks, bodies of  §            $25               $50            $75
water             96.06
Parks,            §
destructive       96.10         $25               $50            $75
actions
Parks, fireworks  §            $25               $50            $75
and explosives    96.07
Parks, hours and  §            $25               $50            $75
usage             96.02
Parks, motor      §            $25               $50            $75
vehicles          96.12
Parks, trash and  §            $25               $50            $75
dumpster usage    96.11
Solicitors of     Ch. 111       $50               $75            $100
funds
Taxicabs          Ch. 117       $50               $75            $100
Throwing burning  §
material from a   93.02         $25               $50            $75
motor vehicle
NOTES TO TABLE
* Each day a violation is permitted or is permitted to continue shall be
considered a subsequent offense.
 
(Ord. 1-2012, passed 5-29-2012; Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014)
§ 34.21 TRAFFIC CODE VIOLATIONS FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   All penalties below shall be reduced by 50% if paid within 72 hours of
notice to the offender.
Offense Code Location First Offense Second Offense Third Plus Offense
Offense           Code Location First Offense    Second Offense Third Plus
                                                                Offense
                  §§
Bicycles          73.065 to     $25              $50            $75
                  73.079
                  §§
Off-road vehicles 73.015 to     $25              $50            $75
and golf carts    73.020;
                  73.035
Parking           Ch. 72        $10 ($5 if paid  $10            $25
                                within 72 hours)
Pedestrians       Ch. 74        $10 ($5 if paid  $10            $25
                                within 72 hours)
                  §§
Trucks            70.075 to     $25              $50            $75
                  70.081
Weight            §§
regulations*      70.060 to     $100             $150           $250
                  70.063
NOTES TO TABLE
* Any vehicle in violation may be ordered to be removed or may be removed
by the Chief of Police or any police officer at the expense of the driver
of said vehicle, its owner or person in possession of such vehicle.
 
   (B)   The fine for all traffic violations below shall be $100 and reduced
down to $50 if paid within 72 hours of the offense.
Offense Code Location
Offense                                                         Code Location
Attaching to vehicle                                            §
                                                                73.001
Brake lights                                                    §
                                                                70.044
Bumpers                                                         §
                                                                70.048
Crossing fire hose                                              §
                                                                70.027
Decals, signs, posters, sunscreens or other nontransparent      §
material                                                        70.047
Drivers or passengers of motorcycles under 18 years of age      §
                                                                70.012
Driving on sidewalks                                            §
                                                                71.35
Failure to dim bright or blinding lights                        §
                                                                70.042
Failure to obey a traffic-control device                        §
                                                                71.02
Failure to obey railroad crossing signal or sign                §
                                                                71.10
Failure to obey school bus signal device                        §
                                                                71.11
Failure to obey school crossing guard                           §
                                                                71.12
Failure to obey stop sign                                       §
                                                                71.08
Failure to obey yield sign                                      §
                                                                71.09
Failure to observe designated speed limits                      §
                                                                71.65
Failure to yield right-of -way to emergency vehicle             §
                                                                70.025
Following distance                                              §
                                                                71.30
Following fire apparatus                                        §
                                                                70.026
Headlights                                                      §
                                                                70.040
Illegal turn                                                    §
                                                                71.51
Illegal turn or change of lane                                  §
                                                                71.53
Illegal U-turn                                                  §
                                                                71.52
Impeding traffic                                                §
                                                                71.66
Interference with a traffic-control device                      §
                                                                71.13
Interruption of funeral procession                              §
                                                                71.36
Loads extending beyond body of vehicle                          §
                                                                70.009
Motorized bicycles                                              §
                                                                73.050
Obstruction of intersection                                     §
                                                                71.27
Operation of motorized bicycle by persons under 18 years of age §
                                                                73.051
Overtaking and passing                                          §
                                                                71.26
Starting a stopped, standing or parked vehicle                  §
                                                                71.32
Stopping or sudden decrease in speed                            §
                                                                71.31
Stopping, standing or parking in roadway                        §
                                                                70.010
Taillights                                                      §
                                                                70.043
Tinting, glazing or sunscreening vehicle windows                §
                                                                70.046
Traffic markings, signs and other signal devices                §
                                                                71.02
Unlawful riding                                                 §
                                                                70.006
Unsafe vehicle                                                  §
                                                                70.007
Use of lights                                                   §
                                                                70.041
Use of right half of roadway                                    §
                                                                71.25
Use of turn signals                                             §
                                                                71.50
Vehicles with contents escaping                                 §
                                                                70.008
Windshield wipers                                               §
                                                                70.045
Wrong way on a one-way street or alley                          §
                                                                71.28
 
(Ord. 1-2012, passed 5-29-2012; Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE, RUBBISH AND YARD WASTE
      
51.   ELECTRIC SERVICE
      
52.   WATER SERVICE
      
53.   SEWER SERVICE
      
54.   PRETREATMENT REGULATIONS
      
55.   STORMWATER
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE, RUBBISH AND YARD WASTE
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Garbage, rubbish and solid waste generally
   
50.03   Burning or incinerating trash
   
50.04   Receptacles
   
50.05   Recycling bins
   
50.06   Multi-family dwellings
   
50.07   Rates and charges
   
50.08   Right to removal
   
50.09   Supervision
   
50.10   Lawn and garden waste
   
50.11   Yard waste processing facility
   
50.12   Town Cleanup Day
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL INCINERATOR. An incinerator designed or used for public, private
or commercial use, meeting the standards of the Incinerator Institute of
America with reference to the particular use for which said incinerator is
employed, or meeting the standards set by the Indiana Department of
Environmental Management (IDEM) from time to time hereafter.
   GARBAGE. Any and all refuse accumulation of animal, fish, fowl, fruit or
vegetable matter that results from the preparation, use or cooking of meats,
fish, fowl, fruit or other substances.
   LAWN AND GARDEN WASTE. Includes vegetative matter from landscape maintenance
as set forth in I.C. 13-20-9.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. The presence and/or accumulation of the following shall be
considered a PUBLIC NUISANCE, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Litter;
      (2)   Fallen tree stumps, dead trees, cut brush or fallen or cut limbs;
      (3)   Boxes, appliances, household items and tires;
      (4)   Demolition remains;
      (5)   Accumulated garbage and trash;
      (6)   Automobile parts, disassembled automobiles, automobiles without
engines, plumbing and piping materials and parts, scrap metal, unseaworthy or
dilapidated boats, dilapidated, deteriorated or non-operable jet skis,
snowmobiles, motorcycles, bicycles, trailers or mopeds;
      (7)   Any wastewater, filth, offal, garbage, rubbish, animal waste or
human excrement which is deposited, allowed or caused to be upon public or
private property;
      (8)   Any water or any other substance which is caused or permitted to
flow onto or be deposited upon any public property or public way, except
natural surface water drainage;
      (9)   Any dead animal or animal parts;
      (10)   Any personal property which is infected with contagious disease or
is likely to cause an immediate health hazard;
      (11)   Any matter which attracts or may attract rodents, insects or
domestic or wild animals in such a manner as to create a health hazard or
unsanitary or dangerous condition;
      (12)   The storage of any explosive, combustible or other material which
creates a public safety or health hazard;
      (13)   Trees, shrubbery, weeds, snow or other matter obstructing public
ways or causing visual barriers which create vehicular traffic or pedestrian
safety hazards;
      (14)   Trash or garbage containers left upon the sidewalk, the area
between a street and sidewalk or the front or the side yard, except as is
permitted by this chapter for trash and garbage collection purposes;
      (15)   Weeds or other rank vegetation growing upon real estate within the
town, including, without limitation, those varieties listed at §
152.30 of this code that have been left to grow in an uncut and unsightly
condition; and
      (16)   Any furniture not originally designed or manufactured solely for
outdoor use, or any furniture which was originally designed or manufactured for
outdoor use which is now dilapidated or deteriorated.
   SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, rubbish, refuse, household waste, household
hazardous waste or other discarded material, including solids liquids,
semisolids or contained gaseous material.
   TRASH AND RUBBISH. Material other than garbage resulting from ordinary
household and commercial operations, including such items as tin cans, glass,
bottles, ashes, papers, magazines and newsprint, boxes, rags and small cartons.
(Prior Code, § 70.01) (Ord. 4-89, passed 5-8-1989; Ord. 17-89, passed 1-22-
1990; Ord. 4-92, passed 6-22-1992; Ord. 4-2021, passed 5-24-2021)
§ 50.02 GARBAGE, RUBBISH AND SOLID WASTE GENERALLY.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to regulate and control the disposition
of garbage, rubbish and solid waste in the town and to prohibit the dumping,
storing and accumulation of the waste in a place other than a permitted
facility, particularly along public roadsides and private property within the
town.
   (B)   No person or entity shall:
      (1)   Discharge, deposit, throw or cause to allow any solid waste to be
discharged, deposited or thrown or stored on any land within the town limits
for final disposal that does not have the proper permits and which is also land
not owned by the generator or owner of the solid waste;
      (2)   Transport his or her garbage or rubbish to collection sites other
than the site which is designated for his or her property;
      (3)   Transport garbage or rubbish from out of the town limits into the
town and dispose of the garbage or rubbish at a town collection site;
      (4)   Transport garbage or rubbish from apartment buildings, schools,
churches or other similar places to residential collection sites within the
town;
      (5)   Dump garbage, rubbish or other waste materials, or similar matter,
into any street, alley, vacant lot, public place or land or into or near any
portion of natural or artificial watercourse in the town; or
      (6)   Allow garbage or rubbish to remain upon any alley, street or public
way or allow the rubbish or garbage to remain in a visible and unsightly
condition.
   (C)   It is the purpose of this section, among other things, to prohibit a
person who lives outside the town limits from bringing trash generated outside
the town limits into the town for collection. The prohibitions of this section
shall apply to all persons and entities regardless of whether they own real
estate in the town limits.
   (D)   In all cases where there is found to be noncompliance with the
provision of this section, the owner or occupant of the property found to be in
noncompliance shall be notified by the Director of Operations either in person
or by written notice sent by certified mail. This notice shall describe the
nature of the noncompliance and suggest corrective action. The property owner
or occupants so notified shall have five days from the receipt of the notice to
take the corrective action at the expense of the property owner or occupant.
The charge assessed against the property owner or occupant will be based upon
the actual cost to the town, including, but not limited to, labor and equipment
cost to the town and costs charged against the town to perform the corrective
action, and shall constitute a lien on real estate. In no case shall the charge
be less than $100. In addition to the assessment of charges pursuant thereto,
the town may bring an action against the owner or occupant pursuant to §
50.99 of this chapter.
(Ord. 4-2021, passed 5-24-2021) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03 BURNING OR INCINERATING TRASH.
   (A)   Burning in violation a public nuisance. It shall be a public nuisance
to burn any garbage or trash or any other materials at or on the exterior of
buildings in the town, except as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Burning in approved incinerators.
      (1)   (a)   Containers for the accumulation of trash, rubbish or garbage
shall be of a solid metal or plastic type with a secure-fitting lid.
         (b)   From and after the effective date of this chapter, no rubbish or
trash shall be burned in containers or otherwise in the town on or at the
exterior of buildings or premises.
         (c)   Accumulations of garbage, trash or rubbish in containers larger
than 96 gallons in size and 60 pounds in weight shall constitute a violation of
this chapter.
      (2)   The Town Council be, and hereby is, authorized and empowered to
remove and dispose of any and all barrels, drums, containers or receptacles
accumulating garbage, trash or rubbish, which said barrels, drums, containers
or receptacles fail to meet the qualifications and specifications as to size
heretofore set forth, providing said barrels, drums, containers or receptacles
are situated at the exterior of buildings within the corporate limits of the
town, if they contain rubbish, trash or garbage generated by residentially
occupied buildings.
      (3)   The Chief of Police and all of the officers of the Police
Department shall be the enforcement agency for the enforcement of this section
and for the abatement and prevention of violations of this section.
      (4)   Upon the application of any person for the approval of plans and
specifications for a commercial incinerator for the burning of garbage, trash
or rubbish, the Town Council shall, before approval of such plans and
specifications, be satisfied that the proposed incinerator’s use and location
will not endanger the public health, will not pollute the air, will not create
a public nuisance and meets the standards of the Indiana Department of
Environmental Management (IDEM). Upon such findings by the Town Council, the
Council shall submit written approval to the Town Clerk-Treasurer, and the Town
Clerk-Treasurer shall thereupon issue a permit for the construction and use of
such incinerator. Any and all permits issued hereunder shall be valid for a
one-year term from the date of issuance and shall be subject to the annual
review and to an annual approval or disapproval by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 70.02) (Ord. 4-89, passed 5-8-1989; Ord. 17-89, passed 1-22-
1990; Ord. 4-92, passed 6-22-1992; Ord. 4-2021, passed 5-24-2021) Penalty, see
§
50.99
§ 50.04 RECEPTACLES.
   All garbage, trash or rubbish stored on or at the exterior of buildings or
premises for more than 12 hours prior to collection must be stored in animal-
proof, watertight containers of metal, plastic or similar rigid materials not
exceeding 96 gallons in capacity and 60 pounds in weight. All receptacles shall
be placed conveniently for collection within ten feet of the designated
collection route.
(Prior Code, § 70.03) (Ord. 4-89, passed 5-8-1989; Ord. 17-89, passed 1-22-
1990; Ord. 4-92, passed 6-22-1992; Ord. 4-2021, passed 5-24-2021) Penalty, see
§
50.99
§ 50.05 RECYCLING BINS.
   Bins located by the town or its contractors for the collection of recyclable
materials shall, together with their contents, be deemed to be the property of
the town. Anyone other than a town employee or an employee of a firm
contracting with the town to provide service attempting to gain entry to the
bins, removing material therefrom or in any way damaging the bins shall have
committed an infraction punishable by a fine. The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall be
empowered and authorized to receive the fines so imposed.
(Prior Code, § 70.08) (Ord. 17-89, passed 1-22-1990; Ord. 4-92, passed 6-22-
1992; Ord. 4-2021, passed 5-24-2021) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06 MULTI-FAMILY DWELLINGS.
   The owner of all residential buildings containing four or more residential
units shall provide metal containers or dumpsters of at least two cubic yards’
capacity meeting the specifications of the municipality’s contract trash
collection service for the benefit of tenants of the building at the owner’s
expense. The municipal collection service shall not be obligated to pick up
trash or refuse from any such location not in compliance with this provision.
(Prior Code, § 70.07) (Ord. 17-89, passed 1-22-1990; Ord. 4-92, passed 6-22-
1992; Ord. 4-2021, passed 5-24-2021) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07 RATES AND CHARGES.
   The Town Council is hereby authorized to establish by resolution a schedule
of rates and charges to be assessed for residential garbage removal services.
The charges shall be placed on every residential sewer customer’s utility
statement and will be payable in advance and billed at least as often as
quarterly.
(Prior Code, § 70.05) (Ord. 4-89, passed 5-8-1989; Ord. 17-89, passed 1-22-
1990; Ord. 4-92, passed 6-22-1992; Ord. 11-2015, passed 11-23-2015; Ord. 4-
2021, passed 5-24-2021) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.08 RIGHT TO REMOVAL.
   Any resident, property owner or tenant within the town shall be entitled to
garbage and refuse removal services, subject to rules and regulations which
shall be established by the Town Council; provided, however, that owners or
tenants of commercial and industrial properties shall arrange for their own
collection services at their own expense. The town shall not be required to
give service to any user who has not paid for the service.
(Prior Code, § 70.04) (Ord. 4-89, passed 5-8-1989; Ord. 17-89, passed 1-22-
1990; Ord. 4-92, passed 6-22-1992; Ord. 4-2021, passed 5-24-2021) Penalty, see
§
50.99
§ 50.09 SUPERVISION.
   The Town Council shall at all times exercise supervision over the collection
of garbage and refuse through the Street Superintendent or such other person as
it may appoint. The Council is empowered to enter into contracts and agreements
with a private garbage collector and make any necessary rules, having due
regard for the public health, appearance and sanitary conditions of the town.
Owners of commercial and industrial properties are permitted to employ any
garbage and refuse collector of their choosing; however, all residential
garbage and refuse removal shall be under the supervision of the Town Council
and all residential property owners or tenants shall be assessed charges for
their services. Each user will be deemed to be residential based upon the rate
classification adopted by the water and electric utilities, and the charges
shall be included on the water and/or electric utility bill sent to the user.
This section shall not apply to tenants of multi-family dwellings as addressed
in §
50.06 of this chapter unless the municipal trash service is utilized.
(Prior Code, § 70.06) (Ord. 4-89, passed 5-8-1989; Ord. 17-89, passed 1-22-
1990; Ord. 4-92, passed 6-22-1992; Ord. 4-2021, passed 5-24-2021; Ord. 6-2024,
passed 5-28-2024) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.10 LAWN AND GARDEN WASTE.
   Effective September 1, 1992, no resident, property owner or tenant shall
place any lawn or garden waste in receptacles for the regular pickup of
garbage, trash or rubbish. Such materials shall be composted or delivered to a
place designated by the Town Council for the disposal of such items.
(Prior Code, § 70.09) (Ord. 4-92, passed 6-22-1992; Ord. 9-2011, passed 12-27-
2011; Ord. 4-2021, passed 5-24-2021) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.11 YARD WASTE PROCESSING FACILITY.
   (A)   Use of the facility is restricted to residents within the municipal
boundaries of the town for the disposal of material produced from within said
boundaries. The facility shall be open from 8:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. daily,
except between April 1 and November 1 each year, when it shall be open from 7:
00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. No outside waste is permitted.
   (B)   The facility will accept only organic yard materials, including brush,
logs and branches less than 24 inches in diameter, leaves, grass clippings,
organic garden or yard waste and wood chips.
   (C)   The following items are strictly prohibited: logs or branches with a
diameter greater than 24 inches, tree stumps and inorganic waste of any kind,
including construction materials, metal and the like.
   (D)   Commercial use of the facility is allowed only for the disposal of
permitted materials originating within the municipal limits of the town.
   (E)   Any person using the waste facility must produce identification
demonstrating proof of residence within the municipal boundaries of the town
upon the request of any town employee or any law enforcement officer.
   (F)   The town may also pursue any violator for the cost of disposing of any
materials not permitted by this policy.
   (G)   Failure to observe any of the foregoing rules for use of the waste
facility may result in the prohibition of future use.
(Ord. 4-2014, passed 2-24-2014; Ord. 5-2017, passed 4-24-2017) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.12 TOWN CLEANUP DAY.
   Periodically, the Town Council shall designate a “Cleanup Day” whereby town
residents may bring household goods and materials to a designated location for
disposal at no charge. Hazardous materials, certain appliances and other items
may not be accepted at the discretion of the Director of Operations. All items
deposited at the designated location shall become the property of the town and
disposed of at the discretion of the Director of Operations in conformance with
policies adopted by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 70.10)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   All violations of §§
50.01 to
50.10 of this chapter shall constitute a public nuisance.
      (2)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
50.01 to
50.10 of this chapter, where no specific penalty is otherwise provided, shall
be punished with a fine not exceeding $500 per offense. For violations of §§
50.01 to
50.10 that are continuing in nature, said fine shall be assessed per day.
   (B)   From and after the enactment of this chapter, any violation of any of
the provisions of §
50.03(B)(1) to (B)(3) shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $500 per day.
The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall be empowered and authorized to receive the fines
so imposed under this chapter for and on behalf of the town.
   (C)   An infraction as set out in §
50.05 of this chapter is punishable by a fine of up to $300 for each such
violation.
   (D)   (1)   A violation of §
50.10 of this chapter shall be a Class A infraction.
      (2)   A first offense is $100, a second offense $150 and a third offense
$250. Penalties shall be reduced by 50% if paid within 72 hours of notice to
the offender.
   (E)   (1)   A fine may be imposed according to the following schedule for
violation of §
50.11 of this chapter.
   Commercial
First offense       $2,500
Subsequent offenses $7,500
   Generally
First offense       $500
Second offense      $750
Third offense       $1,000
Subsequent offenses $1,500
 
      (2)   Any violation of §
50.11 of this chapter, including illegal use of the facility by nonresidents or
to dispose of material gathered outside the municipal boundaries of the town,
may result in the pursuit of any criminal and/or civil claims available.
(Ord. 5-2017, passed 4-24-2017; Ord. 4-2021, passed 5-24-2021)
CHAPTER 51: ELECTRIC SERVICE
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Definitions and abbreviations
   
51.002   Department of Electric Utility
   
51.003   Superintendent the department head
   
51.004   Powers
   
51.005   Tariff on file
   
51.006   Rules and regulations on file
   
51.007   Rates and charges established
   
51.008   Choice of optional rate
   
51.009   Application for service or contract
   
51.010   Modification of contract
   
51.011   Permits, inspections and registration
   
51.012   Exclusive service on installation connected
   
51.013   Resale of the service
   
51.014   Fraud, theft or unauthorized use
   
51.015   Customer complaints and dispute resolution
Electric Service Regulations Generally
   
51.030   Voltages
   
51.031   New construction and system upgrades
   
51.032   Extension of distribution lines and services
   
51.033   Building containing two or more separate living quarters
   
51.034   Combined residential and commercial service
   
51.035   Notify utility before increasing load
   
51.036   Interruption of service and the like
   
51.037   Utility reserves right to shut off supply
   
51.038   Discontinuance of service
   
51.039   Access to premises
Equipment Regulations and Restrictions
   
51.050   Equipment location permit
   
51.051   Location of utility transformers, meters and equipment
   
51.052   Relocation of transformer bank
   
51.053   Utility property and protection thereof
   
51.054   Charges for poles or utility equipment
   
51.055   Inside wiring and entrance equipment
   
51.056   Customer equipment
   
51.057   Meters to be installed by the utility
   
51.058   Meter testing
Services Generally
   
51.070   Description of service to be furnished
   
51.071   Commercial and municipal service
   
51.072   Large power service
   
51.073   Large power off-peak service
   
51.074   Mega industrial power service
   
51.075   Residential service
   
51.076   Mobile home park electric service
   
51.077   Residential sub-division electric service
   
51.078   Underground electrical service
   
51.079   Security lighting service
Interconnection Standards and Parallel Generation Service
   
51.090   Findings and determination
   
51.091   Net metering
   
51.092   Approval required for connection
   
51.093   Interconnection application and approval; fee
   
51.094   Compliance with codes, laws and regulations
   
51.095   Installation and maintenance responsibility
   
51.096   Operation requirements
   
51.097   Access for inspections; right to isolate
   
51.098   Insurance; hold harmless agreement
   
51.099   Residential solar renewable parallel generation service
   
51.100   Commercial solar renewable parallel generation service
Billing and Payment
   
51.115   Predication of rates
   
51.116   Deposit to ensure payment of bills
   
51.117   Customer billing; billing adjustments; faulty meters
   
51.118   Past due accounts
   
51.119   Referral for collection
 
   
51.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Application for Water, Sewage, Electricity and Garbage Collection
   
Appendix B: Schedule of Miscellaneous Charges
   
Appendix C: Rate Schedule
   
Appendix D: Power Cost Adjustment (PCA) Rider
   
Appendix E: Rates Stabilization Adder Rider
   
Appendix F: Economic Development Rider
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 DEFINITIONS AND ABBREVIATIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ADD CONSUMPTION. The algebraic sum of readings of multiple metering
points for one customer at one premises as though the customer’s energy
delivery were through one meter.
      AGREEMENT or APPLICATION. A written contract or service request for a
supply of electric service, of which these terms and conditions are an integral
part.
      APARTMENTS. Premises containing two or more residential dwelling units.
Hotels, tourist camps, motels, hospitals, nursing homes and the like consisting
primarily of guest rooms or transient accommodations are not included.
      BILLING kW. A customer’s maximum demand expressed in kilowatts (kW) or
kilovolt-amperes (kVA), as adjusted in accordance with the applicable rate,
which will be used in the calculation of the bill.
      BILLING PERIOD or MONTH. The interval between two consecutive meter
readings that is taken for billing purposes. Such readings will be taken as
nearly as practicable every 30 days. All rate schedules are on the basis of
charges per month unless otherwise specifically stated in the rate schedule.
      CUSTOMER. Any individual, partnership, association, firm, public or
private corporation, joint association, joint venture, limited liability
company, government agency, institution or other entity which has agreed,
orally or otherwise, to pay for electric service received from the utility.
      DELIVERY POINT. The point of the physical connection between the
utility’s and a customer’s facilities beyond which point the customer receives
and assumes responsibility and liability for the service rendered.
      DISCONNECTION. The termination or discontinuance of electric service.
      DISTRIBUTION LINE. Any electric lines of the utility operated at a
voltage of 15,000 volts or less.
      ENERGY. The active component of the quantity of supply expressed in
kilowatt-hours (kWh).
      LATE PAYMENT CHARGE. The one-time penalty assessed by the utility upon
all current bills at such time as they become delinquent.
      MAXIMUM DEMAND. The maximum integrated rate of use of power during a
specified time interval as provided in the rate schedule, expressed in
kilowatts (kW).
      METER. The complete installation of equipment needed to measure the
maximum demand and/or energy supplied to the customer.
      MONTH. See BILLING PERIOD.
      OVERHEAD SYSTEM or OH. Those parts of the utility’s distribution system
which are constructed on and supported primarily by wooden poles or otherwise
suspended above ground level and appurtenances thereto.
      PREMISES. A distinct portion of real estate on which is located the
living quarters for the use of a single family, or the main building of a
commercial or of an industrial customer, and which shall include the outlying
or adjacent buildings used by the same customer, provided the use of service in
the outlying buildings is supplemental to the service used in the main
residence or building.
      RATE SCHEDULE. A part of the tariff which sets forth the availability and
rates and charges for service supplied to a particular class of customers.
      RESIDENTIAL DWELLING UNIT. An individual residence, including mobile
homes and trailers, or a room or combination of rooms with facilities for
private living for a single family.
      SERVICE. The supply of electric energy delivered by utility to the
customer.
      TARIFF. The entire body of rate schedules, riders and general terms and
conditions for electric service.
      UNDERGROUND SYSTEM or UG. Those parts of the utility’s distribution
system which are constructed and installed underground.
      UTILITY. The Bremen Electric Light and Power Company.
   (B)   Abbreviations. The following commonly used abbreviations will be used:
 
Kilovolt-ampere(s) kVA
Kilowatt(s)        kW
Kilowatt-hour(s)   kWh
 
(Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-10-2017)
§ 51.002 DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRIC UTILITY.
   There is hereby created a Department of Electric Utility, which shall be
responsible to the Town Council for the operation of the town’s electric
utility. These terms and conditions for service have been approved by the Town
Council pursuant to Ord. 2-2013 and represent the lawful rules of the utility
under I.C. 8-1.5-3-4(a)(11).
(Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-10-2017)
§ 51.003 SUPERINTENDENT THE DEPARTMENT HEAD.
   The Council shall appoint a Superintendent of said utility who shall serve
as head of the Department of Electric Utility.
(Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-10-2017)
§ 51.004 POWERS.
   The Council shall have all powers necessary for the custody, management and
operation of said utility under the provision of I.C. 8-1.5-3-1 et seq., and
amendments thereto. The terms and conditions for services as set forth herein
and as amended and supplemented from time to time shall govern all electric
service rendered, or to be rendered, by the utility. The terms and conditions
for service shall be binding upon every customer and the utility and shall
constitute a part of the terms and conditions of every contract for electric
service, whether written or oral. These terms and conditions for service
supersede all prior versions.
(Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-10-2017)
§ 51.005 TARIFF ON FILE.
   (A)   A copy of the tariff is available for inspection at the business
offices of the utility. The tariff, or any part thereof, may be revised,
amended or otherwise changed from time to time in the manner prescribed by law,
and any such changes will supersede the present tariff.
   (B)   The general terms and conditions for electric service set forth the
conditions under which service is to be rendered and governs all classes of
service to the extent applicable. In cases of conflict between any provision of
a rate schedule and the general terms and conditions for electric service, the
provisions of the rate schedule shall prevail. The failure of the utility to
enforce any of the general terms and conditions for electric service shall not
be deemed a waiver of its right to do so.
   (C)   The utility shall have the right to execute contracts for service
under any rate schedule. The utility also shall have the right to execute other
contracts for service which may contain provisions not included in the tariff,
provided, however, that all approvals of such contracts that may be required by
law shall be obtained by the utility.
(Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-10-2017)
§ 51.006 RULES AND REGULATIONS ON FILE.
   A copy of all rates, rules and regulations under which service will be
supplied is posted or filed for the convenience of the public in the office of
the utility.
(Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-10-2017)
§ 51.007 RATES AND CHARGES ESTABLISHED.
   The Council shall, by ordinance, establish rates and charges for electricity
supplied by said utility to adequately provide for the operation, maintenance,
depreciation and repayment of indebtedness of the utility.
(Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-10-2017)
§ 51.008 CHOICE OF OPTIONAL RATE.
   (A)   Where optional rate schedules are available for the same class of
service, the customer shall designate the schedule he or she desires. Where
selection of the most favorable schedule is difficult to predetermine, the town
will advise the customer as to which rate in this schedule is beneficial for
the prospective service using the customer’s monthly average load factor for
the previous calendar year (January through December). If billing information
is not available for a previous calendar year or 12-month period, the utility
will estimate the customer’s load factor using information provided by the
customer.
   (B)   The customer may change the initial rate selection to another
applicable rate in this schedule at any time by written notice to the town,
provided that the application of such subsequent selection shall continue for
12 months before any other selection may be made.
(Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-10-2017)
§ 51.009 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE OR CONTRACT.
   (A)   A written application for service or contract properly executed, and a
service deposit as provided for in §
51.116 of this chapter, may be required by the utility before service will be
provided.
   (B)   The utility shall have the right to reject any application for service
made by, or for the benefit of, wholly or partially, a former customer who is
indebted to the utility for service previously supplied or damages owed the
utility through fault of the applicant at any premises in the utility’s service
area. The utility also may reject an application for service if the applicant
is unwilling or unable to comply with these general terms and conditions for
electric service or for any other valid or legal reason. The utility may
further disconnect service on account of arrearages due for service furnished
to a person or persons formerly receiving the same class of service at the same
premises as a customer of the utility if such person or persons formerly
receiving the same class of service continues to reside at such premises
receiving service.
   (C)   The taking of service shall constitute a contract between the customer
and the utility, obligating the customer to pay for, and the utility to
furnish, service as specified in the tariff and to comply with all applicable
provisions of the general terms and conditions for electric service.
   (D)   Certain rate schedules specify a minimum term of contract. In the
absence of such requirement in any rate schedule, the utility may require a
term of contract commensurate with the size of the customer’s load which the
utility is obligated to serve and/or the cost to the utility of making service
available.
   (E)   No promises, agreements or representations of an agent or an employee
of the utility shall be binding on the utility unless such promises, agreements
or representations are incorporated in a written contract executed by a duly
authorized representative of the utility.
   (F)   The benefits and obligations under any service request or contract
shall inure to and be binding upon the successors and assigns, survivors and
executors or administrators (as the case may be) of the original parties
thereto, provided, however, that no assignment shall be made by the customer
without first obtaining the utility’s written consent. The utility may require
the successor either to execute with the utility an assignment agreement
wherein the successor customer assumes and agrees to be bound by the original
contract, or to execute a new contract for service.
   (G)   When the customer desires service at more than one point, a separate
agreement shall be required for each separate point of delivery. Service
delivered at each point of delivery shall be billed separately under the
applicable tariff.
   (H)   An account for residential service may be either joint or individual,
but shall in no event be joint unless the application is executed by all joint
parties. In the event an account shall be in the names of more than one party,
each joint party shall be liable for the payment thereof, jointly and
severally.
   (I)   The utility may disconnect service to a premises at which the
applicant or co-applicant is currently receiving such service on account of
arrearages due for service furnished to the applicant or co-applicant at
another premises under the same class of service.
   (J)   All written contracts hereunder shall be executed by the Department
Superintendent, his or her authorized representative or a majority of the
Council.
   (K)   The utility shall have the right to reject any application or contract
for valid reason. When a special construction or equipment expense is necessary
to furnish service, the utility may require contracts for a suitable period of
time and reasonable guarantees.
(Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-10-2017) Penalty, see §
51.999
Cross-reference:
   Related form, see
Ch. 51, Appx. A
§ 51.010 MODIFICATION OF CONTRACT.
   No promises, agreements or representations of any agent of the utility shall
be binding upon the utility unless the same shall have been incorporated in a
written contract before such contract is signed and approved.
(Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-10-2017)
§ 51.011 PERMITS, INSPECTIONS AND REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Standards. All installation shall conform to the regulations set forth
in the National Electric Code as adopted by the state, with amendments.
   (B)   Existing work. If electrical installations existing at the time of the
passage of this chapter are found to be in a dangerous condition because such
installations do not comply with the regulations of the National Electric Code
or this chapter, it shall be the responsibility of the county’s Building
Department, hereinafter provided, to order the owner of the property in which
the unsafe conditions exist to upgrade such electrical wiring or equipment so
that the same will conform with the regulations of this chapter and the
National Electric Code as adopted by the state, with amendments. The county’s
Building Department shall give the property owner a written notice of the
corrections to be made and specify the period of time in which such corrections
shall be completed. Failure to comply will result in electrical service being
disconnected from the offending property.
   (C)   New work. Electrical service to any new consumer shall not be
furnished until the utility has received from the county’s Building Department
a certificate of approval indicating to the utility furnishing the electrical
service that the electrical installations of the building or structure conform
with the provisions of this chapter and the National Electric Code as adopted
by the state, with amendments.
   (D)   Inspections and certificates. Upon the completion of any installation
of electrical wiring and equipment which has been made under a permit, it shall
be the duty of the person, firm or corporation making the installation to
notify the county’s Building Department, who shall inspect the installation
within one business day of the time said notice is given, or as soon as
thereafter is practicable. All inspections shall be performed by the office of
the county’s Building Department.
   (E)   Permits. No electrical wiring or equipment shall be installed within
or on any building, structure or premises, nor shall any alternation or
addition be made on any such existing equipment by any person, firm or
corporation, without first securing a permit from the county’s Building
Department, located at 112 W. Jefferson St., Room 302, Plymouth, Indiana; nor
shall any installation be commenced until a certificate has been posted at a
job site showing that a permit has been granted authorizing them to proceed
with the electrical installation, except that when minor electrical
installations or repairs are made by a homeowner or by a registered
electrician, the requirements for obtaining a permit and inspection shall be
optional, provided the cost of such installation or repair does not exceed a
total of $100 for labor and materials.
   (F)   Registration. All electrical contractors and electricians must be
registered with the county’s Building Department office and subject to any
rules, requirements and fees as determined by that office. Applications for
obtaining said registration shall be made at the county’s Building Department
office in Plymouth, Indiana.
   (G)   Liability for damage. This chapter shall not be construed to relieve
from or lessen the responsibility or liability of any party owning, operating,
controlling or installing any electrical equipment for damages to persons or
property caused by a defect therein, nor shall the town be held as assuming any
such liability by reason of the inspection authorized herein or by the
registration and certificate provided by the county’s Building Department.
(Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-10-2017) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.012 EXCLUSIVE SERVICE ON INSTALLATION CONNECTED.
   Except for emergency generating equipment approved by the utility, no other
electric light or power service shall be used by the customer on the same
installation in conjunction with the utility’s service, either by means of a
“throw-over” switch or any other connection, except under a contract for net
metering. (See § 51.091 of this chapter.)
(Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-10-2017) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.013 RESALE OF THE SERVICE.
   Service will not be furnished under any schedule of the utility to any
customer, applicant or group of applicants desiring service with the intent or
for the purpose of reselling any or all of such service.
(Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-10-2017)
§ 51.014 FRAUD, THEFT OR UNAUTHORIZED USE.
   (A)   When the utility detects fraudulent or unauthorized use of
electricity, or that the utility’s regulating or measuring equipment or other
service facilities have been tampered with, the utility may reasonably assume
that the customer or other user has benefitted by such fraudulent or
unauthorized use or tampering and, therefore, is responsible for payment of the
reasonable cost of the service used during the period such fraudulent or
unauthorized use or tampering occurred, or is reasonably assumed to have
occurred, and is responsible for the cost of field calls and for the cost of
effecting repairs necessitated by such use or tampering. In any event, the
utility may make a charge for such out-of-pocket costs.
   (B)   Under circumstances of fraud, theft, unauthorized use of electricity,
tampering or alteration of the utility’s regulation or measuring equipment or
other service facilities, the utility may disconnect service without notice,
and is not required to reconnect the service until a deposit and all the
aforementioned charges, or an estimate of such charges, are paid in full.
   (C)   In the event of fraud, theft or unauthorized use of electricity which
is not upon or connected with a customer’s premises, the ultimate user of the
service shall be liable in the same manner as a customer for the electric
service used, the incurred costs of field calls and the cost of effecting
repairs, and to disconnection without notice.
(Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-10-2017) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.015 CUSTOMER COMPLAINTS AND DISPUTE RESOLUTION.
   (A)   (1)   A customer may file a complaint disputing a disconnection notice
with the utility at any time either before receiving a disconnection notice or
within three business days after receiving such notice. Complaints must be made
in writing and mailed or hand delivered to the utility’s office at 111 S.
Center Street, Bremen, Indiana; such complaint must be received by the utility
within three business days after the customer’s receipt of the disconnection
notice.
      (2)   Upon receiving each such complaint, the utility will investigate
the matter, confer with the customer when requested and notify the customer in
writing of its proposed disposition of the matter. Such written notification
will advise the customer that he or she may, within five business days, request
in writing a review of the utility’s resolution of the complaint by a dispute
resolution board (DRB).
   (B)   The Town Council will appoint a DRB that will be authorized to hear
and decide any customer complaints that the utility was not able to resolve
under the previous section. The DRB may be made up of three members, consisting
of one member of the Town Council, the Director of Operations and the Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (C)   Upon receiving a written request for review of a complaint resolution,
the DRB will hold a hearing within five business days and issue a written
opinion thereafter. The customer will be notified of the time and location of
the hearing and shall be permitted to present his or her complaint to the DRB.
The DRB’s determination and its resolution of the complaint will be final and
binding on the customer and the utility.
   (D)   (1)   If a customer receiving service has paid and continues to pay
all undisputed charges, the utility shall not disconnect any service related to
disputed rates and charges while the utility’s proposed resolution is under
review by the DRB.
      (2)   If a customer and utility cannot agree what portion of the charges
in a bill is undisputed, to avoid disconnection, the customer must pay on the
disputed bill an amount equal to one-twelfth of the estimated annual billing
for service to be rendered to the customer; for a customer who has been a
customer for at least 12 months, the estimate will be based on the customer’s
average bill for the 12 months immediately preceding the disputed bill.
(Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-10-2017)
ELECTRIC SERVICE REGULATIONS GENERALLY
§ 51.030 VOLTAGES.
   The standard nominal distribution service voltages within the service area
of the utility are:
 
Primary Distribution Secondary Distribution
Three Phase          Single Phase  Three Phase
4,160/2,400 volts    120/240 volts 120/208 volts
12,470/7,200 volts   120/208 volts 240 volts
                     277/480 volts 480 volts
 
(Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-10-2017)
§ 51.031 NEW CONSTRUCTION AND SYSTEM UPGRADES.
   All services 400 amps and under utilizing a single meter or current
transformers (CT) with fusible- or breaker-disconnecting means shall be located
at a readily accessible point outside the building or structure and associated
with the meter socket. For services above 400 amps, the disconnecting means may
be located inside the structure per the National Electric Code.
(Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-10-2017)
§ 51.032 EXTENSION OF DISTRIBUTION LINES AND SERVICES.
   Upon proper application, the utility will provide necessary distribution and
service facilities for rendering service. A contribution or minimum guarantee
will be necessary when the estimated revenue for a two and one-half year period
is less than the estimated cost of such facilities.
(Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-10-2017)
§ 51.033 BUILDING CONTAINING TWO OR MORE SEPARATE LIVING QUARTERS.
   (A)   Where residential service is supplied through one meter to an
apartment house or to a building containing two or more separate living
quarters:
      (1)   The service shall be classed as residential, in which case, for
billing purposes, the blocks and minimum payment of the residential rate shall
be multiplied by the number of living quarter served through the meter; or
      (2)   The customer may arrange the wiring, at his or her own expense, so
as to separate the combined service and permit the utility to install a
separate meter for each separate living quarter. In each such case, the
readings of each such meter shall be billed separately on the residential rate.
In such a case, the wiring shall be arranged to provide for the grouping of all
meters at the service entrance.
   (B)   This rule has no application to rooming houses.
(Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-10-2017)
§ 51.034 COMBINED RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL SERVICE.
   (A)   Where both residential and commercial classes of service are supplied
through one service and one meter to the same customer on the same premises,
and where the principal use of energy will be for residential purposes but a
small amount of energy will be used for nonresidential purposes, the customer
will be billed under the residential service rate only when the equipment for
such nonresidential use is within the capacity of one 120 volt, 30 ampere
branch circuit (or is less than 3,000 watts capacity), and where the
nonresidential equipment exceeds the above-stated maximum limit, the entire
nonresidential wiring may be separated from the residential wiring so that the
residential and nonresidential loads may be metered separately.
   (B)   If the separation is accomplished, the residential and nonresidential
consumption will be billed under the appropriate tariffs. In the event the
customer elects to not separate the residential and nonresidential wiring, the
total metered consumption will be billed under the appropriate general service
tariff.
(Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-10-2017)
§ 51.035 NOTIFY UTILITY BEFORE INCREASING LOAD.
   The service connections, transformers, meters and equipment supplied by the
utility have a definite capacity, and no substantial addition to the equipment
or connected load thereto will be allowed except upon written consent from the
utility.
(Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-10-2017) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.036 INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE AND THE LIKE.
   The utility shall not be responsible in damages for any failure to supply
electric service or for interruption or reversal of the supply of electrical
energy, or for defective wiring on the customer’s premises, or for damages
resulting to a customer or to third persons from the use of electricity or the
presence of the utility’s equipment on the customer’s premises, unless due to
fault, neglect or culpability on the part of the utility. Neither party shall
be liable to the other for any failure or delay in case such failure or delay
is caused by strikes, an act of God or unavoidable accidents or contingencies
beyond its control and is not due to fault, neglect or culpability on its part.
(Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-10-2017)
§ 51.037 UTILITY RESERVES RIGHT TO SHUT OFF SUPPLY.
   (A)   The utility reserves the right to shut off the supply of all service
to all or any part of the premises for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   If, in the utility’s opinion, a condition dangerous or hazardous to
life, physical safety or property exists;
      (2)   Upon order by any court or other duly authorized public authority;
      (3)   If fraudulent or unauthorized use of electricity is detected and
the utility has reasonable grounds to believe the affected customer is
responsible for such use;
      (4)   If the utility’s regulating or measuring equipment has been
tampered with and the utility has reasonable grounds to believe that the
affected customer is responsible for such tampering;
      (5)   For violation of any of the rules and regulations applicable to the
service;
      (6)   For repairs;
      (7)   For nonpayment of bills;
      (8)   For want of supply;
      (9)   If the utility has reason to believe that the customer resells,
redistributes, transfers or delivers energy to others; or
      (10)   For any lawful reason. Such discontinuance shall not, however,
invalidate any contract, and said utility shall have the right to enforce any
contract notwithstanding such discontinuance.
   (B)   (1)   A customer may request that the utility notify a predesignated
third party of an electric service disconnection notice issued to the customer.
Such request shall be made in writing in the form of a third party designation
authorization. When requested, the utility shall notify the predesignated third
party, by mail, of the pending service disconnection at the time the utility
renders the disconnection notice to the customer.
      (2)   The utility may restrict the use of this third party designation
authorization to its customers who are elderly, handicapped, ill or otherwise
unable to act upon a service disconnection notice, as determined by the
utility.
(Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-10-2017)
§ 51.038 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   The customer shall be responsible and pay for all electric service supplied
to the customer’s premises until the third working day following the requested
disconnection date given by the customer at the office of the utility to
discontinue service.
(Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-10-2017)
§ 51.039 ACCESS TO PREMISES.
   The properly authorized agents of the utility shall have the right to enter
upon the premises of the customer at all reasonable times for the purpose of
inspecting, reading, testing, repairing or replacing the meter or meters,
appliances and equipment used in connection with its service and removing the
same on the termination of the contract or the discontinuance of the service.
(Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-10-2017)
EQUIPMENT REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS
§ 51.050 EQUIPMENT LOCATION PERMIT.
   If the customer is not the owner of the premises served or of intervening
property between such premises and the utility’s equipment, the customer shall
obtain from such owner, or owners, in a form satisfactory to the utility, such
permits or easements as are, in the opinion of the utility, necessary for the
installation and maintenance on such premises, and on such intervening
property, all poles, wires or other equipment required for the supplying of
electric service to the customer.
(Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-10-2017)
§ 51.051 LOCATION OF UTILITY TRANSFORMERS, METERS AND EQUIPMENT.
   When the form of service requires, the customer shall provide free of
expense to the utility, and at a location satisfactory to the utility, a
suitable place for necessary transformers, meters or other equipment which may
be furnished by the utility.
(Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-10-2017)
§ 51.052 RELOCATION OF TRANSFORMER BANK.
   Whenever a customer of the utility requests relocation of the power
transformer bank installation for any reason, the following conditions will
apply.
   (A)   The utility shall have the right to decide whether the new location
chosen by the customer is readily accessible to the utility’s personnel and
equipment to perform routine and emergency repairs, including the replacement
of transformers, poles and protective devices.
   (B)   The utility, upon agreement with the customer on the new location,
shall perform the work of moving the power transformer bank installation. The
customer must furnish the concrete pad and fencing at the new location if a pad
and fencing is required.
   (C)   The customer must give the utility at least 30 days’ notice of their
intention to have the installation moved and an adequate time that is agreeable
to the utility to perform the work of removing and reinstalling the power
transformer bank at the new location.
   (D)   All costs involved in moving the transformer installation shall be
borne by the customer requesting the relocation, and if not paid within 30 days
after the billing date, the costs involved shall be added to their monthly
power bill.
   (E)   The customer must understand that, in order to move the installation,
it will be necessary to completely disconnect all power to the customer’s
facilities while the installation is being moved.
   (F)   The utility’s personnel will perform the work of moving the power
transformer bank installation as expeditiously as possible, but the utility
cannot be held responsible for any delays caused by adverse weather conditions,
breakdowns of equipment or any other unusual events occurring that might cause
the completion of the project to be delayed beyond the time estimated for
completion.
(Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-10-2017)
§ 51.053 UTILITY PROPERTY AND PROTECTION THEREOF.
   All meters, or other appliances and equipment furnished by and at the
expense of the utility, which may at any time be on or in the customer’s
premises shall, unless otherwise expressly provided, be and remain the property
of the utility, and the customer shall protect such property from loss or
damage, and no one who is not an agent of the utility shall be permitted to
remove said property or tamper therewith.
(Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-10-2017) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.054 CHARGES FOR POLES OR UTILITY EQUIPMENT.
   The charges for electric poles and Electric Department equipment that is
damaged or in need of replacement through no fault of the utility are:
   (A)   The actual cost of materials needed;
   (B)   Labor charges:
      (1)   The regular hourly rate of each employee present for the repair or
replacement of the damaged pole/equipment, plus the hourly value of the
benefits provided to the employee by the town in the course of employment; and
      (2)   The overtime rate shall be one and one-half times the regular
hourly rate of the employee.
   (C)   Truck charges at $50 per truck per hour.
(Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-10-2017)
§ 51.055 INSIDE WIRING AND ENTRANCE EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   An applicant for service must, at the applicant’s own expense, equip
the applicant’s premises with all wiring and entrance equipment, all of which
shall be constructed and maintained subject to the approval of any authorized
inspectors and in accordance with the rules of the utility in force at the
time. The utility shall be under no duty to inspect the wiring and equipment of
the customer.
   (B)   The applicant shall at all times maintain the service entrance and the
wires inside the building.
(Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-10-2017)
§ 51.056 CUSTOMER EQUIPMENT.
   Where any of the customer’s utilization equipment has characteristics which,
in the utility’s judgment, may cause interference with service to other
customers or result in operation at a low power factor, the customer shall, at
the request of the utility, provide suitable facilities to preclude such
interference or improve such power factor, or both, as the case may be.
Otherwise, the utility shall have the right to provide, at the expense of the
customer, the facilities necessary to preclude such condition or conditions.
(Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-10-2017)
§ 51.057 METERS TO BE INSTALLED BY THE UTILITY.
   (A)   The electrical energy, unless otherwise specified, shall be measured
by a meter or meters of standard manufacture installed by the utility.
   (B)   If more than one meter is installed on different classes of service
(each class being charged for at different rates), each meter shall be
considered by itself in calculating the amount of any bills. Where building
codes or other governmental regulations require a separate service for lighting
or indicating the exits of buildings, each meter shall be considered by itself
in calculating the amount of any bills.
   (C)   When, for the convenience of the utility, more than one meter is
installed on the same class of service in the same premises for the same
customer, the sum of the registration shall in all cases be taken as the total
registration.
(Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-10-2017)
§ 51.058 METER TESTING.
   The utility may periodically test meters used for billing customers in
accordance with the approved American National Standard Institute (ANSI) Code
for Electricity Metering. If a meter is found to have a percentage of error
greater than 3% for watt-hour meters and 4% for demand meters, the utility will
bill or credit the customer in accordance with §
51.117 of this chapter.
(Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-10-2017)
SERVICES GENERALLY
§ 51.070 DESCRIPTION OF SERVICE TO BE FURNISHED.
   The customer shall, upon request of the utility, provide the utility with
the load and demand characteristics to be served. This information will be used
by the utility to determine the character of the service and the conditions
under which it will be served.
(Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-10-2017)
§ 51.071 COMMERCIAL AND MUNICIPAL SERVICE.
   (A)   Availability. This service is available to commercial, industrial and
town municipal customers, for single- and three-phase service, who are located
on the utility’s distribution lines suitable and adequate for supplying the
service requested. This schedule applies to customers with demands up to and
including 225 kilowatts or 250 kilovolt-amperes. If the customer’s monthly
average billing demand exceeds 225 kilowatts or 250 kilovolt-amperes during the
previous calendar year (January through December), the utility will begin
billing such customer using the large power service rate schedule. If billing
information is not available for a previous calendar year or 12-month period,
the utility will estimate the customer’s billing demand using information
provided by the customer.
   (B)   Character and conditions of service.
      (1)   The service is alternating current, 60 cycle, three-phase service
at voltages of approximately 480, 240 and 208 volts and single-phase service at
a voltage of approximately 120/240 volts.
      (2)   The utility will supply service from its electrical distribution
lines at only such frequency, phase, regulation and voltage as it has available
in the location where service is requested and will transform its primary
voltage to one standard secondary voltage as herein set forth. Any applicant
requiring service differing from that to be supplied by the utility as herein
provided shall provide proper converting, transforming, regulating or other
equipment upon the applicant’s own premises and at the applicant’s own expense.
      (3)   The customer will supply in accordance with plans and
specifications furnished by the utility, at a mutually agreed upon location on
the customer’s property, suitable fencing and foundations to protect and
support the utility-owned transformers and equipment.
   (C)   Rates. Rates charged for service rendered under this schedule are
based upon the measurement of the electrical energy supplied to the customer
and metered at the secondary voltage supplied by the utility. Rates charged for
service are found in Appendix C of this chapter.
   (D)   Monthly bill. The monthly electric bill shall be calculated by adding
the customer charge, the energy charge and any applicable rider charges as
indicated in division (G) below. The energy charge will be calculated by
multiplying the energy charge, shown in Appendix C of this chapter, by the
monthly billed energy in kilowatt-hours (kWh).
   (E)   Minimum bill. The monthly minimum payment for service under this
schedule shall be the customer charge.
   (F)   Demand metering. The utility reserves the right at any time to install
demand-metering equipment. The utility will normally install such equipment
when the customer’s energy usage in any month exceeds 15,000 kilowatt-hours.
   (G)   Rate riders. This rate schedule is subject to a power cost adjustment
(PCA) factor as stated in Appendix D of this chapter and a rate stabilization
adder (RSA) as stated in Appendix E of this chapter.
   (H)   Terms of payment.
      (1)   All bills on the above schedule shall be rendered and due monthly.
If not paid by the fifteenth day of the month following the date of the bill,
there shall be added to bills of $3 or less a 10% penalty to the amount of the
bill. Bills in excess of $3 shall have a 10% penalty added to the first $3 of
the bill plus a 3% penalty to the amount of the bill in excess of $3.
      (2)   Remittances sent by mail on or previous to the fifteenth of the
month as evidenced by the United States Post Office mark on the envelope in
which they are received will be accepted as a tender of payment within the time
limit. When the fifteenth falls on a Saturday, Sunday or any other legal
holiday, the first business day thereafter shall be considered as being within
the time limit.
   (I)   Disconnection/reconnection. Whenever the service is disconnected for
nonpayment of a bill, or for any reason beyond the control of the utility, a
reconnection of service is required by any customer, and a disconnect/reconnect
charge as listed in Appendix B of this chapter will be paid to the utility to
cover a part of the cost of disconnection and reconnection of service.
   (J)   Expansion or extension of service. When a commercial service customer
desires or needs service extensions or expansions, the customer shall provide
all necessary information as to the requirements and provide the utility with
plans if the same are available. The utility will charge the customer 50% of
the cost that exceeds $1,000 in providing the service.
(Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-10-2017; Ord. 13-2018, passed 2-25-2019; Ord. 6-2022,
passed 6-27-2022)
§ 51.072 LARGE POWER SERVICE.
   (A)   Availability. This service is available to customers who enter into a
written contract for electrical service in accordance with this rate schedule
whose monthly average billing demand was greater than 225 kilowatts or 250
kilovolt-amperes during the previous calendar year (January through December),
and who are located on the utility’s electrical supply lines suitable and
adequate for supplying the service requested. If billing information is not
available for a previous calendar year or 12-month period, the utility will
estimate the customer’s billing demand using information provided by the
customer.
   (B)   Character and condition of service.
      (1)   The utility will supply service from its electrical supply lines at
only such frequency, phase, regulation and primary voltage as it has available
in the location where service is required; if transformation of voltage is
desired by the customer, the utility will transform its primary voltage to one
standard secondary voltage. Any customer requiring service differing from that
to be supplied as herein provided may be required by the utility to provide
proper converting, transforming, regulating or other equipment upon its own
premises and at its own expense.
      (2)   The customer will supply, in accordance with plans and
specifications furnished by the utility, and at a mutually agreed upon location
on the customer’s property, suitable fencing, pads and foundations to protect
and support utility-owned transformers and equipment.
   (C)   Service at utility’s option. The utility shall have the option of not
supplying customers with demands in excess of 2,000 kilowatts under this
schedule.
   (D)   Rates and charges. Rates and charges for service rendered under this
schedule are based upon measurement of the electrical energy at the voltage
supplied to the customer on the primary side of the transformers furnished by
the utility. Rates charged for service are found in Appendix C of this chapter.
   (E)   Demand charge. The demand charge is found in
Appendix C of this chapter.
   (F)   Energy charge. The energy charge is found in
Appendix C of this chapter.
   (G)   Monthly bill.
      (1)   The monthly electric bill shall be calculated by adding the
customer charge, demand charge, energy charge and any applicable rider charges
as indicated in division (J) below. The demand charge shall be calculated by
multiplying the demand charge, shown in Appendix C of this chapter, by the
kilowatt billing demand, defined in division (L) below, after adjusting for any
applicable power factor correction and metering adjustment, as defined in
divisions (N) and (Q) below, respectively. The energy charge shall be
calculated by multiplying the energy charge, shown in Appendix C, by the
monthly billed energy in kilowatt-hours (kWh) after any applicable metering
adjustment.
      (2)   This schedule includes different rate options for high load factor
and low load factor customers. The high load factor rates are intended for
customers with average monthly load factors greater than 40%. The low load
factor rates are intended for customers with average monthly load factors less
than or equal to 40%. See division (O) below for an explanation of how the
utility will assist the customer in determining the appropriate rate.
   (H)   Minimum bill. The monthly minimum payment under this schedule shall be
the customer charge plus $3 per kilovolt-amperes of total transformer capacity
installed.
   (I)   Terms of payment.
      (1)   All bills on the above schedule are rendered and due monthly. If
not paid by the fifteenth day of the month following the date of the bill,
there shall be added 3% of the amount of the bill.
      (2)   Remittances sent by mail on or previous to the fifteenth of the
month as evidenced by the United States Post Office mark on the envelope in
which they are received will be accepted as a tender of payment within the time
limit. When the fifteenth falls on a Saturday, Sunday or any other legal
holiday, the first business day thereafter shall be considered as being within
the time limit.
   (J)   Rate riders. This rate schedule is subject to a power cost adjustment
(PCA) factor as stated in
Appendix D of this chapter and a rate stabilization adder (RSA) as stated in
Appendix E of this chapter.
   (K)   Determination of amount of electrical service supplied. The electrical
service to be supplied under this rate shall be measured, as to maximum demand,
energy consumption and power factor, by suitable meters to be installed by the
utility.
   (L)   Determination of kilowatt billing demand. The maximum demand shall be
determined as follows:
      (1)   The maximum demand shall be determined from the readings or
indications of suitable demand-measuring instruments, provided, however, that
if welding machines or other apparatus where the use of electricity is
intermittent or subject to violent fluctuations constitute a part of the entire
load, then the measurements shall be increased by the connected load in welding
machines or other such apparatus, and the sum taken as the maximum demand. The
utility further reserves the right to require the customer to provide, at the
customer’s own expense, suitable apparatus to reasonably limit such
intermittence or fluctuations where, in the utility’s judgment, such apparatus
is necessary to prevent undue interference with the service of the utility.
      (2)   The maximum demand shall be taken as the highest average load in
kilowatts occurring during any 15 consecutive minutes of the month; provided,
however, that if such load shall be less than 50% of the maximum momentary
demand in kilowatts, then the maximum demand shall be taken at 50% of such
maximum momentary demand; provided further, that the maximum demand shall not
be less than 80% of the product of the actual voltage multiplied by the maximum
amperes in any phase multiplied by 1.73.
   (M)   Determination of average power factor. The average power factor for
the month shall be determined by computation from the registration of a watt-
hour meter, and a reactive volt-ampere-hour meter, by dividing the registration
of the watt-hour meter by the square root of the sum of the square of the
registration of the watt-hour meter and the square of the registration of the
reactive volt-ampere-hour meter.
   (N)   Power factor correction.
      (1)   The service supplied by the utility should be taken by the customer
preferable at an average power factor of not less than 95% lagging. If the
service is taken at an average power factor of less than 95% lagging, the
maximum demand for billing purposes shall be corrected in accordance with the
following formula.
                     Maximum Demand x 0.95
         Billing Demand =
                                                                  
                  Average Monthly Power Factor if less than 95%
      (2)   A power factor correction will not be applied for power factors at
95% or greater.
   (O)   Determination of applicable rate.
      (1)   The town will advise the customer as to which rate in this schedule
is beneficial for the prospective service using the customer’s monthly average
load factor for the previous calendar year (January through December). If
billing information is not available for a previous calendar year or 12-month
period, the utility will estimate the customer’s load factor using information
provided by the customer. The customer may change the initial rate selection to
another applicable rate in this schedule at any time by written notice to the
town, provided that the application of such subsequent selection shall continue
for 12 months before any other selection may be made.
      (2)   The customer should consider the large power low load factor rate
if the customer has a monthly load factor less than or equal to 40%.
      (3) For calculation of the monthly load factor:
             E
         LF =                    x 100
            D x H
         Where:
         LF = Monthly load factor expressed as a percent.
         E = Monthly billed energy (kWh).
         D = Monthly billed demand (kW).
         H = Monthly hours (720 hours = 30 days; 744 hours = 31 days).
   (P)   Credit for transformer ownership. Customers metered at a primary
voltage who own, operate and maintain all transforming, controlling, regulating
and protective equipment will be given a discount of $0.35 per kilowatt
applicable to the monthly billing demand.
   (Q)   Metering adjustment. If a customer is primary service and metered at
secondary voltage, the metered kilowatt-hours and kilowatts will be increased
by 1% for billing purposes.
   (R)   Contracts with large power customers. Any new large power customer
requesting electric service or any large power customer requesting an expansion
of the utility’s facilities to provide additional power shall enter into a
contract with the utility agreeing to the following terms.
      (1)   The utility will provide equipment/materials to provide the
requested service at a cost not to exceed $5,000 in any one-year period.
Equipment and materials shall include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   All pole line hardware and wire or cable;
         (b)   Transformers;
         (c)   Metering;
         (d)   Upgrade of present system in order to serve new customer; and
         (e)   Purchase of territory from other electric supplier.
      (2)   Any costs to provide the requested service in excess of $5,000
shall be borne jointly by the customer and the utility as follows:
         (a)   Fifty percent by the customer; and
         (b)   Fifty percent by the utility.
      (3)   In the case that costs to provide service to the customer should be
more than $100,000, the utility and the customer shall enter into negotiations
to reach a fair and workable agreement.
   (S)   Disconnection/reconnection. Whenever the service is disconnected for
nonpayment of a bill, or for any reason beyond the control of the utility a
reconnection of service is required by any customer, a disconnect/reconnect
charge as listed in Appendix B of this chapter will be paid to the utility to
cover a part of the cost of disconnection and reconnection of service.
(Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-10-2017; Ord. 13-2018, passed 2-25-2019; Ord. 6-2022,
passed 6-27-2022)
§ 51.073 LARGE POWER OFF-PEAK SERVICE.
   (A)   Availability. This service is available to customers who enter into a
written contract for electrical service in accordance with this rate schedule
whose monthly average billing demand is greater than 2,500 kilowatts during the
previous calendar year (January through December), who wish to have the option
to operate primarily during off-peak hours and who are located on the utility’s
electrical supply lines suitable and adequate for supplying the service
requested. If billing information is not available for a previous calendar year
or 12-month period, the utility will estimate the customer’s billing demand
using information provided by the customer.
   (B)   Character and condition of service. The utility will supply service
from its electrical supply lines at only such frequency, phase, regulation and
primary voltage as it has available in the location where service is required;
if transformation of voltage is desired by the customer, the utility will
transform its primary voltage to one standard secondary voltage in accordance
with division (Q) below. Any customer requiring service differing from that to
be supplied as herein provided may be required by the utility to provide proper
converting, transforming, regulating or other equipment upon its own premises
and at its own expense.
   (C)   Rates. Rates based for service rendered under this schedule are based
upon the measurement of the electrical energy at the voltage supplied to the
customer on the primary side of the transformers furnished by the utility. The
rates in Appendix C of this chapter for this rate class will be reviewed every
six months, or more frequently if required, to adjust the on-peak demand charge
and the energy charge to reflect the most recent IMPA demand and energy
charges, including the IMPA energy cost adjustment.
   (D)   Monthly bill. The monthly electric bill shall be calculated by adding
the customer charge, on and off-peak demand charges, energy charge and any
applicable rider charges as indicated in division (G) below.
      (1)   The on-peak demand charge shall be calculated by multiplying the
on-peak demand charge, shown on Appendix C of this chapter, by the on-peak
kilowatt billing demand, defined in division (J) below, after adjusting for any
applicable power factor correction and metering adjustment, as defined in
divisions (N) and (P) below.
      (2)   The off-peak demand charge shall be calculated by multiplying the
off-peak demand charge, as shown in Appendix C of this chapter, by the off-peak
kilowatt billing demand, defined in division (I) below, after adjusting for any
applicable power factor correction and metering adjustment, as defined in
divisions (N) and (P) below.
      (3)   The energy charge shall be calculated by multiplying the energy
charge, shown in Appendix C of this chapter, by the monthly billed energy in
kilowatt-hours (kWh) after any applicable metering adjustment.
   (E)   Minimum bill. The monthly minimum payment under this schedule shall be
the customer charge plus $3 per kilovolt-ampere of total transformer capacity
installed.
   (F)   Terms of payment.
      (1)   All bills on the above schedule shall be rendered and due monthly.
If not paid by the fifteenth day of the month following the date of the bill,
there shall be added 3% of the amount of the bill.
      (2)   Remittances sent by mail on or previous to the fifteenth of the
month as evidenced by the United States Post Office mark on the envelope in
which they are received will be accepted as a tender of payment within the time
limit. When the fifteenth falls on a Saturday, Sunday or any other legal
holiday, the first business day thereafter shall be considered as being within
the time limit.
   (G)   Rate riders. This rate schedule is subject to a rate stabilization
adder (RSA) as stated in Appendix E of this chapter.
   (H)   Determination of amount of electrical service supplied. The electrical
service to be supplied under this rate shall be measured, as to maximum demand,
energy consumption and power factor, by suitable meters to be installed by the
utility.
   (I)   Determination of off-peak kilowatt billing demand. The off-peak
kilowatt billing demand shall be determined as follows.
      (1)   The off-peak kilowatt billing demand shall be determined from the
readings or indications of suitable demand-measuring instruments, provided,
however, that if welding machines or other apparatus where the use of
electricity is intermittent or subject to violent fluctuations constitute a
part of the entire load, then the measurements shall be increased by the
connected load in welding machines or other such apparatus, and the sum taken
as the maximum demand. The utility further reserves the right to require the
customer to provide, at the customer’s own expense, suitable apparatus to
reasonably limit such intermittence or fluctuations where, in the utility’s
judgment, such apparatus is necessary to prevent undue interference with the
service of the utility.
      (2)   The off-peak kilowatt billing demand shall be taken as the highest
average load in kilowatts occurring during any off-peak hour of the month, as
defined in division (K) below; provided however, that if such load shall be
less than 50% of the maximum momentary demand in kilowatts, then the maximum
demand shall be taken at 50% of such maximum momentary demand; provided
further, that the maximum demand shall not be less than 80% of the product of
the actual voltage multiplied by the maximum amperes in any phase multiplied by
1.73.
      (3)   The off-peak kilowatt billing demand shall not be less than the on-
peak kilowatt billing demand.
   (J)   On-peak kilowatt billing demand. The 60-minute average kilowatt demand
during the same hour as the CP billing demand on the utility’s monthly IMPA
power supply invoice (or its successor).
   (K)   Definition of on-peak/off-peak periods.
      (1)   (a)   The utility shall consider the following as the on-peak and
off-peak billing periods for each month. All hours shall be Eastern Standard
Time.
         (b)   On-peak periods are Monday through Friday only, with the
exception of holidays, as defined below.
         (c)   Off-peak periods include the entire 24 hours of Saturdays,
Sundays and the following national holidays: New Year’s Day, Memorial Day,
Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day. Whenever any
holidays occur on a Sunday and the following Monday is legally observed as a
holiday, then the entire 24 hours of such Monday will be off-peak hours.
      (2)   On-peak periods are defined as follows.
Month Time
Month      Time
January    7:00 a.m. – 4:00 p.m.
February   7:00 a.m. – 4:00 p.m.
March*     8:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m.
April      8:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m.
May        10:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m.
June       11:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m.
July       11:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m.
August     11:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m.
September  11:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m.
October    8:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m.
November** 7:00 a.m. – 4:00 p.m.
December   7:00 a.m. – 4:00 p.m.
NOTES TO TABLE
* Reflects time after changing to Daylight Savings Time
** Reflects time after changing to Standard Time
 
      (3)   Off-peak periods are defined as follows.
Month Time
Month      Time
January    4:00 p.m. – 7:00 a.m.
February   4:00 p.m. – 7:00 a.m.
March*     5:00 p.m. – 8:00 a.m.
April      5:00 p.m. – 8:00 a.m.
May        5:00 p.m. – 10:00 a.m.
June       5:00 p.m. – 11:00 a.m.
July       5:00 p.m. – 11:00 a.m.
August     5:00 p.m. – 11:00 a.m.
September  5:00 p.m. – 11:00 a.m.
October    5:00 p.m. – 8:00 a.m.
November** 4:00 p.m. – 7:00 a.m.
December   4:00 p.m. – 7:00 a.m.
NOTES TO TABLE
* Reflects time after changing to Daylight Savings Time
** Reflects time after changing to Standard Time
 
   (L)   On-peak/off-peak period adjustment. The utility shall have the right
to adjust the on-peak/off-peak time periods by giving the customer 30 days’
notice.
   (M)   Determination of average power factor. The average power factor for
the month shall be determined by computation from the registration of a watt-
hour meter, and a reactive volt-ampere-hour meter, by dividing the registration
of the watt-hour meter by the square root of the sum of the square of the
registration of the watt-hour meter and the square of the registration of the
reactive volt-ampere-hour meter.
   (N)   Power factor correction.
      (1)   The service supplied by the utility should be taken by the customer
preferably at an average power factor of not less than 95% lagging. If the
service is taken at an average power factor of less than 95% lagging, the
maximum demand for billing purposes shall be corrected in accordance with the
following formula.
                     Maximum Demand x 0.95
         Billing Demand =
                                                                   
                  Average Monthly Power Factor if less than 95%
      (2)   A power factor correction will not be applied for power factors at
95% or greater.
   (O)   Discount for transformer ownership. Customers metering at a primary
voltage who own, operate and maintain all transforming, controlling, regulating
and protective equipment will be given a discount of $0.35 per kilowatt
applicable to the monthly billing demand.
   (P)   Metering adjustment. If a customer is primary service and metered at
secondary voltage, the metered kilowatt-hours and kilowatts will be increased
by 1% for billing purposes.
   (Q)   Contracts with large power customers. Any new large power customer
requesting electric service or any large power customer requesting an expansion
of the utility’s facilities to provide additional power shall enter into a
contract with the utility agreeing to the following terms.
      (1)   The utility will provide equipment/materials to provide the
requested service at a cost not to exceed $5,000 in any one-year period.
Equipment and materials shall include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   All pole line hardware and wire or cable;
         (b)   Transformers;
         (c)   Metering;
         (d)   Upgrade of present system in order to serve new customer; and
         (e)   Purchase of territory from other electric supplier.
      (2)   Any costs to provide the requested service in excess of $5,000
shall be borne jointly by the customer and the utility as follows:
         (a)   Fifty percent by the customer; and
         (b)   Fifty percent by the utility.
      (3)   In the case that costs to provide service to the customer should be
more than $100,000, the utility and the customer shall enter into negotiations
to reach a fair and workable agreement.
   (R)   Disconnection/reconnection. Whenever the service is disconnected for
nonpayment of a bill, or for any reason beyond the control of the utility a
reconnection of service is required by any customer, a disconnect/reconnect
charge as listed in
Appendix B of this chapter will be paid to the utility to cover a part of the
cost of disconnection and reconnection of service.
(Ord. 6-2022, passed 6-27-2022)
§ 51.074 MEGA INDUSTRIAL POWER SERVICE.
   (A)   Availability. This service is available to customers for power service
who enter into a written contract for electrical service in accordance with
this rate schedule having an aggregate (or combined) billing maximum demand of
1,500 kilowatts or more, who are located on the utility’s electrical supply
lines suitable and adequate for supplying the service requested and who include
all of the customer’s metering points (service) in this rate schedule.
   (B)   Character and condition of service.
      (1)   The utility will supply service from its electrical supply lines at
only such frequency, phase, regulation and primary voltage as it has available
in the location where service is required, and if transformation of voltage is
desired by the customer, will transform the customer’s primary voltage to one
standard secondary voltage. Any customer requiring service differing from that
to be supplied as herein provided may be required by the utility to provide
proper converting, transforming, regulating or other equipment upon the
customer’s own premises and at the customer’s own expense.
      (2) The customer will supply in accordance with plans and specifications
furnished by the utility, and at a mutually agreed upon location on the
customer’s property, suitable fencing, pads and foundations to protect and
support utility-owned transformers and equipment.
   (C)   Contract for service.
      (1)   As a condition precedent to the utility supplying service under
this schedule, the customer shall enter into a written contract with the
utility for a suitable initial contract period. In case the rates in effect
under this schedule at the time of making any such contract are thereafter
raised by the authority of the Town Council, the customer under such contract
shall have the right to discontinue service at any time within 60 days from the
date the rate increase becomes effective upon giving the utility at least ten
days’ written notice of its election to do so.
      (2)   The utility shall have the option of not supplying customers with
demands in excess of 2,000 kilowatts under this schedule.
      (3)   Rates and charges for service rendered under this schedule are
based upon the measurement of the electrical energy at the voltage supplied to
the customer on the primary side of the transformers furnished by the utility.
   (D)   Monthly bill. The monthly electric bill shall be calculated by adding
the customer charge, demand charge, energy charge and any applicable rider
charges as indicated in division (G) below. The demand charge shall be
calculated by multiplying the demand charge, shown in Appendix C of this
chapter, by the kilowatt billing demand, defined in division (I) below, after
adjusting for any applicable power factor correction and metering adjustment,
as defined in divisions (K) and (M) below. The energy charge shall be
calculated by multiplying the energy charge, shown in Appendix C of this
chapter, by the monthly billed energy in kilowatt-hours (kWh) after any
applicable metering adjustment, as defined in division (M) below.
   (E)   Minimum bill. The monthly minimum payment under this schedule shall be
the customer charge plus $3 per kilovolt-ampere (kVA) of total transformer
capacity installed.
   (F)   Terms of payment.
      (1)   All bills on the above schedule shall be rendered and due monthly.
If not paid by the fifteenth day of the month following the date of the bill,
there shall be added a 3% penalty to the amount of the bill.
      (2)   Remittances sent by mail on or previous to the fifteenth of the
month, as evidenced by the United States Post Office mark on the envelope in
which they are received, will be accepted as a tender of payment within the
time limit. When the fifteenth falls on a Saturday, Sunday or any other legal
holiday, the first business day thereafter shall be considered as being within
the time limit.
   (G)   Rate riders. This rate schedule is subject to a power cost adjustment
(PCA) factor as stated in Appendix D of this chapter and a rate stabilization
adder (RSA) as stated in Appendix E of this chapter.
   (H)   Determination of amount of electric services supplied. The electrical
service to be supplied under this rate shall be measured, as to maximum demand,
energy consumption and power factor, by suitable meters to be installed by the
utility.
   (I)   Determination of kilowatt billing demand. The maximum demand shall be
determined as follows.
      (1)   The maximum demand shall be determined from the readings or
indications of suitable demand-measuring instruments, provided, however, that
if welding machines or other apparatus where the use of electricity is
intermittent or subject to violent fluctuations constitute a part of the entire
load, then the measurements shall be increased by the connected load in welding
machines or other such apparatus, and the sum taken as the maximum demand. The
utility further reserves the right to require the customer to provide, at the
customer’s own expense, suitable apparatus to reasonably limit such
intermittence or fluctuations where, in the utility’s judgment, such apparatus
is necessary to prevent undue interference with the service of the utility.
      (2)   The maximum demand shall be taken as the highest average load in
kilowatts occurring during any 15 consecutive minutes of the month; provided,
however, that if such load shall be less than 50% of the maximum momentary
demand in kilowatts, the maximum demand shall be taken at 50% of such maximum
momentary demand; provided further, that the maximum demand shall not be less
than 80% of the product of the actual voltage multiplied by the maximum amperes
in any phase multiplied by 1.73.
   (J)   Determination of average power factor. The average power factor for
the month shall be determined by computation from the registration of a watt-
hour meter, and a reactive volt-ampere-hour meter, by dividing the registration
of the watt-hour meter by the square root of the sum of the square of the
registration of the watt-hour meter and the square of the registration of the
reactive volt-ampere-hour meter.
   (K)   Power factor correction.
      (1)   The service supplied by the utility should be taken by the customer
preferably at an average power factor of not less than 95% lagging. If the
service is taken at an average power factor of less than 95% lagging, the
maximum demand for billing purposes shall be corrected in accordance with the
following formula.
                     (Maximum Demand x 0.95)
         Billing Demand =
                                                                   
                  Average Monthly Power Factor if less than 95%
      (2)   A power factor correction will not be applied for power factors at
95% or greater.
   (L)   Credit for transformer ownership. Customers metered at a primary
voltage who own, operate and maintain all transforming, controlling, regulating
and protective equipment will be given a discount of $0.35 per kilowatt
applicable to the monthly billing demand.
   (M)   Metering adjustment. If a customer is primary service and metered at
secondary voltage, metered kilowatt-hours and kilowatts will be increased by 1%
for billing purposes.
   (N)   Disconnection/reconnection. Whenever the service is disconnected for
nonpayment of a bill, or for any reason beyond the control of the utility a
reconnection of service is required by any customer, a disconnect/reconnect
charge as listed in Appendix B of this chapter will be paid to the utility to
cover a part of the cost of disconnection and reconnection of service.
(Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-10-2017; Ord. 6-2022, passed 6-27-2022)
§ 51.075 RESIDENTIAL SERVICE.
   (A)   Availability. This service is available to residential customers for
general service who are located on the utility’s distribution lines and served
through a single point of delivery and measured through one meter.
   (B)   Character of service. This schedule is for single-phase, alternating
current at standard voltage as designated by the utility.
   (C)   Monthly bill. The monthly electric bill shall be calculated by adding
the customer charge, the energy charge and any applicable rider charges as
indicated in division (F) below. The energy charge will be calculated by
multiplying the energy charge, shown on Appendix C of this chapter, by the
monthly billed energy in kilowatt-hours (kWh).
   (D)   Minimum bill. The customer charge set forth in this schedule shall be
the minimum bill.
   (E)   Terms of payment.
      (1)   All bills on the above schedule shall be rendered and due monthly.
If not paid by the fifteenth day of the month following the date of the bill,
there shall be added to bills of $3 or less a 10% penally to the amount of the
bill. Bills in excess of $3 shall have a 10% penalty added to the first $3 of
the bill plus a 3% penally to the amount of the bill in excess of $3.
      (2)   Remittances sent by mail on or previous to the fifteenth of the
month as evidenced by the United States Post Office mark on the envelope in
which they are received will be accepted as a tender of payment within the time
limit. When the fifteenth falls on a Saturday, Sunday or on any legal holiday,
the first business day thereafter shall be considered as being within the time
limit.
   (F)   Rate riders. This rate schedule is subject to a power cost adjustment
(PCA) factor as stated in
Appendix D of this chapter and a rate stabilization adder (RSA) as staled in
Appendix E of this chapter.
   (G)   Disconnection/reconnection. Whenever the service is disconnected for
nonpayment of a bill, or for any reason beyond the control of the utility a
reconnection of service is required by any customer, a disconnect/reconnect
charge as listed in
Appendix B of this chapter will be paid to the utility to cover a part of the
cost of disconnection and reconnection of service.
(Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-10-2017)
§ 51.076 MOBILE HOME PARK ELECTRIC SERVICE.
   (A)   Permanency. The park must be of a permanent nature and conform to all
codes and ordinances applicable to mobile home parks.
   (B)   Contract. The park shall enter into a contract for an initial term of
two and one-half years, and such contract shall continue thereafter until
canceled by either party giving to the other 60 days’ prior written notice of
the termination of such contract at the end of the initial period or any
extension thereafter.
   (C)   Easement. The park shall grant to the utility an easement and right-
of-way, in form and substance satisfactory to the counsel for the utility, for
the construction, maintenance, operation, repair, replacement or renewal of the
electric lines as are or may be hereafter required to furnish electric service
hereunder and removal of the same. Free access shall be provided to read
meters. The park shall grade that portion of the easement that will accommodate
any underground facilities to within three inches of final grade before the
utility will install any underground facilities.
   (D)   Minimum payments. The park shall guarantee monthly or annual minimum
payments in such amounts that the total guaranteed revenue for the first two
and one-half years of service will equal the cost to the utility of providing
the service. If, during the initial two and one-half years of service, the park
desires to expand and the utility provides the service to said expansion, the
cost of the original service, less revenue received up to, but not exceeding,
the total amount guaranteed for the term of the original contract, shall be
added to the cost of service to said expansion, and the park shall guarantee
new monthly or annual minimum payments in such amounts that the total
guaranteed revenue for the first two and one-half years of service to the
expanded park will equal the cost to the utility of installing the facilities
to provide the service. Said expansion shall be continuous to the existing
park.
   (E)   Facilities to be supplied by utility. Upon a park’s compliance with
the foregoing provisions, the utility will provide facilities in accordance
with the following.
      (1)   Overhead facilities. The utility shall provide, own, install and
maintain electric distribution facilities consisting of poles supporting
primary conductors, those poles supporting secondary conductors not previously
installed by the park, secondary conductors with supporting racks,
transformers, service drop wires extending to the service raceway or entrance
run of the metering locations and all meters for each park site.
      (2)   Underground facilities. The utility shall provide, own, install and
maintain distribution facilities consisting of primary feeders, pad-mounted
transformers and foundations, secondary feeders and appurtenances, if any,
service laterals extending to the metering locations, such rigid or flexible
conduit crossing under public thoroughfares and dedicated easements, if any, as
necessitated by standard construction requirements and all meters for each park
site.
      (3)   Overhead to underground service facilities. If the park desires
underground electric service from existing or planned overhead facilities, the
utility will install underground service lines from the overhead facilities to
the metering location.
      (4)   Special facilities. Any park desiring electric facilities differing
from the above shall obtain the utility’s prior approval for such facilities.
      (5)   Location of facilities. A sketch of the park showing the location
of facilities to be installed by the utility shall be attached to the contract
and marked “Exhibit A.”
   (F)   Facilities to be supplied by park.
      (1)   Generally. The park shall provide, own, install and maintain the
following:
         (a)   All facilities for mounting meter sockets;
         (b)   All fused switches or circuit breakers;
         (c)   All service raceways or entrance runs;
         (d)   All power-supply cable from the metering location to each mobile
home site; and
         (e)   All service entrance conductors in the case of an overhead
service.
      (2)   Additionally. The park may obtain individual meter sockets
furnished by the utility or may, at its option, purchase utility-approved meter
mounting equipment, but in any case, installation shall be by the park at its
expense. All facilities installed by the park shall conform to the rules and
requirements of the utility and any local code in effect in the area.
   (G)   Meter protection. The park shall provide substantial protection
against physical damage satisfactory to the utility for all meters installed in
the park.
   (H)   System protection. The park shall keep the electric distribution
system free and clear of any obstruction that will interfere with the proper
operation or maintenance of the system.
   (I)   Relocation of facilities. When, in the judgment of the utility, the
relocation of facilities becomes necessary because of a change in the park’s
operation or construction, or if relocation is requested by the park, the
utility will move such facilities at the park’s expense. In such instances,
said facilities will be moved to a location provided by the park and acceptable
to the utility.
   (J)   Rate. Electric service will be supplied to each single-occupancy
dwelling unit under the applicable residential rate. Service to other park
loads will be supplied to the park under the applicable rate schedule.
   (K)   Mobile home wiring. All mobile home wiring shall meet the standards of
the National Electrical Code for Mobile Homes and Travel Trailers (NEC No. 550
and 551).
   (L)   Resale of electric service. The park shall not resell the electric
service as supplied to any park site occupant (see Rule 13). A charge by the
park to such an occupant for electric service supplied, to an amount equal to
the utility’s billing to the park for such electric service supplied to and
used by said occupant, shall not be considered a resale hereunder.
   (M)   Lot identification. The park shall provide and use in said park a
system of street and/or lot numbering satisfactory to the utility so that the
location of the utility’s meters with respect to each individual lot may be
readily determined and so that United States mail may be properly addressed and
delivered to each tenant. Each meter socket shall be identified with the lot
number it serves.
(Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-10-2017)
§ 51.077 RESIDENTIAL SUB-DIVISION ELECTRIC SERVICE.
   (A)   It is common practice of the town’s electric utility to provide
primary electric service to residential subdivision developers at no cost to
the developing contractor as long as this service is overhead, using poles and
wires.
   (B)   (1)   The town’s electric utility will provide underground electric
primary service if it is deemed feasible to the utility.
      (2)   The contractor agrees to pay the cost of the underground service
equipment. This cost will be an estimate of the charge for poles, transformers,
wire and the like.
      (3)   The cost for secondary underground service is listed in Appendix B
of this chapter and will be charged to the building contractor on a per lot
basis.
(Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-10-2017)
§ 51.078 UNDERGROUND ELECTRICAL SERVICE.
   (A)   Single-phase 120/240 volt, 100 ampere service.
      (1)   The utility will:
         (a)   Dig and backfill the trench for the cable;
         (b)   Provide the cable from the utility’s distribution lines to the
meter on the structure. If the meter is not installed on the structure, the
cable will be provided to the service entrance switch; and
         (c)   Provide all materials needed, except the following:
            1.   Conduit used on the structure;
            2.   Multi-position meter-mounting devices;
            3.   Conduit fittings used on the structure; and
            4.   Fusible or breaker disconnects.
      (2)   The charges for the above service will be as shown in
Appendix B of this chapter.
   (B)   Single-phase 120/240 volt, 200 ampere service. The utility will
provide the same services and materials as previously stated for 100 ampere
service. The charges for 200 ampere electrical services installed underground
shall be as shown in Appendix B of this chapter.
   (C)   Single-phase 120/240 volt, 400 ampere service. The utility will
provide the same services and materials as previously stated for 100 and 200
ampere services. For single-phase service in excess of 200 amperes, the utility
will supply the installation and trench from the pole or pad-mount transformer
to the customer’s structure and the customer will supply the cable. The
utility’s charge will be based on the actual cost of labor and equipment used
to make the installation.
   (D)   Single-phase 120/240 volt, in excess of 400 amperes. For a customer
desiring single-phase service in excess of 400 amperes, the utility will supply
the installation and trench from the pole or pad-mount transformer to the
customer’s structure and the customer will supply the cable and conduit. The
utility’s charge will be based on the actual cost of labor and equipment used
to make the installation.
   (E)   Three-phase service. The utility will provide the same services and
materials as previously stated for 100 and 200 ampere single-phase services.
For three-phase service, the customer will supply the installation and trench
from the pole or pad-mount transformer to the customer’s structure and the
customer will supply the cable and conduit. The utility’s charge will be based
on the actual cost of labor and equipment used to make the installation.
(Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-10-2017)
§ 51.079 SECURITY LIGHTING SERVICE.
   (A)   Available. This service is available to customers located on the
utility’s distribution lines suitable and adequate for supplying dusk-to-dawn
security lighting for entrances, driveways and other private areas.
   (B)   Character of service.
      (1)   The utility will install, own and maintain a bracket-mounted
lighting fixture, including the photo electric control, with either a 85 watt
induction lamp, 400 watt metal halide lamp or a similar fixture and lamp.
      (2)   (a)   The utility shall adjust the automatic control on each
fixture to provide lighting service from approximately one-half hour before
dusk to one-half hour after dawn. Lamp replacements and repairs will be made
within a reasonable period of time during regular working hours after customer
notification of the need for such maintenance.
         (b)   The facilities installed by the utility shall remain the
property of the utility and may be removed by the utility if service is
discontinued for any reason.
   (C)   Monthly bill.
      (1)   (a)   Where the lighting fixture can be installed on an existing
utility pole and served from existing secondary lines with not more than one
span of secondary, the rate shall be listed on Appendix C of this chapter.
         (b)   If additional facilities are required to furnish service
hereunder, the utility will install, operate and maintain such facilities at
the following charges, with such charges being added to the charges listed
under division (C)(1)(a) above: $1 for each 30-foot wood pole and span of
secondary.
      (2)   In addition to the above monthly charge per fixture, a one-time
charge of $75 shall be made by the utility to the customer requesting security
light service for each installation of a wood pole required to furnish said
service.
   (D)   Terms of payment.
      (1)   All bills on the above schedule shall be rendered and due monthly.
      (2)   If not paid by the fifteenth day of the month following the date of
the bill, a 10% penalty will be added to bills of $3 or less. Bills in excess
of $3 will have a 10% penalty calculated on the first $3 of the bill plus a 3%
penalty calculated on the amount of the bill in excess of $3.
   (E)   Terms of service.
      (1)   Any customer requesting service under this schedule shall make
written application for such service for an initial period of one year and
shall make a deposit of $36.
      (2)   If for any reason the customer requests the termination of such
service before the expiration of the initial period of one year, the customer
shall forfeit the $36 deposit to cover the cost of the installation and removal
of the security light fixture.
   (F)   Reconnection. Whenever the service is disconnected for nonpayment of a
bill, or for any reason beyond the control of the utility, a reconnection of
service is required by any customer, a disconnect/reconnect charge as listed in
Appendix B of this chapter will be paid to the utility to cover a part of the
cost of disconnection and reconnection of service.
(Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-10-2017)
INTERCONNECTION STANDARDS AND PARALLEL GENERATION SERVICE
§ 51.090 FINDINGS AND DETERMINATION.
   Whereas the town owns and operates its own electric utility, and the safety
of utility workers and the general public requires the inspection and testing
of equipment arranged for the production of electricity from solar, wind,
biomass, geothermal or hydroelectric facilities (“renewable generation
facilities”) that are owned and operated by residential, commercial or
industrial customers of the utility and connected to the utility’s electrical
grid, the Town Council has determined that it is necessary to establish
standards for the interconnection of such renewable generation facilities to
the utility’s grid.
(Ord. 2-2019, passed 2-25-2019)
§ 51.091 NET METERING.
   See “Interconnection Standards for Installation and Parallel Operation of
Customer-Owned Renewable Electric Generation Facilities 25 kWAC or Less”
(renewable interconnection standards) for a description of eligible net
metering customers and generation facilities.
(Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-10-2017; Ord. 2-2019, passed 2-25-2019)
§ 51.092 APPROVAL REQUIRED FOR CONNECTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to connect or maintain the
connection of a renewable generating facility to the utility’s grid without
obtaining the utility’s approval of an interconnection application.
(Ord. 2-2019, passed 2-25-2019) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.093 INTERCONNECTION APPLICATION AND APPROVAL; FEE.
   (A)   A customer desiring to interconnect renewable generation facilities
with the utility’s grid shall complete an interconnection application and
submit the application to the utility for review. After receipt of the
application, the utility shall conduct such further inspection of the renewable
generation facilities as the utility deems necessary and approve or deny the
application. If the application is denied, the utility shall provide a written
response to the customer explaining why the application was denied. The utility
is hereby authorized to charge a reasonable application fee to offset the costs
involved with reviewing the application, inspecting the renewable generation
facilities and otherwise ensuring compliance with this subchapter.
   (B)   If the interconnection application is approved, then the customer
agrees that no changes shall be made to the configuration of the renewable
generation facilities as that configuration is described in the application,
and no relay or other control or protection setting specified in the
application shall be set, reset, adjusted or tampered with, except to the
extent necessary to verify that the renewable generation facilities comply with
the utility’s approved settings.
(Ord. 2-2019, passed 2-25-2019)
§ 51.094 COMPLIANCE WITH CODES, LAWS AND REGULATIONS.
   In addition to such other requirements as the utility deems necessary, any
renewable generation facility allowed to interconnect to the utility’s grid
must comply with:
   (A)   The National Electrical Code and the National Electrical Safety Code,
as each may be revised from time to time;
   (B)   The utility’s rules and regulations and the utility’s general terms
and conditions for electric service, each as contained in the utility’s
electric tariff and as may be revised from time to time; and
   (C)   All other applicable local, state and federal codes and laws, as the
same may be in effect from time to time.
(Ord. 2-2019, passed 2-25-2019) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.095 INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITY.
   For any approved renewable generation facilities interconnected to the
utility’s grid, the customer shall install, operate and maintain, at the
customer’s sole cost and expense, the renewable generation facilities in
accordance with the manufacturer’s suggested practices for safe, efficient and
reliable operation of the renewable generation facilities in parallel with the
utility’s electric system. The customer shall be responsible for protecting, at
the customer’s sole cost and expense, the renewable generation facilities from
any condition or disturbance on the utility’s electric system, including, but
not limited to, voltage sags or swells, system faults, outages, loss of a
single phase of supply, equipment failures and lightning or switching surges.
(Ord. 2-2019, passed 2-25-2019) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.096 OPERATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The customer shall operate any interconnected renewable generation
facilities in such a manner as not to cause undue fluctuations in voltage,
intermittent load characteristics or otherwise interfere with the operation of
the utility’s electric system. At all times when the renewable generation
facilities are being operated in parallel with the utility’s electric system,
the customer shall operate the renewable generation facilities in a manner that
no disturbance will be produced to the service rendered by the utility to any
of its other customers or to any electric system interconnected with the
utility’s electric system. The customer’s control equipment for the renewable
generation facilities shall immediately, completely and automatically
disconnect and isolate the renewable generation facilities from the utility’s
electric system in the event of a fault on the utility’s electric system, a
fault on the customer’s renewable generation facilities or loss of a source or
sources on the utility’s electric system. The automatic disconnecting device
included in such control equipment shall not be capable of reclosing until
after service is restored on the utility’s electric system. Additionally, if
the fault is with the customer’s renewable generation facilities, such
automatic disconnecting device shall not be reclosed until after the fault is
isolated from the customer’s renewable generation facilities.
(Ord. 2-2019, passed 2-25-2019) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.097 ACCESS FOR INSPECTIONS; RIGHT TO ISOLATE.
   (A)   Upon reasonable advance notice to the customer, the utility shall have
access to any interconnected renewable generation facilities to perform on-site
inspections to verify that the installation and operation of the renewable
generation facilities comply with the requirements of this subchapter and to
verify the proper installation and continuing safe operation of the renewable
generation facilities. The utility shall also have at all times immediate
access to breakers or any other equipment that will isolate the renewable
generation facilities from the utility’s electric system. The utility shall not
be responsible for any costs the customer may incur as a result of such
inspection(s).
   (B)   (1)   The utility shall have the right and authority to isolate
approved interconnected renewable generation facilities at the utility’s sole
discretion if the utility believes that:
         (a)   Continued interconnection and parallel operation of the
renewable generation facilities with the utility’s electric system creates or
contributes (or will create or contribute) to a system emergency on either the
utility’s or the customer’s electric facilities;
         (b)   The renewable generation facilities are not in compliance with
the requirements of this subchapter; or
         (c)   The renewable generation facilities interfere with the operation
of the utility’s electric system.
      (2)   In non-emergency situations, the utility shall give the customer
reasonable notice prior to isolating the renewable generation facilities.
(Ord. 2-2019, passed 2-25-2019)
§ 51.098 INSURANCE; HOLD HARMLESS AGREEMENT.
   The customer shall procure and keep in force, during all periods of parallel
operation of the renewable generation facilities with the utility’s electric
system, homeowners, commercial or other insurance to protect the interests of
the utility with insurance carriers acceptable to the utility, and in amounts
not less than those reasonably determined by the utility to be necessary taking
into consideration the nameplate capacity, configuration and type of the
renewable generation facilities. The customer shall indemnify and hold harmless
the utility, the town, its employees, representatives, agents and
subcontractors from and against all claims, liability, damages and expenses,
including attorney fees, based on any injury to any person, including the loss
of life, or damage to any property, including the loss of use thereof, arising
out of, resulting from or connected with, or that may be alleged to have arisen
out of, resulted from or connected with, an act or omission by the customer,
the customer’s employees, agents, representatives, successors or assigns in the
construction, ownership, operation or maintenance of the customer’s renewable
generation facilities. If the utility is required to bring an action to enforce
its rights under this section, either as a separate action or in connection
with another action, and said rights are upheld, the customer shall reimburse
the utility for all expenses, including attorney fees, incurred in connection
with such action.
(Ord. 2-2019, passed 2-25-2019)
§ 51.099 RESIDENTIAL SOLAR RENEWABLE PARALLEL GENERATION SERVICE.
   (A)   Availability.
      (1)   Service under this residential solar renewable parallel generation
rate schedule is available to utility residential customers in good standing
with a customer-owned solar renewable electric generation facility as defined
in the “Interconnection Standards for Installation and Parallel Operation of
Customer-Owned Renewable Electric Generation Facilities 25 kWAC or Less” that
wish to receive compensation for excess renewable generation delivered to the
utility subject to the terms and conditions of this schedule and the Indiana
Municipal Power Agency (IMPA) power purchase agreement. Customer-owned solar
renewable generation and associated equipment are collectively referred to as a
SOLAR GENERATION FACILITY.
      (2)   The service is available to customer-owned solar generation
facilities on a first-come, first-served basis until the total rated generating
capability of all interconnections served under parallel generation equals or
exceeds 1% of the town’s peak demand for the previous calendar year. Upon
reaching this limit, no additional service shall be available under this rate
schedule. This rate schedule shall not be available for any electric service
schedule allowing for resale.
   (B)   Character of service. Single phase, 60 hertz, alternating current will
be supplied at standard voltages as available through one transformer. A
QUALIFYING CUSTOMER is a residential electric customer in good standing
connected to the utility’s electric distribution system for the purpose of
receiving retail electric service that also owns and operates a solar
generation facility as defined in the “Interconnection Standards for
Installation and Parallel Operation of Customer-Owned Renewable Electric
Generation Facilities 25 kWAC or Less.” The solar generation facility shall be
installed and operated in accordance with the requirements of said
interconnection standards.
   (C)   Monthly bill.
 
Service                                Rate
Customer charge per service connection $40.45
Energy charge ($/kWh)
   All kWh                          $0.0635
 
   (D)   Minimum bill. The customer charge set forth in the schedule in this
section shall be the minimum bill.
   (E)   Metering. Metering shall be accomplished by use of a utility-approved
electric meter or meters capable of registering the flow of electricity in each
direction. If the existing electric meter installed at the customer’s premises
is not capable of measuring the bidirectional flow of electricity, the utility
shall install, at the customer’s expense, an appropriate meter or meters with
such capability. The utility may, at its own expense and with written consent
of the customer, install one or more additional meters to monitor the flow of
electricity.
   (F)   Rate adjustment. The schedule in this section is subject to a power
cost adjustment (PCA) factor as stated in Appendix D of this chapter and a rate
stabilization adder (RSA) as stated in
Appendix E of this chapter.
   (G)   Customer billing. The measurement of electricity supplied by the
electric utility and delivered to the electric utility (excess renewable
generation) shall be determined in the following manner.
      (1)   The electric utility shall measure the amount of electricity
delivered by the electric utility to the customer and the amount of electricity
generated by the customer and delivered to the electric utility (excess
renewable generation) during the billing period in accordance with normal
metering practices.
      (2)   The kilowatt-hours delivered by the electric utility to the
customer shall be billed to the customer at the rates stated herein. The
customer shall be compensated for kilowatt-hours generated by said customer and
delivered to the electric utility (excess renewable generation) as described in
division (H) below.
   (H)   Customer compensation. The customer shall enter into a power purchase
agreement with the utility’s power agency, Indiana Municipal Power Agency, for
the purchasing of the customer’s excess renewable generation (kilowatt-hours).
The compensation to the customer for excess renewable generation (kilowatt-
hours) delivered to the utility shall be calculated at the excess renewable
generation rate, as determined by the IMPA, for the periods in which energy was
delivered to the utility. The customer must participate in the IMPA’s power
purchase agreement to receive compensation for excess renewable generation. The
excess renewable generation compensation and rate shall be determined by the
IMPA in accordance with IMPA Res. 18-01 and the power purchase agreement.
   (I)   Terms and conditions. Service hereunder is subject to the provisions
of this chapter applicable to electric service. Additional special terms and
conditions include the following.
      (1)   The utility shall offer this rate schedule to customers who wish to
receive compensation for excess renewable generation supplied to the utility
from eligible customer-owned solar generation facilities.
      (2)   This schedule shall only be available to customers in good standing
under this chapter and the electric rates of the town. All agreements hereunder
shall be between the customer, the utility and the IMPA.
      (3)   This schedule is also subject to the provisions of the
“Interconnection Standards for Installation and Parallel Operation of Customer-
Owned Renewable Electric Generation Facilities 25 kWAC or Less.”
      (4)   The interconnection agreement between the utility and customer must
remain in effect, and the customer-owned generation facility must be in full
compliance with the terms and conditions of the “Interconnection Standards for
Installation and Parallel Operation of Customer-Owned Renewable Electric
Generation Facilities 25 kWAC or Less.”
      (5)   Any required insurance coverage is specifically addressed in the
“Interconnection Standards for Installation and Parallel Operation of Customer-
Owned Renewable Electric Generation Facilities 25 kWAC or Less.”
      (6)   Nothing in this schedule shall abrogate any customer’s obligation
to comply with all applicable federal, state and local laws, codes or
ordinances.
      (7)   This schedule shall remain in place for a minimum of 12 months.
      (8)   The IMPA shall compensate the customer for excess renewable
generation at rates and by methods determined by the IMPA’s management and in
compliance with federal and state law.
(Ord. 2-2019, passed 2-25-2019)
§ 51.100 COMMERCIAL SOLAR RENEWABLE PARALLEL GENERATION SERVICE.
   (A)   Availability.
      (1)   Service under this commercial solar renewable parallel generation
rate schedule is available to utility commercial and municipal customers in
good standing with a customer-owned solar renewable electric generation
facility as defined in the “Interconnection Standards for Installation and
Parallel Operation of Customer-Owned Renewable Electric Generation Facilities
25 kWAC or Less” who wish to receive compensation for excess renewable
generation delivered to the utility subject to the terms and conditions of this
schedule and the Indiana Municipal Power Agency (IMPA) power purchase
agreement. Customer-owned solar renewable generation and associated equipment
are collectively referred to as a SOLAR GENERATION FACILITY.
      (2)   The service is available to customer-owned solar generation
facilities on a first-come, first-served basis until the total rated generating
capability of all interconnections served under parallel generation equals or
exceeds 1% of the town’s peak demand for the previous calendar year. Upon
reaching this limit, no additional service shall be available under this rate
schedule. This rate schedule shall not be available for any electric service
schedule allowing for resale.
   (B)   Character of service. Single-phase or three-phase, 60 hertz,
alternating current will be supplied at standard voltages as available through
one transformer. A QUALIFYING CUSTOMER is a commercial or municipal electric
customer as defined in this chapter, in good standing and connected to the
utility electric distribution system for the purpose of receiving retail
electric service, who also owns and operates a solar generation facility as
defined in the “Interconnection Standards for Installation and Parallel
Operation of Customer-Owned Renewable Electric Generation Facilities 25 kWAC or
Less.” The solar generation facility shall be installed and operated in
accordance with the requirements of said interconnection standards.
   (C)   Monthly bill.
 
Service         Rate
Customer charge per service connection
   Single pha$48
Three phase     $65
Energy charge ($/kWh)
   All kWh   $0.1000
 
   (D)   Minimum bill. The customer charge set forth in the schedule in this
section shall be the minimum bill.
   (E)   Metering. Metering shall be accomplished by use of a utility-approved
electric meter or meters capable of registering the flow of electricity in each
direction. If the existing electric meter installed at the customer’s premises
is not capable of measuring the bidirectional flow of electricity, the utility
shall install, at the customer’s expense, an appropriate meter or meters with
such capability. The utility may, at its own expense and with written consent
of the customer, install one or more additional meters to monitor the flow of
electricity.
   (F)   Rate adjustment. This schedule is subject to a power cost adjustment
(PCA) factor as slated in
Appendix D of this chapter and a rate stabilization adder (RSA) as stated in
Appendix E of this chapter.
   (G)   Customer billing. The measurement of electricity supplied by the
electric utility and/or received by the electric utility (excess renewable
generation) shall be determined in the following manner. The electric utility
shall measure the amount of electricity delivered by the electric utility to
the customer and the amount of electricity generated by the customer and
delivered to the electric utility (excess renewable generation) during the
billing period, in accordance with normal metering practices. The kilowatt-
hours delivered by the electric utility to the customer shall be billed to the
customer at the rates stated herein and applicable riders. The customer shall
be compensated for kilowatt-hours generated by said customer and delivered to
the electric utility (excess renewable generation) as described in division (H)
below.
   (H)   Customer compensation. The customer shall enter into a power purchase
agreement with the utility’s power agency, Indiana Municipal Power Agency, for
the purchasing of the customer’s excess renewable generation (kWh). The
compensation to the customer for excess renewable generation (kilowatt-hours)
delivered to the utility shall be calculated at the excess renewable generation
rate, as determined by the IMPA, for the periods in which energy was delivered
to the utility. The customer must participate in the IMPA’s power purchase
agreement to receive compensation for excess renewable generation. The excess
renewable generation compensation and rate shall be determined by the IMPA in
accordance with IMPA Res. 18-01 and the power purchase agreement.
   (I)   Terms and conditions. Service hereunder is subject to the provisions
of this chapter applicable to electric service. Additional special terms and
conditions include the following.
      (1)   The utility shall offer this rate schedule to customers that wish
to receive compensation for excess renewable generation supplied to the utility
from eligible customer-owned solar generation facilities.
      (2)   This schedule shall only be available to customers in good standing
under this chapter and the electric rates of the town. All agreements hereunder
shall be between the customer, the town and the IMPA.
      (3)   This schedule is also subject to the provisions of “Interconnection
Standards for Installation and Parallel Operation of Customer-Owned Renewable
Electric Generation Facilities 25 kWAC or Less.”
      (4)   The interconnection agreement between the utility and customer must
remain in effect, and the customer-owned generation facility must be in full
compliance with the terms and conditions of the “Interconnection Standards for
Installation and Parallel Operation of Customer-Owned Renewable Electric
Generation Facilities 25 kWAC or Less.”
      (5)   Any required insurance coverage is specifically addressed in the
“Interconnection Standards for Installation and Parallel Operation of Customer-
Owned Renewable Electric Generation Facilities 25 kWAC or Less.”
      (6)   Nothing in this schedule shall abrogate any customer’s obligation
to comply with all applicable federal, state and local laws, codes or
ordinances.
      (7)   This schedule shall remain in place for a minimum of 12 months.
      (8)   The IMPA shall compensate the customer for excess renewable
generation at rates and by methods determined by the IMPA’s management and in
compliance with federal and state law.
(Ord. 2-2019, passed 2-25-2019)
BILLING AND PAYMENT
§ 51.115 PREDICATION OF RATES.
   The utility’s electric rates are predicated upon the supply of service to
the customer separately for each premises and for the ultimate usage of such
separate premises. An outlying or adjacent building of the customer, if located
on the same premises, may be served from the supply to the main residence or
building, provided the use of such supply to the adjacent building is
supplementary to the usage in the main building. If such adjacent building(s)
requires a supply separate from the premises, then the customer shall be billed
separately for such service under the appropriate rate schedule(s). PREMISES as
herein used shall mean the main residence or living quarters for the use of a
single family or the main building of a commercial customer and shall include
the outlying or adjacent buildings used by the same, provided the use of the
service in the outlying or adjacent buildings is supplementary to the service
used in the main residence or building and does not require a separate supply.
(Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-10-2017)
§ 51.116 DEPOSIT TO ENSURE PAYMENT OF BILLS.
   (A)   Applicable to residential customers. The utility may require from a
residential applicant or customer, at any time prior to or after the
commencement of service, a service deposit of not less than $100 to guarantee
the payment of rates and charges for service.
   (B)   Applicable to commercial and industrial customers.
      (1)   The utility may require from any applicant or customer, as a
guarantee against the nonpayment of bills, a cash deposit equal to the amount
payable for service for a 60-day period, as estimated by the utility, but not
less than $50 for commercial and $100 for industrial. In all cases, where the
monthly amount payable is in excess of that covered by the deposit, the utility
may increase the amount of deposit required, but such deposit shall not exceed
the estimated amount payable for a 60-day period.
      (2)   Any customer who has failed to pay all charges for service rendered
within the specified payment period may be required, upon five days’ written
notice, to make a cash deposit in the amount equal to an estimated charge for
four billing periods for the premises served. If such cash deposit is not made
within the five-day period, disconnection may be made.
      (3)   The town may, but shall not be required to, apply the customer’s
deposit to the payment of electric bills or any other charge.
      (4)   The deposit, where chargeable, shall be applied against the final
bill when service has been terminated. Any outstanding credit balance shall be
refunded to the customer, and any outstanding debit balance shall be billed to
the customer.
      (5)   Any deposit made by the customer (less any lawful deductions) which
has remained unclaimed for seven years after the town has made diligent efforts
to locate the person who made such deposit, or the heirs of such person, shall
be presumed to be abandoned and treated in accordance with the laws of the
state.
(Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-10-2017; Ord. 9-2020, passed 8-24-2020)
§ 51.117 CUSTOMER BILLING; BILLING ADJUSTMENTS; FAULTY METERS.
   (A)   Payment of bills. Bills will be issued and payable monthly and must be
paid at an office or an established collection agency of the utility. If a bill
is not paid within 15 days from the date mailed, the customer shall be
considered delinquent in payment and the utility may disconnect service.
Failure to receive the bill shall not entitle the customer to relief from the
deferred payment provisions of the rate if he or she fails to make payment
within said 15-day period, nor shall it affect the right of the utility to
disconnect service for nonpayment as above provided.
   (B)   Billing adjustments.
      (1)   All billing errors not related to faulty metering equipment may be
adjusted to the known date of the error or for a period of up to five years,
whichever period is shorter, and billed or credited to the customer.
      (2)   In the event of a clerical billing error in favor of the customer,
the town may correct said error and bill the correct amount to the customer
within five years of the month in which the bill was originally due.
      (3)   Billing errors related to faulty metering equipment are addressed
under division (C) below.
   (C)   Faulty meters.
      (1)   Whenever it is discovered that a meter is not recording within the
limits of accuracy as defined under §
51.058 of this chapter, the utility will repair or replace the meter.
      (2)   (a)   If the meter is determined to be fast, the utility will
estimate the amount the customer has been overbilled and refund the customer
for up to five years of overbilling.
         (b)   If the meter is determined to be slow or has stopped, the
utility reserves the right to estimate the amount the customer has been
underbilled and bill the customer for up to five years of underbilling.
         (c)   If the exact starting point of the meter failure or malfunction
cannot be determined, the utility will bill (or credit) the customer for the
billing inaccuracy for one year using the customer’s most recent 12 months of
bills.
(Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-10-2017; Ord. 13-2018, passed 2-25-2019)
§ 51.118 PAST DUE ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   (1)   All accounts not paid on or before the fifteenth of each month
shall be considered delinquent, and the account holder will be mailed a
delinquent notice on the twentieth of that month advising the residential
customer that utilities must be paid by the second Thursday of the following
month. The notice shall also advise the customer that service will be
disconnected on the second Thursday of the following month. The Clerk-Treasurer
shall determine and list the actual shutoff date on each notice.
      (2)   If no response is received, service will be disconnected without
further notice and will not be restored until the account is paid in full, plus
a reconnection fee as established in Appendix B of this chapter.
   (B)   All industrial and commercial accounts are due on or before the
fifteenth of each month. All industrial and commercial accounts not paid on or
before the fifteenth of each month will be mailed a disconnect notice on the
twentieth of the month. If no response is received, service will be
disconnected on the twenty-seventh of the month and will not be restored until
the account is paid in full, plus a reconnection fee as established in Appendix
B of this chapter.
   (C)   Failure to receive a bill shall not entitle the customer to pay the
net bill after the designated due date has passed. Upon request, the utility
will inform the customer of the approximate date on which the customer should
receive the bill each month, and if the bill is lost, the utility will issue a
duplicate bill.
   (D)   Initial or final bills for service supplied for not less than 27 days
or for not more than 34 days will be calculated on the basis of the applicable
rate schedule. A billing for a period covering a shorter period than 27 days or
a longer period than 34 days will be prorated on the basis of the proportion
that the number of days of actual service bears to an average month (30 days).
   (E)   The customer shall notify the utility when he or she desires service
to be discontinued, and final bills will be due and payable at the time of
discontinuance of service. Final accounts are not billed until the next regular
bill date (first of following month).
   (F)   When the utility is unable to obtain the reading of a meter after
reasonable effort, it may estimate the reading and render a bill, so marked.
   (G)   In the event the utility’s meter fails to register properly for any
reason, the utility shall estimate the customer’s energy use and/or maximum
load during the period of failure based on such factors as the customer’s
normal load and energy usage during a like corresponding period.
   (H)   When the utility has discontinued service for nonpayment of a bill or
as otherwise provided in these general terms and conditions for electric
service, a reconnection charge as may be established from time to time by the
Board and Council, and as set out in
Appendix B of this chapter, shall be required before service is reconnected. A
deposit may also be required pursuant to §
51.116 of this chapter.
   (I)   When a reconnection of service is made for a customer at the same
location and service has been disconnected at the customer’s request, a
reconnection charge as may be established from time to time by the Board and
Council, and as set out in
Appendix B of this chapter, shall be required before service is reconnected.
   (J)   Payment by a check which is subsequently returned to the utility by a
bank for any insufficiency, such as, but not limited to, insufficient funds
balance, shall not constitute timely payment of a bill. Further, any charges
assessed against the utility by a bank for an insufficient check shall likewise
be assessed by the utility to the customer. Also, the customer will be charged
a fee as may be established from time to time by the Board and Council, and as
set out in
Appendix B of this chapter, by the utility for the returned check. The utility
may refuse to accept a check from said customer for payment.
(Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-10-2017)
§ 51.119 REFERRAL FOR COLLECTION.
   (A)   Any customer who has received a final bill and has not paid by the
first of the next month will receive a letter advising they have 30 days to pay
the account before it is turned over to the Town Attorney or a collection
agency for collection. If no response is received after 30 days, the account
will be referred to the Town Attorney or the collection agency. The Town
Attorney or the collection agency will be authorized to charge a fee, not to
exceed 50% of the amount collected under $500 and 33-1/3% of the amount
collected over $500.
   (B)   If the Town Attorney or a collection agency is unable to recover the
account in one year and does not request additional time to pursue the account,
then the account shall be returned to the Clerk-Treasurer and written off as a
bad debt. All such accounts written off as bad debts shall be listed and
presented to the Town Council for approval.
(Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-10-2017)
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as otherwise indicated, any person, firm or corporation who
shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be subject to prosecution by the County Prosecutor’s
Office for each offense. Conviction for any violation of the codes and
ordinances of the town or the applicable ordinances of the county shall result
in a suspension of the person, firm or corporation’s registration until said
suspension is lifted by the Town Council.
   (B)   Any person or entity found to be in violation of §
51.092 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $2,500
for each such violation, plus costs. In addition to the foregoing fines and at
the utility’s sole discretion, property where a renewable generating facility
is unlawfully connected to the utility’s grid may be disconnected from the
utility’s grid until an interconnection application is approved. Every day that
a violation of §
51.092 occurs shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-10-2017; Ord. 2-2019, passed 2-25-2019)
APPENDIX A: APPLICATION FOR WATER, SEWAGE, ELECTRICITY AND GARBAGE COLLECTION
 
                  TOWN OF BREMEN
Turn-On _________________                  Shut-Off _________________
Date ____________________                  Date ____________________
Time ___________________                  Time ___________________
Name: _____________________________________      Remarks ____________________________________
Service Address _____________________________      ____________________________________________
                           Use of Premises—Describe Type of Business
 
   Application is hereby made to the Town Of Bremen for water, sewage, electricity, to be used at
premises indicated above. Applicant agrees to:
 
   (a)   Be responsible and pay for all water, electricity, sewage and garbage collection changes
on above mentioned premises until notice has been duly given at the office of the Clerk-Treasurer
to discontinue the supply. Such charges shall become delinquent if not paid within ____ days of
the date of mailing of the bill for the charges. A delinquent charge of ____ will be added to the
bill if not paid by that date.
 
   (b)   The meter furnished by the Town is and shall remain the property of the Town and the
Town’s agents shall have access to the meter at all times, to read, repair, lock off, seal or
remove the same.
 
   (c)   The Town’s agents shall have access to the meter, pipes, wires, conduits and appliances
at all times, to ascertain that the service supplied is passing through the meter and that the
meter is properly registering the same and to stop the supply service for non-payment of bills,
when due, for any service furnished to the premises of the applicant at said premises, or
elsewhere, or for any other lawful cause or purpose which the Town may deem sufficient, and said
agents are hereby authorized to enter the premises of the applicant, at all times, for any such
lawful cause or purpose, or for the purpose of disconnecting or adjusting the meter or for the
purpose of removing the meter, with connections, or any other property belonging to the Town, but
nothing herein contained shall mean or be construed to mean that the Town shall be required to
inspect or examine, or in anywise be responsible for the condition of the pipes, wires conduits
or appliances on applicant’s premises.
 
   (d)   Customer agrees to pay company for electric power delivered hereunder in accordance with
rate schedules set forth in the Bremen Town Code. The minimum payments under this agreement shall
be as set forth in such schedule, to accrue from the date that the Town is ready to supply
service hereunder. In the event that such schedule is changed, as provided by law, electric power
supplied after such change is to be paid for in accordance with the altered schedule. A copy of
rate schedule is available at the Bremen Town Hall. The furnishings of said municipal utility
services shall be in conformance with the Bremen Town Code and the laws of the State of Indiana.
 
   (e)   If the customer fails to pay for any of the municipal services supplied to it, and if
such default shall continue for_____days, the Town shall have the right, at its option to
terminate this contract and/or to discontinue, disconnect or suspend the services described
herein. These options may be exercised by the town whenever and as often as any default shall
occur. In the event that the Town shall file suit to collect any monies owed it for delinquent
utility charges, the customer, or the customer’s ________ shall be liable for the amount of any
delinquent charges plus reasonable attorney fees and costs.
 
_______________________________________      ________________________________________
Customer                                 Witness
I (we) ________________________ guarantee the payment of any and all municipal utility services,
including electricity, water, sewage and garbage collection provided to [missing]
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 105)
APPENDIX B: SCHEDULE OF MISCELLANEOUS CHARGES
 
Type                          Charge
Late payment charge           3% of total bill
Reconnect/disconnect charge   $75 per event during normal business hours*
Return check charge           $27 per check
Secondary underground service $3 per running ft., with 80-ft. minimum
NOTES TO TABLE
* The utility shall only perform reconnections during normal business hours
 
(Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-10-2017; Ord. 13-2018, passed 2-25-2019)
APPENDIX C: RATE SCHEDULE
   (A)   Rates generally.
      (1)   Rates for electric service include, but are not limited to, a
customer charge and an energy charge. The customer charge is assessed on a
monthly basis. The energy charge is assessed per kilowatt-hour.
      (2)   Large power and mega industrial power customers shall also be
assessed a demand charge; the demand charge shall be assessed per kilowatt per
month.
   (B)   Schedule of rates.
      (1)   Customer charge.
Customer Charge $ per Month
Customer Charge                $ per Month
Commercial (single-phase)      $20
Commercial (three-phase)       $40
Large power (high load factor) $300
Large power (low load factor)  $300
Large power off-peak           $1,500
Mega industrial power          $750
Residential                    $15
 
      (2)   Energy charge.
Energy Charge $ per Kilowatt-Hour
Energy Charge                  $ per Kilowatt-Hour
Commercial (single-phase)      $0.1020
Commercial (three-phase)       $0.1020
Large power (high load factor) $0.0310
Large power (low load factor)  $0.0590
Large power (off-peak):        $0.0308
Mega industrial power          $0.0310
Residential                    $0.0880
 
      (3)   Demand charge.
 
Demand Charge                    $ per Kilowatt
Large power
   Off-peak                $4.35
   On-peak                 $24.37
Large power, high load factor $20.60
Large power, low load factor  $13
Mega industrial power         $21.40
 
      (4)   Security lights.
 
Security Lights                      $ per Month
85 watt induction lamp or equivalent $7.40
400 watt metal halide or equivalent  $22.50
 
      (5)   Temporary service.
 
Temporary Service      Charge
Minimum bill per month $15.20
 
      (6)   Residential solar renewable generation net metering.
 
Charge Type                 Charge
Customer charge (per month) $40.45
Energy charge (per kWh)     $0.0635
 
(Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-10-2017; Ord. 2-2019, passed 2-25-2019; Ord. 6-2022,
passed 6-27-2022)
APPENDIX D: POWER COST ADJUSTMENT (PCA) RIDER
   (A)   Applicability. The power cost adjustment set forth herein shall apply
to the utility’s electric rate schedules that are subject to this rider. The
applicable adjustment shall be applied to the total kilowatt-hours billed to
the consumer for the meter reading period that the utility determines as most
nearly corresponding to the meter reading period(s) set forth in the utility’s
power billings from its supplier(s).
   (B)   Overview.
      (1)   Intent. This PCA calculation is intended to be based on forward-
looking projections of fuel, purchased power and other power supply-related
costs (power supply costs), as well as projections of customer sales (kilowatt-
hours), for the power cost recovery period. The calculation is further intended
to be performed at a minimum six-month interval, or more frequently if
required, to accomplish recovery of power supply costs in a timely manner. The
calculation includes a provision to reconcile over- or under-collection of
costs from previous periods based on actual cost versus projected cost for the
period.
      (2)   Calculation frequency.
         (a)   Generally. The PCA calculation shall be performed every six
months. The PCA calculation shall be reviewed and new projections shall be made
for the subsequent six-month periods (i.e., August and February of each year).
Following such PCA review and calculation, the PCA shall be applied as deemed
necessary to recover the power supply costs in a timely manner.
         (b)   Increased frequency. The PCA shall be recalculated and applied
at intervals more frequent than six months if actual power supply costs vary
significantly from projections.
   (C)   Base power cost. The rates and charges set forth in the utility’s rate
schedules are based on the cost of the utility’s power requirements, including
purchase power, fuel costs and/or purchase power billing adjustments. The base
power cost included in the utility’s rate schedules is $0.07930 per kilowatt-
hour.
   (D)   Determination of power cost adjustment.
      (1)   Power cost adjustment (PCA).
         (a)   Scope. The utility shall recover through the PCA the power cost
component (PCC) plus the reconciliation adjustment (RA).
         (b)   Calculation. The formula for calculating the PCA shall be
expressed as follows.
            PCA = (PCC + RA)
            Where:
            PCC:   Power cost component as determined below, expressed in
dollars per kilowatt-hour rounded to the nearest five decimal places.
            RA:   Reconciliation adjustment as determined below, expressed in
dollars per kilowatt-hour rounded to the nearest five decimal places.
      (2)   Power cost component (PCC).
         (a)   Scope. The utility shall recover through the PCC the power cost
component to be incurred during the succeeding six months.
         (b)   Calculation. The formula for calculating the PCC shall be
expressed as follows.
                PPC
            PCC = -------- -- BPC
                PES
            Where:
            PPC:   Projected power costs for the succeeding six months,
expressed in dollars.
            PES:   Projected energy sales, which shall be equal to the
projected billing kilowatt-hours for the succeeding six months, excluding large
power off-peak service.
            BPC:   Base power cost reflected in the rate schedules of $0.07930
per kilowatt-hour.
      (3)   Reconciliation adjustment (RA).
         (a)   Scope. The utility shall, through the RA, either:
            1.   Recover the actual power costs incurred during the prior six
months which were in excess of the power costs collected during that same
period; or
            2.   Refund the power costs collected during the prior six months
which were in excess of the actual power costs incurred during that same
period.
         (b)   Calculation. The formula for calculating the RA shall be
expressed as follows.
                  APC - PCR
            RA = ----------------- .........................(3)
                   PES
            Where:
            APC:   Actual power cost which incurred during the prior six
months, expressed in dollars, calculated in a manner consistent with the PPC
for that period plus the previous reconciliation amount.
            PCR:   Power cost revenue, which shall be equal to the revenue
billed during the prior six months under the power cost adjustment (PCA) and
the base power cost (BPC) included in the base rates, expressed in dollars.
            PES:   Projected energy sales which shall be equal to the projected
billing kilowatt-hours for the succeeding six months.
(Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-10-2017; Ord. 6-2022, passed 6-27-2022)
APPENDIX E: RATES STABILIZATION ADDER RIDER
   Availability of the rates stabilization adder.
   (A)   The rate stabilization adder set forth herein shall apply to the
utility’s electric rate schedules that are subject to this rider. This adder
shall be for the purpose of stabilizing customer bills. The adder can be a
charge or credit.
   (B)   The rate stabilization adder was initially applied to each customer’s
bill for service provided January 1, 2010 through June 30, 2010. The rate
stabilization adder should be evaluated in conjunction with the PCA every six
months to determine if an adjustment is needed to stabilize customer bills.
Application of the rate stabilization adder is subject to the approval of the
town’s electric utility governing body.
(Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-10-2017)
APPENDIX F: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT RIDER
   (A)   Availability. This rider is available to a qualifying customer (as
defined herein) of the Bremen Electric Light and Power Company (utility) to
encourage large electricity users to expand or create new operations within the
utility’s service territory.
   (B)   Qualifications. A QUALIFYING CUSTOMER is:
      (1)   A new or existing nonresidential customer in the utility’s service
territory that is establishing new operations or expanding existing operations;
      (2)   New or expanded operations must result in new or additional demand
of at least one MW (1,000 kilowatts) at one delivery point (the “qualifying
demand”);
      (3)   The peak demand (kilowatts) for the qualifying customer will be
recorded monthly and will be the highest 60-minute integrated demand each
calendar month;
      (4)   The customer must invest in new or expanded operations a minimum
capital investment of at least $1,000,000 within the utility’s service
territory;
      (5)   A customer is not a QUALIFYING CUSTOMER if:
         (a)   “New” demand results from a change in ownership of an existing
establishment without new qualifying demand;
         (b)   Increased demand was caused by restoring service following
interruptions such as equipment failure, temporary plant shutdown, strike,
economic conditions or natural disaster; or
         (c)   A facility/operations were shifted from an existing facility/
operations or customer to another service location within the utility’s service
territory.
      (6)   The utility may determine exclusively, in its sole discretion,
without recourse by the customer, whether an event has occurred that would
prevent a customer from being a QUALIFYING CUSTOMER.
   (C)   Qualifying demand measurement.
      (1)   For a qualifying customer that has established new operations,
qualifying demand is measured from zero demand.
      (2)   For a qualifying customer that has expanded operations, qualifying
demand is measured by subtracting the average of the monthly peak demands (60-
minute demand) for the 12 months immediately preceding the effective date of
the applicable incentive period (specified in the service application) from the
monthly peak demand immediately following the effective date of the applicable
incentive period.
      (3)   The customer will be charged for a suitable meter needed to measure
the peak demand, and be required to subscribe to the automated energy program,
to obtain needed monthly metering data.
   (D)   Rate incentive.
      (1)   The applicable incentive period will begin with the incentive
period effective date indicated in the service application submitted by the
qualifying customer. The utility will receive a credit on its wholesale power
bill from the Indiana Municipal Power Agency (IMPA) for the qualifying demand
for the applicable incentive period. The incentive amount received by the
utility from the IMPA for the qualifying customer will be passed in full to the
qualifying customer.
      (2)   For reference purposes, the discount to the qualifying customer’s
wholesale cost for a qualifying new load will be calculated according to the
following schedule for the applicable incentive period.
 
Months 1 – 1220%
Months 13 – 215%
Months 25 – 310%
Months 37 – 410%
Months 49 – 65%
 
      (3)   The economic development rate incentive credit will be applied to
the qualifying customer’s electric bill at the date of the customer bill
immediately after the utility receives the credit from the Indiana Municipal
Power Agency.
   (E)   Terms and conditions.
      (1)   The qualifying customer must submit a service application to the
utility that specifies the following information:
         (a)   A description of the demand (kilowatts) and nature of the new
load;
         (b)   The basis on which the qualifying customer meets the
requirements of this rider;
         (c)   The qualifying customer’s desired effective date of the new or
expanded operation;
         (d)   Location of the new or expanded operation; and
         (e)   To receive the incentive, the qualifying customer will be
required to certify that no less than one MW of connected new or expanded
qualifying demand has been added.
      (2)   This rider will terminate on the same date that the IMPA’s economic
development rider terminates, except that any qualifying customer receiving the
rate inceptive at the time of the rider’s termination may continue receiving
the incentive for the remainder of the applicable incentive period, provided
that the qualifying customer complies with this rider’s requirements.
   (F)   Applicable rate schedules. This rider is applicable to the following
rate schedules:
      (1)   Large power; and
      (2)   Mega industrial.
   (G)   Power cost adjustment. The utility’s power cost adjustment (PCA)
charge (see
Appendix D of this chapter) will be applicable to bills of qualifying customers
who receive the economic development rate incentive credit in accordance with
the applicable rate schedules. Credits reported on the utility wholesale bill
from the Indiana Municipal Power Agency associated with this rider shall not be
a credit to power supply expenses for the purpose of calculating the power cost
adjustment (PCA) charge defined in
Appendix D.
(Ord. 12-2018, passed 11-26-2018)
CHAPTER 52: WATER SERVICE
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Definitions
   
52.002   Department of Water Utility
   
52.003   Superintendent the department head
   
52.004   Powers
   
52.005   Availability of rate, rule and regulation copies
   
52.006   Changes to rules and regulations
Service Conditions and Requirements
   
52.020   Rules and regulations governing water service
   
52.021   Classes of service
   
52.022   Contracts for service
   
52.023   Service
   
52.024   Service connection
   
52.025   Special services
   
52.026   Main extension policy
   
52.027   Metering
   
52.028   Maintenance of service lines and meter pits
   
52.029   Protective devices
   
52.030   Cross-connections
   
52.031   Booster pumps
   
52.032   Ground wires
   
52.033   Fire protection systems
   
52.034   Frozen service lines
   
52.035   Sprinkling restrictions
   
52.036   Interruption of service
   
52.037   Discontinuance of service
   
52.038   Disconnecting water service prior to razing
Rates, Charges and Billing
   
52.050   Deposits
   
52.051   Meter readings and billings
   
52.052   Remote meter readout
   
52.053   Rates and charges
   
52.054   Permit inspection fee for new or replacement connection
Water Emergencies
   
52.065   Application to users
   
52.066   Declaration of need
   
52.067   Exceptions to rationing requirements
   
52.068   Voluntary conservation
   
52.069   Mandatory conservation
   
52.070   Rationing
   
52.071   Notice of conservation or rationing
 
   
52.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Schedule of Monthly Water Rates and Charges
   
Appendix B: Ninety-Day Residential Temporary Use Permit Form
   
Appendix C: Fire Hydrant Use Permit Form
   
Appendix D: Fire Hydrant Use Permit Form for Filling Pools
   
Appendix E: Water Line Construction Permit Form
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTOR. A device used to prevent liquid from flowing backwards
in a particular pipe.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. A physical connection between the water supply of the town
and any private supply on the premises of the customer or any plumbing
connection or appliance on the premises of the customer through which the town
supply could become contaminated or chemical or physical properties changed.
   CURB STOP or SERVICE STOP. A valve inserted in the service pipe near the
property line for the purpose of turning water on or off to the premises
supplied or to be supplied.
   CUSTOMER. A person, firm, corporation, association, governmental agency or
other political subdivision of the state, either as tenant or owner, which has
been, is being or is to be supplied with water service by the town.
      (1)   NONRESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER. Those persons, firms, corporations,
associations, governmental agencies or other political subdivisions of the
state receiving and paying for service other than for residential purposes.
      (2)   RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER. Those persons receiving and paying for
service exclusively for residential purposes.
   DISCONNECTION. The termination or discontinuance of water service.
   DISTRIBUTION MAIN. The pipe owned by the town which delivers water to:
      (1)   Fire hydrants;
      (2)   Fire lines;
      (3)   Service pipes; and
      (4)   Private mains.
   INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE. The temporary discontinuance of service due to
emergency, construction or maintenance requirements of the town.
   METER. A device owned by the town and which measures and records the
quantity of water supplied to the customer.
   MONTH. The period between any two consecutive regularly scheduled meter
readings and billings for water service. Such billings are scheduled at
approximately 30-day intervals.
   PREMISES. A dwelling, building, structure or parcel of real estate which is
supplied through a separate service pipe and meter installation.
   PRIVATE MAIN. A privately owned supply main leading from a distribution main
to one or more customers’ premises. The MAIN is not a part of the town’s system
and is maintained by the customers which it services.
   SERVICE. Supplying water to the premises of a customer.
   SERVICE LINE. A supply pipe leading from the tap in the distribution main to
or into the premises supplied or to be supplied.
   TAP OR CORPORATION COCK. A fitting owned by the town and inserted in the
distribution main to which the service line or private main is attached.
   TOWN. The Town of Bremen.
(Prior Code, § 104.07)
§ 52.002 DEPARTMENT OF WATER UTILITY.
   There is hereby created a Department of Water Utility, which shall be
responsible to the Town Council for the operation of the town’s water utility.
(Prior Code, § 104.01)
§ 52.003 SUPERINTENDENT THE DEPARTMENT HEAD.
   The Council shall appoint a Superintendent of said utility who shall serve
as head of the Department of Water Utility. The Superintendent serves as head
of the Water Department operations.
(Prior Code, § 104.04)
§ 52.004 POWERS.
   The Council shall have all powers necessary for the custody, management and
operation of said utility under the provisions of state law.
(Prior Code, § 104.02)
§ 52.005 AVAILABILITY OF RATE, RULE AND REGULATION COPIES.
   A copy of all rates, rules and regulations under which water service will be
rendered is filed for the convenience of the public in the office of the Town
Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 104.08)
§ 52.006 CHANGES TO RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The town reserves the right to modify any rule or regulation, or to make
such additional regulations as may be found necessary, for the better
protection of the public interest in the management of the town’s waterworks.
(Prior Code, § 104.31)
SERVICE CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS
§ 52.020 RULES AND REGULATIONS GOVERNING WATER SERVICE.
   The rules and regulations of the town, as amended and supplemented from time
to time, shall govern all water service rendered or to be rendered by the town,
shall be binding upon every customer and shall constitute a part of the terms
and conditions of every contract for water service, whether expressly
incorporated therein or not or whether or not a signed application for water
service is on file.
(Prior Code, § 104.06) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.021 CLASSES OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The town has two classes of service:
      (1)   A service to supply metered water to residential customers; and
      (2)   Nonresidential customers for commercial, industrial, municipal,
fire protection uses, sprinkler installations, tank truck filling, contractors
and customer service other than residential.
   (B)   All services shall fall into one or the other of these classes.
(Prior Code, § 104.10)
§ 52.022 CONTRACTS FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   A contract for water service is any form of written agreement or
document with the town, the simplest being a signature ordering the water
service turned “on” to a more complex written contract for main extensions. Be
it a signature or a written contract, they shall be legal and binding.
   (B)   It is understood that any request for water service is subject to a
water distribution main being or being made available adjacent to the property.
If no water main exists and unusual construction and equipment expense is
involved in furnishing water to a particular property, the town may require a
written contract establishing guidelines for repayment of all or portions of
the incurred costs.
   (C)   No promise, agreement or representation by any agent of the town shall
be binding upon the town unless the same shall have been incorporated in a
written contract signed and approved by an agent of the town authorized to sign
such contract on behalf of the town.
   (D)   The benefits and obligations under any contract for the supply of
water by the town shall begin when the town commences to supply water service.
A person who made a contract for water service to premises shall be held liable
for all water service furnished to such premises until such time as the town is
properly notified to discontinue the service for his or her account and a final
reading of the meter is obtained. The town shall obtain such final reading as
soon as possible.
   (E)   Contracts for water service will cover only the premises and uses
applied for. Customers shall not sell or give away water or grant privileges to
use water to anyone not specifically included in the contract under penalty of
discontinuance of service.
   (F)   Upon request, the customer shall provide information to the town
concerning the devices that are to be connected to the town’s distribution main
and the location of the devices on the premises. The town may request a
customer to provide plans and specifications covering construction and plumbing
changes on the premises.
(Prior Code, § 104.09) Penalty, see §
52.999
Cross-reference:
   Related form, see
Ch. 51, Appx. A
§ 52.023 SERVICE.
   (A)   Until a contract for water service has been executed and a meter has
been installed, water shall not be turned on at any premises by anyone but a
town water employee or authorized representative. No person except an
authorized employee of the Town Water Department, Fire Department or any other
person authorized by the town shall open, operate or remove the nozzle cap from
any hydrant to which water is supplied by the town. It is a violation of both
the town’s rules and regulations and this code for anyone except a Water
Department employee or authorized representative to make a water turn-on.
   (B)   In order to determine that no open spigot or fault exists in the
plumbing, a representative of the builder must be on hand at the site of the
building before water will be turned on by town personnel. When additional
visits must be made to turn on the service, an addition charge will be made.
   (C)   When water service is to be transferred and the meter has been left in
for the convenience of the town, the service will be shut off at the curb stop
located at the property line. If for some reason this is not possible, the
valve ahead of the meter located inside the premises will be shut off and
sealed. Only a representative of the town is allowed to break this seal and
turn the water on.
   (D)   The customer must notify the town when the billing is to be
transferred to a new customer, otherwise, the original customer will be billed
until such record of transfer is made available to the town.
   (E)   Regarding yard sprinkling service, property owners shall be
automatically billed a minimum water bill plus all water used commencing with
the June 1 bill and ending with the September 1 billing each year. Any amount
of water used after the period billed on September 1 each year shall be billed
on the June 1 bill the following year.
(Prior Code, § 104.12) (Ord. 14-2021, passed 9-27-2021) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.024 SERVICE CONNECTION.
   (A)   Where large connections are made as a part of the initial installation
of “on-site” mains, they may be installed by the developer. All other
connections or taps shall be made by town personnel at the expense of the
customer or developer. Charges for one-inch services will be at a standard rate
of $800, established by the town and on file with the Town Clerk-Treasurer, and
may from time to time be revised to reflect current costs. For sizes larger
than one inch, the actual expense plus 20% for overhead will be charged. A tap
order shall be obtained from the town for each service connection.
   (B)   Each connection to the distribution main shall be installed so that a
line perpendicular to the long axis of the main at the connection will
intersect the meter location. Under certain conditions, such as locations where
mains are not laid in a straight line or where buildings are not parallel with
the street, the connection may be located so a line perpendicular to the face
of the building will intersect both the meter and the connection. A valve shall
be install immediately adjacent to the main for connections larger than four
inches. A corporation stop and tapping saddle shall be used on all one and one-
half-inch and two-inch connections. Corporation stops shall be inserted in the
water main for connections one inch or less, except that on mains less than
four inches in diameter or transit pipe, where a tapping saddle will be
required.
   (C)   For each service, a valve shall be installed near the property line in
the public right-of-way. For services two inches and smaller, the town will
furnish and install the service pipe from the main to the curb stop. The town
reserves the right to locate the stop at:
      (1)   The curb line;
      (2)   Between the curb and the sidewalk; or
      (3)   At the property line, whichever, in the judgment of the town, will
provide the most satisfactory location for the curb stop and service box. For
connections larger than two inches, the customer or developer shall furnish and
install the service stop and service pipe from the distribution main to the
property line. All materials used shall conform to the requirements of the
town’s material specifications. A representative of the town must be present
when the construction is taking place and must have a minimum of four feet and
six inches of cover.
   (D)   The customer shall, at his or her own expense, install and maintain
the service pipe from the curb or service stop to the meter. Service pipes
between the curb stop and meter shall conform to the requirements of the town’s
material specifications. The town or its authorized representative shall
inspect each service pipe before the trench is backfilled. As a rule, water
service will only be furnished to one property through a single service pipe. A
separate service pipe is required for each water meter installed.
   (E)   (1)   Taps will not be installed until platting has been approved,
rough grading has been completed and sidewalks, curbs and structures to be
served have been located.
      (2)   If the service pipe from the house to the service stop is installed
prior to the town installing the tap, the end of the pipe shall be plainly
marked or the service pipe shall project above the surface of the ground to
show its location. Sufficient pipe is to be installed to allow proper location
of the curb (service) stop.
      (3)   The town will make the connection between the town’s service pipe
and the customer’s service pipe if the pipe from the building is installed and
available.
   (F)   The town will make every reasonable effort to assist the customer or
developer in scheduling the tapping of the distribution main and installation
of the service pipe.
   (G)   Any developer, general contractor or person responsible for disturbing
or damaging water services or valve boxes, once the services have been properly
installed, shall be liable for the cost of repairs.
   (H)   (1)   In general, water on a flat rate basis will be available for
residential construction only. The supply of water for other types of
construction, including, but not limited to, commercial and industrial, will
necessitate the installation of a meter set in temporary housing to provide
sufficient protection to prevent freezing or vandalism. In lieu of a meter
setting, a flat rate charge per month based on probable water use may be
negotiated with the town. A refundable deposit will be required for each meter.
      (2)   Water service may be furnished to a residential developer or other
home builder upon request at a cost of $30 for a period not to exceed three
months, at which time, if temporary service is still required, a meter must be
installed and a meter deposit paid. Water obtained under the above arrangements
will be confined to use on the lot or premises for the purpose of house
construction and worker convenience only. This fee may be reviewed and updated
from time to time.
      (3)   The town will open all service stops. If, at the end of the three-
month agreement period, the agreement has not been renewed or a meter has not
been installed, the water will be turned off.
   (I)   The fee for disconnection/reconnection for all utility services shall
be $75 during normal business hours, and the utility shall only perform
reconnections during normal business hours.
(Prior Code, § 104.13) (Ord. 6-2006, passed - -2006; Ord. 6-2016, passed 7-25-
2016; Ord. 13-2018, passed 2-25-2019)
Cross-reference:
   Related form, see
Ch. 52, Appx. B
   Related form, see
Ch. 52, Appx. E
§ 52.025 SPECIAL SERVICES.
   (A)   A special service is a temporary service which is expected to
terminate within 30 days after connection. For all special services, such as
filling swimming pools, large stationary tanks, circuses, carnivals, shows and
the like, regular water rates plus a meter installation charge plus any
connection expenses shall be charged. For temporary use of a fire hydrant, a
special permit is required. Fire hydrant use is reserved for emergencies only,
and a special inspection charge after each use will be required in addition to
the permit charge and a refundable deposit for loan of a hook-up assembly.
   (B)   A flat charge shall be made for filling a tank truck. This charge
shall be a single fee of $5 for service plus the following charge for water for
each tank filled:
      (1)   For trucks with capacity up to 1,000 gallons: $6.80;
      (2)   For trucks with capacity up to 5,000 gallons: $10.91; and
      (3)   For trucks over 5,000 gallon capacity or multiple truck load sales
charged: a meter will be set and water will be billed at regular rates based on
metered consumption.
(Prior Code, § 104.25)
Cross-reference:
   Related form, see
Ch. 52, Appx. C
   Related form, see
Ch. 52, Appx. D
§ 52.026 MAIN EXTENSION POLICY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DEVELOPER OR OWNER OF REAL ESTATE. The person, firm, company,
corporation, governmental unit, charitable or not-for-profit organization or
association making application for a permit for a main extension or to use an
existing main.
      EXISTING SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE. A structure occupied by a single
individual or a single family, or which is suitable for such occupancy.
      OFF-SITE MAINS. Mains required to reinforce or extend the present water
system to the point(s) where the on-site mains are to be located on public
rights-of-way or dedicated easements.
      OVERSIZING. The installation of a main of larger diameter than necessary
to adequately furnish water to the specific development in which it is
installed.
   (B)   Based upon the main size required to serve the development, the
developer shall pay the entire cost of all mains within and bordering upon the
development.
   (C)   All developers requiring a connection to, or an extension or
reinforcement of, any water supply transmission main or water distribution main
owned by the town shall secure a permit and sign a main extension contract
prior to connecting to any part of the town’s system. As a condition of
issuance of a permit, all requirements of the town shall be complied with and
the cost of construction shall be the responsibility of the developer.
   (D)   The refunding of costs for oversizing to meet the town’s
specifications shall be made only for that portion of the oversizing which lies
within or adjacent to the area being developed.
   (E)   Where larger mains are required by the town, the developer or owner of
real estate shall be refunded the actual material cost difference between the
size of the main specified by the town and the size main required to serve the
development as determined by the Town Engineer. For calculating the refund, the
Town Engineer will use material price quotations to determine the difference in
the material costs.
   (F)   The owners of real estate requiring a permit for water services shall
submit plans for their on-site water distribution system, including on-site
transmission lines, to the town for its review and approval. Plans must comply
with the town’s design criteria and materials shall meet the town’s
specifications. All water main materials shall be purchased by the owner or
developer. Installation of water mains remains the exclusive right of the town,
and a minimal labor charge of $2 per foot of water main installed will be
billed to and paid for by the owner or developer for this work. Upon
completion, the town will submit construction drawings to the owner and the
owner shall provide the town certified “as-built” construction drawings. If
“as-built” drawings are not provided within one month after the completion of
construction, the town may prepare drawings at the expense of said owners of
real estate.
   (G)   All plans for transmission and reinforcing mains to be installed
outside the area being developed by the applicant for water service (e.g., off-
site water mains) shall be prepared by the owner’s engineer for town approval
or by the Town Engineer at the property owner’s expense. All easements shall be
made out to the town but shall be obtained by, and if necessary, paid for, by
the owners of real estate. Easements shall also be in a form approved by the
town.
   (H)   The owners of real estate applying for water service shall pay all
engineering and appurtenant non-construction project costs. Owners may utilize
outside engineering or may use the Town Engineer at the owner’s cost to develop
plans and specifications that meet the guidelines established by the town.
Owners will be required to purchase all water main materials needed to develop
their property. Construction of the water mains will be the exclusive right of
the Town Water Department. A minimal labor charge of $2 per foot of water main
installed will be billed to and paid for by the property owner.
   (I)   All extensions to the town’s water system must be accepted by the town
before being permanently connected to the system, and once connected, shall be
and remain thereafter the sole property of the town without further dedication
thereof. A warrantee and one-year maintenance guarantee on new mains shall be
transferred by the owner to the town. Once accepted, all maintenance and
repairs become the responsibility of the town.
   (J)   All persons or corporations, they or its survivors, heirs or assigns,
who shall connect to any water main connected to the town’s system located
outside the town limits shall agree in writing, prior to said connection, to
waive their or its rights to remonstrate against annexation by the town. Such
agreement, on forms provided by the town, shall be included in the title of
each affected parcel of property. A copy of the recorded restriction shall be
filed with the town within 30 days of providing service or service will be
disconnected until such recorded restriction is delivered to the town.
(Prior Code, § 104.29) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.027 METERING.
   (A)   Unless otherwise specified in a contract between the town and the
customer, all water supplied will be measured by a meter or meters of standard
manufacture, furnished and installed by the town according to its requirements
in force and effect, as amended from time to time. The customer shall provide
for this purpose, free of expense to the town, a suitable area near the service
entrance either in the basement or in a location which is approved by the town
before installation. Residential meters shall be installed three feet to three
feet, six inches above the floor and as shown on a standard meter installation
drawing, which may be obtained from the town. The customer shall provide and
maintain suitable means of access to the meter with no obstructions of any kind
within three feet of the meter. The customer shall provide and install an
approved valve on the inlet and outlet sides of the meter as specified by the
town. A meter spacing bar and meter flanges will be supplied by the town and
must be installed as specified by the town.
   (B)   A charge will be made for each meter installation. For new services,
this charge is included in the connection or tap charge. For customers desiring
service where existing taps, service lines and yokes may be used, a labor
charge of $20 will be billed for a meter installation. This charge is based on
the average cost of installing meters, and the town may from time to time
adjust these charges to reflect current costs.
   (C)   If a customer requests for his or her convenience, or by his or her
actions requires, that town facilities be redesigned, re-engineered, relocated,
removed, modified or reinstalled, the town may require the customer to make
payment to it of the full cost of performing such service.
   (D)   The town reserves the right to determine the kind and size, location
and number of meters that shall be used on any service pipe. The water supplied
for each customer’s premises shall ordinarily be measured by a single meter of
standard manufacture installed by the town. However, for the convenience of the
town, more than one meter may be installed for capacity purposes on the same
class of service, on the same premises, for the same customer. In this case,
meter readings shall be aggregated and billed as if from a single meter. When,
for the convenience of the customer, water for a premises is metered at more
than one service line, each meter shall be billed separately.
   (E)   When the customer will permanently require for his or her own use and
convenience one or more additional meters for the same class of service in any
one premises, the customer may purchase the meter or meters from the town. The
town will not supply extra meters, except for temporary installations. When
such temporary extra meters are installed at the request of the customer, the
customer shall be required to pay the cost (excepting meter) required for the
installation and removal. A rental charge, dependent upon the size and type of
meter, will be made for each extra meter.
   (F)   The properly authorized agents of the town shall have the right to
enter upon the premises of the customer at all reasonable times for the purpose
of inspecting, reading, testing, repairing or replacing the meter or meters,
appliances and equipment used in connection with its service and removing the
same on the termination of the contract or the discontinuance of the service.
   (G)   All meters or other appliances and equipment which are furnished by
and at the expense of the town and which may at any time be on the customer’s
premises shall, unless otherwise expressly provided herein, be and remain the
property of the town. The customer shall protect such property from freezing
and from loss or damage, and no one who is not a representative of the utility
shall be permitted to remove such property or tamper therewith.
   (H)   Ordinary repairs to meters will be made by the town without expense to
the customer. Repairs of damage caused by carelessness or neglect on the part
of the customer, including damage from freezing or from hot water, will also be
made by the town, but the cost of such repairs shall be charged to the
customer. After a second instance of a damaged meter due to negligence of the
customer, the town may discontinue service until the customer properly protects
the meter from damage.
   (I)   A meter will be tested by the town upon request of the customer, but
not more frequently than once in 12 months. A report of the results of such a
test will be made to the customer and a complete record of the test will be
kept on file in the office of the town. The customer may be, and is encouraged
to be, present or have a representative present when the meter is tested. If a
test requested by the customer established that the meter is over-registering
more than 2%, no charge will be made for the test and an adjustment shall be
made for the difference during the time of the malfunction up to a period of
one year. Otherwise, the town shall charge the customer for making the test in
accordance with the schedule on file with the town.
   (J)   When a residential meter is found to under-register in excess of 2% in
tests made at the request of the customer, the town may charge the customer for
the water incorrectly metered for a period equal to one-half of the time
elapsed since the previous test, but not to exceed six months. If a meter is
found not to register for any period, the town shall estimate the charge for
the water used by averaging the amounts registered over similar periods, or
over corresponding periods in previous years.
   (K)   For the determination of residential meter accuracy, the town shall
use the appropriate test flows specified by the American Water Works
Association for the various type of meters. Tests on large meters shall be as
recommended by the meter manufacturer. If under-registration is established,
the cost of the test shall be borne by the customer, and if over-registration,
the cost will be borne by the town. The cost of water shall be adjusted as with
residential meters.
(Prior Code, § 104.15) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.028 MAINTENANCE OF SERVICE LINES AND METER PITS.
   (A)   All service lines one-inch and smaller from the distribution main to
and including the curb stop and box shall be maintained in good repair at the
expense of the town, including the replacement thereof if necessitated because
of corrosion, tuberculation or other deterioration. Service lines from one and
one-fourth-inch to two-inch from the main to the curb stop will be maintained
as needed by the town. The cost of this repair will be billed to the owner or
responsible party. However, if replacement or repair of any of the above-size
service lines is necessitated due to increased demand or damage caused by the
customer, such replacement or repair shall be at the customer’s expense.
   (B)   (1)   All service lines and fixtures from the curb stop to the meter,
and all service lines two and one-half-inch and larger from the distribution
main to the meter, shall be installed and maintained at the expense of the
owner. Any leaks or other defects shall be properly and promptly repaired by
him or her.
      (2)   Existing services extended to property not adjacent to a water
main, whether through public or private property, shall be considered a private
service line, the maintenance of which shall be the customer’s responsibility
unless said line or main has been accepted in writing for maintenance by the
town prior to its installation. If needed repairs are not made to service lines
or private lines within five days of notification by the town, the property
owners may be charged each day following the five-day period of grace that the
water wastage is allowed to continue. In cases of emergency, the town will shut
off the water, make the repair and charge the customer for this service on the
basis of actual cost plus overhead expenses.
   (C)   Effective October 1, 1979, no new private service lines or new
connections to existing private service lines will be permitted. After this
date, service will only be furnished to properties located adjacent to a water
main.
(Prior Code, § 104.17) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.029 PROTECTIVE DEVICES.
   (A)   The owner or occupant of every premises receiving water supply shall
apply and maintain suitable means of protection of the premises supply, and all
appliances thereof, against damage arising in any manner from the use of the
water supply, the variation of water pressure or any interruption of the water
supply. Particularly, such owner or occupant must protect water-cooled
compressors or refrigeration systems by means of high-pressure safety cutout
devices. There shall likewise be provided mains for the prevention of the
transmission of water ram or noise of operation of any valve or appliance
through the piping of his or her own or adjacent premises.
   (B)   On all “closed systems” (i.e., systems having a check valve, pressure
regulator or reducing valve, water filter or softener), an effective pressure-
relief valve shall be installed either in the top tapping or the upper side
tapping of the hot water tank, or on the hot water distributing pipe connection
at the tank. A one-half-inch drain pipe shall be connected to the relief valve
for discharge on the floor or into a sink or open drain. No stop valve shall be
placed between the hot water tank and the relief valve or on the drain pipe. An
air gap is required between the relief valve drain pipe and the drain being
discharged into.
   (C)   An air chamber or approved shock absorber shall be installed at the
terminus of each riser, fixture branch or hydraulic elevator main for the
prevention of undue water hammer. The air chamber shall have a diameter not
less than that of the pipe it serves and a length not less than 15 diameters of
said supply pipe. Where possible, the air chamber should be provided with a
valve and drain cock at its base for water drainage and the replenishment of
air.
(Prior Code, § 104.30)
§ 52.030 CROSS-CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Any cross-connection with other sources of water supply shall be made
in conformity with the rules and regulations of the state’s Board of Health
and/or such requirements as other regulatory bodies may from time to time
require and/or the rules and regulations of the town in force at that time.
Copies of the state’s Board of Health regulations and town requirements are on
file for the benefit and inspection of parties concerned.
   (B)   All plumbing shall conform to the state’s Plumbing Code, which does
not permit physical connections between the public water supply and waste
lines, process solution lines, tanks and the like unless properly protected by
approved safety devices.
   (C)   As a condition to receiving water service, the customer shall grant to
the town, upon request, the right to enter the customer’s premises to make
periodic inspections of the customer’s piping. The town will report any
violations, as set out in divisions (A) and (B) above, to both the customer and
to the respective regulatory authority. The town will not assume responsibility
for damage, sickness or death arising from the existence of an improper cross-
connection or the use or failure of a cross-connection prevention device.
Failure to correct a noncomplying installation will lead to a disconnection of
service.
(Prior Code, § 104.19) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.031 BOOSTER PUMPS.
   (A)   Booster pumps shall not be installed without the written approval of
the town.
   (B)   In all booster pump installations, the suction of the pump shall be
connected to an atmospheric tank, with the public water supply entering the
tank being controlled by an automatic float valve and freely discharging into
the tank a minimum of six inches above the positive overflow level of the tank.
   (C)   As an alternative, an approved backflow prevention device may be
installed on the suction of the pump. The backflow preventer must meet the
state’ Board of Health and Department of Environmental Management guidelines
and must be tested and maintained as per state guidelines, with copies of test
results submitted to the Superintendent of Water.
   (D)   A set of plans and specification must be submitted to the town, the
state’s Board of Health and the Department of Environmental Management, as
required, for approval before the installation of any booster pump.
(Prior Code, § 104.20) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.032 GROUND WIRES.
   The town is aware that telephone and electric companies may ground wires to
water lines. The town does not install such connections, derives no benefit
from them and tolerates them only because of their reputed importance to safe
and effective telephone and electric service. When and if they are found to
appear to be the cause of damage, the town may order them removed and may
discontinue water service until they are removed.
(Prior Code, § 104.21)
§ 52.033 FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS.
   (A)   (1)   Before any modifications are made to any private fire protection
systems or before service is furnished to any new fire protection system
connected to or proposed to be connected to and supplied with water from the
town’s distribution mains, final plans shall be filed with and approved by the
town.
      (2)   The following shall be shown on the plans:
         (a)   The number of sprinkler heads to be served;
         (b)   The sizes and locations of the system piping;
         (c)   The sizes and locations of all connections to the town’s
distribution mains;
         (d)   The sizes, locations and types of all valves;
         (e)   The sizes and locations of all hose connections, reels or
cabinets;
         (f)   The sizes and locations of storage tanks connected to the
system;
         (g)   The outlet sizes and locations of all fire hydrants;
         (h)   The maximum flow rate, in gallons per minute, recommended by the
insurance underwriters; and
         (i)   The type and location of the check valve and/or backflow device,
as required by the state’s Department of Environmental Management or Board of
Health.
   (B)   (1)   All fire protection lines within buildings shall be installed in
such a manner that all pipes will be easily accessible for inspection at any
time. Underground pipes outside of a building must be placed and maintained at
a minimum depth of four and one-half feet of cover. No connections with a fire
protection system will be permitted to supply water service for commercial or
industrial use unless the connection has been approved by the customer’s fire
underwriter and the town and the commercial or industrial water use is metered.
      (2)   A private fire protection system without a tank shall be equipped
with an alarm valve and a check valve. A system with a tank shall have one
alarm valve and two check valves. In either case, the backflow prevention
device must meet the state’s Department of Environmental Management or Board of
Health approval. Such device must be maintained and tested as per state
guidelines, and a copy of the testing and maintenance results must be submitted
to the Superintendent of Water on regular, established intervals.
(Prior Code, § 104.22)
§ 52.034 FROZEN SERVICE LINES.
   (A)   The thawing of frozen customer service lines shall be the
responsibility of the customer.
   (B)   When a distribution main is found to be frozen, the town will thaw, at
its expense, the service line connected with that part of the main which is
frozen.
   (C)   At the request of any customer, or upon the town’s initiative, the
town will make an investigation (but not including any digging) and inform the
customer of any conditions found upon the premises which might cause the
freezing and advise him or her of the steps necessary to remedy such condition.
(Prior Code, § 104.24)
§ 52.035 SPRINKLING RESTRICTIONS.
   The town may issue orders limiting the use of water for the sprinkling of
lawns, gardens and similar uses during such periods, times or days as the water
storage supply and pumping facilities may require limitation of use for other
consumer uses.
(Prior Code, § 104.32)
§ 52.036 INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE.
   The town shall not be responsible for damages for any failure to supply
water service or for interruption of the supply of water, or for defective
piping on the customer’s premises, or for damages resulting to a customer or to
third persons for the use of water or the presence of the town’s devices on the
customer’s premises, unless due to fault, defect or wrong on the part of the
town. Neither party shall be liable to the other for any failure or delay in
the case such failure or delay is caused by strikes, acts of God or unavoidable
accidents or contingencies beyond their control and is not due to fault,
neglect or wrong on their part.
(Prior Code, § 104.28)
§ 52.037 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Whenever a customer desires to have service discontinued, he or she
shall notify the town sufficiently in advance of such desire and of the date on
which service is to be discontinued to provide a reasonable time for the town
to obtain the final meter reading.
   (B)   There will be no abatement of charges in whole or in part by reason of
the extended absence of the customer or for any other cause unless the town has
been notified to turn off the water.
   (C)   (1)   The town may discontinue the service of any customer for any of
the following reasons:
         (a)   If a condition dangerous or hazardous to life, physical safety
or property exists;
         (b)   Upon order by any court or other duly authorized public
authority;
         (c)   If fraudulent or unauthorized use of water is detected and the
town has reasonable ground to believe the affected customer is responsible for
such use;
         (d)   If the town’s regulating or measuring equipment has been
tampered with and the town has reasonable grounds to believe the affected
customer is responsible for such tampering;
         (e)   For any use of water unauthorized by the town;
         (f)   For unapproved cross-connection of a customer’s water pipes to
any other source of water supply or for permitting any condition to exist about
the premises that causes or might cause pollution of the public water supply;
         (g)   Where the customer has failed to repair any leak in the service
pipe or appurtenances between the property line and the meter, or in any
private fire protection system or other unmetered facilities;
         (h)   For any tampering or knowingly permitting any tampering or
interference with any service pipe, service stop, meter, meter seal or other
town equipment or appliances without the permission of the town;
         (i)   For failure to pay in accordance with these rules any water
bills or other charges in connection with water utility service installations
or facilities;
         (j)   For failure to provide free and nonhazardous access to the
premises and meter so that representatives of the town may take water readings,
make all necessary inspections and maintain, replace or remove the water meter;
         (k)   For failure to maintain approved meter settings, including pits,
where the meter is not protected from damage;
         (l)   For installing a new service pipe or appurtenances without a
permit from the town;
         (m)   For failure to comply with the terms of the contract;
         (n)   For violation of any of the town’s rules and regulations;
         (o)   For any lawful reason;
         (p)   When the town must repair its mains or services; or
         (q)   When for any reasons there is a lack of water in the
distribution system.
      (2)   The discontinuance of service for any of the above reasons shall
not invalidate any contract, and the town shall have the right to enforce any
contract notwithstanding such discontinuance.
   (D)   In each case, except those arising under divisions (C)(1)(a), (C)(1)
(b), (C)(1)(f), (C)(1)(p) or (C)(1)(q) above, the town shall give written
notice of at least five days, either mailed to such customer at his or her
address as shown upon the town’s records or personally delivered to him or her
or a person on the premises, advising the customer of the reason for the
proposed discontinuance of service and stating that service will be
discontinued if the condition continues uncorrected. In cases provided for in
divisions (C)(1)(a), (C)(1)(b), (C)(1)(f), (C)(1)(p) or (C)(1)(q) above, the
town may discontinue service without notice.
   (E)   Whenever the service is turned off for reasons other than divisions
(C)(1)(a), (C)(1)(b), (C)(1)(f), (C)(1)(p) or (C)(1)(q) above, a reconnecting
charge shall be paid after the condition resulting in the turnoff is remedied
and prior to the restoration of service. This charge shall be as determined by
the town and may from time to time be revised to reflect current costs.
(Prior Code, § 104.26) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.038 DISCONNECTING WATER SERVICE PRIOR TO RAZING.
   Prior to razing any portion of any building, the person to whom a razing
permit is issued shall cause all water laterals to be disconnected and capped
by a plumber, said disconnections to be at the property line. Upon the
completion of capping, the town shall be notified prior to the backfilling of
excavation.
(Prior Code, § 104.33)
RATES, CHARGES AND BILLING
§ 52.050 DEPOSITS.
   (A)   The town may require from each applicant for service a cash deposit
equal to his or her estimated billing for a period of four months, but not less
than $50, as a guarantee against the nonpayment of bills for service. Such
deposit shall remain with the town without interest for the time service is to
be supplied.
   (B)   Any customer who has failed to pay all charges for service rendered
within the specified payment period may be required, upon five days’ written
notice, to make a cash deposit in an amount equal to an estimated charge for
four billing periods for the premises served. If such cash deposit is not made
within the five-day period, disconnection may be made.
   (C)   The town may, but shall not be required to, apply the customer’s
deposit to the payment of water bills or any other charge.
   (D)   The deposit, where chargeable, shall be applied against the final bill
when service has been terminated. Any outstanding credit balance shall be
refunded to the customer and any outstanding debit balance shall be billed to
the customer.
   (E)   Any deposit made by the customer (less any lawful deductions) which
has remained unclaimed for seven years after the town has made diligent efforts
to locate the person who made such deposit, or the heirs of such person, shall
be presumed to be abandoned and treated in accordance with the laws of the
state.
(Prior Code, § 104.11) (Ord. 10-2015, passed 11-23-2015; Ord. 9-2020, passed 8-
24-2020)
§ 52.051 METER READINGS AND BILLINGS.
   (A)   (1)   Meters will be read monthly and bills will be rendered monthly
according to the schedule of rates on file with the town. If a bill is not paid
before the due date indicated on the bill, the customer will be considered
delinquent, and at any time thereafter prior to the payment thereof, the town
may, after service notice, discontinue service.
      (2)   Failure to receive the bill shall not affect the right of the town
to discontinue service for nonpayment.
   (B)   All water charges accrue to the customer rather than the premises. If
a customer moves from premises where he or she has been supplied with water
service, he or she will be held responsible for the payment of all bills
rendered for the service supplied to said premises until he or she gives proper
notice to the town that service is to be discontinued at said premises.
   (C)   A bill for public fire protection and private fire protection shall be
rendered yearly. Rates are on file with the town.
   (D)   All special services for which cash payment is not required will be
billed with the next regular monthly bill following the date the service was
performed. Rates for special services are on file with the town.
   (E)   All bills shall be rendered and due monthly. If not paid by the
fifteenth day of the month following the date of the bill, there shall be added
a 10% penalty to the amount of the bill. Remittances sent by mail on or
previous to the fifteenth of the month as evidence by the United States Post
Office mark on the envelope in which they are received will be accepted as a
tender of payment within the time limit. When the fifteenth falls on a
Saturday, Sunday or on any legal holiday, the first business day thereafter
shall be considered as being within the time limit.
   (F)   All charges, if any, shall be based on the registration of the meter
or meters installed.
   (G)   The town will make an effort to read meters at least once a month, and
such reading shall be prima facie evidence of the amount of water used. If the
town is temporarily unable to obtain an accurate meter reading, the customer
shall be billed an estimated charge based on previous meter readings. A card
will be left on the door requesting the customer to set a time with the Water
Department for entry into the premises for the purpose of reading the meter and
making repair of the readout device. The first billing made after the meter is
read shall be adjusted according to the actual meter reading. Not more than two
estimated readings will be allowed. Failure to make a meter available for
reading and/or repair for three consecutive months will result in the
disconnection of service.
   (H)   All water passing through meters shall be charged for, whether used,
wasted or lost through leakage.
   (I)   Disputing the accuracy of a bill shall not be reason for nonpayment of
the bill by the customer. The customer may pay a bill under protest, thus
giving written notice that redress is being sought. Such written notice must be
filed with the Town Clerk-Treasurer prior to the due date of the bill.
   (J)   In the event of a clerical billing error in favor of the customer, the
town may correct said error and bill the correct amount to the customer within
five years of the month in which the bill was originally due.
(Prior Code, § 104.16) (Ord. 10-2015, passed 11-23-2015; Ord. 13-2018, passed
2-25-2019)
§ 52.052 REMOTE METER READOUT.
   All the customers of the water utility shall install remote reading water
meters.
(Prior Code, § 104.05)
§ 52.053 RATES AND CHARGES.
   The Council shall, by ordinance, establish rates and charges for water
supplied by said utility to adequately provide for the operation, maintenance,
depreciation and repayment of indebtedness of said utility.
(Prior Code, § 104.03)
Cross-reference:
   Related provisions, see
Ch. 52, Appx. A
§ 52.054 PERMIT INSPECTION FEE FOR NEW OR REPLACEMENT CONNECTION.
   An inspection fee, based on the following schedule, shall be paid with the
filing of the application for a hook-on connection.
 
Type        Fee
Commercial  $150
Industrial  $300
Residential $30
 
(Prior Code, § 104.14) (Ord. 6-2006, passed - -2006; Ord. 6-2016, passed 7-25-
2016)
WATER EMERGENCIES
§ 52.065 APPLICATION TO USERS.
   This subchapter shall apply to all persons, firms, partnerships, companies,
associations, corporations or organizations of any kind connected to the town’s
public water system or using water therefrom (hereafter called the “user”).
(Prior Code, § 104.51) (Ord. 12-96, passed 9-9-1996)
§ 52.066 DECLARATION OF NEED.
   Upon determining that the town’s public water system is in imminent danger
of a shortage of water or is experiencing a shortage of water, the governing
body shall declare a water conservation emergency and establish the appropriate
conservation measures and the duration thereof.
(Prior Code, § 104.52) (Ord. 12-96, passed 9-9-1996)
§ 52.067 EXCEPTIONS TO RATIONING REQUIREMENTS.
   The governing body of the town reserves the right to establish alternative
rationing requirements for the following:
   (A)   Health care providers;
   (B)   A reasonable use of water to maintain adequate health and sanitary
standards; and
   (C)   Those industrial and agricultural activities declared to be necessary
for the public health and well-being.
(Prior Code, § 104.53) (Ord. 12-96, passed 9-9-1996)
§ 52.068 VOLUNTARY CONSERVATION.
   In accordance with §
52.071 of this chapter, users shall be requested to reduce water consumption by
practicing voluntary conservation techniques. The governing body suggests
reasonable and meaningful actions which will alleviate existing or potential
water shortages. When the town’s public water system is in imminent danger of a
shortage of water or is experiencing a shortage of water, the governing body
shall declare a water conservation emergency and establish the appropriate
conservation measures and the duration thereof.
(Prior Code, § 104.54) (Ord. 12-96, passed 9-9-1996)
§ 52.069 MANDATORY CONSERVATION.
   In accordance with §
52.071 of this chapter, users shall be prohibited from the water uses listed
below, subject to reasonable terms, times and conditions as the governing body
shall determine:
   (A)   Sprinkling, watering or irrigating of shrubbery, trees, grass, ground
covers, plants, vines, gardens, vegetables or any other vegetation;
   (B)   Washing of automobiles, trucks, trailers, mobile homes, railroad cars
or any other type of mobile equipment;
   (C)   Cleaning or spraying of sidewalks, driveways, paved areas or other
outdoor surfaces;
   (D)   Washing and cleaning of any business equipment or machinery;
   (E)   The filling of swimming pools, wading pools and ornamental fountains;
and
   (F)   Knowingly allowing leakage through defective plumbing.
(Prior Code, § 104.55) (Ord. 12-96, passed 9-9-1996) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.070 RATIONING.
   In addition to the mandatory conservation measures of §
52.069 of this chapter and in accordance with §
52.071 of this chapter, users shall be limited to water use per the following
schedule.
   (A)   Residential use shall be limited to 80 gallons per day per person in
the residence.
   (B)   Business, commercial and industrial users shall be limited to 50% of
the volume of water used during the corresponding month of the preceding year.
Business, commercial or industrial users that were not in business and
operating in the area served by the town’s public water system more than one
year prior to the declaration of need shall be restricted to 50% of the average
monthly volume of water used during the number of months such business,
commercial or industrial user was in business and operating in the public water
supply area.
(Prior Code, § 104.56) (Ord. 12-96, passed 9-9-1996) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.071 NOTICE OF CONSERVATION OR RATIONING.
   (A)   Notice of voluntary conservation measures shall be by publication in a
local newspaper of general circulation or other means as deemed appropriate by
the governing body. Said notice shall be effective upon publication.
   (B)   Notice of mandatory conservation or rationing shall be by first-class
United States mail, or by door-to-door distribution to each current user, and
by electronic and print media. Said notice shall be deemed effective at the
conclusion of door-to-door distribution or at noon of the third day after
depositing the same in the United States mail.
(Prior Code, § 104.57) (Ord. 12-96, passed 9-9-1996)
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A violation of §
52.023 of this chapter constitutes a Class B infraction and requires payment
for the water consumed at the rate of $10 per day during the period the water
was turned on without authority from the town.
(Prior Code, § 104.12)
   (C)   If a connection is made to any transmission line or existing local
distribution system without first obtaining a permit as set out in §
52.026 of this chapter, the individual or owners of real estate will be subject
to a charge of $150 a day for each day the connection was unlawfully installed
and be required to remove the connection until a permit is obtained.
(Prior Code, § 104.29)
   (D)   As set out in §
52.028(B)(2), property owners may be charged the sum of $5 per day for each day
following the five-day period of grace that water wastage is allowed to
continue.
(Prior Code, § 104.17)
   (E)   Any user who violates §§
52.069 or
52.070 of this chapter may be punished by a fine of not more than $2,500 (see
I.C. 36-1-3-8(10)). Each day of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
In addition to, or in the alternative to, a fine, water service may be
terminated for any user who violates §§
52.069 or
52.070.
(Prior Code, § 104.58)
(Ord. 12-96, passed 9-9-1996)
APPENDIX A: SCHEDULE OF MONTHLY WATER RATES AND CHARGES
   (A)   Metered consumption.
 
Metered Consumption Per Month Per 1,000 Gallons
First 3,000 gallons           $5.35
Next 4,000 gallons            $4.80
Next 10,000 gallons           $4.34
Next 17,000 gallons           $4.02
Next 36,000 gallons           $3.35
Over 70,000 gallons           $2.72
 
   (B)   Minimum charge per month.
Minimum Charge per Month by Meter Size Per 1,000 Gallons
Minimum Charge per Month by Meter Size Per 1,000 Gallons
5/8-in. – 3/4-in.                    $16.05
1-in.                                  $23.90
1 and 1/4-in.                          $38.90
1 and 1/2-in.                          $57
2-in.                                  $82.30
3-in.                                  $127.90
4-in.                                  $267.90
6-in.                                  $569
 
   (C)   Fire protection services.
Fire Protection Services Charge
Fire Protection Services         Charge
Municipal hydrants (per hydrant) $1,244 per year
   To be paid from General Fun$128,462 per year
   To be paid monthly on utility bill by meter size
      5/8-in. – 3/4-in. m$5.65 per month
      1-in. meter          $14 per month
      1 and 1/4-in. meter  $22.45 per month
      1 and 1/2-in. meter  $28.05 per month
      2-in. meter          $44.90 per month
      3-in. meter          $84.15 per month
      4-in. meter          $140.20 per month
      6-in. meter          $280.45 per month
Private hydrants (per hydrant)   $1,244 per year
 
   (D)   Sprinkling rates.
Sprinkler Size Annual Yearly Rates
Sprinkler Size         Annual Yearly Rates
1-in. sprinkler riser  $41.28
2-in. sprinkler riser  $82.34
3-in. sprinkler riser  $184.84
4-in. sprinkler riser  $328.28
6-in. sprinkler riser  $743.61
8-in. sprinkler riser  $1,323.09
10-in. sprinkler riser $2,066.59
Hose connections       $359.21
 
   (E)   Tap fees.
      (1)   The charge for a one-inch service tap shall be in the amount of
$1,300. The charge for taps larger than one inch shall be based on the actual
cost of the labor, materials and supplies incurred, but in no event shall the
fee be less than $1,300.
      (2)   The cost per additional meter set is $400.
   (F)   After hours service charge (non-emergency only).
      (1)   (a)   After hours and Saturdays: $70 minimum for the first two
hours; and
         (b)   After two hours: An additional $35 per hour per employee.
      (2)   (a)   Sundays and holidays: $90 minimum for the first two hours;
and
         (b)   After two hours: An additional $45 per hour per employee.
(Ord. 4-2022, passed 6-13-2022)
APPENDIX B: NINETY-DAY RESIDENTIAL TEMPORARY USE PERMIT FORM
 
   BREMEN WATER DEPARTMENT
   90 DAY RESIDENTIAL
   TEMPORARY USE PERMIT
 
STARTING DATE ________________________
 
EXPIRATION DATE ________________________
 
DATE THE TEMPORARY SERVICE IS NEEDED ________________________
 
HOUSE ADDRESS
 
__________________________________________________
 
PROPERTY OWNER/CONTACT PERSON
 
__________________________________________________
 
TEMPORARY WATER SERVICE AUTHORIZED BY
 
__________________________________________________
CLERK-TREASURER OFFICE
 
   Water service may be furnished to a residential developer or other
homebuilders upon request at a cost of $30.00 for a period not to exceed three
(3) months at which time if temporary service is still required a meter must be
installed and a meter deposit paid. Water obtained under the above arrangements
will be confined to use on the lot or premises for the purpose of house
construction and worker convenience only. This fee may be reviewed and updated
from time to time.
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 104)
APPENDIX C: FIRE HYDRANT USE PERMIT FORM
 
Permit # ________
   TOWN OF BREMEN
   FIRE HYDRANT USE PERMIT
 
Date Issued: ____________________________
 
Permit Issued To/Bill To:
Name: ______________________________________________________________
Address: ____________________________________________________________
City: ________________________ State: _____________ Zip: ____________
Company Phone: ______________________
 
Contact at the Job Site:
Name: ___________________________________________________
Contact Phone: ____________________________________________
 
Location of Fire Hydrant: _________________________________________________________
 
Purpose of Intended Use: _________________________________________________________
 
When Will The Job Be Completed? ______________________ (14 days maximum time allowed.)
 
Cost of fire hydrant usage is $30.00 plus the usage of metered water.
Only meters from the Town Water Department may be used.
______________________________________________________________________________________________
FOR WATER DEPARTMENT USE ONLY
 
Hydrant Meter Given to Contractor      Yes      No
Hydrant Meter Returned            Yes      No
Fire Hydrant Checked After Use – Date ______________________________________
Fire Hydrant Condition Is:         OK      Not OK
Fire Hydrant Repairs Needed: ______________________________________________
Check Performed By: _____________________________________________________
 
Fire Hydrants are intended to be used only in emergency situations by the Bremen Fire
Department. Any other use of a fire hydrant is by special exception only and requires a
permit. A copy of this permit must be kept on the job site and made available for inspection
upon the request of any Water Department Employee or Town Official. Anyone caught using a fire
hydrant illegally will be in violation of the Water Ordinance and liable for fines and
penalties described in section 7(B).
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 104)
APPENDIX D: FIRE HYDRANT USE PERMIT FORM FOR FILLING POOLS
 
   FIRE HYDRANT PERMIT NO. ________
   FOR FILLING POOLS ONLY
 
Date Issued ________________________ Date Pool is to be Filled*
______________________
 
Address Where Pool is being Filled
_________________________________________________
 
Location of Fire Hydrant Approved for Use
__________________________________________
 
Size of Pool:
Rectangular
Length ________ X Width ________ X Average Depth ________ X 7.48 = Capacity
Round
Diameter2 ________ X .785 ________ X Average Depth ________ X 7.48 = Capacity
 
Total Gallons: _________________ or Gallons per Truck Load ____________________
 
Service Charge: $5.00
Water Charge: ______________ + Tax ______________
 
Total Cost ______________
 
Name of Applicant: ________________________________
 
Address of Applicant: ______________________________
 
Phone No. of Applicant: ____________________________
 
Signature of Applicant _____________________________________
 
_______________________________________________
Approved
 
* This permit is valid only for the above date.
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 104)
APPENDIX E: WATER LINE CONSTRUCTION PERMIT FORM
 
Permit # ______
   TOWN OF BREMEN
   WATER LINE CONSTRUCTION
   PERMIT
 
Date ______________________
 
Name of Applicant: ______________________________
Address: _______________________________________
__________________________________________
Phone Number __________________________________
 
Address where construction is to take place (if different than above).
______________________________________________________________
 
Purpose of Construction, Check One – Replacement Water Line ________
New Water Line ________ Relocate Water Line ________
 
Other (describe) _______________________________________
 
What size water line is being constructed or replaced? ________
 
What type of water line material will be used? check one –
 
Copper ________ Plastic ________ Ductile Iron ________
 
 
When is Construction Scheduled to Take Place?
 
Date _________________________
 
Diagram Project, show Streets, lot, Building on Lot and where construction will take
place.
Use the area below or the backside of this form.
 
 
 
 
 
Date Reviewed __________________
Approved ________         Denied ________   Reason Denied __________________
______________________________________________________________
By __________________________
 
For Inspection call 546-4324
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 104)
CHAPTER 53: SEWER SERVICE
Section
General Provisions
   
53.001   Definitions
   
53.002   Abbreviations
   
53.003   User classes
   
53.004   Determining discharge into the sewer system
Public Sewer Usage Requirements
   
53.015   Purpose and policy
   
53.016   Unlawful disposal
   
53.017   Disposal boundaries
   
53.018   Forbidden sewage facilities
   
53.019   Required waste facilities and sewer connections
   
53.020   Hauled liquid waste
Private Sewage Disposal Systems
   
53.035   Private connection requirements
   
53.036   Building sewer connection permits
   
53.037   Private sewage disposal system permit procurement
   
53.038   Construction inspection
   
53.039   Construction compliance
   
53.040   Governing authority
   
53.041   Maintenance responsibility
   
53.042   Subsequent sewer availability
Discharge Regulations and Requirements
   
53.055   Unpolluted discharge
   
53.056   Governing standards
   
53.057   Prohibited discharge standards
   
53.058   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
53.059   Pretreatment requirements
   
53.060   Approval of treatment facilities
   
53.061   Required treatment facilities maintenance
   
53.062   Superintendent’s authority
   
53.063   Town’s right to amend
   
53.064   Diluted discharge prohibition
   
53.065   Responsibility for hazardous and accidental spills
   
53.066   Control of acceptable wastes
   
53.067   Special agreement
   
53.068   Regulation of waste received from other jurisdictions
Building Sewer Connections and Construction
   
53.080   Permit requirement
   
53.081   Permit application
   
53.082   Financial responsibility
   
53.083   Separate building sewer provision
   
53.084   Old building sewer use
   
53.085   Materials for sewer
   
53.086   Size and slope of sewer
   
53.087   Placement of sewer
   
53.088   Construction methods and testing requirements
   
53.089   Excavations
   
53.090   Sewer joints and connections
   
53.091   Location of sewer connection
   
53.092   Notification for testing and inspection
   
53.093   Excavation of public property
   
53.094   Record drawings
   
53.095   Sewer construction and prohibited connections
   
53.096   Cleanouts
Sewer Construction
   
53.110   Connection permit required
   
53.111   Permit application
   
53.112   Inspection fee
   
53.113   General connection fee
   
53.114   Multiple-dwelling connection fee
   
53.115   Determination of hook-on fees
   
53.116   Hook-on fee for industrial, commercial or nonresidential users
   
53.117   Increase in water meter size
   
53.118   Owner to pay installation cost
   
53.119   Owner to indemnify town for loss
   
53.120   Each building to have sewer connection
   
53.121   Use of old building sewers
   
53.122   Size and slope requirements
   
53.123   Service sewer miscellaneous requirements
   
53.124   Lack of gravity flow
   
53.125   Open trench excavations required
   
53.126   Joints generally
   
53.127   Superintendent to supervise connection
   
53.128   Excavation safety precautions
   
53.129   Damage to public property
Rates, Charges, Fees and Fines
   
53.140   Sewage rates; basis for determining; surcharges
   
53.141   Study of rates
   
53.142   Determination of hook-on fee
   
53.143   General sewer hook-on fee
   
53.144   Multiple dwelling hook-on fee
   
53.145   Industrial, commercial or nonresidential user hook-on fee
   
53.146   Increase in water meter size; effect on charge
   
53.147   Industrial pretreatment program fee
   
53.148   Hauled liquid waste fee
   
53.149   Inspection fee
   
53.150   Groundwater remediation discharge fee
   
53.151   Administrative fines; disputing fines
Billing and Payment
   
53.165   Monthly billing
 
   
53.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Sewer Line Construction Permit Form
   
Appendix B: Schedule of Sewer Rates and Charges
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMMONIA NITROGEN or NH3-N. The concentration, expressed as milligrams per
liter (mg/L) of nitrogen, which is the form of ammonia. Determination of
AMMONIA NITROGEN shall conform to approved methodology as prescribed in 40
C.F.R. part 136.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures in
five days at 20°C, expressed as milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING COMMISSIONER. The Building Commissioner of the town, or his or her
authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   CARBONACEOUS BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or CBOD. The quantity of oxygen
utilized in the biochemical oxidation of carbonaceous organic matter under
standard laboratory procedures in five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams
per liter.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY. The Town of Bremen, Indiana.
   COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of Bremen, Indiana, or any duly
authorized officials acting on its behalf.
   DEBT SERVICE COST. The average annual principal and interest payments on all
outstanding revenue bonds or other long-term capital debt.
   DEPARTMENT. The Town of Bremen Wastewater Treatment Plant, including the
sewer collection system.
   DISCHARGER, INDUSTRIAL/COMMERCIAL. Any nonresidential user who discharges an
effluent into a POTW by means of pipes, conduits, pumping stations, force
mains, constructed drainage ditches, surface water intercepting ditches and
intercepting ditches, and all constructed devices and an appliance’s
appurtenant thereto, regulated under the Act, state law or local ordinance.
   EXCESSIVE STRENGTH SURCHARGE. An additional charge which is billed to users
for treating sewage wastes with an average strength in excess of normal
domestic sewage.
   EXISTING SOURCE. Any source of discharge the construction or operation of
which commenced prior to the publication by the EPA of proposed categorical
pretreatment standards which will be applicable to such sources if the standard
is thereafter promulgated in accordance with § 307 of the Act.
   GROUNDWATER REMEDIATION DISCHARGE. Wastewater discharged to the POTW
Authority’s wastewater collection and treatment system for the purpose of
groundwater contamination remediation.
   HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks, such as chemical toilets,
campers, trailers, septic tanks, vacuum pump trucks and the like.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. The wastewater discharge from industrial, trade or
business processes, as distinct from sanitary sewage, and any solid, liquid or
gaseous substance or form of energy discharged, permitted to flow or escape
from an industrial manufacturing, commercial or business process or from the
development, recovery or processing of a natural resource carried on by a
person, and shall further mean any waste from an industrial user.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE PERMIT. A permit to deposit or discharge industrial waste
into a sanitary sewer as issued by the POTW.
   INSPECTOR. A person or persons duly authorized by the town through its Town
Council to inspect and approve the installation of building sewers and their
connection to the public sewer system.
   MANAGER. The administrative head of Water, Wastewater and Streets.
   NEW SOURCE.
      (1)   Any building, structure, facility or installation from which there
is, or may be, a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under § 307(c) of the
Act that will be applicable to such source if such standards are thereafter
promulgated in accordance with that section, provided that:
         (a)   The building, structure, facility or installation is constructed
at a site at which no other source is located;
         (b)   The building, structure, facility or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
         (c)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source should
be considered.
      (2)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a NEW SOURCE if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility or installation meeting the criteria
of division (1)(b) or (1)(c) above but otherwise alters, replaces or adds to
existing process or production equipment.
      (3)   Construction of a NEW SOURCE as defined under this section has
commenced if the owner or operator has:
         (a)   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous on-site
construction program:
            1.   Any placement, assembly or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
            2.   Significant site preparation work, including the clearing,
excavation or removal of existing buildings, structures or facilities which is
necessary for the placement, assembly or installation of new source facilities
or equipment.
         (b)   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in the owner’s
operation within a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can
be terminated or modified without substantial loss, and contracts for
feasibility, engineering and design studies, do not constitute a contractual
obligation under this section.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE.
      (1)   Wastewater or sewage having an average daily concentration as
follows:
         (a)   BOD of not more than 200 milligrams per liter;
         (b)   SS of not more than 150 milligrams per liter;
         (c)   NH3-N of not more than 14 milligrams per liter during the winter
months of November, December, January, February, March and April; and
         (d)   NH3-N of not more than 9.8 milligrams per liter during the
summer months of May, June, July, August, September and October.
      (2)   As defined by origin, wastewater from segregated domestic and/or
sanitary conveniences as distinct from wastes from industrial processes.
   OTHER SERVICE CHARGE. Tap charges, connection charges, area charges and
other identifiable charges other than user charges, debt service charges and
excessive strength surcharges.
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of discharging or
otherwise introducing such pollutants into a POTW. The reduction or alteration
can be obtained by physical, chemical or biological processes, process changes
or by other means, except as prohibited by 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(d).
   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned by a public authority.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority, including the following
elements.
      (1)   COLLECTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewater from individual point source discharges.
      (2)   FORCE MAIN. A pipe in which wastewater is carried under pressure.
      (3)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collector sewers to a treatment facility.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS or POTW. A treatment works, as defined by §
212 of the Act, including any devices and systems used in the storage,
treatment, recycling and reclamation of municipal sewage and industrial waste.
The systems include sewers, pipes and equipment used to convey wastewater to
the treatment facility. The term also includes the municipality, as defined in
§ 502(4) of the Act, which has jurisdiction over the indirect discharges and
the discharges from such treatment works.
   SEWAGE. The combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, including
polluted cooling water. The three most common types of SEWAGE are:
      (1)   COMBINED SEWAGE. Wastes including sanitary sewage, industrial
sewage, stormwater, infiltration and inflow carried to the wastewater treatment
facilities by a combined sewer;
      (2)   INDUSTRIAL SEWAGE. A combination of liquid and water-carried wastes
discharged from any industrial establishment and resulting from any trade or
process carried on in that establishment; this shall include the wastes from
pretreatment facilities and polluted cooling water; and
      (3)   SANITARY SEWAGE. The waste from water closets, urinals, lavatories,
sinks, bathtubs, showers, basement drains, household laundries, garage floor
drain, bars, soda fountains, cuspidors, refrigerator drips, drinking fountains,
stable floor drains and all other water-carried waste except industrial wastes.
   SEWAGE WORKS. Sewers, the wastewater treatment plant, sewerage system and
any associated structures or equipment. Also known as the POTW.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The supervisor in responsible charge of the operation and
maintenance of the wastewater treatment plant and sanitary collection system.
   SURCHARGE. A charge for services in addition to the basic service charge.
   TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS or TSS. Solids which either float on the surface of
or are in suspension in water, sewage or other liquid and which are removable
by laboratory filtration. Their concentration shall be expressed in milligrams
per liter (mg/L). Quantitative determination shall be made in accordance with
the procedures set forth in Standard Methods.
   TOWN. The Town of Bremen, Indiana, acting by and through its Town Council.
   USER. Any person who contributes, causes or permits the contribution of
wastewater into the town’s POTW.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of the wastewater treatment works for
the cost of operation and maintenance of such works pursuant to § 204(b) of
Pub. Law No. 92-500.
   USER CLASS. The division of wastewater treatment customers by source,
function, waste characteristics and process or discharge similarities (i.e.,
residential, commercial, industrial, institutional and governmental in the user
charge system).
      (1)   The INDUSTRIAL CLASS shall include any user identified in the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual of 1972, Office of Management and
Budget, as amended and supplemented, under the following divisions:
         (a)   Division A: Agriculture, forestry and fishing;
         (b)   Division B: Mining;
         (c)   Division D: Manufacturing;
         (d)   Division E: Transportation, communications, electric, gas and
sanitary services; and
         (e)   Division I: Services.
      (2)   The NONINDUSTRIAL CLASS shall include all users whose wastes are
segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary conveniences where regular
domestic wastes are those wastes generated by normal domestic activity.
         (a)   COMMERCIAL USER. Any establishment listed in the Office of
Management and Budget’s Standard Industrial Classification Manual, 1972
edition, involved in a commercial enterprise, business or service which, based
on a determination by the town, discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes
or wastes from sanitary conveniences.
         (b)   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Any federal, state or local governmental user
of the wastewater treatment works.
         (c)   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Any establishment listed in the Standard
Industrial Classification Manual involved in a social, charitable, religious or
educational function which, based on a determination by the town, discharges
primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary conveniences.
         (d)   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment works whose premises
or building is used primarily as a residence for one or more persons, including
all dwelling units and the like.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 53.002 ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations shall have the designated meanings.
BOD    Biochemical oxygen demand
CBOD   Carbonaceous biochemical oxygen demand
C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations
EPA    Environmental Protection Agency
gpd    Gallons per day
L      Liter
mg     Milligrams
mg/L   Milligrams per liter
NH3-N  Ammonia nitrogen
NPDES  National pollutant discharge elimination system
POTW   Publicly owned treatment works
SS     Suspended solids
TSS    Total suspended solids
U.S.C. United States Code
USEPA  United States Environmental Protection Agency
 
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 53.003 USER CLASSES.
   (A)   Every person whose premises is served by said sewage works shall be
charged for the services provided. These charges are established for each user
class in order that the sewage works shall recover, from each user, revenue
which is proportional to its use of the treatment works in terms of volume and
load. User charges are levied to defray the cost of operation and maintenance
(including replacement) of the treatment works.
   (B)   User charges are subject to the rules and regulations adopted by the
United States Environmental Protection Agency published in the Federal Register
August 21, 1973 (38 C.F.R. part 22523), and on February 11, 1974 (39 C.F.R.
part 5252). Replacement costs, which are recovered through the system of user
charges, shall be based upon the expected service life of the sewage works
plant and equipment.
   (C)   The various user classifications for the purposes of this chapter
shall be as follows.
User Classifications
User Classifications
Class 1
   Apartments/multiple-family dwelling (on a single meter)
   Commercial
   Governmental
   Industrial
   Institutional
   Residential
   Wholesale residential
 
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 53.004 DETERMINING DISCHARGE INTO THE SEWER SYSTEM.
   The quantity of water discharged into the sanitary sewage system and
obtained from sources other than the utility that serves the town shall be
determined by the town in such a manner as the town shall reasonably elect, and
the sewage service shall be billed at the rates appropriated in
Appendix B of this chapter; further, as is hereinafter provided in this
section, the town may make proper allowances in the sewage bill for quantities
of water shown on the records to be consumed, but which are also shown to the
satisfaction of the town that such quantities do not enter the sanitary sewage
system.
   (A)   (1)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building
discharging sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquids into the
town’s sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly, is not a user of
water supplied by the water utility serving the town and the water used thereon
or therein is not measured by a water meter, or is measured by a water meter
not acceptable to the town, then the amount of water used shall be otherwise
measured or determined by the town.
      (2)   In order to ascertain the rate or charge provided in this chapter,
the owner or other interested party shall, at his or her expense, install and
maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring devices or any adequate and
approved method of measurement acceptable to the town for the determination of
sewage discharge.
   (B)   (1)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building
discharging sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquids into the
town’s sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly, is a user of
water supplied by the water utility serving the town and, in addition, is a
user of water from another source which is not measured by a water meter, or is
measured by a meter not acceptable to the town, then the amount of water used
shall be otherwise measured or determined by the town.
      (2)   In order to ascertain the rates or charges, the owner or other
interested parties shall, at his or her expense, install and maintain meters,
weirs, volumetric measuring devices or any adequate and approved method of
measurement acceptable to the town for the determination of sewage discharge.
   (C)   In the event two or more residential lots, parcels of real estate or
buildings discharging sanitary sewage, water or other liquids into the town’s
sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly, are users of water and
the quantity of water is measured by a single water meter, then in each such
case, for billing purposes, the quantity of water used shall be averaged for
each user and the base charge and the flow rates and charges shall apply to
each of the number of residential lots, parcels of real estate or buildings
served through the single water meter.
   (D)   (1)   In the event two or more dwelling units such as mobile homes,
apartments or housekeeping rooms discharging sanitary sewage, water or other
liquids into the town’s sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly,
are users of water and the quantity of water is measured by a single water
meter, then in such case, billing shall be for a single service in the manner
set out elsewhere herein, except that the minimum bill shall not be less than
the number of such dwelling units times $3 per month. In the case of mobile
home courts, the number of dwelling units shall be computed and interpreted as
the total number of mobile home spaces available for rent plus any other
dwelling units served through the meter.
      (2)   A DWELLING UNIT shall be interpreted as a room or rooms, or any
other space or spaces, in which cooking facilities are provided.
   (E)   (1)   In order that the single-family domestic and residential users
of sewage service shall not be penalized for sprinkling lawns during the summer
months of June, July, August and September, the billing for sewage service for
residences and/or domestic users for said months shall be based upon the water
usage for the previous months of December, January, February and March. In the
event the water usage for said previous months is greater than the water usage
for said summer months, then the billing for sewage services shall be computed
on the actual water used in the month for which the sewage service bill is
being rendered. Domestic and/or residential sewage service as applicable to the
sprinkling rate shall apply to each lot, parcel of real estate or building
which is occupied and used as a single-family residence. Said sprinkling rate
shall not apply to premises which are serviced by a separate sprinkling meter
unless said meter is valved off at the property line by a Water Department
control valve or premises which are partially or wholly used for commercial or
industrial purposes.
      (2)   In the event a portion of such premises shall be used for
commercial or industrial purposes, the owner shall have the privilege of
separating the water service so that the residential portion of the premises is
served through a separate meter, and in such case, the water usage as
registered by the water meter serving such portion of the premises used for
residential purposes would qualify under the sprinkling rate.
   (F)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharges
sanitary sewage, industrial waste, water or other liquids into the town’s
sanitary system, either directly or indirectly, and uses water in excess of
15,000 gallons per month, and it can be shown to the satisfaction of the town
that a portion of water as measured by the water meter or meters does not and
cannot enter the sanitary sewage system, then the owner or other interested
party shall, at his or her expense, install and maintain meters, weirs,
volumetric measuring devices or any adequate and approved method of measurement
acceptable to the town for the determination of sewage discharge.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
PUBLIC SEWER USAGE REQUIREMENTS
§ 53.015 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   The sections of this chapter set forth uniform requirements for direct
and indirect discharges into the publicly owned treatment works (POTW), the
Authority’s wastewater collection and treatment systems, and enables the town
to improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewater and sludge from
the system to protect public health in conformity with all applicable local,
state and federal laws relating thereto and the general pretreatment
regulations (40 C.F.R. part 403).
   (B)   Accordingly, the Wastewater Treatment Plant Superintendent shall have
the right to reject and eliminate any industrial or commercial discharge which
would:
      (1)   Introduce pollutants into the town’s POTW wastewater collection
system which may damage said system and its structures, interfere with
wastewater flows or which may cause danger to the health of or jeopardize the
safety of those who must maintain said system;
      (2)   Introduce pollutants into the town’s POTW which interfere with the
operation of the POTW treatment processes, inhibit or upset its biological
processes, overload its treatment system or contaminate the POTW sewage sludge
and, therefore, jeopardize or diminish its capability of being recycled or
being otherwise incompatible with the system; and
      (3)   Introduce pollutants which would pass through the POTW into the
receiving stream and which would in fact contribute to the pollution of said
stream or cause the POTW to violate its NPDES discharge permit.
   (C)   This chapter provides for the regulation of discharges into the
wastewater system through the issuance of permits.
   (D)   This chapter provides for the recovery of operations, maintenance and
replacement costs of the POTW, the costs associated with the construction of
collection and treatment systems used by industrial dischargers in proportion
to their use of the POTW and the assessment of fines and penalties for abuses
or violations of this chapter.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 53.016 UNLAWFUL DISPOSAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in an unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said town, any human or animal
excrement, garbage, wastewater or other objectionable waste(s), except where
suitable treatment has been provided.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.017 DISPOSAL BOUNDARIES.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the town, or
in any area under the jurisdiction of said town, any sanitary sewage,
industrial wastes or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has
been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.018 FORBIDDEN SEWAGE FACILITIES.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.019 REQUIRED WASTE FACILITIES AND SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   The owners of all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes situated within the town abutting on
any street, alley or right-of-way are hereby required, at the owners’ expense,
to install suitable toilet facilities therein which conform to town codes, and
to connect such facilities directly with the proper sewer in accordance with
the provisions of this code, within 90 days after the date of the official
notice from the town to do so, provided that said public sewer is within 300
feet of the property line.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.020 HAULED LIQUID WASTE.
   (A)   Septic tank waste may be introduced into the POTW only at locations
designated by the Superintendent and at such times as are established by the
Superintendent. Such waste shall not violate §§
53.056 or
53.057 of this chapter or any other requirements established by the town. The
Superintendent may require septic tank waste haulers to obtain individual
wastewater discharge permits.
   (B)   The Superintendent may require haulers of industrial waste to obtain
individual wastewater discharge permits. The Superintendent may require
generators of hauled industrial waste to obtain individual wastewater discharge
permits. The Superintendent also may prohibit the disposal of hauled industrial
waste. The discharge of hauled industrial waste is subject to all other
requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Industrial waste haulers may discharge loads only at locations
designated by the Superintendent. No load may be discharged without the prior
consent of the Superintendent. The Superintendent may collect samples of each
hauled load to ensure compliance with applicable standards. The Superintendent
may require the industrial waste hauler to provide a waste analysis of any load
prior to discharge.
   (D)   (1)   Industrial waste haulers must provide a waste-tracking form for
every load. This form shall include, at a minimum, the name and address of the
industrial waste hauler, permit number, truck identification, names and
addresses of sources of the waste and volume and characteristics of the waste.
      (2)   The form shall identify:
         (a)   The type of industry;
         (b)   Known or suspected waste constituents; and
         (c)   Whether any wastes are RCRA hazardous wastes.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010) Penalty, see §
53.999
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
§ 53.035 PRIVATE CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of §
53.019 of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.036 BUILDING SEWER CONNECTION PERMITS.
   It shall be unlawful to commence the construction of any building sewer,
private sewer system or sewer connection without first obtaining a construction
permit from the town. Any individual, business or industry desiring to make a
connection to a sewer shall complete and file with the town a permit
application on a form provided or approved by the town. The application shall
be filed at least five working days prior to the desired date of connection.
Additional permits may be necessary, including, but not limited to, a permit to
excavate in a street or public right-of-way, industrial pretreatment or the
state’s Department of Transportation. All applicable permits shall be obtained
from the appropriate department or agency prior to commencing any construction.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010) Penalty, see §
53.999
Cross-reference:
   Related form, see
Ch. 53, Appx. A
§ 53.037 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM PERMIT PROCUREMENT.
   (A)   Before the commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the Town
Inspector or Superintendent. The application for such permit shall be made on a
form furnished by the town, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications and other information as are deemed necessary by the
Superintendent.
   (B)   A permit and inspection fee shall be paid to the town at the time the
application is filed; this fee can be found in §
53.149 of this chapter. A construction permit must also be obtained from the
Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM) for all wastewater
treatment systems, with the exception of subsurface absorption systems for the
disposal of sanitary waste.
   (C)   In addition, a national pollutant discharge elimination system permit
(NPDES) must be obtained from the IDEM for any discharge of a point source to
navigable waters (all waters of the United States).
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010) Penalty, see §
53.999
Cross-reference:
   Related form, see
Ch. 53, Appx. A
§ 53.038 CONSTRUCTION INSPECTION.
   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Town Inspector,
who shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction. In any
event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the Superintendent or Manager
(Inspector) when the work is ready for final inspection and before any
underground portions are covered. Lack of notification may result in a fine or
legal response in accordance with §
53.151 of this chapter. The inspection shall be made within one business day of
the receipt of notice.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010; Ord. 3-2019, passed 8-12-2019) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.039 CONSTRUCTION COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The type, capacity, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the state’s Department of
Environmental Management, the state’s Board of Health, the county’s Health
Department and all ordinances of the town.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system
employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area is less than
20,000 square feet.
   (C)   No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any
public sewer or natural outlet.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.040 GOVERNING AUTHORITY.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed to interfere with
any additional requirements that may be imposed by the state’s Department of
Environmental Management, the state’s Board of Health or the county’s Health
Department.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 53.041 MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITY.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities
in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the town.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.042 SUBSEQUENT SEWER AVAILABILITY.
   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property serviced by a
private sewage disposal system, as provided in §
53.035 of this chapter, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer
in compliance with this chapter within 60 days of the date on the notice. All
private treatment facilities, including, but not limited to, septic tanks,
cesspools and similar private subsurface soil absorption sewage disposal
facilities, shall be abandoned, pumped out and filled with suitable approved
material.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010) Penalty, see §
53.999
DISCHARGE REGULATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS
§ 53.055 UNPOLLUTED DISCHARGE.
   (A)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
sewers designated as storm sewers or to a natural outlet. Industrial or
domestic cooling water or unpolluted industrial or domestic process wastes may
be discharged upon the approval of the Superintendent or the Manager
(Inspector). All discharges to storm sewers or to natural outlets shall be in
accordance with the NPDES permit program.
   (B)   Unpolluted water from air conditioners, cooling, condensing systems or
dechlorinated swimming pool waters shall be discharged to a storm sewer where
it is available. Where a storm sewer is not available, discharge may be to a
natural outlet approved by the Town Superintendent, the Manager (Inspector) and
the state.
   (C)   No person shall make a connection of roof downspouts, basement drains,
sump pumps carrying groundwater, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains or
other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building
drain which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary
sewer.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010; Ord. 3-2019, passed 8-12-2019)
§ 53.056 GOVERNING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Standards generally.
      (1)   The national categorical pretreatment standards, located in 40
C.F.R. Ch. I, Subch. N, parts 405 to 471, are hereby adopted and incorporated
by reference into this chapter, and include amendments to those standards that
occur hereafter as the same are published in the C.F.R. with effective dates as
fixed therein.
      (2)   All dischargers shall meet state and local requirements and
limitations on discharges when such requirements and limitations are more
stringent than federal requirements and limitations.
   (B)   National categorical pretreatment standards.
      (1)   When the limits in a categorical pretreatment standard are
expressed only in terms of mass of pollutant per unit of production, the
Superintendent may convert the limits to equivalent limitations expressed
either as mass of pollutant discharged per day or effluent concentration for
the purposes of calculating effluent limitations applicable to individual
industrial users.
      (2)   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is
mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the Superintendent
shall impose an alternate limit in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e).
      (3)   Many categorical pretreatment standards specify one limit for
calculating maximum daily discharge limitations and a second limit for
calculating maximum monthly average, or four-day average, limitations. Where
such standards are being applied, the same production or flow figure shall be
used in calculating both the average and the maximum equivalent limitation.
      (4)   Any industrial user operating under a permit incorporating
equivalent mass or concentration limits calculated from a production-based
standard shall notify the Superintendent within two business days after the
user has a reasonable basis to know that the production level will
significantly change within the next calendar month. Any user not notifying the
Superintendent of such anticipated change will be required to meet the mass or
concentration limits in its permit that were based on the original estimate of
the long-term average production rate.
   (C)   State pretreatment standards. Users must comply with the state’s
Department of Environmental Management pretreatment standards, codified at 327
IAC §§ 5-16 to 5-21.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.057 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   (A)   General prohibitions. No user shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW any pollutant or wastewater which causes pass-through
or interference. These general prohibitions apply to all users of the POTW,
whether or not they are subject to categorical pretreatment standards or any
other national, state or local pretreatment standards or requirements.
   (B)   Specific prohibitions.
      (1)   No user shall introduce or cause to be introduced into the POTW the
following pollutants, substances or wastewater:
         (a)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, waste streams with a closed-cup flashpoint of
less than 140°F (60°C) using the test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21;
         (b)   Wastewater having a pH less than 6.0 or more than 10.0, or
otherwise causing corrosive structural damage to the POTW or equipment;
         (c)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause
obstruction of the flow in the POTW resulting in interference, but in no case
solids greater than one-half inch in any dimension;
         (d)   Pollutants, including oxygen-demanding pollutants (BOD and the
like), released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration
which, either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, will cause
interference with the POTW;
         (e)   Wastewater having a temperature greater than 150°F (65°C) or
which will inhibit biological activity in the treatment plant resulting in
interference, but in no case wastewater which causes the temperature at the
introduction into the treatment plant to exceed 104°F (40°C);
         (f)   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil or products of
mineral oil origin in amounts that will cause interference or pass-through;
         (g)   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors
or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
         (h)   Trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the Superintendent. Discharge is subject to the costs shown in §
53.148 of this chapter;
         (i)   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids or other wastewater
which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to
create a public nuisance or a hazard to life, or to prevent entry into the
sewers for maintenance or repair;
         (j)   Wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts color to the treatment plant’s
effluent, thereby violating the town’s NPDES permit;
         (k)   Wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes, except
in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
         (l)   Stormwater, surface water, groundwater, artesian well water,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, non-contact cooling water and unpolluted wastewater, unless specifically
authorized by the Superintendent;
         (m)   Sludges, screenings or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes;
         (n)   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the treatment plant’s effluent to fail a toxicity test;
         (o)   Detergents, surface-active agents or other substances that might
cause excessive foaming in the POTW;
         (p)   Fats, oils or greases of animal or vegetable origin in
concentrations greater than 100 milligrams per liter;
         (q)   Any residuals defined as hazardous waste under 40 C.F.R. part
261; or
         (r)   Any PCBs unless generated by a controlled waste manufacturing
process as defined in 40 C.F.R. § 761.3(kk), in which case, the limit shall be
0.1 milligrams per liter.
      (2)   Pollutants, substances or wastewater prohibited by this section
shall not be processed or stored in such a manner that they could be discharged
to the POTW.
   (C)   Local limits.
      (1)   The Control Authority is authorized to establish local limits
pursuant to 40 C.F.R. § 403.5(c).
      (2)   (a)   The following pollutant limits are established to protect
against pass-through and interference. No person shall discharge wastewater
containing in excess of the following daily maximum concentration.
Pollutant Limit
Pollutant                                                Limit
Ammonia                                                  50 mg/L
BOD5                                                     1,000 mg/L
Cadmium                                                  1.0 mg/L
Chromium (hexavalent)                                    1.0 mg/L
Chromium (total hexavalent plus total trivalent)         3.0 mg/L
Copper                                                   0.84 mg/L
Cyanide (total by distillation)                          1.2 mg/L
Lead                                                     0.4 mg/L
Mercury                                                  0.001 mg/L
Nickel                                                   2.4 mg/L
pH                                                       6.0 – 10.0
Silver                                                   0.24 mg/L
Total oil and/or grease (animal or vegetable in origin)  200 mg/L
Total oil and/or grease (mineral or petroleum in origin) 100 mg/L
Total phenols                                            1.0 mg/L
Total phosphorus                                         2.5 mg/L
Total suspended solids                                   1,000 mg/L
Total toxic organics (TTO)                               2.13 mg/L
Zinc                                                     2.4 mg/L
 
         (b)   The above limits apply at the point where the wastewater is
discharged to the POTW. All concentrations for metallic substances are for
total metal unless indicated otherwise. The Control Authority may impose mass
limitations in addition to the concentration-based limitations above.
Concentrations above 150 milligrams per liter of BOD5 or total suspended
solids, or above 20 milligrams per liter for ammonia, are subject to surcharge
fees as defined in §
53.140 of this chapter.
      (3)   The Control Authority may develop best management practices (BMPs),
by ordinance or in individual wastewater discharge permits, to implement local
limits and the requirements of §
54.020 of this code.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010; Ord. 3-2019, passed 8-12-2019; Ord. 10-2021,
passed 8-9-2021) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.058 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors or retainers shall be installed by the
user at the user’s expense when, in the opinion of the Building Commissioner,
Superintendent or Manager (Inspector), such are necessary for the proper
handling of liquid wastes containing grease, oils or sand in excessive amounts,
or any inflammable wastes or other such harmful ingredients. Such interceptors
shall be of a type and capacity approved by the Authority and shall be located
as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning by the user and for
inspection by the Authority. Where installed, all grease, oil and sand
interceptors shall be maintained by the user at his or her own expense and
shall be kept in continuous and efficient operation at all times.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.059 PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   In the event that a user is exceeding the limitations as set forth in §
53.057 of this chapter, the Superintendent shall direct the user causing the
discharge of any such materials to, at his or her own expense, construct,
install and operate such pretreatment facilities as may be required in order to
reduce the waste constituents which are in violation of this title to the
limits set forth by this title or to cease and desist from those activities or
operations which cause a violation of established discharge standards. The
Superintendent may use a grab sample(s) to determine noncompliance with
pretreatment standards.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.060 APPROVAL OF TREATMENT FACILITIES.
   No pretreatment facility shall be constructed or operated unless all plans,
specifications, technical operating data and other information pertinent to its
proposed operation and maintenance conform to all municipal, United States
Environmental Protection Agency, Department of Environmental Management of the
state and any other local, state or federal agency regulations, and unless
written approval of the plans, specifications, technical operating data and
sludge disposal has been obtained from the state’s Department of Environmental
Management and any other local, state or federal agency having regulatory
authority with respect thereto. Detailed plans showing the pretreatment
facilities, operating procedures and documentation of compliance must be
provided to the Authority and must meet the approval of the POTW Authority
before construction of the facility. Pretreatment equipment may not be
installed or modified without a valid construction permit issued by the state’s
Department of Environmental Management. The review and approval of plans and
operating procedures does not relieve the industrial user from complying with
the provisions of this code and permit conditions. Any subsequent changes in
the pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall be reported to and
approved by the POTW Authority prior to the industrial user’s initiation of the
changes.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010; Ord. 3-2019, passed 8-12-2019) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.061 REQUIRED TREATMENT FACILITIES MAINTENANCE.
   All such pretreatment facilities as required by this title shall be
maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operating condition by
the user or person operating and maintaining the facility served thereby, and
at the user’s expense.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.062 SUPERINTENDENT’S AUTHORITY.
   The Superintendent is vested with the authority to deny admission to the
system any waste considered to be harmful. In addition to the initiation of
permit revocation or of litigation proceedings, the Superintendent may choose
to exercise this authority in the form of a water shutoff and/or the
installation of sewer plugs, if a certain wastewater discharge (industrial)
presents an immediate danger to the health or welfare of persons or a danger to
the environment, threatens to interfere with the operation of the POTW or
violates any pretreatment limits imposed by this title or any wastewater
discharge permit issued pursuant to this title.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 53.063 TOWN’S RIGHT TO AMEND.
   The town reserves the right to amend this code to provide for changes in the
limitations or requirements on discharges to the POTW where deemed necessary to
comply with the objectives set forth in the general provisions section, except
as provided in §
53.056 of this chapter.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 53.064 DILUTED DISCHARGE PROHIBITION.
   No discharger shall increase the use of potable or process water in any way,
nor mix separate waste streams for the purpose of diluting a discharge, as a
partial or complete substitute for adequate treatment to achieve compliance
with the standards set forth in this title. The Authority may impose mass
limitations on users who are using dilution to meet applicable pretreatment
standards or requirements, or in other cases when the imposition of mass
limitations is appropriate.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.065 RESPONSIBILITY FOR HAZARDOUS AND ACCIDENTAL SPILLS.
   (A)   Accidental discharge/slug discharge control plans.
      (1)   The Superintendent shall evaluate whether each SIU needs an
accidental discharge/slug discharge control plan or other action to control
slug discharges. The Superintendent may require any user to develop, submit for
approval and implement such a plan or take such other action that may be
necessary to control slug discharges. Alternatively, the Superintendent may
develop such a plan for any user.
      (2)   An accidental discharge/slug discharge control plan shall address,
at a minimum, the following:
         (a)   Description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges;
         (b)   Description of stored chemicals;
         (c)   Procedures for immediately notifying the POTW of any accidental
or slug discharges, including any discharge that would violate a prohibition
under §
53.057 of this chapter; and
         (d)   Procedures to prevent adverse impacts from an accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, the inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, the
building of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic
organic pollutants (including solvents) and measures and equipment for
emergency response.
   (B)   Employee training. The industrial user shall permanently post a notice
in a prominent place advising all employees to call (546-3829, 546-4324 or 546-
3456) immediately in the event of a dangerous discharge for which notification
is required. Employers shall advise all employees who may cause or be injured
by such a discharge of the emergency notification procedure.
   (C)   Notification. Dischargers shall notify the Superintendent immediately
by telephone of the occurrence of a slug load or the accidental discharge of
substances prohibited by this code. The notification shall include the location
of the discharge, date and time thereof, type of waste, concentration and
volume and corrective actions. Within seven days following the discharge, the
user shall submit a written report describing the cause of the discharge and
the measures that will be taken by the user to prevent similar future
discharges. Any discharger who discharges a slug load of prohibited materials
shall be liable for any expense, loss or damage to the POTW, in addition to the
amount of any fines imposed on the town on account thereof under state or
federal law and any fines, civil penalties or other liability.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010; Ord. 3-2019, passed 8-12-2019)
§ 53.066 CONTROL OF ACCEPTABLE WASTES.
   (A)   Submission of data on industrial wastes.
      (1)   Any person (discharger) who discharges industrial wastes into the
town’s wastewater treatment system, either directly or indirectly, shall,
within 30 days of a written request of the Superintendent, fill out and file
with the town an industrial waste questionnaire, to be furnished by the town,
in which he or she shall set out the quantity and characteristics of the wastes
discharged into the town wastewater treatment system. Each discharger requested
to file an industrial waste questionnaire shall be financially responsible for
the sampling and analyses which may be required to determine the
characteristics of the discharger’s discharge.
      (2)   Similarly, any person desiring to establish a new connection to the
public sewer for the purpose of discharging industrial wastes shall be required
to fill out and file such a questionnaire, which shall include the actual or
predicted date relating to the quantity and characteristics of the wastes to be
discharged. When special circumstances, such as the size or complexity of his
or her sewage disposal problem, would make complying with the time schedule
cited in this chapter an unreasonable burden on the person, an extension of
time not to exceed 90 days may be granted by the Superintendent upon
presentation of a proper written application.
   (B)   Control manholes. Any person discharging industrial wastes into a
public sewer, either directly or indirectly, may be required by the
Superintendent to construct and maintain, at his or her own expense, one or
more control manholes at a specified location or locations to facilitate the
observation, measurement and sampling of his or her wastes. Such manholes shall
be constructed in accordance with the standards and specifications of the town.
The Superintendent may also require the person to install and maintain in any
such manhole, at said person’s expense, an approved volume-measuring device.
The Authority must approve plans for the installation of the control manhole
and related equipment before construction begins.
   (C)   Waste sampling and sampling equipment.
      (1)   Any industrial wastes discharged into the public sewers shall be
subject to sampling and determination of its characteristics. The sampling and
analysis shall be made as often as the Superintendent deems necessary and may
include the use of suitable continuously monitoring instruments in appropriate
cases. The Superintendent must approve the sampling location(s). National
categorical pretreatment standards are required to be met at the point of
discharge from the industrial pretreatment system prior to mixing with any
other waste stream.
      (2)   Except as indicated, the user must collect wastewater samples using
flow-proportional composite collection techniques. In the event flow-
proportional sampling is not feasible, the Superintendent may authorize the use
of time-proportional sampling or a minimum of four grab samples where the use
demonstrates that this will provide a representative sample of the effluent
being discharged. In addition, grab samples may be required to show compliance
with instantaneous discharge limits. Samples for oil and grease, temperature,
pH, cyanide, phenols, sulfides and volatile organic compounds must be obtained
using grab-collection techniques.
   (D)   Waste analysis. Laboratory procedures used in the examination of
industrial wastewater shall be those set forth in 40 C.F.R. part 136,
“Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for the Analysis of Pollutants,” or
amendments thereto, or if 40 C.F.R. part 136 does not contain sampling
analytical techniques for the pollutant in question, then in accordance with
procedures approved by the EPA. The POTW may make the initial analysis and
perform periodic check analyses of the customer’s wastes as well as other tests
the Superintendent may deem advisable. Analyses made by the POTW at the request
of the discharger shall be charged to the customer according to the POTW’s
standard work order billing practices. All such analyses shall be binding in
determining strength-of-wastes surcharges and other matters dependent upon the
character and concentration of wastes.
   (E)   Use of representative analyses. Until an adequate analysis of a
representative sample of the customer’s wastes has been obtained, the town may,
for the purpose of this chapter, make a determination of character and
concentration of his or her wastes by using data based on analyses of similar
processes or data for his or her type of business that are available from the
industry-recognized authoritative sources. This method, if selected by the
town, shall continue at the town’s pleasure or until an adequate analysis has
been made.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.067 SPECIAL AGREEMENT.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as prohibiting any
special agreement or arrangement between the POTW and any person whereby an
industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by the POTW
for treatment, whether with or without pretreatment, provided that such
agreement does not violate national categorical pretreatment standards for the
specific category of industrial user, provided that there is not impairment of
the functioning of the sewage works by reason of the admission of such wastes
and provided that no extra costs are incurred by the POTW without recompense by
the person.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 53.068 REGULATION OF WASTE RECEIVED FROM OTHER JURISDICTIONS.
   (A)   If another municipality, or a user located within another
municipality, contributes wastewater to the POTW, the Superintendent shall
enter into an intermunicipal agreement with the contributing municipality.
   (B)   Prior to entering into an agreement as required by division (A) above,
the Superintendent shall request the following information from the
contributing municipality:
      (1)   A description of the quality and volume of wastewater discharged to
the POTW by the contributing municipality;
      (2)   An inventory of all users located within the contributing
municipality that are discharging to the POTW; and
      (3)   Such other information as the Superintendent may deem necessary.
   (C)   An intermunicipal agreement, as required by division (A) above, shall
contain the following conditions:
      (1)   A requirement for the contributing municipality to adopt a sewer
use ordinance which is at least as stringent as this chapter and local limits,
including required baseline monitoring reports (BMRs), which are at least as
stringent as those set out in §
53.057 of this chapter. The requirement shall specify that such ordinance and
limits must be revised as necessary to reflect changes made to the town’s
provisions or local limits;
      (2)   A requirement for the contributing municipality to submit a revised
user inventory on at least an annual basis;
      (3)   A provision specifying which pretreatment implementation
activities, including individual wastewater discharge permits or general permit
issuance, inspection and sampling and enforcement, will be conducted by the
contributing municipality, which of these activities will be conducted by the
Superintendent and which of these activities will be conducted jointly by the
contributing municipality and the Superintendent;
      (4)   A requirement for the contributing municipality to provide the
Superintendent with access to all information that the contributing
municipality obtains as part of its pretreatment activities;
      (5)   Limits on the nature, quality and volume of the contributing
municipality’s wastewater at the point where it discharges to the POTW;
      (6)   Requirements for monitoring the contributing municipality’s
discharge;
      (7)   A provision ensuring the Superintendent access to the facilities of
users located within the contributing municipality’s jurisdictional boundaries
for the purpose of inspection, sampling and any other duties deemed necessary
by the Superintendent; and
      (8)   A provision specifying remedies available for breach of the terms
of the intermunicipal agreement.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010; Ord. 3-2019, passed 8-12-2019)
BUILDING SEWER CONNECTIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 53.080 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
openings into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
      (1)   For residential and commercial service; and
      (2)   For services producing industrial wastes.
   (C)   A completed permit application must be returned to the Clerk-Treasurer
and approved by the Superintendent or Manager (Inspector) before commencing
with construction. Permit costs can be found in §§
53.140 to
53.151 of this chapter.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.081 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   The owner or his or her agent shall make application on forms
furnished by the town. The permit application shall be supplemented by plans,
specifications or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the
Superintendent or Manager (Inspector).
   (B)   The town shall obtain the approval of the Superintendent or Manager
(Inspector) prior to issuing any commercial or industrial sewer permits.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 53.082 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the town
from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 53.083 SEPARATE BUILDING SEWER PROVISION.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except that where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, courtyard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 53.084 OLD BUILDING SEWER USE.
   (A)   (1)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings
only when they are found, on examination by the Superintendent or Manager
(Inspector), to be in good condition.
      (2)   If a sewer is found to be questionable in the judgment of the
Superintendent or Manager (Inspector), the owner may hire a licensed plumber to
check the sewer line to determine the condition of the old sewer. If the sewer
is useable, a written inspection report from the plumber shall be submitted to
the town before a new sewer connection is made.
   (B)   All charges billed by the licensed plumber shall be the responsibility
of the property owner.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 53.085 MATERIALS FOR SEWER.
   (A)   The building sewer beginning two feet from any building or structure
shall be of such materials as approved by the town in its sewer installation
specifications. Any part of a building sewer located within ten feet of a water
service pipe shall be constructed of ductile iron pipe within that limiting
distance.
   (B)   Ductile iron pipe may be required by the Superintendent or Manager
(Inspector) where the building sewer is exposed to damage by tree roots or
being installed over fill or in unstable ground.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 53.086 SIZE AND SLOPE OF SEWER.
   The size and slope of the building sewer shall be subject to the approval of
the town Inspector, but in no event shall the pipe be less than four inches in
diameter for residential, and six inches for commercial and industrial. The
slope of such pipe(s) shall be not less than one-eighth inch per foot.
Deviation from this requirement must have the approval of the Superintendent or
Manager (Inspector). Plans and specifications must be submitted for approval
for sewers larger than six inches prior to being constructed.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 53.087 PLACEMENT OF SEWER.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall be laid parallel to
or within three feet of any bearing wall. The depth shall be sufficient to
afford protection from frost. The building sewer shall be laid at a uniform
grade and in straight alignment insofar as possible. Changes in direction shall
be made only with proper pipe fittings. In all buildings in which any building
drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage
carried by the drain shall be lifted by approved artificial means and
discharged into the building sewer. All costs for installation, operation and
maintenance shall be the responsibility of the owner.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 53.088 CONSTRUCTION METHODS AND TESTING REQUIREMENTS.
   All construction methods shall be in accordance with the latest edition of
this code and the town’s sewer installation specifications. An infiltration/ex-
filtration test, signed and sealed by a licensed professional engineer, may be
required on all sewers, including building sewers, if ordered by the
Superintendent or Manager (Inspector). The town shall be notified at least one
business day in advance of any testing in order to be able to witness the
tests. The maximum allowable infiltration rate is 100 gallons per inch diameter
per mile of sewer per day, prorated to the length of the building sewer. In the
event any manholes or other structures are installed, they too shall be tested,
with a maximum allowable infiltration rate of one-tenth gallon per hour per
foot of diameter per foot of head. If ordered, all costs shall be borne by the
owner.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 53.089 EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavations required for the installation of a building sewer shall be
open trench work unless otherwise approved by the Superintendent or Manager
(Inspector). Pipe laying and backfill shall be performed in accordance with the
town’s specifications or any applicable ASTM specification, except that no
backfill shall be placed until the work has been inspected. All work shall be
in compliance with all applicable state and federal laws and regulations.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 53.090 SEWER JOINTS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   All joints and connections shall be made utilizing methods and
materials approved in the town’s sewer installation specifications. All such
connections shall be made gastight and watertight.
   (B)   Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be
approved by the Superintendent or Manager (Inspector) before installation.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 53.091 LOCATION OF SEWER CONNECTION.
   (A)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be
made at the “Y” branch if such branch is available at a suitable location. If a
“Y” branch is not available, the owner shall, at the owner’s expense, install a
sewer connection saddle as specified by the town’s sewer installation
specifications and approved by the Inspector. The invert of the building sewer
at the point of connection shall be made in the top one-quarter of the public
sewer.
   (B)   Care is to be taken when cutting a hole into the public sewer so as
not to crack the main sewer tile. Should a main tile be damaged during this
process, the Superintendent or Manager (Inspector) shall determine the method
of repair.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 53.092 NOTIFICATION FOR TESTING AND INSPECTION.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Superintendent
or Manager (Inspector) when the building sewer is ready for inspection and
connection to the public sewer. The connection to the main sewer shall be made
under the supervision of the Superintendent or Manager (Inspector) or
authorized representative. Lack of notification may result in a fine or legal
response in accordance with §
53.151 of this chapter.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010; Ord. 3-2019, passed 8-12-2019)
§ 53.093 EXCAVATION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
protected with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the Superintendent or
Manager (Inspector). No work within the public right-of-way shall be done prior
to obtaining an approved right-of-way cut permit, which application can be
obtained at the Clerk-Treasurer’s office. The completed application, along with
proof of insurance and a $2,000 bond, shall be returned to the Clerk-Treasurer
for consideration and approval by the Superintendent or Manager (Inspector).
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 53.094 RECORD DRAWINGS.
   All sewers installed shall be accurately and carefully noted as to the
location, type of materials, size, length, elevation and other pertinent
information, including details of structures. This information shall be
submitted to the Superintendent or Manager (Inspector) in accordance with the
town’s engineering standards.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 53.095 SEWER CONSTRUCTION AND PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   The introduction of inflow sources to any sanitary sewer is
prohibited.
   (B)   The construction of new combined sewers is prohibited. New
construction tributary to the combined sewer shall be designed to minimize or
delay the admission of unpolluted water to the existing combined sewer.
   (C)   For any new building, the inflow/clear water connection to a combined
sewer shall be prohibited.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 53.096 CLEANOUTS.
   (A)   Cleanouts equal in size to the building sewer shall be required at the
following locations:
      (1)   At the outside junction of building drain and building sewer;
      (2)   A change of direction greater than 45 degrees; and
      (3)   At locations at not more than 100 lineal feet intervals.
   (B)   The cleanout shall be installed to open in the direction of the flow
of the drainage pipe or at a right angle thereto.
   (C)   Each cleanout shall be adjusted flush with the finish grade and sealed
with a suitable cap or plug.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
SEWER CONSTRUCTION
§ 53.110 CONNECTION PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or openings
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Department of Sanitation Systems.
There shall be two classes of building service sewer permits:
   (A)   For residential and commercial service; and
   (B)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
(Prior Code, § 103.01) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.111 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   The owner or his or her agent shall make application on a special form
furnished by the town obtainable in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the
Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 103.02)
§ 53.112 INSPECTION FEE.
   An inspection fee of $30 shall be paid with the filing of the application
for a hook-on connection.
(Prior Code, § 103.03) (Ord. 6-2016, passed 7-25-2016)
§ 53.113 GENERAL CONNECTION FEE.
   A hook-on fee in the amount of $600 shall be charged for all residential
connections made to the town municipal sewer system, including any connections
made to private contract sewers in or out of the town limits. The hook-on fee
shall be paid prior to actual connection to the town sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 103.04) (Ord. 6-2016, passed 7-25-2016)
§ 53.114 MULTIPLE-DWELLING CONNECTION FEE.
   In addition to the hook-on fee in §
53.113 of this chapter, in the case of multi-family dwelling units, there shall
be an additional hook-on fee of $50 per unit beginning with the second unit.
The hook-on fee for multi-family dwellings shall be paid prior to actual
connection to the town sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 103.05) (Ord. 6-2016, passed 7-25-2016)
§ 53.115 DETERMINATION OF HOOK-ON FEES.
   In the event that any application for hook-on fee requires definition as to
what category shall be applied for the payment of fees, the Clerk-Treasurer
shall refer such application to the Wastewater Department for determination and
disposition.
(Prior Code, § 103.06) (Ord. 6-2016, passed 7-25-2016)
§ 53.116 HOOK-ON FEE FOR INDUSTRIAL, COMMERCIAL OR NONRESIDENTIAL USERS.
   Any industrial, commercial or nonresidential user shall pay the following
hook-up in lieu of the fee provided for in §
53.113 of this chapter.
Number of Meters Size Charge (Fee)
Number of Meters Size          Charge (Fee)
1                3/4-in.       $600
1                1-in.         $780
1                1 and 1/2-in. $980
1                2-in.         $1,130
2                2-in.         $1,280
3                2-in.         $1,480
1                4-in.         $1,590
1                6-in.         $1,790
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 100)
§ 53.117 INCREASE IN WATER METER SIZE.
   Present industrial, commercial or nonresidential users now receiving
sanitary sewer service who apply for a larger water meter than they now have
shall pay for the difference in cost at the time of the filing of the
application between the size of the meter they now have and the one applied for
according to the charges set forth in §
53.116 of this chapter. No credit shall be given in the case of a downward size
revision.
(Prior Code, § 103.08)
§ 53.118 OWNER TO PAY INSTALLATION COST.
   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of the
building service sewer shall be borne by the owner.
(Prior Code, § 103.09)
§ 53.119 OWNER TO INDEMNIFY TOWN FOR LOSS.
   The owner of the property shall indemnify the town from any loss or damage
that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the
building service sewer.
(Prior Code, § 103.10)
§ 53.120 EACH BUILDING TO HAVE SEWER CONNECTION.
   A separate and independent building service sewer shall be provided for
every building. However, where one building stands at the rear of another on
any interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, courtyard or driveway, the building
service sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and
the whole considered as one building service sewer.
(Prior Code, § 103.11)
§ 53.121 USE OF OLD BUILDING SEWERS.
   Old building service sewers may be used in connection with new buildings
only when they are found on examination and test by the Superintendent to meet
all the requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 103.12)
§ 53.122 SIZE AND SLOPE REQUIREMENTS.
   The size and slope of the building service sewer shall be subject to the
approval of the Superintendent, but in no event shall the diameter be less than
six inches. The slope of a six-inch pipe shall be not less than one-eighth inch
per foot.
(Prior Code, § 103.13)
§ 53.123 SERVICE SEWER MISCELLANEOUS REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No building service sewer shall be laid parallel to or within three
feet of any bearing wall which might thereby be weakened.
   (B)   Whenever possible, the building service sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor.
   (C)   The building service sewer shall be laid at a depth which will afford
protection from frost.
   (D)   The building service sewer shall be laid at uniform grade and in
straight alignment insofar as possible.
   (E)   Changes in direction with respect to the building service sewer shall
be made only with properly curved pipe and fittings.
(Prior Code, § 103.14)
§ 53.124 LACK OF GRAVITY FLOW.
   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to the public sewer,
sanitary sewage carried by such drain shall be lifted by approved artificial
means and discharged to the building service sewer.
(Prior Code, § 103.15)
§ 53.125 OPEN TRENCH EXCAVATIONS REQUIRED.
   All excavations required for the installation of a building service sewer
shall be open trench work unless otherwise approved by the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 103.16)
§ 53.126 JOINTS GENERALLY.
   All joints and connections shall be made gastight and watertight.
(Prior Code, § 103.17)
§ 53.127 SUPERINTENDENT TO SUPERVISE CONNECTION.
   The applicant for a building service sewer permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the building service sewer is ready for inspection and
connection to the public sewer. The connection of the building service sewer to
the public sewer shall be made under the supervision of the Superintendent or
his or her representative.
(Prior Code, § 103.18)
§ 53.128 EXCAVATION SAFETY PRECAUTIONS.
   All excavations for building sewer installations shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
(Prior Code, § 103.19)
§ 53.129 DAMAGE TO PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the
course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
(Prior Code, § 103.20)
RATES, CHARGES, FEES AND FINES
§ 53.140 SEWAGE RATES; BASIS FOR DETERMINING; SURCHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   For the use of and the services rendered by the sewage works,
rates and charges shall be collected from the owners of each and every lot,
parcel of real estate or building that is connected with the town sanitary
system or otherwise discharges sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or
other liquids, either directly or indirectly, into the sanitary sewage system
of the town. Such rates and charges include user charges, debt service costs,
excessive strength surcharges and other service charges, which rates and
charges shall be payable as provided in Appendix B of this chapter and shall be
in an amount determinable as set out below.
      (2)   The sewage rates and charges shall be based on the quantity of
water used on or in the property or premises, subject to such rates and
charges, as the same is measured by the water meter there in use and a base
charge based on the size of the water meter in use at that location, except as
herein otherwise provided. Water meters will be read once each month, and
sewage service bills shall be rendered once each month or period equaling a
month. The water usage schedule on which the amount of said rates and charges
shall be as determined in Appendix B of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 100.02)
   (B)   (1)   In order that the rates and charges may be justly and equitably
adjusted to the service rendered to users, the town shall base its charges not
only on the volume, but also on the strength and character of the stronger-
than-normal domestic sewage and waste which it is required to treat and dispose
of. The town shall require the user to determine the strength and content of
all sewage and wastes discharged, either directly or indirectly, into the
sanitary sewage system in such a manner and by such a method as the town may
deem practicable in light of the conditions and attending circumstances of the
case in order to determine the proper charge. The user shall furnish a central
sampling point available to the town at all times.
      (2)   (a)   Normal sewage domestic waste strength should not exceed a
biochemical oxygen demand of 200 milligrams per liter of fluid, suspended
solids in excess of 150 milligrams per liter of fluid, or NH3-N in excess of 14
milligrams per liter of fluid in the winter months and 9.8 milligrams per liter
of fluid in the summer months.
         (b)   Additional charges for treating stronger-than-normal domestic
waste shall be made on the following basis.
            1.   Rate surcharge based on suspended solids. There shall be an
additional charge of $0.11 per pound of suspended solids for suspended solids
received in excess of 150 milligrams per liter of fluid.
            2.   Rate surcharge based on BOD. There shall be an additional
charge of $0.07 per pound of biochemical oxygen demand for BOD received in
excess of 150 milligrams per liter of fluid.
            3.   Rate surcharge based on NH3-N. There shall be an additional
charge of $0.12 per pound of NH3-N (ammonia nitrogen) for NH3-N received in
excess of 17 milligrams per liter.
      (3)   The determination of suspended solids, five-day biochemical oxygen
demand and ammonia nitrogen contained in the waste shall be in accordance with
the latest copy of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water, Sewage and
Industrial Wastes, as written by the American Public Health Association, the
American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation,
and in conformance with “Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis
of Pollutants,” regulation C.F.R. part 136, published in the Federal Register
on October 16, 1973, as amended October 26, 1984.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010; Ord. 3-2019, passed 8-12-2019)
§ 53.141 STUDY OF RATES.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges for sewage services may remain
fair and equitable and be in proportion to the cost of providing services to
the various users or user classes, the town shall cause a study to be made
within a reasonable period of time following the first 12 months of operation
following the date on which this chapter goes into effect. Such study shall
include, but not be limited to, an analysis of the costs associated with the
treatment of excessive strength effluents from industrial users, volume and
delivery flow rate characteristics attributed to the various users or user
classes, the financial position of the sewage works and the adequacy of its
revenue to provide reasonable funds for the operation and maintenance,
replacements, debt service requirements and capital improvements to the waste
treatment systems.
   (B)   Thereafter, on an annual basis, within a reasonable period of time
following the normal accounting period, the town shall cause a similar study to
be made for the purpose of reviewing the fairness and equity of the rates and
charges for sewage services on a continuing basis. Said studies shall be
conducted by officers or employees of the town, or by a firm of certified
public accountants or a firm of consulting engineers, which firms shall have
experience in such studies, or by such combination of officers, employees,
certified public accountants or engineers as the town shall determine to be
best under the circumstances.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 53.142 DETERMINATION OF HOOK-ON FEE.
   In the event that any application for hook-on fee requires definition as to
what category shall be applied for the payment of fees, the Clerk-Treasurer
shall refer such application to the Wastewater Department for determination and
disposition.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010; Ord. 6-2016, passed 7-25-2016)
§ 53.143 GENERAL SEWER HOOK-ON FEE.
   A hook-on fee in the amount of $600 shall be charged for all residential
connections made to the town municipal sewer system, including any connections
made to private contract sewers in or out of the town limits. The hook-on fee
shall be paid prior to actual connection to the town sewer system.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010; Ord. 6-2016, passed 7-25-2016)
§ 53.144 MULTIPLE DWELLING HOOK-ON FEE.
   In addition to the hook-on fee in §
53.143 of this chapter, in the case of multi-family dwelling units, a $50 per
unit connection fee starting with the second unit will be charged. The hook-on
fee for multi-family dwellings shall be paid prior to actual connection to the
town sewer system.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010; Ord. 6-2016, passed 7-25-2016)
§ 53.145 INDUSTRIAL, COMMERCIAL OR NONRESIDENTIAL USER HOOK-ON FEE.
   Any industrial, commercial or nonresidential user shall pay the following
hook-on fee in lieu of the fee provided for in §
53.143 of this chapter.
Number of Meters Size Charge (Fee)
Number of Meters Size          Charge (Fee)
1                3/4-in.       $600
1                1-in.         $780
1                1 and 1/2-in. $980
1                2-in.         $1,130
2                2-in.         $1,280
3                2-in.         $1,480
1                4-in.         $1,590
1                6-in.         $1,790
 
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010; Ord. 6-2016, passed 7-25-2016)
§ 53.146 INCREASE IN WATER METER SIZE; EFFECT ON CHARGE.
   Present industrial, commercial or nonresidential users now receiving
sanitary sewer service who apply for a larger water meter than they now have
shall pay the difference in cost at the time of the filing of the application
between the size of the meter they now have and the one applied for, according
to the charges set forth in §
53.145 of this chapter. No credit shall be given in the case of a downward size
revision.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 53.147 INDUSTRIAL PRETREATMENT PROGRAM FEE.
   (A)   Filing application and questionnaire for non-permitted industrial
users: $150;
   (B)   Pretreatment discharge permits (four-year permit), new and renewal:
$500;
   (C)   Transfer of a pretreatment wastewater discharge permit: $75;
   (D)   Inspection fee per visit: $50;
   (E)   Monitoring, surveillance fee: $100; and
   (F)   For surcharges, see §
53.140 of this chapter.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 53.148 HAULED LIQUID WASTE FEE.
   (A)   Septic tank trucked waste (residential): $5 per 1,000 gallons; and
   (B)   Industrial and/or commercial trucked waste: $50 per 1,000 gallons.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 53.149 INSPECTION FEE.
   Sewer permit and inspection charges for new or replacement building sewers
are:
   (A)   Residential: $30;
   (B)   Commercial: $150; and
   (C)   Industrial: $300.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 53.150 GROUNDWATER REMEDIATION DISCHARGE FEE.
   For groundwater remediation discharge fees, see the sewage rates in
Appendix B of this chapter.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 53.151 ADMINISTRATIVE FINES; DISPUTING FINES.
   (A)   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, order issued hereunder or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Superintendent may fine such user. Such fines shall be
assessed on a per-violation, per-day basis. In the case of monthly or other
long-term average discharge limits, fines shall be assessed for each day during
the period of violation.
   (B)   Unpaid charges, fines and penalties shall, after 180 calendar days, be
assessed an additional penalty of 10% of the unpaid balance, and interest shall
accrue thereafter at a rate of 1% per month. A lien against the user’s property
shall be sought for unpaid charges, fines and penalties.
   (C)   Users desiring to dispute such fines must file a written request for
the Superintendent to reconsider the fine, along with full payment of the fine
amount, within 180 days of being notified of the fine. Where a request has
merit, the Superintendent may convene a hearing on the matter. In the event the
user’s appeal is successful, the payment, together with any interest accruing
thereto, shall be returned to the user. The Superintendent may add the costs of
preparing administrative enforcement actions, such as notices and orders, to
the fine.
   (D)   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 3-2019, passed 8-12-2019)
BILLING AND PAYMENT
§ 53.165 MONTHLY BILLING.
   (A)   Rates and charges shall be prepared, billed and collected by the town
in the manner provided by law and ordinance.
   (B)   The rates and charges for all users shall be prepared and billed
monthly.
   (C)   The rates and charges may be billed to the tenant or tenants occupying
the properties served unless otherwise requested in writing by the owner, but
such billings shall in no way relieve the owner from liability in the event
payment is not made as herein required. The owners of properties served which
are occupied by a tenant or tenants shall have the right to examine the
collection records of the town for the purpose of determining whether bills
have been paid by such tenant or tenants, provided that such examination shall
be made at the office at which said records are kept and during the hours that
such office is open for business.
   (D)   As is provided by statute, all rates and charges not paid when due are
hereby declared to be delinquent and a penalty of 10% of the amount of the
rates or charges shall thereupon attach thereto. The time at which such rates
or charges shall be paid is fixed at 15 days after the date of mailing of the
bill.
   (E)   In the event of a clerical billing error in favor of the customer, the
town may correct said error and bill the correct amount to the customer within
five years of the month in which the bill was originally due.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010; Ord. 13-2018, passed 2-25-2019)
§ 53.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1) As set out in §
53.151 of this chapter, when the Superintendent finds that a user has violated,
or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual
wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder or any other pretreatment
standard or requirement, the Superintendent may fine such user in an amount not
to exceed $2,500. Such fine shall be assessed on a per-violation, per-day
basis. In the case of monthly or other long-term average discharge limits,
fines shall be assessed for each day during the period of violation.
      (2)   Unpaid charges, fines and penalties shall, after 180 calendar days,
be assessed an additional penalty of 10% of the unpaid balance, and interest
shall accrue thereafter at a rate of 1% per month. A lien against the user’s
property shall be sought for unpaid charges, fines and penalties.
(Ord. 3-2019, passed 8-12-2019)
APPENDIX A: SEWER LINE CONSTRUCTION PERMIT FORM
 
Permit # ______
   TOWN OF BREMEN
   SEWER LINE CONSTRUCTION
   PERMIT
 
Date ______________________
 
Name of Applicant: ______________________________
Address: _______________________________________
___________________________________________
Phone Number __________________________________
 
Address where construction is to take place (if different than above).
______________________________________________________________
 
 
Purpose of Construction, Check One – Replacement Sewer Line ________
New Sewer Line ________ Relocate Sewer Line ________
 
Other (describe) _______________________________________
 
What size pipe is being constructed or replaced? ________
 
What type of sewer line material will be used?
 
Plastic ________ (circle one) Sch 35 or Sch 40      Vitrified Pipe ________
Plastic Pressure Pipe ________ (circle one) SDR 26 or SDR 21
Ductile Iron ________
 
When is Construction Scheduled to Take Place?
 
Date _________________________
 
Diagram Project, show Streets, lot, Building on Lot and where construction will take
place.
Use the backside of this form.
 
Date Reviewed __________________
Approved ________         Denied ________   Reason Denied __________________
______________________________________________________________
By __________________________
 
For Inspection call 546-4324
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 100)
APPENDIX B: SCHEDULE OF SEWER RATES AND CHARGES
   (A)   Metered rate per 1,000 gallons.
 
User Type Rate per 1,000 Gallons
All users $5.22
 
   (B)   Base rate per month.
Meter Size Rate
Meter Size        Rate
5/8-in. – 3/4-in$9.05
1-in.             $20.35
1 and 1/4-in.     $31.90
1 and 1/2-in.     $45.80
2-in.             $77.80
3-in.             $177.35
4-in.             $315.25
6-in.             $706.65
 
   (C)   Tap fees.
 
Type           Fee
Commercial  $1,000
Industrial  $1,500
Residential $600
 
   (D)   Disconnection/reconnection fee. The fee for disconnection/reconnection
for all utility services shall be $75 during normal business hours, and the
utility shall only perform reconnections during normal business hours.
   (E)   After hours service charge (non-emergency only).
      (1)   (a)   After hours and Saturdays: $70 minimum for first two hours;
and
         (b)   After two hours: An additional $35 per hour per employee.
      (2)   (a)   Sundays and holidays: $90 minimum for first two hours; and
         (b)   After two hours: An additional $45 per hour per employee.
(Ord. 13-2018, passed 2-25-2019; Ord. 9-2021, passed 5-24-2021)
CHAPTER 54: PRETREATMENT REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
54.001   Definitions
   
54.002   Abbreviations
   
54.003   Purpose and policy
   
54.004   Administration
   
54.005   Confidential information
   
54.006   Publication of users in significant noncompliance
   
54.007   Pretreatment charges and fees
Sewer Use Requirements Generally
   
54.020   Prohibited discharge standards
   
54.021   National categorical pretreatment standards
   
54.022   State pretreatment standards
   
54.023   Local limits
   
54.024   Town’s right of revision
   
54.025   Dilution
Pretreatment of Wastewater
   
54.040   Pretreatment facilities
   
54.041   Additional pretreatment measures
   
54.042   Accidental discharge/slug discharge control plans
   
54.043   Hauled wastewater
Individual Wastewater Discharge Permits
   
54.055   Wastewater analysis
   
54.056   Permit requirement
   
54.057   Permitting for existing connections
   
54.058   Permitting for new connections
   
54.059   Application contents
   
54.060   Application signatories and certifications
   
54.061   Permit decisions
Individual Wastewater Discharge Permit Issuance
   
54.075   Duration of permit
   
54.076   Contents of permit
   
54.077   Modification of permit
   
54.078   Transfer of permit
   
54.079   Revocation of permit
   
54.080   Reissuance of permit
   
54.081   Regulation of waste received from other jurisdictions
Reporting Requirements
   
54.095   Baseline monitoring reports
   
54.096   Compliance schedule progress reports
   
54.097   Reports on compliance with categorical pretreatment standard deadline
   
54.098   Periodic compliance reports
   
54.099   Changed conditions reports
   
54.100   Potential problems reports
   
54.101   Reports from unpermitted users
   
54.102   Notice of violation; repeat sampling and reporting
   
54.103   Notification of the discharge of hazardous waste
   
54.104   Analytical requirements
   
54.105   Sample collection
   
54.106   Date of receipt of reports
   
54.107   Recordkeeping
   
54.108   Certification statements
Compliance Monitoring
   
54.120   Right of entry; inspection and sampling
   
54.121   Search warrants
Administrative Enforcement Remedies
   
54.135   Notification of violation
   
54.136   Consent orders
   
54.137   Show-cause hearing
   
54.138   Compliance orders
   
54.139   Cease and desist orders
   
54.140   Administrative fines
   
54.141   Emergency suspensions
   
54.142   Termination of discharge
   
54.143   Enforcement procedures
Judicial Enforcement Remedies
   
54.155   Injunctive relief
   
54.156   Civil penalties
   
54.157   Remedies nonexclusive
Affirmative Defenses to Discharge Violations
   
54.170   Upset
   
54.171   Prohibited discharge standards
   
54.172   Bypass
 
   
54.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 54.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   AUTHORIZED OR DULY AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE USER.
      (1)   (a)   If the user is a corporation, then:
            1.   The president, secretary, treasurer or a vice-president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
            2.   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production or
operating facilities, provided the manager is authorized to make management
decisions that govern the operation of the regulated facility, including having
the explicit or implicit duty of making major capital investment
recommendations and initiating and directing other comprehensive measures to
assure long-term environmental compliance with environmental laws and
regulations; can ensure that the necessary systems are established or actions
taken to gather complete and accurate information for individual wastewater
discharge permit requirements; and where authority to sign documents has been
assigned or delegated to the manager in accordance with corporate procedures.
         (b)   If the user is a partnership or sole proprietorship, a general
partner or proprietor, respectively.
         (c)   If the user is a federal, state or local governmental facility,
a director or highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation
and performance of the activities of the government facility, or his or her
designee.
      (2)   The individuals described in division (1) above may designate a
DULY AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE if the authorization is in writing, the
authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for the overall
operation of the facility from which the discharge originates, or having
overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and the
written authorization is submitted to the town.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES or BMPs. Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, maintenance procedures and other management practices to implement
the prohibitions listed in §
54.020 of this chapter. BMPs include treatment requirements, operating
procedures and practices to control plant site runoff, spillage or leaks,
sludge or waste disposal or drainage from raw materials storage.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures
for five days at 20°C, usually expressed as a concentration (e.g., milligrams
per liter).
   CATEGORICAL INDUSTRIAL USER. An industrial user subject to a categorical
pretreatment standard or categorical standard.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or CATEGORICAL STANDARD. Any regulation
containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in accordance with
§ 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. part 1317) that apply to a specific
category of users and that appear in 40 C.F.R. Ch. I, Subch. N, parts 405 to
471.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or COD. A measure of the oxygen required to oxidize
all compounds, both organic and inorganic, in water.
   COMPOSITE SAMPLE. Flow proportioned to the stream flow at the time of
collection pursuant to 40 C.F.R. part 403, Appx. E.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY. The Town of Bremen, Indiana.
   DAILY MAXIMUM. The arithmetic average of all effluent samples for a
pollutant collected during a calendar day.
   DAILY MAXIMUM LIMIT. The maximum allowable discharge limit of a pollutant
during a calendar day. Where DAILY MAXIMUM LIMITS are expressed in units of
mass, the daily discharge is the total mass discharged over the course of the
day. Where DAILY MAXIMUM LIMITS are expressed in terms of a concentration, the
daily discharge is the arithmetic average measurement of the pollutant
concentration derived from all measurements taken that day.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The United States Environmental
Protection Agency or, where appropriate, the regional Water Management Division
Director, the regional Administrator or other duly authorized official of said
agency.
   EXISTING SOURCE. Any source of discharge that is not a new source.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample that is taken from a waste stream without regard to
the flow in the waste stream and over a period of time not to exceed 15
minutes.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE or DISCHARGE. The introduction of pollutants into the
POTW from any nondomestic source.
   INSTANTANEOUS LIMIT. The maximum concentration of a pollutant allowed to be
discharged at any time, determined from the analysis of any discrete or
composited sample collected, independent of the industrial flow rate and the
duration of the sampling event.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge that, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment
processes or operations or its sludge processes, use or disposal, and
therefore, is a cause of a violation of the town’s NPDES permit or of the
prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with any of the
following statutory/regulatory provisions or permits issued thereunder, or any
more stringent state or local regulations; § 405 of the Act; the Solid Waste
Disposal Act, including Title II, commonly referred to as the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA); any state regulations contained in any
state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the Solid Waste
Disposal Act; the Clean Air Act; the Toxic Substances Control Act; and the
Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act.
   LOCAL LIMIT. Specific discharge limits developed and enforced by the town
upon industrial or commercial facilities to implement the general and specific
discharge prohibitions listed in 40 C.F.R. § 403.5(a)(1) and (b).
   MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes and dialysis
wastes.
   MONTHLY AVERAGE. The sum of all daily discharges measured during a calendar
month divided by the number of daily discharges measured during that month.
   MONTHLY AVERAGE LIMIT. The highest allowable average of daily discharges
over a calendar month, calculated as the sum of all daily discharges measured
during a calendar month divided by the number of daily discharges measured
during that month.
   NEW SOURCE.
      (1)   Any building, structure, facility or installation from which there
is or may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under § 307(c) of the
Act that will be applicable to such source if such standards are thereafter
promulgated in accordance with that section, provided that:
         (a)   The building, structure, facility or installation is constructed
at a site at which no other source is located;
         (b)   The building, structure, facility or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
         (c)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should
be considered.
      (2)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a NEW SOURCE if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility or installation meeting the criteria
of division (1)(b) or (1)(c) above, but otherwise alters, replaces or adds to
existing process or production equipment.
      (3)   The construction of a NEW SOURCE as defined herein has commenced if
the owner or operator has:
         (a)   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous on-site
construction program:
            1.   Any placement, assembly or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
            2.   Significant site preparation work, including clearing,
excavation or removal of existing buildings, structures or facilities, which is
necessary for the placement, assembly or installation of new source facilities
or equipment.
         (b)   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation
within a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be
terminated or modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility,
engineering and design studies, do not constitute a contractual obligation
under this definition.
   NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling that does not come into
direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product or
finished product.
   PASS-THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United
States in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any
requirement of the town’s NPDES permit, including an increase in the magnitude
or duration of a violation.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity or any other legal entity; or their legal representatives, agents, or
assigns. This definition includes all federal, state, and local governmental
entities.
   pH. A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a solution, expressed in
standard units.
   POLLUTANT. Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter backwash,
sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes,
biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded
equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, municipal, agricultural and industrial
wastes and certain characteristics of wastewater (e.g., pH, temperature, TSS,
turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity or odor).
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater prior to, or in lieu of, introducing such pollutants into the POTW.
This reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or
biological processes; by process changes; or by other means, except by diluting
the concentration of the pollutants unless allowed by an applicable
pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment imposed on a user, other than a pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS or STANDARDS. Prohibited discharge standards,
categorical pretreatment standards and local limits.
   PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS or PROHIBITED DISCHARGES. Absolute
prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances; these prohibitions
appear in §
54.020 of this chapter.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS or POTW. A treatment works, as defined by §
212 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1292), which is owned by the town. This definition
includes any devices or systems used in the collection, storage, treatment,
recycling and reclamation of sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid nature and
any conveyances which convey wastewater to a treatment plant.
   SEPTIC TANK WASTE. Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers and septic tanks.
   SEWAGE. Human excrement and gray water (household showers, dishwashing
operations and the like).
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER or SIU. Except as provided in divisions (3) and
(4) below, a SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER is:
      (1)   An industrial user subject to categorical pretreatment standards;
      (2)   An industrial user that:
         (a)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gallons per day or more of
process wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, non-contact cooling and
boiler blowdown wastewater);
         (b)   Contributes a process waste stream which makes up 5% or more of
the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment
plant; or
         (c)   Is designated as such by the town on the basis that it has a
reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s operation or for
violating any pretreatment standard or requirement.
      (3)   The town may determine that an industrial user subject to
categorical pretreatment standards is a NON-SIGNIFICANT CATEGORICAL INDUSTRIAL
USER rather than a SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER on a finding that the industrial
user never discharges more than 100 gallons per day of total categorical
wastewater (excluding sanitary, non-contact cooling and boiler blowdown
wastewater unless specifically included in the pretreatment standard) and the
following conditions are met:
         (a)   The industrial user, prior to the town’s finding, has
consistently complied with all applicable categorical pretreatment standards
and requirements;
         (b)   The industrial user annually submits the certification statement
required in §
54.098(B) of this chapter, together with any additional information necessary
to support the certification statement; and
         (c)   The industrial user never discharges any untreated concentrated
wastewater.
      (4)   Upon a finding that a user meeting the criteria in division (2)
above has no reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s operation
or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement, the town may at any
time, on its own initiative or in response to a petition received from an
industrial user, and in accordance with procedures in 40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f)(6),
determine that such user should not be considered a SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL
USER.
   SLUG LOAD or SLUG DISCHARGE. Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration
which could cause a violation of the prohibited discharge standards in §
54.020 of this chapter. A SLUG DISCHARGE is any discharge of a non-routine,
episodic nature, including, but not limited to, an accidental spill or a non-
customary batch discharge which has a reasonable potential to cause
interference or pass-through, or in any other way violate the POTW’s
regulations, local limits or permit conditions.
   STORMWATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting from such precipitation, including snowmelt.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The person designated by the town to supervise the operation
of the POTW and who is charged with certain duties and responsibilities by this
chapter. The term also means a duly authorized representative of the
Superintendent or town.
   TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS or SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that
floats on the surface of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater or other liquid
and that is removable by laboratory filtering.
   TOWN. The Town of Bremen, Indiana, or its Town Council.
   USER or INDUSTRIAL USER. A source of indirect discharge.
   WASTEWATER. Liquid and water-carried industrial wastes and sewage from
residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing
facilities and institutions, whether treated or untreated, which are
contributed to the POTW.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or TREATMENT PLANT. That portion of the POTW
which is designed to provide treatment of municipal sewage and industrial
waste.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 54.002 ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations, when used in this chapter, shall have the
designated meanings.
BMP    Best management practice
BMR    Baseline monitoring report
BOD    Biochemical oxygen demand
CBOD   Carbonaceous biochemical oxygen demand
C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations
CIU    Categorical industrial user
COD    Chemical oxygen demand
EPA    United States Environmental Protection Agency
gpd    Gallons per day
IU     Industrial user
mg/L   Milligrams per liter
NH3-N  Ammonia nitrogen
NPDES  National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
NSCIU  Non-significant categorical industrial user
POTW   Publicly owned treatment works
RCRA   Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
SIU    Significant industrial user
SNC    Significant noncompliance
TSS    Total suspended solids
U.S.C. United States Code
USEPA  United States Environmental Protection Agency
 
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 54.003 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for users of the publicly
owned treatment works for the town and enables the town to comply with all
applicable state and federal laws, including the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. §§
1251 et seq.) and the “General Pretreatment Regulations” (40 C.F.R. part 403).
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly owned
treatment works that will interfere with its operation;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly owned
treatment works that will pass through the publicly owned treatment works,
inadequately treated, into receiving waters, or otherwise be incompatible with
the publicly owned treatment works;
      (3)   To protect both publicly owned treatment works personnel who may be
affected by wastewater and sludge in the course of their employment and the
general public;
      (4)   To promote the reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and
sludge from the publicly owned treatment works;
      (5)   To provide for fees for the equitable distribution of the cost of
operation, maintenance and improvement of the publicly owned treatment works;
and
      (6)   To enable the town to comply with its National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System permit conditions, sludge use and disposal requirements and
any other federal or state laws to which the publicly owned treatment works is
subject.
   (C)   This chapter shall apply to all users of the publicly owned treatment
works. The chapter authorizes the issuance of individual wastewater discharge
permits; provides for monitoring, compliance and enforcement activities;
establishes administrative review procedures; requires user reporting; and
provides for the setting of fees for the equitable distribution of costs
resulting from the program established herein.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 54.004 ADMINISTRATION.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, the Superintendent shall administer,
implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any powers granted to or
duties imposed upon the Superintendent may be delegated by the Superintendent
to a duly authorized town employee.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 54.005 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   (1)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, surveys,
wastewater discharge permit applications, individual wastewater discharge
permits and monitoring programs, and from the Superintendent’s inspection and
sampling activities, shall be available to the public without restriction
unless the user specifically requests, and is able to demonstrate to the
satisfaction of the Superintendent, that the release of such information would
divulge information, processes or methods of production entitled to protection
as trade secrets under applicable state law.
      (2)   Any such request must be asserted at the time of submission of the
information or data.
   (B)   When requested and demonstrated by the user furnishing a report that
such information should be held confidential, the portions of a report which
might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made available
for inspection by the public, but shall be made available immediately upon
request to governmental agencies for uses related to the NPDES program or
pretreatment program and in enforcement proceedings involving the person
furnishing the report.
   (C)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics and other effluent data,
as defined at 40 C.F.R. § 2.302, shall not be recognized as confidential
information and shall be available to the public without restriction.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 54.006 PUBLICATION OF USERS IN SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The Superintendent shall publish annually, in a newspaper of general
circulation that provides meaningful public notice within the jurisdictions
served by the POTW, a list of the users which, at any time during the previous
12 months, were in significant noncompliance with applicable pretreatment
standards and requirements.
   (B)   The term SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE shall be applicable to all
significant industrial users (or to any other industrial user that violates
division (B)(3), (B)(4) or (B)(8) below), and shall mean:
      (1)   CHRONIC VIOLATIONS of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which 66% or more of all the measurements taken for the same pollutant
parameter taken during a six-month period exceed (by any magnitude) a numeric
pretreatment standard or requirement, including instantaneous limits as defined
in §
54.001 of this chapter;
      (2)   TECHNICAL REVIEW CRITERIA (TRC) VIOLATIONS, defined here as those
in which 33% or more of wastewater measurements taken for each pollutant
parameter during a six-month period equals or exceeds the product of the
numeric pretreatment standard or requirement, including instantaneous limits as
defined by §
54.001 of this chapter, multiplied by the applicable criteria (1.4 for BOD,
TSS, fats, oils and grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
      (3)   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement as
defined by §§
54.020 to
54.025 (daily maximum, long-term average instantaneous limit, or narrative
standard) that the Superintendent determines has caused, alone or in
combination with other discharges, interference or pass-through, including
endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general public;
      (4)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment
to the public or to the environment, or has resulted in the Superintendent’s
exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
      (5)   Failure to meet, within 90 days of the scheduled date, a compliance
schedule milestone contained in an individual wastewater discharge permit or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction or
attaining final compliance;
      (6)   Failure to provide, within 45 days after the due date, any required
reports, including baseline monitoring reports, reports on compliance with
categorical pretreatment standard deadlines, periodic self-monitoring reports
and reports on compliance with compliance schedules;
      (7)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
      (8)   Any other violation(s), which may include a violation of best
management practices, which the Superintendent determines will adversely affect
the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment program.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 54.007 PRETREATMENT CHARGES AND FEES.
   The town may adopt reasonable fees for reimbursement of the costs of setting
up and operating the town’s pretreatment program, which may include:
   (A)   Fees for wastewater discharge permit applications, including the cost
of processing such applications;
   (B)   Fees for monitoring, inspection and surveillance procedures, including
the cost of collection and analyzing a user’s discharge and reviewing
monitoring reports and certification statements submitted by users;
   (C)   Fees for reviewing and responding to accidental discharge procedures
and construction;
   (D)   Fees for filing appeals;
   (E)   Fees to recover administrative and legal costs (not included in
division (B) above) associated with the enforcement activity taken by the
Superintendent to address SIU noncompliance; and
   (F)   Other fees as the town may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained herein. These fees relate solely to the matters covered
by this chapter and are separate from all other fees, fines and penalties
chargeable by the town.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
SEWER USE REQUIREMENTS GENERALLY
§ 54.020 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   (A)   General prohibitions. No user shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW any pollutant or wastewater which causes pass-through
or interference. These general prohibitions apply to all users of the POTW
whether or not they are subject to categorical pretreatment standards or any
other national, state, or local pretreatment standards or requirements.
   (B)   Specific prohibitions. No user shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW the following pollutants, substances or wastewater:
      (1)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, waste streams with a closed-cup flashpoint of
less than 140°F (60°C) using the test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21;
      (2)   Wastewater having a pH less than 6.0 or more than 10.0, or
otherwise causing corrosive structural damage to the POTW or equipment;
      (3)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause obstruction
of the flow in the POTW resulting in interference, but in no case solids
greater than one-half inch in any dimension;
      (4)   Pollutants, including oxygen-demanding pollutants (BOD and the
like), released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration
which, either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, will cause
interference with the POTW;
      (5)   Wastewater having a temperature greater than 104°F (40°C) or which
will inhibit biological activity in the treatment plant resulting in
interference, but in no case wastewater which causes the temperature at the
introduction into the treatment plant to exceed 104°F (40°C);
      (6)   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil or products of mineral
oil origin in amounts that will cause interference or pass-through;
      (7)   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
      (8)   Trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points designated
by the Superintendent in accordance with §
54.043 of this chapter;
      (9)   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids or other wastewater
which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to
create a public nuisance or a hazard to life, or to prevent entry into the
sewers for maintenance or repair;
      (10)   Wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts color to the treatment plant’s
effluent, thereby violating the town’s NPDES permit;
      (11)   Wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes, except
in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (12)   Stormwater, surface water, groundwater, artesian well water, roof
runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, de-ionized
water, non-contact cooling water and unpolluted wastewater, unless specifically
authorized by the Superintendent;
      (13)   Sludges, screenings or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes;
      (14)   Medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the
Superintendent in an individual wastewater discharge permit;
      (15)   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the treatment plant’s effluent to fail a toxicity test;
      (16)   Detergents, surface-active agents or other substances that might
cause excessive foaming in the POTW;
      (17)   Fats, oils or greases of animal or vegetable origin in
concentrations greater than 100 milligrams per liter; and
      (18)   Wastewater causing two readings on an explosion hazard meter at
the point of discharge into the POTW, or at any point in the POTW, of more than
5% or any single reading over 10% of the lower explosive limit of the meter.
   (C)   Processing and storage. Pollutants, substances or wastewater
prohibited by this section shall not be processed or stored in such a manner
that they could be discharged to the POTW.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.021 NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Users must comply with the categorical pretreatment standards found at
40 C.F.R. Ch. I, Subch. N, parts 405 to 471.
   (B)   When the limits in a categorical pretreatment standard are expressed
only in terms of mass of pollutant per unit of production, the Superintendent
may convert the limits to equivalent limitations expressed either as mass of
pollutant discharged per day or effluent concentration for the purposes of
calculating effluent limitations applicable to individual industrial users.
   (C)   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is
mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the Superintendent
shall impose an alternate limit in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e).
   (D)   Once included in its permit, the industrial user must comply with the
equivalent limitations developed in this section in lieu of the promulgated
categorical standards from which the equivalent limitations were derived.
   (E)   Many categorical pretreatment standards specify one limit for
calculating maximum daily discharge limitations and a second limit for
calculating maximum monthly average, or four-day average, limitations. Where
such standards are being applied, the same production or flow figure shall be
used in calculating both the average and the maximum equivalent limitation.
   (F)   Any industrial user operating under a permit incorporating equivalent
mass or concentration limits calculated from a production-based standard shall
notify the Superintendent within two business days after the user has a
reasonable basis to know that the production level will significantly change
within the next calendar month. Any user not notifying the Superintendent of
such anticipated change will be required to meet the mass or concentration
limits in its permit that were based on the original estimate of the long-term
average production rate.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.022 STATE PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Users must comply with state pretreatment standards codified at 327 IAC §§
5-16 to 5-21.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.023 LOCAL LIMITS.
   (A)   The Superintendent is authorized to establish local limits pursuant to
40 C.F.R. § 403.5(c).
   (B)   (1)   The following pollutant limits are established to protect
against pass-through and interference. No person shall discharge wastewater
containing in excess of the following.
Pollutant Limit
Pollutant                                          Limit
Ammonia                                            7.0 mg/L
BOD5                                               200 mg/L
Cadmium                                            1.0 mg/L
Chromium (hexavalent)                              1.0 mg/L
Chromium (total hexavalent plus total trivalent)   3.0 mg/L
Copper                                             1.0 mg/L
Cyanide (total by distillation)                    1.2 mg/L
Lead                                               0.4 mg/L
Mercury                                            0.001 mg/L
Nickel                                             2.4 mg/L
Oil and/or grease (animal or vegetable in origin)  200 mg/L
Oil and/or grease (mineral or petroleum in origin) 100 mg/L
pH                                                 6.0 – 10.0
Silver                                             0.24 mg/L
Total phenols                                      1.0 mg/L
Total suspended solids                             150 mg/L
Total toxic organics (TTO)                         2.13 mg/L
Zinc                                               2.4 mg/L
 
      (2)   The above limits apply at the point where the wastewater is
discharged to the POTW. All concentrations for metallic substances are for
total metal unless indicated otherwise. The Superintendent may impose mass
limitations in addition to the concentration-based limitations above.
   (C)   The Superintendent may develop best management practices (BMPs), by
ordinance or in individual wastewater discharge permits, to implement local
limits and the requirements of §
54.020 of this chapter.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.024 TOWN’S RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The town reserves the right to establish, by ordinance or in individual
wastewater discharge permits, more stringent standards or requirements on
discharges to the POTW consistent with the purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 54.025 DILUTION.
   (A)   No user shall ever increase the use of process water, or in any way
attempt to dilute a discharge, as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with a discharge limitation unless expressly
authorized by an applicable pretreatment standard or requirement.
   (B)   The Superintendent may impose mass limitations on users who are using
dilution to meet applicable pretreatment standards or requirements or in other
cases when the imposition of mass limitations is appropriate.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010) Penalty, see §
54.999
PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER
§ 54.040 PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   (A)   Users shall provide wastewater treatment as necessary to comply with
this chapter and shall achieve compliance with all categorical pretreatment
standards, local limits and the prohibitions set out in §
54.020 of this chapter within the time limitations specified by the EPA, the
state or the Superintendent, whichever is more stringent.
   (B)   Any facilities necessary for compliance shall be provided, operated
and maintained at the user’s expense. Detailed plans describing such facilities
and operating procedures shall be submitted to the Superintendent for review
and shall be acceptable to the Superintendent before such facilities are
constructed. The review of such plans and operating procedures shall in no way
relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying such facilities as
necessary to produce a discharge acceptable to the town under the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 54.041 ADDITIONAL PRETREATMENT MEASURES.
   (A)   Whenever deemed necessary, the Superintendent may require users to
restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain
wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate
points of discharge, separate sewage waste streams from industrial waste
streams and such other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW and
determine the user’s compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The Superintendent may require any persons discharging into the POTW
to install and maintain, on their property and at their expense, a suitable
storage and flow-control facility to ensure equalization of flow. An individual
wastewater discharge permit may be issued solely for flow equalization.
   (C)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil or sand, except that
such interceptors shall not be required for residential users. All interception
units shall be of a type and capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall
be so located as to be easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Such
interceptors shall be inspected, cleaned and repaired by the user at his or her
expense.
   (D)   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.042 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE/SLUG DISCHARGE CONTROL PLANS.
   (A)   The Superintendent shall evaluate whether each SIU needs an accidental
discharge/slug discharge control plan or other action to control slug
discharges. The Superintendent may require any user to develop, submit for
approval and implement such a plan or to take such other action that may be
necessary to control slug discharges. Alternatively, the Superintendent may
develop such a plan for any user.
   (B)   An accidental discharge/slug discharge control plan shall address, at
a minimum, the following:
      (1)   Description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges;
      (2)   Description of stored chemicals;
      (3)   Procedures for immediately notifying the Superintendent of any
accidental or slug discharge, as required by §
54.100 of this chapter; and
      (4)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, the inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, the handling and transfer of materials, loading
and unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, the
building of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic
organic pollutants, including solvents, and measures and equipment for
emergency response.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 54.043 HAULED WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Septic tank waste may be introduced into the POTW only at locations
designated by the Superintendent and at such times as are established by the
Superintendent. Such waste shall not violate §§
54.020 to
54.025 of this chapter or any other requirements established by the town. The
Superintendent may require septic tank waste haulers to obtain individual
wastewater discharge permits.
   (B)   The Superintendent may require haulers of industrial waste to obtain
individual wastewater discharge permits. The Superintendent may require
generators of hauled industrial waste to obtain individual wastewater discharge
permits. The Superintendent also may prohibit the disposal of hauled industrial
waste. The discharge of hauled industrial waste is subject to all other
requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Industrial waste haulers may discharge loads only at locations
designated by the Superintendent. No load may be discharged without the prior
consent of the Superintendent. The Superintendent may collect samples of each
hauled load to ensure compliance with applicable standards. The Superintendent
may require the industrial waste hauler to provide a waste analysis of any load
prior to discharge.
   (D)   Industrial waste haulers must provide a waste-tracking form for every
load. This form shall include, at a minimum, the name and address of the
industrial waste hauler, permit number, truck identification, names and
addresses of sources of waste and volume and characteristics of the waste. The
form shall identify the type of industry, known or suspected waste constituents
and whether any wastes are RCRA hazardous wastes.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010) Penalty, see §
54.999
INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS
§ 54.055 WASTEWATER ANALYSIS.
   When requested by the Superintendent, a user must submit information on the
nature and characteristics of its wastewater within 30 days of the request. The
Superintendent is authorized to prepare a form for this purpose and may
periodically require users to update this information.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.056 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   No significant industrial user shall discharge wastewater into the
POTW without first obtaining an individual wastewater discharge permit from the
Superintendent, except that a significant industrial user that has filed a
timely application pursuant to §
54.057 of this chapter may continue to discharge for the time period specified
therein.
   (B)   The Superintendent may require other users to obtain individual
wastewater discharge permits as necessary to carry out the purposes of this
chapter.
   (C)   Any violation of the terms and conditions of an individual wastewater
discharge permit shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and subjects the
wastewater discharge permittee to the sanctions set out in §§
54.135 to
54.143 or
54.155 to
54.157 of this chapter. Obtaining an individual wastewater discharge permit
does not relieve a permittee of the permittee’s obligation to comply with all
federal and state pretreatment standards or requirements, or with any other
requirements of federal, state and local law.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.057 PERMITTING FOR EXISTING CONNECTIONS.
   Any user required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge permit who
was discharging wastewater into the POTW prior to the effective date of this
chapter and who wishes to continue such discharges in the future shall, within
90 days after said date, apply to the Superintendent for an individual
wastewater discharge permit in accordance with §
54.059 of this chapter and shall not cause or allow discharges to the POTW to
continue after 180 days of the effective date of this chapter, except in
accordance with an individual wastewater discharge permit issued by the
Superintendent.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.058 PERMITTING FOR NEW CONNECTIONS.
   Any user required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge permit who
proposes to begin or recommence discharging into the POTW must obtain such
permit prior to the beginning or recommencing of such discharge. An application
for this individual wastewater discharge permit, in accordance with §
54.059 of this chapter, must be filed at least 90 days prior to the date upon
which any discharge will begin or recommence.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.059 APPLICATION CONTENTS.
   (A)   All users required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge permit
must submit a permit application.
   (B)   The Superintendent may require users to submit all or some of the
following information as part of a permit application:
      (1)   Identifying information.
         (a)   The name and address of the facility, including name of the
operator and owner; and
         (b)   Contact information, description of activities, facilities and
plant production processes on the premises.
      (2)   Environmental permits. A list of any environmental control permits
held by or for the facility;
      (3)   Description of operations.
         (a)   A brief description of the nature, average rate of production
(including each product produced by type, amount, processes and rate of
production) and standard industrial classifications of the operation(s) carried
out by such user. This description should include a schematic process diagram
which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from the regulated processes;
         (b)   Types of wastes generated, and a list of all raw materials and
chemicals used or stored at the facility which are, or could accidentally or
intentionally be, discharged to the POTW;
         (c)   Number and type of employees, hours of operation and proposed or
actual hours of operation;
         (d)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day); and
         (e)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and
details to show all sewers, floor drains and appurtenances by size, location
and elevation, and all points of discharge.
   (4)   Time. Time and duration of discharges;
   (5)   Monitoring. The location for monitoring all wastes covered by the
permit;
   (6)   Flow measurement. Information showing the measured average daily and
maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined waste
stream formula set out in §
54.021(C) of this chapter;
   (7)   Measurement of pollutants.
         (a)   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process and any new categorically regulated processes for existing
sources;
         (b)   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature and
concentration, and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the
Superintendent, of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated
process;
         (c)   Instantaneous, daily maximum and long-term average
concentrations, or mass, where required, shall be reported;
         (d)   The sample shall be representative of daily operations and shall
be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in §
54.104 of this chapter. Where the standard requires compliance with a BMP or
pollution prevention alternative, the user shall submit documentation as
required by the Superintendent or the applicable standards to determine
compliance with the standard; and
         (e)   Sampling must be performed in accordance with the procedures set
out in §
54.105 of this chapter.
      (8)   Additionally. Any other information as may be deemed necessary by
the Superintendent to evaluate the permit application.
   (C)   Incomplete or inaccurate applications will not be processed and will
be returned to the user for revision.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 54.060 APPLICATION SIGNATORIES AND CERTIFICATIONS.
   (A)   All wastewater discharge permit applications, user reports and
certification statements must be signed by an authorized representative of the
user and contain the certification statement in §
54.108(A) of this chapter.
   (B)   If the designation of an authorized representative is no longer
accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility for the
overall operation of the facility or overall responsibility for environmental
matters for the company, a new written authorization satisfying the
requirements of this section must be submitted to the Superintendent prior to
or together with any reports to be signed by an authorized representative.
   (C)   A facility determined to be a non-significant categorical industrial
user by the Superintendent pursuant to §
54.001 of this chapter must annually submit the signed certification statement
in §
54.108(B) of this chapter.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.061 PERMIT DECISIONS.
   (A)   The Superintendent will evaluate the data furnished by the user and
may require additional information.
   (B)   Within 90 days of receipt of a complete permit application, the
Superintendent will determine whether to issue an individual wastewater
discharge permit. The Superintendent may deny any application for an individual
wastewater discharge permit.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT ISSUANCE
§ 54.075 DURATION OF PERMIT.
   An individual wastewater discharge permit shall be issued for a specified
time period, not to exceed five years from the effective date of the permit. An
individual wastewater discharge permit may be issued for a period of less than
five years at the discretion of the Superintendent. Each individual wastewater
discharge permit will indicate a specific date upon which it will expire.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 54.076 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   (A)   An individual wastewater discharge permit shall include such
conditions as are deemed reasonably necessary by the Superintendent to prevent
pass-through or interference, protect the quality of the water body receiving
the treatment plant’s effluent, protect worker health and safety, facilitate
sludge management and disposal and protect against damage to the POTW.
   (B)   Individual wastewater discharge permits must contain:
      (1)   A statement that indicates the wastewater discharge permit issuance
date, expiration date and effective date;
      (2)   A statement that the wastewater discharge permit is nontransferable
without prior notification to the town in accordance with §
54.078 of this chapter and provisions for furnishing the new owner or operator
with a copy of the existing wastewater discharge permit;
      (3)   Effluent limits, including best management practices, based on
applicable pretreatment standards;
      (4)   Self monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification and record-
keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification of
pollutants (or best management practice) to be monitored, sampling location,
sampling frequency and sample type based on federal, state and local law;
      (5)   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for a
violation of the pretreatment standards and requirements, and any applicable
compliance schedule. Such schedule may not extend the time for compliance
beyond that required by applicable federal, state or local law; and
      (6)   Requirements to control slug discharge if determined by the
Superintendent to be necessary.
   (C)   Individual wastewater discharge permits may contain, but need not be
limited to, the following conditions:
      (1)   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, time of
discharge and/or requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
      (2)   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology,
pollution control or the construction of appropriate containment devices
designed to reduce, eliminate or prevent the introduction of pollutants into
the treatment works;
      (3)   Requirements for the development and implementation of spill
control plans or other special conditions, including management practices
necessary to adequately prevent accidental, unanticipated or non-routine
discharges;
      (4)   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the POTW;
      (5)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the POTW;
      (6)   Requirements for the installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment, including flow measurement devices;
      (7)   A statement that compliance with the individual wastewater
discharge permit does not relieve the permittee of responsibility for
compliance with all applicable federal and state pretreatment standards,
including those which become effective during the term of the individual
wastewater discharge permit; and
      (8)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Superintendent to
ensure compliance with this chapter and state and federal laws, rules and
regulations.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010,)
§ 54.077 MODIFICATION OF PERMIT.
   The Superintendent may modify an individual wastewater discharge permit for
good cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
   (A)   To incorporate any new or revised federal, state or local pretreatment
standards or requirements;
   (B)   To address significant alterations or additions to the user’s
operation, processes or wastewater volume or character since the time of the
individual wastewater discharge permit issuance;
   (C)   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or permanent
reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge;
   (D)   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat to
the town’s POTW, town personnel or the receiving waters;
   (E)   Violation of any terms or conditions of the individual wastewater
discharge permit;
   (F)   Misrepresentations or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts in
the wastewater discharge permit application or in any required reporting;
   (G)   Revision of or a grant of variance from categorical pretreatment
standards pursuant to 40 C.F.R. § 403.13;
   (H)   To correct typographical or other errors in the individual wastewater
discharge permit; or
   (I)   To reflect a transfer of the facility ownership or operation to a new
owner or operator where requested in accordance with §
54.078 of this chapter.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 54.078 TRANSFER OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Individual wastewater discharge permits may be transferred to a new
owner or operator only if the permittee gives at least 30 days’ advance notice
to the Superintendent and the Superintendent approves the individual wastewater
discharge permit transfer.
   (B)   The notice to the Superintendent must include a written certification
by the new owner or operator which:
      (1)   States that the new owner and/or operator has no immediate intent
to change the facility’s operations and processes;
      (2)   Identifies the specific date on which the transfer is to occur; and
      (3)   Acknowledges full responsibility for complying with the existing
individual wastewater discharge permit.
   (C)   Failure to provide advance notice of a transfer renders the individual
wastewater discharge permit void as of the date of facility transfer.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 54.079 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The Superintendent may revoke an individual wastewater discharge
permit for good cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
      (1)   Failure to notify the Superintendent of significant changes to the
wastewater prior to the changed discharge;
      (2)   Failure to provide prior notification to the Superintendent of
changed conditions pursuant to §
54.099 of this chapter;
      (3)   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts
in the wastewater discharge permit application;
      (4)   Falsifying self-monitoring reports and certification statements;
      (5)   Tampering with monitoring equipment;
      (6)   Refusing to allow the Superintendent timely access to the facility
premises and records;
      (7)   Failure to meet effluent limitations;
      (8)   Failure to pay fines;
      (9)   Failure to pay sewer charges;
      (10)   Failure to meet compliance schedules;
      (11)   Failure to complete a wastewater survey or the wastewater
discharge permit application;
      (12)   Failure to provide advance notice of the transfer of business
ownership of a permittee facility; or
      (13)   Violation of any pretreatment standard or requirement or any terms
of the wastewater discharge permit or this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Individual wastewater discharge permits shall be voidable upon
the cessation of operations or transfer of business ownership.
      (2)   All individual wastewater discharge permits issued to a user are
void upon the issuance of a new individual wastewater discharge permit to that
user.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 54.080 REISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   A user with an expiring individual wastewater discharge permit shall apply
for individual wastewater discharge permit reissuance by submitting a complete
permit application, in accordance with §
54.059 of this chapter, a minimum of 180 days prior to the expiration of the
user’s existing individual wastewater discharge permit.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 54.081 REGULATION OF WASTE RECEIVED FROM OTHER JURISDICTIONS.
   (A)   If another municipality, or user located within another municipality,
contributes wastewater to the POTW, the Superintendent shall enter into an
intermunicipal agreement with the contributing municipality.
   (B)   Prior to entering into an agreement required by division (A) above,
the Superintendent shall request the following information from the
contributing municipality:
      (1)   A description of the quality and volume of wastewater discharged to
the POTW by the contributing municipality;
      (2)   An inventory of all users located within the contributing
municipality that are discharging to the POTW; and
      (3)   Such other information as the Superintendent may deem necessary.
   (C)   An intermunicipal agreement, as required by division (A) above, shall
contain the following conditions:
      (1)   A requirement for the contributing municipality to adopt a sewer
use ordinance which is at least as stringent as this chapter and local limits,
including required baseline monitoring reports (BMRs), which are at least as
stringent as those set out in §
54.023 of this chapter. The requirement shall specify that such ordinance and
limits must be revised as necessary to reflect changes made to the town’s code
or local limits;
      (2)   A requirement for the contributing municipality to submit a revised
user inventory on at least an annual basis;
      (3)   A provision specifying which pretreatment implementation
activities, including individual wastewater discharge permit issuance,
inspection and sampling and enforcement, will be conducted by the contributing
municipality; which of these activities will be conducted by the
Superintendent; and which of these activities will be conducted jointly by the
contributing municipality and the Superintendent;
      (4)   A requirement for the contributing municipality to provide the
Superintendent with access to all information that the contributing
municipality obtains as part of its pretreatment activities;
      (5)   Limits on the nature, quality and volume of the contributing
municipality’s wastewater at the point where it discharges to the POTW;
      (6)   Requirements for monitoring the contributing municipality’s
discharge;
      (7)   A provision ensuring the Superintendent access to the facilities of
the users located within the contributing municipality’s jurisdictional
boundaries for the purpose of inspection, sampling and any other duties deemed
necessary by the Superintendent; and
      (8)   A provision specifying remedies available for breach of the terms
of the intermunicipal agreement.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
§ 54.095 BASELINE MONITORING REPORTS.
   (A)   Report required.
      (1)   Existing sources. Within either 180 days after the effective date
of a categorical pretreatment standard, or the final administrative decision on
a category determination under 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later,
existing categorical industrial users currently discharging to or scheduled to
discharge to the POTW shall submit to the Superintendent a report which
contains the information listed in division (B) below.
      (2)   New sources. At least 90 days prior to commencement of their
discharge, new sources, and sources that become categorical industrial users
subsequent to the promulgation of an applicable categorical standard, shall
submit to the Superintendent a report which contains the information listed in
division (B) below. A new source shall report the method of pretreatment it
intends to use to meet applicable categorical standards. A new source also
shall give estimates of its anticipated flow and quantity of pollutants to be
discharged.
   (B)   Information required. Users described in division (A) above shall
submit the information set forth below:
      (1)   Generally. All information required in §
54.059(B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3)(a) and (B)(6);
      (2)   Measurement of pollutants.
         (a)   The user shall provide the information required in §
54.059(B)(7)(a) to (B)(7)(d).
         (b)   The user shall take a minimum of one representative sample to
compile that data necessary to comply with the requirements of this section.
         (c)   Samples should be taken immediately downstream from pretreatment
facilities if such exists or immediately downstream from the regulated process
if no pretreatment exists. If other wastewaters are mixed with the regulated
wastewater prior to pretreatment, the user should measure the flows and
concentrations necessary to allow use of the combined waste stream formula in
40 C.F.R. 403.6(e) to evaluate compliance with the pretreatment standards.
Where an alternate concentration or mass limit has been calculated in
accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e), this adjusted limit, along with
supporting data, shall be submitted to the Control Authority.
         (d)   Sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with §
54.104 of this chapter.
         (e)   The Superintendent may allow the submission of a baseline report
which utilizes only historical data so long as the data provides information
sufficient to determine the need for industrial pretreatment measures.
         (f)   The baseline report shall indicate the time, date and place of
sampling and the methods of analysis, and shall certify that such sampling and
analysis is representative of normal work cycles and expected pollutant
discharges to the POTW.
      (3)   Compliance certification. A statement, reviewed by the user’s
authorized representative as defined in §
54.001 of this chapter and certified by a qualified professional, indicating
whether pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance (O & M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements.
      (4)   Compliance schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or operation
and maintenance will be required to meet the pretreatment standards, the
shortest schedule by which the user will provide such additional pretreatment
and/or operation and maintenance must be provided. The completion date in this
schedule shall not be later than the compliance date established for the
applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule pursuant to this
section must meet the requirements set out in §
54.096 of this chapter.
      (5)   Signature and report certification. All baseline monitoring reports
must be certified in accordance with §
54.108(A) of this chapter and signed by an authorized representative as defined
in §
54.001 of this chapter.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 54.096 COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE PROGRESS REPORTS.
   The following conditions shall apply to the compliance schedule required by
§
54.095(B)(4) of this chapter.
   (A)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction and beginning and
conducting routine operation).
   (B)   No increment referred to in division (A) above shall exceed nine
months.
   (C)   The user shall submit a progress report to the Superintendent not
later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the final date of
compliance, including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay and, if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule.
   (D)   In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such progress
reports to the Superintendent.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 54.097 REPORTS ON COMPLIANCE WITH CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD DEADLINE.
   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source, following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject
to such pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the
Superintendent a report containing the information described in §§
54.059(B)(6) and (B)(7) and
54.095(B)(2) of this chapter. For users subject to equivalent mass or
concentration limits established in accordance with the procedures in §
54.021 of this chapter, this report shall contain a reasonable measure of the
user’s long-term production rate. For all other users subject to categorical
pretreatment standards expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per
unit of production (or other measure of operation), this report shall include
the user’s actual production during the appropriate sampling period. All
compliance reports must be signed and certified in accordance with §
54.108(A) of this chapter. All sampling will be done in conformance with §
54.105 of this chapter.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 54.098 PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   (A)   Except as specified otherwise, all significant industrial users must,
at a frequency determined by the Superintendent, submit not less than twice per
year (June and December, or on dates specified) reports indicating the nature,
concentration of pollutants in the discharge which are limited by pretreatment
standards and the measured or estimated average and maximum daily flows for the
reporting period. In cases where the pretreatment standard requires compliance
with a best management practice (BMP) or pollution prevention alternative, the
user must submit documentation required by the Superintendent or the
pretreatment standard necessary to determine the compliance status of the user.
   (B)   All periodic compliance reports must be signed and certified in
accordance with §
54.108(A) of this chapter.
   (C)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user’s discharge.
Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be properly
operated, kept clean and maintained in good working order at all times. The
failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working order shall
not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are unrepresentative
of its discharge.
   (D)   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this section
monitors any regulated pollutant at the appropriate sampling location more
frequently than required by the Superintendent using the procedures prescribed
in §
54.105 of this chapter, the results of this monitoring shall be included in the
report.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 54.099 CHANGED CONDITIONS REPORTS.
   (A)   Each user must notify the Superintendent of any significant changes to
the user’s operations or system which might alter the nature, quality or volume
of its wastewater at least 30 days before the change.
   (B)   The Superintendent may require the user to submit such information as
may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the
submission of a wastewater discharge permit application under §
54.059 of this chapter.
   (C)   The Superintendent may issue an individual wastewater discharge permit
under §
54.080 of this chapter or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit under
§
54.077 of this chapter in response to changed conditions or anticipated changed
conditions.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 54.100 POTENTIAL PROBLEMS REPORTS.
   (A)   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a non-routine, episodic nature, a non-
customary batch discharge, a slug discharge or a slug load, that might cause
potential problems for the POTW, the user shall immediately telephone and
notify the Superintendent of the incident. This notification shall include the
location of the discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume, if known,
and corrective actions taken by the user.
   (B)   Within five days following such discharge, the user shall, unless
waived by the Superintendent, submit a detailed written report describing the
cause(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent
similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the user of any
expense, loss, damage or other liability which might be incurred as a result of
damage to the POTW, natural resources or any other damage to persons or
property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, penalties
or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user’s bulletin board or
other prominent place advising employees who to call in the event of a
discharge described in division (A) above. Employers shall ensure that all
employees who could cause such a discharge to occur are advised of the
emergency notification procedure.
   (D)   Significant industrial users are required to notify the Superintendent
immediately of any changes at the user’s facility affecting the potential for a
slug discharge.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.101 REPORTS FROM UNPERMITTED USERS.
   All users not required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge permit
shall provide appropriate reports to the Superintendent as the Superintendent
may require.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 54.102 NOTICE OF VIOLATION; REPEAT SAMPLING AND REPORTING.
   (A)   If sampling performed by a user indicates a violation, the user must
notify the Superintendent within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation.
The user shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the results of
the repeat analysis to the Superintendent within 30 days after becoming aware
of the violation.
   (B)   Resampling by the industrial user is not required if the town performs
sampling at the user’s facility at least once a month, or if the town performs
sampling at the user between the time when the initial sampling was conducted
and the time when the user or the town receives the results of this sampling,
or if the town has performed the sampling and analysis in lieu of the
industrial user.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 54.103 NOTIFICATION OF THE DISCHARGE OF HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   (A)   (1)   Any user who commences the discharge of hazardous waste shall
notify the POTW, the EPA Regional Waste Management Division Director and the
state’s hazardous waste authorities, in writing, of any discharge into the POTW
of a substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste
under 40 C.F.R. part 261. Such notification must include the name of the
hazardous waste as set forth in 40 C.F.R. part 261, the EPA hazardous waste
number and the type of discharge (continuous, batch or other).
      (2)   If the user discharges more than 100 kilograms of such waste per
calendar month to the POTW, the notification also shall contain the following
information to the extent such information is known and readily available to
the user:
         (a)   An identification of the hazardous constituents contained in the
wastes;
         (b)   An estimation of the mass and concentration of such constituents
in the waste stream discharged during that calendar month; and
         (c)   An estimation of the mass of constituents in the waste stream
expected to be discharged during the following 12 months.
      (3)   All notifications must take place not later than 180 days after the
discharge commences. Any notification under this division (A) need be submitted
only once for each hazardous waste discharged. However, notifications of
changed conditions must be submitted under §
54.099 of this chapter. The notification requirement in this section does not
apply to pollutants already reported by users subject to categorical
pretreatment standards under the self-monitoring requirements of §§
54.095,
54.097 and
54.098 of this chapter.
   (B)   Dischargers are exempt from the requirements of division (A) above
during a calendar month in which they discharge not more than 15 kilograms of
hazardous wastes unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes as specified in
40 C.F.R. §§ 261.30(d) and 261.33(c). Discharge of more than 15 kilograms of
nonacute hazardous wastes in a calendar month, or of any quantity of acute
hazardous wastes as specified in 40 C.F.R. §§ 261.30(d) and 261.33(e), requires
a one-time notification. Subsequent months during which the user discharges
more than such quantities of any hazardous waste do not require additional
notification.
   (C)   In the case of any new regulations under RCRA § 3001 identifying
additional characteristics of a hazardous waste or listing any additional
substance as a hazardous waste, the user must notify the Superintendent, the
EPA Regional Waste Management Division Director and the state’s hazardous waste
authorities of the discharge of such substance within 90 days of the effective
date of such regulations.
   (D)   In the case of any notification made under this section, the user
shall certify that the user has a program in place to reduce the volume and
toxicity of hazardous wastes generated to the degree the user has determined to
be economically practical.
   (E)   This provision does not create a right to discharge any substance not
otherwise permitted to be discharged by this chapter, a permit issued
thereunder or any applicable federal or state law.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 54.104 ANALYTICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, to be submitted
as part of a wastewater discharge permit application or report shall be
performed in accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 C.F.R. part 136,
and amendments thereto, unless otherwise specified in an applicable categorical
pretreatment standard.
   (B)   If 40 C.F.R. part 136 does not contain sampling or analytical
techniques for the pollutant in question, or where the EPA determines that the
part 136 sampling and analytical techniques are inappropriate for the pollutant
in question, sampling and analyses shall be performed by using validated
analytical methods or any other applicable sampling and analytical procedures,
including procedures suggested by the Superintendent or other parties approved
by the EPA.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 54.105 SAMPLE COLLECTION.
   (A)   Samples collected to satisfy reporting requirements must be based on
data obtained through appropriate sampling and analysis performed during the
period covered by the report, based on data that is representative of
conditions occurring during the reporting period.
   (B)   (1)   Except as indicated in divisions (C) and (D) below, the user
must collect wastewater samples using 24-hour flow-proportional composite
sampling techniques unless time-proportional composite sampling or grab
sampling is authorized by the Superintendent. Where time-proportional composite
sampling or grab sampling is authorized by the town, the samples must be
representative of the discharge.
      (2)   Using protocols (including appropriate preservation) specified in
40 C.F.R. part 136 and appropriate EPA guidance, multiple grab samples
collected during a 24-hour period may be composited prior to the analysis as
follows:
         (a)   For cyanide, total phenols and sulfides, the samples may be
composited in the laboratory or in the field; and
         (b)   For volatile organics and oil and grease, the samples may be
composited in the laboratory.
      (3)   Composite samples for other parameters unaffected by the
compositing procedures as documented in approved EPA methodologies may be
authorized by the town, as appropriate. In addition, grab samples may be
required to show compliance with instantaneous limits.
   (C)   Samples for oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide, total phenols,
sulfides and volatile organic compounds must be obtained using grab collection
techniques.
   (D)   (1)   For sampling required in support of baseline monitoring and 90-
day compliance reports required in §§
54.095 and
54.097 of this chapter, a minimum of four grab samples must be used for pH,
cyanide, total phenols, oil and grease, sulfide and volatile organic compounds
for facilities for which historical sampling data does not exist; for
facilities for which historical sampling data is available, the Superintendent
may authorize a lower minimum.
      (2)   For the reports required by §
54.098 of this chapter, the industrial user is required to collect the number
of grab samples necessary to assess and assure compliance with applicable
pretreatment standards and requirements.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 54.106 DATE OF RECEIPT OF REPORTS.
   Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the date
postmarked. For reports which are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail
facility serviced by the United States Postal Service, the date of receipt of
the report shall govern.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 54.107 RECORDKEEPING.
   (A)   Users subject to the reporting requirements of this chapter shall
retain and make available for inspection and copying all records of information
obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this chapter, any
additional records of information obtained pursuant to monitoring activities
undertaken by the user independent of such requirements and documentation
associated with best management practices established under §
54.023(C) of this chapter.
   (B)   Records shall include the date, exact place, method and time of
sampling and the name of the person(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses
were performed; who performed the analyses; the analytical techniques or
methods used; and the results of such analyses.
   (C)   These records shall remain available for a period of at least three
years. This period shall be automatically extended for the duration of any
litigation concerning the user or the town, or where the user has been
specifically notified of a longer retention period by the Superintendent.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 54.108 CERTIFICATION STATEMENTS.
   (A)   Certification of permit applications. The following certification
statement is required to be signed and submitted by users submitting permit
applications in accordance with §
54.060 of this chapter; users submitting baseline monitoring reports under §
54.095(B)(5) of this chapter; users submitting reports on compliance with the
categorical pretreatment standard deadlines under §
54.097 of this chapter; and users submitting periodic compliance reports
required by §
54.098(A) and (B). The following certification statement must be signed by an
authorized representative as defined in §
54.001 of this chapter.
“I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system,
or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the
information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true,
accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for
submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and
imprisonment for knowing violations.”
   (B)   Annual certification for non-significant categorical industrial users.
A facility determined to be a non-significant categorical industrial user by
the Superintendent, pursuant to division (3) in the definition of “significant
industrial user”in §
54.001 of this chapter and in §
54.060(C) of this chapter, must annually submit the following certification
statement signed in accordance with the signatory requirements in the
definition of “authorized or duly authorized representative of the user” in §
54.001 of this chapter. This certification must accompany an alternative report
required by the Superintendent.
“Based on my inquiry of the person or persons directly responsible for managing
compliance with the categorical Pretreatment Standards under 40 C.F.R. ______,
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief that during the period
from _______, _______ to _______, _______ [months, days, year]:
(a)   The facility described as _________________________ [facility name] met
the definition of a Non-Significant Categorical Industrial User as described in
division (3) of the definition of “significant industrial user” in § 54.001 of
the code;
(b) The facility complied with all applicable Pretreatment Standards and
requirements during this reporting period; and
(c) The facility never discharged more than 100 gallons of total categorical
wastewater on any given day during this reporting period.
This compliance certification is based on the following information.
___________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________”
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010) Penalty, see §
54.999
COMPLIANCE MONITORING
§ 54.120 RIGHT OF ENTRY; INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   (A)   The Superintendent shall have the right to enter the premises of any
user to determine whether the user is complying with all requirements of this
chapter and any individual wastewater discharge permit or order issued
hereunder. Users shall allow the Superintendent ready access to all parts of
the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination and
copying, and for the performance of any additional duties.
   (B)   Where a user has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into the user’s premises, the user
shall make necessary arrangements with the user’s security guards so that, upon
the presentation of suitable identification, the Superintendent shall be
permitted to enter without delay for the purposes of performing specific
responsibilities.
   (C)   The Superintendent shall have the right to set up on the user’s
property, or require the installation of, such devices as are necessary to
conduct sampling and/or metering of the user’s operations.
   (D)   The Superintendent may require the user to install monitoring
equipment as necessary. The facility’s sampling and monitoring equipment shall
be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the user
at the user’s own expense. All devices used to measure wastewater flow and
quality shall be calibrated annually to ensure their accuracy.
   (E)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the
facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the user
at the written or verbal request of the Superintendent and shall not be
replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the user.
   (F)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the Superintendent access to the
user’s premises shall be a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010; Ord. 10-2021, passed 8-9-2021) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.121 SEARCH WARRANTS.
   If the Superintendent has been refused access to a building, structure or
property, or to any part thereof, and is able to demonstrate probable cause to
believe that there may be a violation of this chapter, or that there is a need
to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling program
of the town designed to verify compliance with this chapter or any permit or
order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety and
welfare of the community, the Superintendent may seek issuance of a search
warrant from any court of general jurisdiction in the county.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES
§ 54.135 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Superintendent may serve upon that user a written notice of
violation. Within ten days of the receipt of such notice, an explanation of the
violation and a plan for the satisfactory correction and prevention thereof, to
include specific required actions, shall be submitted by the user to the
Superintendent. The submission of such a plan in no way relieves the user of
liability for any violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice of
violation.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the
Superintendent to take any action, including emergency actions or any other
enforcement action, without first issuing a notice of violation.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 54.136 CONSENT ORDERS.
   The Superintendent may enter into consent orders, assurances of compliance
or other similar documents establishing an agreement with any user responsible
for noncompliance. Such documents shall include specific action to be taken by
the user to correct the noncompliance within a time period specified by the
document. Such documents shall have the same force and effect as the
administrative orders issued pursuant to §§
54.138 and
54.139 of this chapter and shall be judicially enforceable.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 54.137 SHOW-CAUSE HEARING.
   (A)   The Superintendent may order a user which has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, to appear before the Superintendent and show cause why the
proposed enforcement action should not be taken. Notice shall be served on the
user specifying the time and place for the meeting, the proposed enforcement
action, the reasons for such action, and a request that the user show cause why
the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of the meeting
shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail (return receipt
requested) at least ten days prior to the hearing. Such notice may be served on
any authorized representative of the user as defined in §
54.001 of this chapter and required by §
54.060(A) of this chapter.
   (B)   A show-cause hearing shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite
for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 54.138 COMPLIANCE ORDERS.
   (A)   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Superintendent may issue an order to the user responsible for
the discharge directing that the user come into compliance within a specified
time. If the user does not come into compliance within the time provided, sewer
service may be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities, devices or
other related appurtenances are installed and properly operated. Compliance
orders also may contain other requirements to address the noncompliance,
including additional self-monitoring and management practices designed to
minimize the amount of pollutants discharged to the sewer. A compliance order
may not extend the deadline for compliance established for a pretreatment
standard or requirement, nor does a compliance order relieve the user of
liability for any violation, including any continuing violation.
   (B)   The issuance of a compliance order shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 54.139 CEASE AND DESIST ORDERS.
   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, or that the user’s past violations are likely to recur, the
Superintendent may issue an order to the user directing it to cease and desist
all such violations and directing the user to:
   (A)   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
   (B)   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be needed
to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including halting
operations and/or terminating the discharge. The issuance of a cease and desist
order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other
action against the user.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 54.140 ADMINISTRATIVE FINES.
   (A)   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Superintendent may fine such user. Such fines shall be
assessed on a per-violation, per-day basis. In the case of monthly or other
long-term average discharge limits, fines shall be assessed for each day during
the period of violation.
   (B)   Unpaid charges, fines and penalties shall, after 180 calendar days, be
assessed an additional penalty of 10% of the unpaid balance, and interest shall
accrue thereafter at a rate of 1% per month. A lien against the user’s property
shall be sought for unpaid charges, fines and penalties.
   (C)   Users desiring to dispute such fines must file a written request for
the Superintendent to reconsider the fine along with full payment of the fine
amount within 180 days of being notified of the fine. Where a request has
merit, the Superintendent may convene a hearing on the matter. In the event the
user’s appeal is successful, the payment, together with any interest accruing
thereto, shall be returned to the user. The Superintendent may add the costs of
preparing administrative enforcement actions, such as notices and orders, to
the fine.
   (D)   The issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or
a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 54.141 EMERGENCY SUSPENSIONS.
   (A)   The Superintendent may immediately suspend a user’s discharge, after
informal notice to the user, whenever such suspension is necessary to stop an
actual or threatened discharge which reasonably appears to present or cause an
imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons. The
Superintendent may also immediately suspend a user’s discharge, after notice
and opportunity to respond, that threatens to interfere with the operation of
the POTW, or which presents, or may present, an endangerment to the
environment.
   (B)   Any user notified of a suspension of its discharge shall immediately
stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a user’s failure to
immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the Superintendent
may take such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate severance of the
sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW, its receiving
stream or endangerment to any individuals. The Superintendent may allow the
user to recommence its discharge when the user has demonstrated to the
satisfaction of the Superintendent that the period of endangerment has passed
unless the termination proceedings in §
54.142 of this chapter are initiated against the user.
   (C)   A user that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement,
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence, to the Superintendent prior to the date of any
show-cause or termination hearing under §§
54.137 or
54.142 of this chapter.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as requiring a hearing
prior to any emergency suspension under this section.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 54.142 TERMINATION OF DISCHARGE.
   (A)   In addition to the provisions in §
54.079 of this chapter, any user who violates the following conditions is
subject to discharge termination:
      (1)   Violation of individual wastewater discharge permit conditions;
      (2)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of the user’s discharge;
      (3)   Failure to report significant changes in operations or wastewater
volume, constituents and characteristics prior to discharge;
      (4)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the purpose
of inspection, monitoring or sampling; or
      (5)   Violation of the pretreatment standards in §§
54.020 to
54.025 of this chapter.
   (B)   The user will be notified of the proposed termination of the user’s
discharge and be offered an opportunity to show cause under §
54.137 of this chapter why the proposed action should not be taken. Exercise of
this option by the Superintendent shall not be a bar to, or a prerequisite for,
taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 54.143 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Violations and discrepancies that have been identified during the
review/screening process are to be forwarded to the Pretreatment Coordinator
for his or her review and evaluation as to the type of enforcement response
necessary. In order to ensure equitable treatment of violators and provide a
stronger basis for the selection of appropriate responses to violations, the
following enforcement response guide (ERG) should normally be followed.
   (B)   (1)   The enforcement response guide indicates the type of
noncompliance, the circumstances which might vary the type of response and the
range of responses for the particular category of noncompliance.
      (2)   The enforcement response guide has been developed with the
intention of serving the following two main purposes.
         (a)   It recommends enforcement responses that are appropriate in
relation to the nature and severity of the violation and the overall degree of
noncompliance.
         (b)   It provides a guide to encourage a uniform application of
enforcement responses to comparable levels in types of violations, and it can
be used as a mechanism to review the appropriateness of the response.
   (C)   (1)   The enforcement response guide groups various types of
violations into the following four categories.
 
I   Violations of sampling, monitoring and reporting
II  Violations of compliance schedules
III Violations of discharge limitations
IV  Violations detected through inspection or field monitoring
 
      (2)   All four category type violations include those established in SIU
permits and the town’s sewer use ordinance (SUO) and cover local and/or best
management practice (BMP) limits.
   (D)   In order to provide a concise manual in a usable format, acronyms have
been used for several of the types of response. A definition of the acronyms is
as follows and is listed in increasing order of severity.
      (1)   VTN or VERBAL TELEPHONE NOTICE. This is meant to describe a
response to a very minor type of violation which is normally conveyed verbally
to the contact person at the industry, and no further follow up normally is
expected. This is utilized when there is a very minor infraction, such as a
report being received one or two days late or abnormal wastewater monitoring
data. Telephone contact is logged and kept on file.
      (2)   LOV or LETTER OF VIOLATION. This is the most widely used and is a
written notification to the industrial user indicating the type of apparent
violation and requesting a response within ten days indicating a reason for the
noncompliance and what steps are being taken to eliminate any future violations
of this nature. Depending on the severity of the situation, information on the
matter maybe presented to the Superintendent.
      (3)   AO or ADMINISTRATIVE ORDER. An ADMINISTRATIVE ORDER would be in
such cases where the pretreatment program believed the industrial user was
committed to providing necessary corrective measures to correct previous
violations, and would utilize the ADMINISTRATIVE ORDER to outline minor
compliance schedules, along with other conditions that might be required, such
as additional monitoring, more reporting and the like. The ORDER would normally
contain a short time frame of one month to six months.
      (4)   ECS or ENFORCEMENT COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE. This is a formal
ENFORCEMENT COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE signed by both the pretreatment program and the
industry involved. This control mechanism is used when serious or long-term
violations of discharge limits occur that require the design and installation
of new or additional pretreatment equipment. Usually the time frame will be six
months to one year. Violations of the ECS can result in the next step,
consisting of administrative fines.
      (5)   LIT or LITIGATION. LITIGATION is utilized to define several courses
of action, including civil suits for injunctive relief and/or civil penalties,
criminal suits, termination of service and the like. These types of actions
would all involve the courts, the Town Attorney or an appointed attorney and
would follow the procedures necessary for due process.
   (E)   Utilizing the enforcement response guide, the Pretreatment Coordinator
will initiate the appropriate response and see that the tracking files and
violation files have been updated to show the type of action being taken and
the response date, if one is so indicated, in the type of action taken. The
Pretreatment Coordinator will also initiate any field surveying which is deemed
appropriate to substantiate previous data received or to double check the
response of an industrial user to the action which the user has indicated that
the user has taken.
   (F)   On a quarterly basis, the Pretreatment Coordinator will be responsible
for reviewing the industry file to determine any significant violators for the
previous six months (rolling basis period). If significant violators are
identified, the Pretreatment Coordinator shall be responsible for determining
whether a formal enforcement action is warranted in accordance with the ERG and
that the name of all significant violators are published in the local daily
newspaper on an annual basis.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES
§ 54.155 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Superintendent may petition the Circuit Court of the state or
the Superior Court of the county through the Town Attorney for the issuance of
a temporary or permanent injunction, as appropriate, which restrains or compels
the specific performance of the individual wastewater discharge permit, order
or other requirement imposed by this chapter on the activities of the user. The
Superintendent may also seek such other action as is appropriate for legal and/
or equitable relief, including a requirement for the user to conduct
environmental remediation. A petition for injunctive relief shall not be a bar
against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 54.156 CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (A)   A user who has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of
this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge permit or an order issued
hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, shall be liable
to the town for a civil penalty. In the case of a monthly or other long-term
average discharge limit, penalties shall accrue for each day during the period
of the violation.
   (B)   The Superintendent may recover reasonable attorney fees, court costs
and other expenses associated with enforcement activities, including sampling
and monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages incurred by the
town.
   (C)   In determining the amount of civil liability, the court shall take
into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the
extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the
violation, any economic benefit gained through the user’s violation, corrective
actions by the user, the compliance history of the user and any other factor as
justice requires.
   (D)   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 54.157 REMEDIES NONEXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies provided for in this chapter are not exclusive. The
Superintendent may take any, all or any combination of these actions against a
noncompliant user. The enforcement of pretreatment violations will generally be
in accordance with the town’s enforcement response plan. However, the
Superintendent may take other action against any user when the circumstances
warrant. Further, the Superintendent is empowered to take more than one
enforcement action against any noncompliant user.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS
§ 54.170 UPSET.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, UPSET means an exceptional incident
in which there is unintentional and temporary noncompliance with categorical
pretreatment standards because of factors beyond the reasonable control of the
user. An UPSET does not include noncompliance to the extent caused by
operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities, inadequate
treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance or careless or improper
operation.
   (B)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action brought
for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the requirements
of division (C) below are met.
   (C)   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset shall
demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs or other
relevant evidence, that:
      (1)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
      (2)   The facility was, at the time, being operated in a prudent and
professional manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
      (3)   The user has submitted the following information to the
Superintendent within 24 hours of becoming aware of the upset (if this
information is provided orally, a written submission must be provided within
five days):
         (a)   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
         (b)   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times or,
if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
         (c)   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
   (D)   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
   (E)   Users shall have the opportunity for a judicial determination on any
claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards.
   (F)   Users shall control the production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards upon
the reduction, loss or failure of the user’s treatment facility until the
facility is restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This
requirement applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary
source of power of the treatment facility is reduced, lost or fails.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 54.171 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   A user shall have an affirmative defense to an enforcement action brought
against the user for noncompliance with the general prohibitions in §
54.020(A) of this chapter or the specific prohibitions in §
54.020(B)(3) to (B)(18) of this chapter if the user can prove that the user did
not know, or have reason to know, that the user’s discharge, alone or in
conjunction with discharges from other sources, would cause pass-through or
interference and that either:
   (A)   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged, and the user was
in compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass-through
or interference; or
   (B)   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change substantially
in nature or constituents from the user’s prior discharge when the town was
regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit, and in the case of interference,
was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal requirements.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 54.172 BYPASS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BYPASS. The intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of a
user’s treatment facility.
      SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE. Substantial physical damage to property, damage
to the treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable or
substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be
expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE does not
mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
   (B)   Allowance. A user may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause
pretreatment standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it also is
for essential maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not
subject to the provisions of divisions (C) and (D) below.
   (C)   Bypass notifications.
      (1)   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, the user shall
submit prior notice to the Superintendent at least ten days before the date of
the bypass if possible.
      (2)   A user shall submit oral notice to the Superintendent of an
unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards within 24
hours from the time the user becomes aware of the bypass. A written submission
shall also be provided within five days of the time the user becomes aware of
the bypass. The written submission shall contain a description of the bypass
and its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times and,
if the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to
continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate and prevent
reoccurrence of the bypass. The Superintendent may waive the written report on
a case-by-case basis if the oral report has been received within 24 hours.
   (D)   Bypass.
      (1)   Bypass is prohibited, and the Superintendent may take an
enforcement action against a user for a bypass unless:
         (a)   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury
or severe property damage;
         (b)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
         (c)   The user submitted notices as required under division (C) above.
      (2)   The Superintendent may approve an anticipated bypass, after
considering its adverse effects, if the Superintendent determines that it will
meet the three conditions listed in division (D)(1) above.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Superintendent may fine such user in an amount not to exceed
$2,500. Such fines shall be assessed on a per-violation, per-day basis. In the
case of monthly or other long-term average discharge limits, fines shall be
assessed for each day during the period of violation.
   (B)   Unpaid charges, fines and penalties shall, after 180 calendar days, be
assessed an additional penalty of 10% of the unpaid balance, and interest shall
accrue thereafter at a rate of 1% per month. A lien against the user’s property
shall be sought for unpaid charges, fines and penalties.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 11-22-2010)
CHAPTER 55: STORMWATER
Section
   
55.01   Department of Stormwater Management
   
55.02   Board of Directors; term
   
55.03   State statutes adopted
   
55.04   Special taxing district
   
55.05   Late fee; billing errors
§ 55.01 DEPARTMENT OF STORMWATER MANAGEMENT.
   Pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-5, a Department of Stormwater Management shall be and
is hereby created for the purpose of providing for the collection, disposal and
drainage of storm and surface water in the town.
(Prior Code, § 107.02) (Ord. 16-99, passed 9- -1999)
§ 55.02 BOARD OF DIRECTORS; TERM.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-5, the Department of Stormwater Management
shall be controlled by a Board of Directors, which shall consist of three
directors. The President of the Town Council shall appoint the directors, not
more than two of whom may be of the same political party.
(Prior Code, § 107.03)
   (B)   The initial terms of the first directors appointed pursuant to this
chapter shall be staggered so that one director shall have a one-year term, one
director shall have a two-year term and one director shall have a three-year
term. Thereafter, the terms of all directors shall be for a period of three
years.
(Prior Code, § 107.04)
(Ord. 16-99, passed 9- -1999)
§ 55.03 STATE STATUTES ADOPTED.
   State statute I.C. 8-1.5-5 concerning “Stormwater Management Systems” is
hereby adopted by the Town Council so as to make the Act and any and all
amendments thereto effective and operative in the town.
(Prior Code, § 107.01) (Ord. 16-99, passed 9- -1999)
§ 55.04 SPECIAL TAXING DISTRICT.
   Pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-5, there is hereby created a special taxing district
which shall include all of the territory within the corporate boundaries of the
town.
(Prior Code, § 107.05) (Ord. 16-99, passed 9- -1999)
§ 55.05 LATE FEE; BILLING ERRORS.
   (A)   Late fee. The fee for a late payment of any town utility bill shall be
10% of the total bill.
   (B)   Billing errors. In the event of a clerical billing error in favor of
the customer, the town may correct said error and bill the correct amount to
the customer within five years of the month in which the bill was originally
due.
(Ord. 13-2018, passed 2-25-2019)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS AND ADMINISTRATION
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING, STOPPING AND STANDING REGULATIONS
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   PEDESTRIANS
      
75.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
76.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
General Provisions
   
70.001   Definitions
   
70.002   Obedience to Traffic Code and official directives required
   
70.003   Application to authorized emergency vehicles
   
70.004   Application to public employees
   
70.005   Application to ridden animals, animal-drawn vehicles and push carts
   
70.006   Unlawful riding
   
70.007   Unsafe vehicles
   
70.008   Vehicles with contents escaping
   
70.009   Loads extending beyond body of vehicle
   
70.010   Parking, stopping or standing in the roadway
   
70.011   Motorcycles; manner of riding
   
70.012   Motorcycle drivers or passengers under 18 years of age
Accidents and Interactions with Emergency Vehicles
   
70.025   Emergency vehicles have right-of-way; driver response
   
70.026   Following fire apparatus
   
70.027   Crossing fire hoses
   
70.028   Reporting accidents
   
70.029   Written accident reports confidential
Vehicle Equipment Regulations
   
70.040   Headlights
   
70.041   Use of lights
   
70.042   Dimming bright or blinding lights
   
70.043   Taillights
   
70.044   Brake lights
   
70.045   Windshield wipers
   
70.046   Tinting, glazing or sunscreening vehicle windows
   
70.047   Decals, signs, posters, sunscreens or other nontransparent material
   
70.048   Bumpers
Weight Regulations
   
70.060   Load restrictions for operation
   
70.061   Load restrictions for parking
   
70.062   Load restrictions during certain hours
   
70.063   Commercial vehicles
Truck Regulations
   
70.075   Definition
   
70.076   Truck routes designated
   
70.077   Trucks not on truck routes restricted
   
70.078   Special permit for operation in residential districts
   
70.079   Parking in residential areas
   
70.080   Parking in business districts
   
70.081   Parking over one hour
Administration
   
70.095   Traffic Division established
   
70.096   Duties of Traffic Division and Police Department
   
70.097   Traffic Commission; duties; meetings
   
70.098   Traffic Engineer; duties
   
70.099   Authority of Police and Fire Department officials
   
70.100   Traffic accident reports
   
70.101   Non-exclusive jurisdiction for filing violations
   
70.102   Records of traffic violations
   
70.103   Drivers’ files
   
70.104   Traffic accident studies
   
70.105   Annual traffic safety report
   
70.106   Collection of fines
 
   
70.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Parking regulations, see
Ch. 72
   Traffic movement regulations, see
Ch. 71
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this Traffic Code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A public or private vehicular right-of-way primarily designed to
serve as secondary access to the side or rear of those properties whose
principal frontage is on some other street.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Fire Department vehicles, police vehicles and
such ambulances and emergency vehicles of town departments or public service
corporations as are designated or authorized by the town’s Chief of Police.
   BICYCLE. Any foot-propelled vehicle, irrespective of the number of wheels in
contact with the ground, upon which any person or persons ride.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Any vehicle designed, maintained or used primarily for
the transportation of goods or property by a business.
   CROSSWALK. The part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs, or in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway; any portion of a roadway at an intersection or
elsewhere distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other
markings on the surface.
   DISTRICTS. The business and residential districts are hereby defined as
designated in the Zoning Code of the town which is now in effect, or which may
become effective in the future.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   FREIGHT CURB LOADING ZONE. A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the
exclusive use of vehicles during the loading and unloading of freight.
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curblines, or if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways
of two highways which join one another at or approximately at right angles, or
the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways joining at any
other angle may come in conflict.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which is
attached to or propelled by a self-propelled vehicle.
   MOTORCYCLE. A motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider and
designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the ground,
but excluding a tractor.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE. All signs, signals, markings and devices
not inconsistent with this Traffic Code placed or erected by the authority of a
public body or official having jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic.
   PARK. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, and whether or not
accompanied by an operator, for a period of time in excess of two minutes.
   PASSENGER CURB LOADING ZONE. A place adjacent to a curb reserved for the
exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   POLICE OFFICER. An officer of the Police Department or any officer
authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for violations of
traffic regulations.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. A way or place in private ownership used for
vehicular travel by the owner and by those having express or implied permission
from the owner, but not by other persons.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street or highway improved, designed or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a
highway includes two or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY as used herein
shall refer to any such roadway separately, but not to all such roadways
collectively.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curblines or the lateral lines
of a roadway and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STOP. When required, means complete cessation of movement.
   STOP, STOPPING or STANDING. When prohibited, means any stopping or standing
of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic-control sign or signal.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. Any street or highway or portion thereof at the entrances
to which vehicular traffic from intersecting streets or highways is required by
law to stop before entering or crossing the same and when stop signs are
erected as provided in this chapter.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles and other
conveyances, either singly or together, while using any street for the purposes
of travel.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL. A device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and
proceed, placed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   VEHICLE. Any device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved exclusively by human
power.
(Prior Code, § 61.01)
§ 70.002 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CODE AND OFFICIAL DIRECTIVES REQUIRED.
   It is an infraction for any person to do any act forbidden or to fail to
perform any act required in this Traffic Code. Further, no person shall
willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or direction of a
police officer or Fire Department official.
(Prior Code, § 61.03) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.003 APPLICATION TO AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when operating
any such vehicle in an emergency, may exercise the privileges set forth in this
section unless otherwise directed by a police officer, but subject to the
conditions herein stated.
      (2)   Said driver may:
         (a)   Park or stand at any location;
         (b)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
         (c)   Exceed the prima facie speed limit so long as he or she does not
endanger life or property; and
         (d)   Disregard regulations governing the direction of movement or
turning in specified directions.
   (B)   The exemptions herein granted shall apply only when the driver of any
said vehicle shall sound a bell, siren or exhaust whistle as may be reasonably
necessary, and when the vehicle is equipped with at least one lighted lamp
displaying a red or blue light visible under normal atmospheric conditions from
a distance of 500 feet from the front of such vehicle, except that an
authorized emergency vehicle operated as a police vehicle need not be equipped
with or display a red or blue light visible from in front of the vehicle.
   (C)   The foregoing provisions shall not relieve the driver of any vehicle
from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons, nor shall
such provisions protect the driver from the consequences of his or her reckless
disregard for the safety of others.
(Prior Code, § 61.05) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.004 APPLICATION TO PUBLIC EMPLOYEES.
   The provisions of this Traffic Code shall apply to the driver of any vehicle
owned by or used in the service of the United States government or this state,
county or town, and it shall be unlawful for any said driver to violate any of
the provisions of this Traffic Code, except as otherwise permitted in this
Traffic Code or by state statute.
(Prior Code, § 61.04) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.005 APPLICATION TO RIDDEN ANIMALS, ANIMAL-DRAWN VEHICLES AND PUSH CARTS.
   Every person propelling any push cart or riding an animal upon a roadway,
and every person driving any animal-drawn vehicle, shall be subject to the
provisions of this Traffic Code applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except
those provisions of this Traffic Code which by their very nature can have no
application.
(Prior Code, § 61.09) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.006 UNLAWFUL RIDING.
   (A)   No person shall ride upon any portion of a vehicle not designed or
intended for the use of passengers.
   (B)   This provision shall not apply to any employee engaged in the
necessary discharge of a duty or to persons riding within truck bodies in space
intended for merchandise.
(Prior Code, § 61.34) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.007 UNSAFE VEHICLES.
   A person may not drive or move on a highway a motor vehicle, trailer,
semitrailer, pole trailer or any combination of the foregoing unless the
equipment upon the vehicle is in good working order and adjustment and the
vehicle is in a safe mechanical condition that does not endanger the person who
drives the vehicle, another occupant of the vehicle or a person upon the
highway.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.008 VEHICLES WITH CONTENTS ESCAPING.
   A vehicle may not be driven or moved on a highway if the vehicle’s contents
are dripping, sifting, leaking or otherwise escaping from the vehicle, except:
   (A)   A vehicle containing poultry or livestock being transported to market;
or
   (B)   A highway maintenance vehicle engaged in spreading sand or deicing
chemicals.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.009 LOADS EXTENDING BEYOND BODY OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   Between sunset and sunrise, whenever the load upon a vehicle extends
to the rear four feet or more beyond the bed or body of the vehicle, there
shall be displayed at the extreme rear end of the load a red light or lantern
plainly visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the sides and rear. The
red light or lantern required under this section is in addition to the red rear
light required upon every vehicle. Clearance lights or reflectors on vehicles
that are being transported may be used to delineate the extension of the load
in lieu of other lights required in this section.
   (B)   Between sunrise and sunset, a vehicle described in division (A) above
shall display at the extreme rear end of the vehicle’s load a red flag or cloth
not less than 12 inches square, displayed in a manner in which the entire area
of the flag or cloth is visible to the person who drives a vehicle approaching
from the rear.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.010 PARKING, STOPPING OR STANDING IN THE ROADWAY.
   (A)   A person may not obstruct vehicular or pedestrian traffic by stopping,
parking or leaving an attended or unattended vehicle on the paved or main
traveled part of a highway, sidewalk or any other public right-of-way within
the town.
   (B)   This section does not apply to a person who drives a vehicle that
becomes disabled while on the paved or main traveled part of a highway in a
manner and to the extent that it is impossible to avoid stopping and
temporarily leaving the disabled vehicle on the highway.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.011 MOTORCYCLES; MANNER OF RIDING.
   A person operating a motorcycle shall not ride other than upon a permanent
and regular seat attached thereto or carry any other person except upon a
firmly attached seat to the operator’s rear or sides. No person shall ride upon
a motorcycle other than upon a firmly attached seat to the rear or side of the
operator.
(Prior Code, § 61.32) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.012 MOTORCYCLE DRIVERS OR PASSENGERS UNDER 18 YEARS OF AGE.
   If a person who is less than 18 years of age is operating or riding on a
motorcycle on the streets or highways, the person shall wear the following:
   (A)   Protective headgear meeting the minimum standards set by the state’s
Bureau of Motor Vehicles; and
   (B)   Protective glasses, goggles or a transparent face shield.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014) Penalty, see §
70.999
ACCIDENTS AND INTERACTIONS WITH EMERGENCY VEHICLES
§ 70.025 EMERGENCY VEHICLES HAVE RIGHT-OF-WAY; DRIVER RESPONSE.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle
displaying at least one lighted lamp exhibiting red or blue light visible from
the front of such vehicle, and when said driver is giving audible signal by
siren, bell or exhaust whistle, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield
the right-of-way and shall immediately drive to a position parallel to and as
close as possible to the right-hand edge or curb of the roadway, clear of any
intersection, and shall stop and remain in such position until the authorized
emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a police
officer.
   (B)   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the highway.
(Prior Code, § 61.06) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.026 FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS.
   No driver of any vehicle, other than one on official business, shall follow
any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than 500 feet
or drive into or park such vehicle within the block where fire apparatus has
stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
(Prior Code, § 61.27) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.027 CROSSING FIRE HOSES.
   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of the Fire Department
when laid down on any street, alley or driveway without the consent of the Fire
Department official in command.
(Prior Code, § 61.28) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.028 REPORTING ACCIDENTS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident resulting in property
damage or injury to or the death of any person shall immediately, by the
quickest means of communication, give notice of such accident to the Police
Department if such accident occurs within the town.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner involved in an accident
resulting in property damage or injury to or the death of any person shall,
within five days after such accident, forward a written report of such accident
to the Police Department or a copy of any report he or she is required to
forward to the State. The provisions of this division (B) shall not be
applicable when the accident has been investigated at the scene by a police
officer while such driver was present.
   (C)   Whenever the driver of a vehicle is physically incapable of giving
immediate notice of an accident as required in this section and there was
another occupant in the vehicle at the time of the accident capable of doing
so, such occupant shall give, or cause to be given, the notice not given by the
driver.
   (D)   Whenever the driver is physically incapable of making a written report
of an accident as required herein and such driver is not the owner of the
vehicle, then the owner of the vehicle involved in such accident shall, within
five days after learning of the accident, make such report not made by the
driver.
(Prior Code, § 61.07) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.029 WRITTEN ACCIDENT REPORTS CONFIDENTIAL.
   (A)   All written accident reports made by drivers, owners or occupants of
vehicles involved in accidents as required herein shall be without prejudice to
the individual so reporting and shall be for use of the Police Department or
other governmental agencies having use for the records for accident prevention
purposes.
   (B)   The Police Department may make copies available at a reasonable fee or
as per Department policy, subject to Council approval.
(Prior Code, § 61.08)
VEHICLE EQUIPMENT REGULATIONS
§ 70.040 HEADLIGHTS.
   (A)   A motor vehicle other than a motorcycle or motor-driven cycle must be
equipped with at least two headlamps, with at least one of the headlamps on
each side of the front of the motor vehicle. The headlamps must comply with the
laws of the state.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) below, a motorcycle and motor-
driven cycle must be equipped with at least one and not more than two headlamps
that comply with this chapter.
   (C)   A motorcycle manufactured before January 1, 1956, is not required to
be equipped with a headlamp if the motorcycle is not operated at the times when
lighted headlamps and other illuminating devices are required under §
70.041 of this chapter.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014)
§ 70.041 USE OF LIGHTS.
   Whenever a motor vehicle is being operated on a roadway or shoulder adjacent
to a roadway between sunset and sunrise or at any other time when persons or
vehicles are not visible at a distance of 500 feet, the person who drives the
motor vehicle shall use a distribution of light or composite beam directed high
enough and of sufficient intensity to reveal persons and vehicles at a safe
distance in advance of the vehicle.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.042 DIMMING BRIGHT OR BLINDING LIGHTS.
   (A)   Whenever a person who drives a vehicle approaches an oncoming vehicle
within 500 feet, the person shall use a distribution of light or composite beam
aimed so that the glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of the oncoming
driver. The lowermost distribution of light or composite beam required under
the laws of the state is considered to avoid glare at all times, regardless of
road contour and loading.
   (B)   Except when overtaking and passing another vehicle, whenever the
person who drives a vehicle described in division (A) above follows another
vehicle within 200 feet to the rear of the other vehicle, the person shall use
a distribution of light permissible under this chapter other than the uppermost
distribution of light allowed under the laws of the state.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014)
§ 70.043 TAILLIGHTS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, the following must be
equipped with at least one taillamp mounted on the rear that, when lighted as
required in this chapter, emits a red light plainly visible from a distance of
500 feet to the rear:
      (1)   A motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer and pole trailer; and
      (2)   Any other vehicle that is drawn at the end of a train of vehicles.
   (B)   Only the taillamp on the rear-most vehicle of a train of vehicles is
required to be seen from the distance specified.
   (C)   When registered in the state and manufactured or assembled after
January 1, 1956, the following must be equipped with at least two taillamps
mounted on the rear that, when lighted, comply with this section, excluding a
truck-tractor semitrailer-semitrailer combination equipped with B-train
assembly, a truck-tractor, a motorcycle or a motor-driven cycle:
      (1)   A motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer and pole trailer; and
      (2)   Any other vehicle drawn at the end of a train of vehicles.
   (D)   A taillamp upon a vehicle shall be located at a height of not less
than 20 inches and not more than 72 inches.
   (E)   Either a taillamp or a separate lamp must be placed and constructed so
as to illuminate the rear registration plate with a white light and make the
plate clearly legible from a distance of 50 feet to the rear. A taillamp or
taillamps, together with a separate lamp for illuminating the rear registration
plate, must be wired so as to be lighted whenever the headlamps or auxiliary
driving lamps are lighted.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.044 BRAKE LIGHTS.
   A person may not drive, on any town highway, street or alley, a motor
vehicle, including a motorcycle or motor-driven cycle, unless the vehicle is
equipped with at least one stoplight meeting the following requirements:
   (A)   Said light(s) displays a red or an amber light, or any shade of color
between red and amber, visible from a distance of not less than 100 feet to the
rear in normal sunlight;
   (B)   Will be actuated upon application of the service (foot) brake; and
   (C)   May be incorporated with at least one other rear lamp.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.045 WINDSHIELD WIPERS.
   (A)   The windshield on a motor vehicle must be equipped with a device for
cleaning rain, snow or other moisture from the windshield. The device must be
constructed to be controlled or operated by the driver of the vehicle.
   (B)   A windshield wiper upon a motor vehicle must be maintained in good
working order.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.046 TINTING, GLAZING OR SUNSCREENING VEHICLE WINDOWS.
   (A)   A person may not drive a motor vehicle that has the following windows
covered by or treated with sunscreening material or tinted to the extent, or
manufactured in a way, that the occupants of the vehicle cannot be easily
identified or recognized through the windows from outside the vehicle. However,
it is a defense if the sunscreening material applied to those windows has a
total solar reflectance of visible light of not more than 25% as measured on
the non-film side and light transmittance of at least 30% in the visible light
range:
      (1)   Windshield;
      (2)   Side wing;
      (3)   Side window that is part of a front door; or
      (4)   Rear back window.
   (B)   This section does not apply to a manufacturer’s tinting or glazing of
motor vehicle windows or windshields that is otherwise in compliance with or
permitted by FMVSS205 as promulgated in 49 C.F.R. § 571.205. Proof from the
manufacturer, supplier or installer that the tinting or glazing is in
compliance with or permitted by FMVSS205 must be carried in the vehicle.
   (C)   (1)   This section does not apply to the driver of a vehicle:
         (a)   That is owned by an individual required for medical reasons to
be shielded from the direct rays of the sun; or
         (b)   In which an individual required for medical reasons to be
shielded from the direct rays of the sun is a habitual passenger.
      (2)   The medical reasons must be attested to by a physician or
optometrist licensed to practice in the state, and the physician’s or
optometrist’s certification of that condition must be carried in the vehicle.
The physician’s or optometrist’s certificate must be renewed annually.
   (D)   (1)   A person may not tint or otherwise cover or treat with
sunscreening the parts of a vehicle described in division (A) above so that
operation of the vehicle after the tinting or sunscreening is performed is a
violation of division (A) above.
      (2)   However, it is not a violation of this section if this work is
performed for a person who submits a physician’s or optometrist’s statement as
described in division (C) above to the person who is to perform the work.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.047 DECALS, SIGNS, POSTERS, SUNSCREENS OR OTHER NONTRANSPARENT MATERIAL.
   (A)   A person may not drive a motor vehicle with a sign, poster,
sunscreening material or other nontransparent material upon the front
windshield, side wings or side or rear windows of the vehicle that obstructs
the driver’s clear view of the highway or an intersecting highway. However,
signs, posters or other nontransparent material not larger than four inches
squared may be placed upon the front windshield, side wings or side or rear
windows in the lower corner farthest removed from the driver’s position.
   (B)   This section does not apply to the display of a decal required by the
United States Department of Defense on the following:
      (1)   A military vehicle;
      (2)   A motor vehicle owned by a person in the service of the armed
forces of the United States;
      (3)   A motor vehicle owned by a person employed by the armed forces of
the United States; and
      (4)   A motor vehicle authorized to display the decal by the military
police of the armed forces of the United States.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.048 BUMPERS.
   (A)   (1)   When operated within the town limits, a motor vehicle registered
as a passenger car that was originally equipped with bumpers as standard
equipment must be so equipped.
      (2)   The bumper height may not vary more than three inches from the
original manufactured bumper height for the vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   When operated within the town limits, a motor vehicle registered
as a truck with a declared gross weight of not more than 11,000 pounds must be
equipped with bumpers of substantial construction on the extreme front and the
extreme rear of the vehicle.
      (2)   The height of the front and rear bumpers may not exceed 30 inches
when measured from level pavement to the bottom of the bumpers.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014) Penalty, see §
70.999
WEIGHT REGULATIONS
§ 70.060 LOAD RESTRICTIONS FOR OPERATION.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall operate any
vehicle with a gross weight in excess of the amounts posted at any time upon
any of the streets/parts of streets so designated.
(Prior Code, § 65.01) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.061 LOAD RESTRICTIONS FOR PARKING.
   No person shall park or leave standing any truck of a greater weight than a
one-ton rated load capacity on any town street or public parking area, except
that trucks over such weight may be parked or standing only while loading or
unloading cargo.
(Prior Code, § 65.01) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.062 LOAD RESTRICTIONS DURING CERTAIN HOURS.
   Except on state highways or state-controlled highways, no commercial vehicle
with a gross weight in excess of 10,000 pounds shall be operated in any
residential district in the town between the hours of 5:30 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.,
provided, in the event that this restriction shall result in an undue hardship
or unfair competition, the Traffic Commission shall have the power to authorize
the issuance of special permits from time to time as deemed necessary for the
protection of the rights of any individual, firm or corporation.
(Prior Code, § 65.03) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.063 COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   Commercial vehicles exceeding 5,000 pounds gross weight shall be restricted
at all times to those streets or parts of streets as posted by signs, except
that such vehicles may be operated thereon for the purpose of delivering or
picking up materials or merchandise, and then only by entering such streets at
the intersection nearest the destination of the vehicle and proceeding thereon
not farther than the nearest intersection thereafter. Commercial and other
vehicles exceeding a one-ton load rated capacity shall be restricted from use
of any and all residential zoned streets, highways, alleys and such public
thoroughfares (except where such street is a state or federal highway passing
through a residential zone), except that such vehicles may be operated
thereupon for the purpose of delivering or picking up cargo or merchandise, and
then only by entering such streets and using such streets that are approved for
the most practical and direct route in the opinion of the local police.
(Prior Code, § 65.02) Penalty, see §
70.999
TRUCK REGULATIONS
§ 70.075 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TRUCK. Any motor vehicle designed, used or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property unless the vehicle has a maximum capacity of one ton
or less unloaded.
(Prior Code, § 66.01)
§ 70.076 TRUCK ROUTES DESIGNATED.
   The Town Council shall have the authority to designate and to order posted
streets as truck routes as deemed necessary.
(Prior Code, § 66.03)
§ 70.077 TRUCKS NOT ON TRUCK ROUTES RESTRICTED.
   (A)   (1)   No driver of a truck shall operate it upon any street which is
not posted as a truck route, except for the purpose of making a delivery or
carrying on business in the block in which such truck is being operated or
driven.
      (2)   Any driver making such a delivery shall enter the street at the
first intersection nearest the point of delivery and leave such street at the
first intersection after such delivery.
   (B)   It is the intent of this section that any driver making such a
delivery or carrying on business on a street other than a truck route shall use
the shortest possible route to and from a truck route for the purposes of
making the delivery or carrying on the business.
(Prior Code, § 66.02) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.078 SPECIAL PERMIT FOR OPERATION IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   Except for highways under state control, no trucks shall be operated in any
residential district within the town between the hours of 5:30 p.m. and 7:00
a.m., provided that upon application showing undue hardship, a special permit
may be issued by the Clerk-Treasurer for the operation of a truck in
contravention of this section.
(Prior Code, § 66.06) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.079 PARKING IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS.
   No person shall park or cause to be parked any truck upon any street in the
town located in an area zoned primarily for residential purposes. Provided,
however, this section shall not apply to the parking of trucks in any area,
regardless of zoning designation, for the purposes of making a delivery or
carrying on business.
(Prior Code, § 66.04) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.080 PARKING IN BUSINESS DISTRICTS.
   No person shall park or cause to be parked any truck on any street within
the Central Business District of the town. Provided, however, that a truck may
park in the area for the purpose of loading or unloading freight between the
hours of 6:00 p.m. and 11:00 a.m. In the event of an emergency, exceptions to
this section may be permitted by the specific authorization of a police
officer.
(Prior Code, § 66.05) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.081 PARKING OVER ONE HOUR.
   No person shall park a bus or truck of more than one-half-ton capacity on
any street or alley for a period of more than one hour, nor in any angle
parking space at any time.
(Prior Code, § 66.07) Penalty, see §
70.999
ADMINISTRATION
§ 70.095 TRAFFIC DIVISION ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established within the town’s Police Department a Traffic
Division, to be under the direction of a police officer who shall be appointed
by, and directly responsible to, the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 60.01)
§ 70.096 DUTIES OF TRAFFIC DIVISION AND POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Traffic Division, with such aid as may be
rendered by other members of the Police Department, to enforce the traffic
regulations of the town and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to street
traffic in the town; to make arrests for traffic violations; to investigate
accidents and to cooperate in the administration of the traffic laws and in
developing ways and means to improve traffic conditions; and to carry out those
duties specially imposed upon the Police Department by this code and the
traffic ordinances of the town.
(Prior Code, § 60.02)
§ 70.097 TRAFFIC COMMISSION; DUTIES; MEETINGS.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Traffic Commission, to serve without
compensation, consisting of the Chief of Police or, in his or her discretion as
his or her representative, the Chief of the Traffic Division, the Chief of the
Fire Department, the Superintendent of the Street and Water Department and such
other town officers and representatives of unofficial bodies as may be
determined and appointed by the Town Council. The Town Council member acting as
liaison to the Street and Water Department shall sit on the Commission as a
non-voting member and shall report to the Council on Commission activity. The
Chief of Police shall function as the Chair of the Commission unless another
member is appointed by the Town Council.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Traffic Commission, and to this end it
shall have the authority within the limits of the funds at its disposal, to
coordinate traffic activities, to carry on educational activities in traffic
matters, to supervise the preparation and publication of traffic reports, to
receive complaints having to do with traffic matters and to recommend to the
Town Council and to the Traffic Engineer, the Chief of the Traffic Division and
other town officials ways and means for improving traffic conditions and the
administration and enforcement of traffic regulations.
   (C)   (1)   The Traffic Commission shall meet when called into session by
the Commission Chair or the Town Council. The Commission shall meet bi-
annually, once in the first half and once during the second half of the fiscal
year to review current traffic problems.
      (2)   The Commission can be called into session any time throughout the
year with a reasonable advance notice. The number of sessions over the minimum
requirements shall be left to the discretion of the Town Council and the Chair
of the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 60.09) (Ord. 9-2013, passed 9-9-2013)
§ 70.098 TRAFFIC ENGINEER; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Chief of Police of the town shall serve as the Traffic Engineer in
addition to his or her other functions and shall exercise the powers and duties
with respect to traffic as provided in this Traffic Code.
   (B)   It shall be the general duty of the Traffic Engineer to determine the
installation and proper timing and maintenance of traffic-control devices, to
conduct engineering analyses of traffic accidents and to devise remedial
measures, to conduct engineering investigations of traffic conditions, to plan
the operation of traffic on the streets and highways of the town and to
cooperate with other town officials in the development of ways and means to
improve traffic conditions and to carry out the additional powers and duties
imposed by the ordinances of the town.
   (C)   The Chief of Police/Traffic Engineer is empowered to make regulations
necessary to make effective the provisions of the traffic ordinances of the
town and to make and enforce temporary or experimental regulations to cover
emergencies or special conditions. No such temporary or experimental
regulations shall remain in effect for more than 90 days. The Traffic Engineer
may test traffic-control devices under actual conditions of traffic.
   (D)   Whenever in the administration of this Traffic Code the Traffic
Engineer takes action as provided herein, his or her acts shall be subject to
review by the Traffic Commission at any time within 90 days; however, such acts
shall remain in full force and effect unless remanded or modified upon such
review.
(Prior Code, § 60.08)
§ 70.099 AUTHORITY OF POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the officers of the Police Department, or such
officers as are assigned by the Chief of Police, to enforce all street traffic
laws of the town and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to street traffic
in this town.
   (B)   Officers of the Police Department, or such officers as are assigned by
the Chief of Police, are hereby authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand
or signal in conformance with traffic laws, provided that, in the event of fire
or other emergency, or to expedite traffic, or to safeguard pedestrians,
officers of the Police Department may direct traffic as conditions may require,
notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
   (C)   Officers of the Fire Department when in uniform may direct or assist
police in directing traffic.
(Prior Code, § 61.02)
§ 70.100 TRAFFIC ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   The Traffic Division shall maintain a suitable system of filing traffic
accident reports. Accident reports or cards referring to them shall be filed
alphabetically by location. Such reports shall be available for the use and
information of the town and Traffic Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 60.05)
§ 70.101 NON-EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION FOR FILING VIOLATIONS.
   A police officer may file any motor vehicle violation having been committed
within the town with any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 60.10)
§ 70.102 RECORDS OF TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The Police Department or the Traffic Division thereof shall keep a
record of all violations of the traffic ordinances of the town or of the state
vehicle laws of which any person has been charged, together with a record of
the final disposition of all such alleged offenses. Such record shall be so
maintained as to show all types of violations and the total of each. Said
record shall accumulate during at least a five-year period, and from that time
on, the record shall be maintained complete for at least the most recent five-
year period.
   (B)   All forms for records of violations and notices of violations shall be
serially numbered. For each month and year, a written record shall be kept
available to the public showing the disposal of all such forms. All such
records and reports shall be public records.
(Prior Code, § 60.03)
§ 70.103 DRIVERS’ FILES.
   (A)   The Police Department or the Traffic Division thereof shall maintain a
suitable record of all traffic accidents, warnings, arrests, convictions and
complaints reported for each driver, which records shall be filed
alphabetically under the name of the driver concerned.
   (B)   Said Division shall study the cases of all the drivers charged with
frequent or serious violations of the traffic laws, or involved in frequent
traffic accidents or any serious accident, and shall attempt to discover the
reasons therefor, and shall take whatever steps are lawful and reasonable to
prevent the same or to have the licenses of such persons suspended or revoked.
   (C)   Such records shall accumulate during at least a five-year period, and
from that time on, such records shall be maintained complete for at least the
most recent five-year period.
(Prior Code, § 60.06)
§ 70.104 TRAFFIC ACCIDENT STUDIES.
   Whenever the accidents at any particular location become numerous, the
Traffic Division shall cooperate with the town and the Traffic Engineer in
conducting studies of such accidents and determining remedial measures.
(Prior Code, § 60.04)
§ 70.105 ANNUAL TRAFFIC SAFETY REPORT.
   (A)   The Traffic Division shall annually prepare a traffic report, which
shall be filed with the Town Council.
   (B)   Such report shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The number of traffic accidents, the number of persons killed, the
number of persons injured and other pertinent traffic accident data;
      (2)   The number of traffic accidents investigated and other pertinent
data on the safety activities of the police; and
      (3)   The plans and recommendations of the Division for future traffic
safety activities.
(Prior Code, § 60.07)
§ 70.106 COLLECTION OF FINES.
   Fines collected as penalties for violations of the provisions regulating
motor vehicles within the town shall be receipted to the General Fund as
miscellaneous revenue.
(Prior Code, § 16.01)
§ 70.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this Traffic Code for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Unless stated otherwise, any person who violates a provision within
this chapter commits an infraction as scheduled by the Ordinance Violation
Bureau. As set out in §
34.21 of this code, there is a fine of $100, reduced down to $50 if paid within
72 hours of the offense, for §§
70.006 to
70.010,
70.012,
70.025 to
70.027 and
70.040 to
70.048 of this chapter.
   (C)   (1)   It is provided that in addition to any penalty provided for in
this Traffic Code, any truck or vehicle in violation of §
70.060 to
70.063 of this chapter may be ordered to be removed or may be removed by the
Chief of Police or any police officer at the expense of the driver of said
vehicle, its owner or the person in possession of such truck or vehicle.
      (2)   The penalties for an offense are:
         (a)   First offense: $100;
         (b)   Second offense: $150; and
         (c)   Third offense: $250.
      (3)   All penalties shall be reduced by 50% if paid within 72 hours of
notice to the offender.
(Prior Code, § 65.04)
   (D)   (1)   As set out in §§
70.075 to
70.081 of this chapter:
         (a)   First offense: $25;
         (b)   Second offense: $50; and
         (c)   Third offense: $75.
      (2)   All penalties shall be reduced by 50% if paid within 72 hours of
notice to the offender.
(Prior Code, § 66.08)
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
Traffic-Control Devices
   
71.01   Authority to install traffic-control devices
   
71.02   Obedience to traffic markings, signs and other signal devices
   
71.03   When traffic devices required for enforcement
   
71.04   Pedestrian-control signals
   
71.05   Traffic-control signals
   
71.06   Flashing signals
   
71.07   Stop and yield sign specifications
   
71.08   Stop signs
   
71.09   Yield signs
   
71.10   Railroad crossing signals or signs
   
71.11   School bus signal devices
   
71.12   School crossing guards
   
71.13   Interference with traffic-control devices
   
71.14   Display of unauthorized signs, signals or markings
Backing and Advancing
   
71.25   Use of right half of roadway
   
71.26   Overtaking and passing
   
71.27   Obstructing intersections
   
71.28   One-way streets
   
71.29   Play streets
   
71.30   Following distance
   
71.31   Stopping or sudden decrease in speed
   
71.32   Starting stopped, standing or parked vehicles
   
71.33   Backing
   
71.34   Emerging from alleys, driveways or buildings
   
71.35   Driving on sidewalks
   
71.36   Funeral or other processions
Turning and Changing Lanes
   
71.50   Turn signal use
   
71.51   Turning at intersections
   
71.52   U-turns
   
71.53   Illegal turn or lane change
Speed
   
71.65   State speed laws applicable
   
71.66   Impeding traffic
 
   
71.99   Penalty
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 71.01 AUTHORITY TO INSTALL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The Traffic Engineer shall place and maintain traffic-control signs,
signals, markers and devices when and as required under the traffic ordinances
of the town to make effective the provisions of said ordinances, and may place
and maintain such additional traffic-control signs, signals, markers and
devices as he or she may deem necessary to regulate traffic under the traffic
ordinances of the town or under state law, or to guide or warn traffic.
(Prior Code, § 61.19)
§ 71.02 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC MARKINGS, SIGNS AND OTHER SIGNAL DEVICES.
   (A)   No driver of any vehicle shall disobey the instructions of any
traffic-control device placed in accordance with this chapter unless otherwise
directed by a police officer, subject to the exceptions herein granted the
driver of an authorized emergency vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 61.10)
   (B)   (1)   A person who drives a vehicle must obey the markings, signs and
other traffic-control devices placed within the town.
      (2)   If the operator of a motorcycle, motorized bicycle, motor scooter
or bicycle approaches an intersection that is controlled by a traffic-control
signal, the operator may proceed through the intersection on a steady red
signal only if the operator:
         (a)   Comes to a complete stop at the intersection for at least 120
seconds; and
         (b)   Exercises due caution as provided by law, otherwise treats the
traffic-control signal as a stop sign and determines that it is safe to
proceed.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 WHEN TRAFFIC DEVICES REQUIRED FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   No provision of this Traffic Code for which signs or markings are required
shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the
alleged violation, an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently
legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular
section does not state that signs are required, such section shall be effective
even though no signs are erected or in place.
(Prior Code, § 61.11)
§ 71.04 PEDESTRIAN-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian-control signals exhibiting the words “Walk” or
“Wait” or “Don’t Walk” are in place, such signals shall indicate as follows.
   (A)   “Walk” signal. Pedestrians facing such signal may proceed across the
roadway in the direction of the signal and shall be given the right-of-way by
the drivers of all vehicles.
   (B)   “Wait” or “Don’t Walk” signal. No pedestrian shall start to cross the
roadway in the direction of such signal, but any pedestrian who has partially
completed his or her crossing on the walk signal shall proceed to a sidewalk or
safety zone while the wait signal is showing.
(Prior Code, § 61.13)
§ 71.05 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting the
words “Go” or “Caution” or “Stop,” or exhibiting different colored lights
successively, one at a time, or with arrows, the following colors only shall be
used, and said terms and lights shall indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles
and pedestrians as follows.
   (A)   Green alone or “Go” signal. Vehicular traffic facing the signal may
proceed straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place
prohibits either such turn, but vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning
right or left, shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to
pedestrians lawfully within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the
time such signal is exhibited. Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across
the roadway within any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   (B)   Yellow alone or “Caution” when shown following the green or “Go”
signal. Vehicular traffic facing the signal is hereby warned that the red or
“Stop” signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter and such vehicular
traffic shall not enter or be crossing the intersection when the red or “Stop”
signal is exhibited. Pedestrians facing such signal are thereby advised that
there is insufficient time to cross the roadway, and any pedestrian then
starting to cross shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles.
   (C)   Red alone or “Stop” signal. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall
stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if
none, then before entering the intersection, and shall remain standing until
green or “Go” is shown alone. No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the
roadway unless he or she can do so safely and without interfering with any
vehicular traffic.
   (D)   Red with green arrow signal. Vehicular traffic facing the signal may
cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by such
arrow but shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within a
crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the intersection. No pedestrian
facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless he or she can do so safely
and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
   (E)   Signals not located at intersections. In the event an official
traffic-control signal is erected and maintained at a place other than an
intersection, the provisions of this section shall be applicable except as to
those provisions which by their nature can have no application. Any stop
required shall be made at a stop or marking on the pavement indicating where
the stop shall be made, but in the absence of any such sign or marking, the
stop shall be made at the signal.
(Prior Code, § 61.12)
§ 71.06 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in a traffic
sign or signal, it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as follows.
   (A)   Flashing red. When a red lens is illuminated with intermittent
flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk
at an intersection or at a limit line when marked, or if none, then before
entering the intersection, and the right to proceed shall be subject to the
rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
   (B)   Flashing yellow. When a yellow lens is illuminated with intermittent
flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the intersection or past such
signal only with caution.
(Prior Code, § 61.14)
§ 71.07 STOP AND YIELD SIGN SPECIFICATIONS.
   Every stop sign erected pursuant to this chapter shall bear the word “Stop”
in letters not less than eight inches in height, and every yield sign shall
bear the word “Yield” in letters not less than seven inches in height. Such
signs shall at nighttime be rendered luminous by efficient reflecting elements
on the face of the sign or by internal or external illumination. Every stop and
yield sign shall be located as near as practicable to the nearest line of the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if none, at the nearest line
of the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 61.22)
§ 71.08 STOP SIGNS.
   When stop signs are erected as provided for in this chapter at or near the
entrance to an intersection, a driver of a vehicle shall stop his or her
vehicle at such sign or at a clearly marked stop line of the crosswalk on the
near side of the intersection, or if no crosswalk, at the nearest line of the
roadway. Only after making a complete stop may the driver of a vehicle proceed
into the intersection, and then only after yielding to other vehicles not so
obliged to stop.
(Prior Code, § 61.23) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.09 YIELD SIGNS.
   The driver of a vehicle, upon approaching an intersection where there is
placed a “Yield” sign, shall stop his or her vehicle or slow it down, or shall
so control his or her vehicle so as to yield the right-of-way to any
approaching vehicles which are so close as to constitute an immediate hazard.
Only after having so yielded or having stopped in order to yield may the driver
then proceed.
(Prior Code, § 61.24) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.10 RAILROAD CROSSING SIGNALS OR SIGNS.
   Whenever a person who drives a vehicle approaches a railroad grade crossing
and encounters the following circumstances, the person must stop within 50
feet, but not less than 15 feet, from the nearest track of the railroad and may
not proceed until the person can do so safely:
   (A)   When a clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a train or other on-track equipment;
   (B)   When a crossing gate is lowered or when a human flagger gives or
continues to give a signal of the approach or passage of a train or other on-
track equipment;
   (C)   When a railroad train or other on-track equipment approaching within
1,500 feet of a highway crossing emits an audible signal and, because of speed
or nearness to the crossing, is an immediate hazard; or
   (D)   When an approaching train or other on-track equipment is plainly
visible and is in hazardous proximity to the crossing.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.11 SCHOOL BUS SIGNAL DEVICES.
   (A)   A person who drives a vehicle may not:
      (1)   Meet or overtake from any direction a school bus stopped on a
roadway and fail to stop before reaching the school bus when the arm signal
device is in the device’s extended position; or
      (2)   Proceed in any direction before the arm signal device is no longer
extended.
   (B)   This section is applicable only if the school bus is in substantial
compliance with the markings required by the state’s School Bus Committee.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.12 SCHOOL CROSSING GUARDS.
   A person who drives a vehicle shall obey the instructions of a school
crossing guard to stop the vehicle before entering a school crossing zone.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.13 INTERFERENCE WITH TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   No person shall without lawful authority attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down or remove any traffic-control device or any
inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any other part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 61.15) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.14 DISPLAY OF UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
highway any unauthorized sign, marking or device which purports to be or is an
imitation of or resembles an official traffic-control device, or which attempts
to direct the movement of traffic, or which hides from view or interferes with
the effectiveness of any official traffic-control device or any sign or signal.
   (B)   No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit upon any highway, any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any
commercial advertising.
   (C)   This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection upon private
property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful directional information
and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   (D)   Every such prohibited sign, signal or marking is hereby declared to be
a public nuisance, and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway is
hereby empowered to remove the same or cause it to be removed without notice.
(Prior Code, § 61.16) Penalty, see §
71.99
BACKING AND ADVANCING
§ 71.25 USE OF RIGHT HALF OF ROADWAY.
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing overtaking and passing;
      (2)   When the right half of a roadway is closed to traffic under
construction or repair;
      (3)   Upon a roadway divided into three marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable to a roadway divided into three marked lanes; and
      (4)   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic.
   (B)   Upon all roadways, a vehicle proceeding at less than the normal speed
of traffic at the time and place under the conditions then existing shall be
driven, except when overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction or when preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a
private road or driveway:
      (1)   In the right-hand lane then available for traffic; or
      (2)   As close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the
roadway.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.26 OVERTAKING AND PASSING.
   (A)   The following rules govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles
proceeding in the same direction, subject to the limitations, exceptions and
special rules stated.
      (1)   A person who drives a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding
in the same direction shall pass to the left of the other vehicle at a safe
distance and may not again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely
clear of the overtaken vehicle.
      (2)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, a
person who drives an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of
the overtaking vehicle on audible signal and may not increase the speed of the
overtaken vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
      (3)   A vehicle may not be driven to the left side of the center of the
roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction unless the left side of the roadway is clearly visible and is free of
oncoming traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to permit the overtaking and
passing to be completely made without interfering with the safe operation of a
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction or a vehicle overtaken. The
overtaking vehicle must return to the right-hand side of the roadway before
coming within 100 feet of a vehicle approaching from the opposite direction.
   (B)   (1)   A person who drives a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the
right of another vehicle only under the following conditions:
         (a)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left
turn; or
         (b)   Upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width
for two or more lanes of vehicles moving lawfully in the direction being
traveled by the overtaking vehicle.
      (2)   A person who drives a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle
upon the right only under conditions that permit overtaking upon the right in
safety. Overtaking upon the right may not be made by driving off the roadway.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.27 OBSTRUCTING INTERSECTIONS.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he or she is operating without obstructing the passage
of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic-control signal
indication to proceed.
(Prior Code, § 61.26) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.28 ONE-WAY STREETS.
   Upon those streets and parts of streets and in those alleys and parts of
alleys which have been designated as one-way streets or alleys, vehicular
traffic shall move only in the indicated direction when signs indicating the
direction of traffic are erected and maintained at every intersection where
movement in the opposite direction is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 61.21) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.29 PLAY STREETS.
   (A)   The town’s Traffic Engineer shall have the authority to declare any
street or part thereof a play street and to place appropriate signs or devices
in the roadway indicating and helping to protect the same.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating any street or part
thereof as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon any such street
or portion thereof, except drivers of vehicles having business or whose
residences are within such closed area, and then any said driver shall exercise
the greatest care in driving upon any such street or portion thereof.
(Prior Code, § 61.35) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.30 FOLLOWING DISTANCE.
   A person who drives a motor vehicle may not follow another vehicle more
closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of both
vehicles, the time interval between vehicles and the condition of the highway.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.31 STOPPING OR SUDDEN DECREASE IN SPEED.
   A person may not stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle without
first giving an appropriate signal to a person who drives a vehicle immediately
to the rear when there is opportunity to give a signal.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.32 STARTING STOPPED, STANDING OR PARKED VEHICLES.
   A person may not start a vehicle that is stopped, standing or parked until
the movement can be made with reasonable safety.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.33 BACKING.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement can be
made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.
(Prior Code, § 61.31) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.34 EMERGING FROM ALLEYS, DRIVEWAYS OR BUILDINGS.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall
stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the
sidewalk area extending across any alleyway, yielding the right-of-way to any
pedestrian as may be necessary to avoid collision, and upon entering the
roadway, shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on said
roadway.
(Prior Code, § 61.25) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.35 DRIVING ON SIDEWALKS.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not drive within any sidewalk area, except
at a permanent or temporary driveway.
(Prior Code, § 61.30) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.36 FUNERAL OR OTHER PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   Each driver in a funeral or other procession shall drive as near to
the right-hand edge of the roadway as practical and shall follow the vehicle
ahead as closely as is practical and safe.
   (B)   A funeral procession shall be identified as such by the display upon
the outside of each vehicle of a pennant or other identifying insignia or by
such other method as may be determined and designated by the Police Department.
   (C)   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising a
funeral or other authorized procession while they are in motion and when such
vehicles are conspicuously designated as required in this section. This
provision shall not apply at intersections where traffic is controlled by
traffic-control signals or police officers.
(Prior Code, § 61.29) Penalty, see §
71.99
TURNING AND CHANGING LANES
§ 71.50 TURN SIGNAL USE.
   (A)   A signal of intention to turn right or left shall be given
continuously during not less than the last 200 feet traveled by a vehicle
before turning or changing lanes.
   (B)   A vehicle traveling in a speed zone of at least 50 mph shall give a
signal continuously for not less than the last 300 feet traveled by the vehicle
before turning or changing lanes.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.51 TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows.
   (A)   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as
close as practical to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   (B)   The approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the
right half of the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and after entering the
intersection. The left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection to
the right of the centerline of the roadway being entered.
   (C)   (1)   The approach for a left turn from a two-way street onto a one-
way street shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway
nearest the centerline thereof and by passing to the right of such centerline
where it enters the intersection.
      (2)   A left turn from a one-way street onto a two-way street shall be
made by passing to the right of the centerline of the street being entered upon
leaving the intersection.
   (D)   Where both streets or roadways are one-way, both the approach for a
left turn and a left turn shall be made as close as practicable to the left-
hand curb or edge of the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 61.17) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.52 U-TURNS.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction upon any street in a business district, and shall not
upon any other street so turn a vehicle unless such movement can be made in
safety and without interfering with other traffic.
(Prior Code, § 61.20) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.53 ILLEGAL TURN OR LANE CHANGE.
   A person may not slow down or stop a vehicle, turn a vehicle from a direct
course upon a highway or change from one traffic lane to another unless the
movement can be made with reasonable safety. Before making a movement described
in this section, a person shall give a clearly audible signal by sounding the
horn if any pedestrian may be affected by the movement and give an appropriate
stop or turn signal in the manner provided in §
71.50 of this chapter if any other vehicle may be affected by the movement.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014) Penalty, see §
71.99
SPEED
§ 71.65 STATE SPEED LAWS APPLICABLE.
   The state’s traffic laws regulating the speed of vehicles shall be
applicable upon all streets within the town, except as the Council may declare
and determine upon the basis of engineering and traffic investigation that
certain speed regulations shall be applicable upon specified streets, in which
event, it shall be prima facie unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle at a
speed in excess of any speed so declared by the Council when signs are in place
giving notice thereof.
(Prior Code, § 61.18) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.66 IMPEDING TRAFFIC.
   A person may not drive a motor vehicle at a slow speed that impedes or
blocks the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, except when reduced speed
is necessary for safe operation or in compliance with the law. A person who is
driving at a slow speed so that three or more other vehicles are blocked and
cannot pass on the left around the vehicle shall give right-of-way to the other
vehicles by pulling off to the right of the right lane at the earliest
reasonable opportunity and allowing the blocked vehicles to pass.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Unless stated otherwise, any person who violates a provision within
this chapter commits an infraction as scheduled by the Ordinance Violations
Bureau. As set out in §
34.21 of this code, there is a fine of $100, reduced down to $50 if paid within
72 hours of the offense, for §§
71.02,
71.08 to
71.13,
71.25 to
71.28,
71.30 to
71.32,
71.35,
71.36,
71.50 to
71.53,
71.65 and
71.66.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING, STOPPING AND STANDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Definition
Requirements and Limitations
   
72.15   Method of parking
   
72.16   Parking, stopping or standing; where prohibited
   
72.17   Signs indicate where street parking prohibited
   
72.18   Parking for certain purposes prohibited
   
72.19   Night parking prohibited; exception
   
72.20   One-way roadway parking
   
72.21   Alley parking
   
72.22   Congested location parking
   
72.23   Municipal off-street parking
   
72.24   Parking time limitations
   
72.25   Parking time limited as posted
Impoundment and Enforcement
   
72.40   Authority to impound vehicles
   
72.41   Notice of impoundment
   
72.42   Cost of impoundment
 
   
72.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, automobile, motorcycle, truck, trailer,
semitrailer, truck tractor, bus, school bus, pickup truck camper, camper
trailer, horse-drawn vehicle, utility trailer, boat and/or boat trailer, RV,
snowmobile and/or snowmobile trailer, jet ski, motor home, house car or motor
bicycle, or any portion thereof.
(Prior Code, § 62.16) (Ord. 21-93, passed 11-22-1993)
REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITATIONS
§ 72.15 METHOD OF PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than
parallel with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic
movement and with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle within 12 inches of the
curb or edge of the roadway, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   (B)   Notwithstanding division (A) above, no person shall stand or park a
vehicle on the left-hand side of a one-way street other than parallel with the
edge of the roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic movement and with
the left-hand wheels of the vehicle within 12 inches of the curb or edge of the
roadway.
   (C)   Upon those streets which have been signed or marked by the town’s
Traffic Engineer for angle parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle
other than at the angle to the curb or edge of the roadway indicated by such
signs or markings. The vehicle must enter the parking space with a forward
movement.
(Prior Code, § 62.01) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.16 PARKING, STOPPING OR STANDING; WHERE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the
directions of a police officer or traffic-control device, in any of the
following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk or between sidewalk and curb;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (7)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign
or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb, or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone unless the
town’s Traffic Engineer has indicated a different length by signs or markings;
      (9)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (10)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on
the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet
of said entrance (when properly signposted);
      (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (12)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
      (13)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel;
      (14)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping;
      (15)   On the traveled portion of any roadway which does not have a curb
or gutter when such stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic; or
      (16)   In the front yard, as defined in the Zoning Ordinance, in a
residential district, except upon a paved driveway or paved parking area.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any such prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 62.02) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.17 SIGNS INDICATE WHERE STREET PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The Chief of Police/Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized to erect
signs indicating no parking up either or both sides of any street adjacent to
any school property when such parking would, in his or her opinion, interfere
with traffic or create a hazardous situation. When official signs are erected
indicating no parking upon such streets, no person shall park a vehicle in any
such designated place. The Chief of Police/Traffic Engineer is hereby
authorized to erect signs indicating no parking upon any street when the width
of the roadway does not exceed 20 feet, or upon one side of a street as
indicated by such signs when the width of the roadway does not exceed 33 feet.
When official signs prohibiting parking are erected upon narrow streets as
authorized herein, no person shall park a vehicle upon any such street in
violation of any such sign.
   (B)   The Chief of Police/Traffic Engineer is authorized to erect signs upon
either or both sides of any one-way street to prohibit the standing or parking
of vehicles, and when such signs are in place, no person shall stand or park a
vehicle upon such side in violation of any such sign.
   (C)   The Chief of Police/Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized to prohibit
parking on either or both sides of any street in the town between the hours and
on days of the week specified by him or her and to erect signs so indicating.
(Prior Code, § 62.06) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.18 PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park a vehicle upon any street or highway for the principal
purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying such vehicle for sale; or
   (B)   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle, except for repairs that
are necessitated by an emergency.
(Prior Code, § 62.05) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.19 NIGHT PARKING PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   No person, except physicians on emergency calls, shall park a vehicle on any
street in the Central Business District for a period of time longer than 30
minutes between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. of any day.
(Prior Code, § 62.04) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.20 ONE-WAY ROADWAY PARKING.
   In the event a highway includes two or more separate roadways and traffic is
restricted to one direction upon any such roadway, no person shall stand or
park a vehicle upon either or both sides of such one-way roadway unless signs
are erected to permit such standing or parking. The town’s Traffic Engineer is
authorized to determine when standing or parking may be permitted upon the
sides of any such one-way roadway and to erect signs giving notice thereof.
(Prior Code, § 62.08) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.21 ALLEY PARKING.
   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner or under
such conditions so as to leave available less than ten feet of the width of the
roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person shall stop,
stand or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position so as to block the
driveway entrance to any abutting property.
(Prior Code, § 62.03) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.22 CONGESTED LOCATION PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall park any vehicle upon a street, other than an alley,
in such a manner or under such conditions so as to leave available less than 12
feet of the width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic.
   (B)   The town’s Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized to determine and
designate by proper signs places not exceeding 150 feet in length in which the
stopping, standing or parking of vehicles would create an especially hazardous
condition or would cause unusual delays in traffic. When official signs are
erected at hazardous or congested places as authorized herein, no person shall
stop, stand or park a vehicle in any such designated place.
(Prior Code, § 62.07) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.23 MUNICIPAL OFF-STREET PARKING.
   The Chief of Police and the Traffic Engineer are hereby authorized to erect
signs in “off-street” parking areas maintained by the town, designating parking
time limits in certain portions so designated and the time limits adopted by
resolution of the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 62.09) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.24 PARKING TIME LIMITATIONS.
   No person shall park or leave a vehicle unattended for more than 24 hours in
any municipal “off-street” parking area, nor shall any person park or leave
unattended a disabled or inoperable vehicle or a vehicle with an expired
license or registration in any municipal “off-street” parking area.
(Prior Code, § 62.11) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.25 PARKING TIME LIMITED AS POSTED.
   When appropriate signs are erected in “on-street” parking areas giving
notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for longer than the time
specified.
(Prior Code, § 62.10) (Ord. 3-89, passed 5-8-1989) Penalty, see §
72.99
IMPOUNDMENT AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 72.40 AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND VEHICLES.
   Members of the Police Department are hereby authorized to remove a vehicle
from a street or highway to the nearest garage or other place of safety or to a
garage designated or maintained by the Police Department, or otherwise
maintained by the town, under the following circumstances:
   (A)   When a vehicle is found unattended in any place as may be prohibited
by this Traffic Code;
   (B)   When a vehicle upon a highway is so disabled as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic and the person or persons in charge of such vehicle are,
by reason of physical injury, incapacitated to such an extent as to be unable
to provide for its custody or removal;
   (C)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon a street or alley or is so
parked illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the
normal movement of traffic;
   (D)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon a street, alley or municipal
parking lot and is parked illegally, or parked in a place as may be prohibited
by this chapter, and such vehicle interferes with snow plowing, snow removal,
leaf removal, street cleaning or the maintenance of streets or public
utilities; or
   (E)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon a municipal parking lot and
remains there 24 hours after being tagged with a notice to remove by the Police
Department, or such vehicle is inoperable, disabled or not currently licensed
and registered.
(Prior Code, § 62.12)
§ 72.41 NOTICE OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Whenever an officer removes a vehicle from a street as authorized in
this chapter, or other place as is authorized in this chapter, and the officer
knows or is able to ascertain from the registration records in the vehicle the
name and address of the owner thereof, such officer shall immediately give, or
cause to be given, notice in writing to such owner of the fact of such removal
and the reasons therefor and the place to which such vehicle has been removed.
   (B)   In the event any such vehicle is stored in a public garage, a copy of
such notice shall be given to the proprietor of such garage.
(Prior Code, § 62.13)
§ 72.42 COST OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   The cost of such removal and the cost of such storage shall be borne by the
owner thereof, and such vehicle shall be entitled to be held until such costs
are paid in full.
(Prior Code, § 62.14)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be fined $10,
provided that said fine shall be reduced to $5 if such person shall pay within
72 hours after such violation the sum of $5 to the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer; provided, however, that in the event of a second offense during any
calendar year, the fine shall be $10, and the third offense shall be $25.
(Prior Code, § 62.15)
(Ord. 3-89, passed 5-8-1989; Ord. 11-2003, passed 10-13-2003; Ord. 1-2012,
passed 5-29-2012)
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
73.001   Attaching to vehicles
   
73.002   Traffic markings, signs and other signal devices
Golf Carts
   
73.015   Definition
   
73.016   Where permitted; registration and inspection
   
73.017   Equipment requirements
   
73.018   Operator requirements
   
73.019   Insurance requirements
   
73.020   Passenger requirements
   
73.021   Distracted driving
   
73.022   Interactions with animals
   
73.023   Use in misdemeanor or felony offenses
   
73.024   Exemptions
Off-Road Vehicles
   
73.035   Off-road vehicles prohibited
Motorized Bicycles
   
73.050   Usage conditions
   
73.051   Operation by persons under 18 years of age
Bicycles
   
73.065   Traffic laws apply to bicycles
   
73.066   Code provisions applicable
   
73.067   Bicycles subject to traffic-control devices
   
73.068   Manner of riding; number of passengers
   
73.069   Riding on streets
   
73.070   Right-of-way of pedestrians on sidewalks
   
73.071   Handlebar use required
   
73.072   Light and reflector required at certain times
   
73.073   Warning device required
   
73.074   Brakes required
   
73.075   Speed limit
   
73.076   Parking
   
73.077   Riding bicycles and the like on sidewalks in Downtown Business
District
   
73.078   Parental responsibility
   
73.079   Violation handling procedure
Toy Vehicles
   
73.090   Use of roller skates and the like on roadways
   
73.091   Skating or coasting on sidewalks in Downtown Business District
 
   
73.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Pedestrian regulations, see
Ch. 74
   Traffic-control signal regulations, see
Ch. 71
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 73.001 ATTACHING TO VEHICLES.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled or toy
vehicle shall attach the same or himself or herself to any vehicle upon a
roadway.
(Prior Code, § 61.33) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.002 TRAFFIC MARKINGS, SIGNS AND OTHER SIGNAL DEVICES.
   If the operator of a motorcycle, motorized bicycle, motor scooter or bicycle
approaches an intersection that is controlled by a traffic-control signal, the
operator may proceed through the intersection on a steady red signal only if
the operator:
   (A)   Comes to a complete stop at the intersection for at least 120 seconds;
and
   (B)   Exercises due caution as provided by law, otherwise treats the
traffic-control signal as a stop sign and determines that it is safe to
proceed.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014) Penalty, see §
73.999
GOLF CARTS
§ 73.015 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOLF CART. A three- or four-wheeled motor vehicle originally and
specifically designed and intended to transport one or more individuals and
golf clubs for the purpose of playing the game of golf on a golf course.
(Ord. 02-2023, passed 11-27-2023)
§ 73.016 WHERE PERMITTED; REGISTRATION AND INSPECTION.
   (A)   A golf cart may be used upon the streets and alleys of the town
subject to all traffic laws, except as follows.
      (1)   Use on a state or federal highway, except for the purpose of
crossing such highway, is not permitted.
      (2)   Use on any public street, alley or other right-of-way where the
speed limit exceeds 30 mph is not permitted.
      (3)   Operation or parking in or on any sidewalk, walking trail or other
designated pedestrian path is strictly prohibited.
   (B)   (1)   Beginning January 1, 2024, any golf cart to be operated within
the limits of the town shall be registered with the town before its operation
and an annual calendar-year registration fee of $10 paid to the Clerk-Treasurer
at that time for such privilege. Proof of insurance shall be required at the
time of registration. Such registration fees shall be maintained in a separate
fund by the Clerk-Treasurer and used to assist with the enforcement of this
subchapter unless otherwise determined by the Town Council. The registration is
not transferable.
      (2)   At the time of registration, each golf cart shall be inspected by
an officer of the Police Department to determine that the golf cart has working
lights and signals and/or properly displayed emblems.
(Ord. 02-2023, passed 11-27-2023) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.017 EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A golf cart operated on the streets and alleys of the town shall at
all times display either a slow-moving vehicle emblem in accordance with I.C.
9-21-9-3 or a red or amber flashing lamp in accordance with I.C. 9-21-9-4.
   (B)   All golf carts operated more than one hour before sunrise and/or one
hour after sunset must have operational headlights, taillamps, turn signals and
brake lights visible for at least 500 feet.
(Ord. 02-2023, passed 11-27-2023) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.018 OPERATOR REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A golf cart operated on the streets and alleys of the town shall at
all times be operated by an individual who is at least 16 and one-half (16 1/2)
years old and possesses a valid state-issued identification card or driver
license, and shall not be operated at a speed over 30 mph.
   (B)   A golf cart operated on the streets and alleys of the town shall be
registered through the Clerk-Treasurer’s office, and the registration number
must be clearly displayed on both the driver and passenger side of the golf
cart below the first-row seating.
(Ord. 02-2023, passed 11-27-2023) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.019 INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A person shall not operate a golf cart on the streets or alleys of the
town if financial responsibility is not in effect with respect to the golf
cart. Proof of financial responsibility shall be in accordance with I.C. 9-25-
4-4.
   (B)   A person who operates a golf cart on the streets and alleys of the
town shall at all times maintain the state-required minimum amount of financial
responsibility for the operation of said golf cart in the following amounts:
      (1)   Subject to the limit set forth in division (B)(2) below, $25,000
for bodily injury to or the death of one individual;
      (2)   Fifty thousand dollars for bodily injury to or the death of two or
more individuals in any one accident; and
      (3)   Twenty-five thousand dollars for damage to or the destruction of
property in one accident.
(Ord. 02-2023, passed 11-27-2023) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.020 PASSENGER REQUIREMENTS.
   A golf cart may not carry more passengers than as recommended by the
manufacturer of the golf cart, and all passengers must be seated at all times
during operation of the vehicle.
(Ord. 02-2023, passed 11-27-2023) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.021 DISTRACTED DRIVING.
   (A)   Any person operating a golf cart shall not hold passengers, animals or
anything else in his or her hand or hands, or on his or her lap, while the golf
cart is in operation.
   (B)   Except as provided herein, a person may not hold or use a
telecommunications device while operating a moving golf cart.
      (1)   A telecommunications device may be used in conjunction with hands-
free or voice-operated technology.
      (2)   A telecommunications device may be used or held to call 9-1-1 to
report a bona fide emergency.
(Ord. 02-2023, passed 11-27-2023) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.022 INTERACTIONS WITH ANIMALS.
   No vehicle authorized under this subchapter to travel town streets or alleys
may be used to hunt, pursue, worry or kill a wild bird or a domestic or wild
animal.
(Ord. 02-2023, passed 11-27-2023) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.023 USE IN MISDEMEANOR OR FELONY OFFENSES.
   Use of a golf cart, as defined in §
73.015 of this chapter, in the commission of any misdemeanor or felony offense
shall result in a suspension of the golf cart’s registration by resolution of
the Town Council, subject to the procedures described in §
73.999 of this chapter.
(Ord. 02-2023, passed 11-27-2023) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.024 EXEMPTIONS.
   The Town Council may exempt certain golf carts or off-road vehicles from
this subchapter in favor of town vehicles operated by town employees for use on
town business, as determined by the Town Council, and vehicles owned by the
town’s public schools operated by school employees for use on school business,
as requested by the Superintendent of the Public Schools.
(Ord. 02-2023, passed 11-27-2023)
OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
§ 73.035 OFF-ROAD VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   The use of off-road vehicles, as defined in I.C. 14-8-2-185, and snowmobiles
upon town streets, alleys, rights-of-way and park land is hereby prohibited;
provided, however, that upon application, the Police Chief may permit the use
of such vehicles in parades which are duly authorized under the procedures set
forth in this code, and for industrial use where the purpose is to transport
company personnel primarily upon company property where encroachment upon
streets, alleys or rights-of-way is incidental and not the primary route.
(Prior Code, § 69.01) (Ord. 6-2002, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see §
73.999
MOTORIZED BICYCLES
§ 73.050 USAGE CONDITIONS.
   A motorized bicycle may not be operated within the town under any of the
following conditions:
   (A)   By a person less than 15 years of age;
   (B)   By a person who has not obtained a state identification card under
I.C. 9-24, a permit under I.C. 9-24, an operator’s license under I.C. 9-24, a
chauffeur’s license under I.C. 9-24 or a public passenger chauffeur’s license
under I.C. 9-24;
   (C)   On a sidewalk; or
   (D)   At a speed greater than 25 mph.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.051 OPERATION BY PERSONS UNDER 18 YEARS OF AGE.
   (A)   A person less than 18 years of age who operates or rides a motorized
bicycle on a street or highway shall do the following:
      (1)   Wear protective headgear meeting the minimum standards set by the
Bureau or a helmet that meets the standards established by the United States
Department of Transportation under 49 C.F.R. § 571.218, in effect January 1,
1979; or
      (2)   Wear protective glasses, goggles or a transparent face shield.
   (B)   The parent of a child and the guardian of a protected person may not
authorize or knowingly permit the child or protected person to violate this
subchapter.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014) Penalty, see §
73.999
BICYCLES
§ 73.065 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY TO BICYCLES.
   Any person operating a bicycle upon a street shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle under the laws of this state declaring rules of the road applicable to
vehicles and under
Ch. 71 of this code, except as to special regulations in this subchapter, and
except as to those provisions of state law and
Ch. 71 which by their nature can have no application.
(Prior Code, § 67.01)
§ 73.066 CODE PROVISIONS APPLICABLE.
   The provisions of this Traffic Code shall apply whenever a bicycle is
operated upon any street, sidewalk or alley or upon any public path set aside
for the exclusive use of bicycles, subject to those exceptions stated herein.
(Prior Code, § 67.13)
§ 73.067 BICYCLES SUBJECT TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic-control signals, signs and other devices applicable to vehicles unless
otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected, including that no right or left
or U-turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the
direction of any such sign, except where such person dismounts from a bicycle
to make any such turn, in which event, such person shall then obey the
regulations applicable to pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 67.02) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.068 MANNER OF RIDING; NUMBER OF PASSENGERS.
   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a permanent
and regular seat attached thereto. No bicycle shall be used to carry more
persons at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
(Prior Code, § 67.03) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.069 RIDING ON STREETS.
   A person operating a bicycle upon a street shall ride as near to the right-
hand side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when passing a
standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction. Bicycles shall be
ridden in single file when passing other vehicles or other objects in the
roadway, and at no time shall bicycles be ridden more than two abreast.
(Prior Code, § 67.04) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.070 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF PEDESTRIANS ON SIDEWALKS.
   When a person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, such person shall yield
the right-of-way to any pedestrian. Persons riding bicycles should give an
audible signal a reasonable distance before overtaking and passing a
pedestrian.
(Prior Code, § 67.05) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.071 HANDLEBAR USE REQUIRED.
   The hands of the operator shall be on the handlebars at all times except
while in the act of signaling.
(Prior Code, § 67.06) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.072 LIGHT AND REFLECTOR REQUIRED AT CERTAIN TIMES.
   When in use during the period of darkness, each bicycle shall be equipped
with and shall display a white light on the front thereof, said lamp to be
securely fastened to the bicycle and plainly discernible from a distance of 300
feet ahead under normal atmospheric conditions, and a red reflector on the rear
thereof which shall be plainly visible at night in the lawful lights of motor
vehicles for a distance of 200 feet to the rear under like conditions.
(Prior Code, § 67.07) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.073 WARNING DEVICE REQUIRED.
   No person shall ride a bicycle unless it is equipped with a suitable bell or
other warning device audible for a distance of 100 feet or more. Whistles or
sirens are prohibited as warning devices.
(Prior Code, § 67.08) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.074 BRAKES REQUIRED.
   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the operator
to make the braked wheels skid on a dry, level, clean pavement.
(Prior Code, § 67.09) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.075 SPEED LIMIT.
   No person shall operate his or her bicycle at a speed greater than permits
him or her to bring his or her vehicle to a stop within the assured clear
distance ahead.
(Prior Code, § 67.10) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.076 PARKING.
   Bicycles shall be parked in bicycle racks or other designated areas. In the
event that the above are unavailable, the bicycle may be parked against the
curb or alongside a building in a manner so as not to obstruct vehicular or
pedestrian traffic.
(Prior Code, § 67.11) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.077 RIDING BICYCLES AND THE LIKE ON SIDEWALKS IN DOWNTOWN BUSINESS
DISTRICT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride any bicycle, tricycle or
velocipede along or upon any of the sidewalks in any area zoned DD, Downtown
Business District, of the town.
(Prior Code, § 67.15) (Ord. 9-91, passed 11-11-1991) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.078 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   No parent or guardian shall authorize or knowingly permit his or her child
or ward to violate any of the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 67.12) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.079 VIOLATION HANDLING PROCEDURE.
   Upon the violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter by any
person, the owner of the bicycle which was being used by such person at the
time of the violation may voluntarily deliver, surrender and turn said bicycle
over to the Police Department for impoundment for a period not exceeding 30
days. Provided, however, that if the person violating is under the age of 17
years and the prosecution for the violation would be handled under the statute
therefor provided, the Chief of Police, at his or her discretion, may determine
that such voluntary impoundment of the bicycle is sufficient deterrent and
punishment to the person so violating, and thereupon may refuse to prosecute
for such violation.
(Prior Code, § 67.14)
TOY VEHICLES
§ 73.090 USE OF ROLLER SKATES AND THE LIKE ON ROADWAYS.
   (A)   No person upon roller skates, or riding in or by means of any coaster,
toy vehicle or similar device, shall go upon any roadway, except while crossing
a street on a crosswalk, and when so crossing, such person shall be granted all
the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to pedestrians.
   (B)   This section shall not apply upon any street when set aside as a play
street as authorized by this Traffic Code.
(Prior Code, § 64.10) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.091 SKATING OR COASTING ON SIDEWALKS IN DOWNTOWN BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to skate on either ice skates or
roller skates along, across or upon any of the sidewalks in any area zoned DD,
Downtown Business District, of the town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to coast with a sled, skateboard,
handcart or in any other manner upon any sidewalk in any area zoned DD,
Downtown Business District, of the town.
(Prior Code, § 67.16) (Ord. 9-91, passed 11-11-1991) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   For a violation of §
73.001 of this chapter, the fine shall be $100, reduced down to $50 if paid
within 72 hours of the offense.
   (C)   (1)   (a)   A person who violates §§
73.015 to
73.024 of this chapter on the first offense shall be fined $100. A person who
violates §§
73.015 to
73.024 a second or subsequent time within a calendar year of the first offense
shall be fined the sum of $250. Any person found to be in violation of §§
73.015 to
73.024 shall be responsible for and pay all costs of collection, including any
attorney fees incurred by the town in the enforcement of §§
73.015 to
73.024 and the collection of any fines imposed. Any fine that is unpaid within
30 days of the date of the citation issued shall result in the revocation of
the registration of the golf cart used in the commission of the violation.
         (b)   In the event that any person may be found to be in violation of
§§
73.015 to
73.024 of this chapter more than three times in any calendar year, the
privilege of operating a golf cart in the town by that person may be suspended
by the Town Council upon proper resolution thereof. Any person who receives a
citation under this division (C) whose golf cart driving privileges are
suspended, or whose golf cart registration has been revoked, may petition the
Town Council, in writing, for a hearing on said citation or for reinstatement.
For the purposes of this division (C)(2)(b), the violations necessary for the
suspension of golf cart driving privileges in the town shall be considered
against the golf cart being driven at the time of such violation as well and
may result in the suspension of the golf cart’s registration with the town.
      (2)   All fines collected pursuant to §§
73.015 to
73.024 of this chapter shall be deposited in the General Fund of the town.
   (D)   (1)   A violation of §
73.035 of this chapter shall consist of a Class A infraction and be punishable
as provided by law by state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 69.01)
      (2)   A first offense is $25, a second offense is $50 and a third offense
is $75. All penalties shall be reduced by 50% if paid within 72 hours of notice
to the offender.
   (E)   Any person who violates §§
73.050 or
73.051 of this chapter commits an infraction as scheduled by the Ordinance
Violations Bureau. The fine shall be $100, reduced down to $50 if paid within
72 hours of the offense.
   (F)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
73.065 to
73.079 or
73.091 of this chapter shall be committing a Class B infraction as defined by
state statute. A first offense is $25, a second offense is $50 and a third
offense is $75. All penalties shall be reduced by 50% if paid within 72 hours
of notice to the offender.
(Prior Code, § 67.17)
(Ord. 9-91, passed 11-11-1991; Ord. 6-2002, passed 8-26-2002; Ord. 1-2012,
passed 5-29-2012; Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014; Ord. 02-2023, passed 11-27-
2023)
CHAPTER 74: PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
74.01   Pedestrians subject to traffic-control signals
   
74.02   Right-of-way of pedestrians
   
74.03   Yielding right-of-way to traffic
   
74.04   Keeping to the right in crosswalks
   
74.05   Crossing at right angles
   
74.06   Prohibited crossing
   
74.07   Walking on roadways
   
74.08   Soliciting rides or business
   
74.09   Drivers to exercise due care
 
   
74.99   Penalty
§ 74.01 PEDESTRIANS SUBJECT TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic-control signals, but at all other
places, pedestrians shall be granted those rights and be subject to the
restrictions stated in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 64.01)
§ 74.02 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF PEDESTRIANS.
   (A)   When traffic-control signals are not in place or not in operation, the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if
need be to so yield, to any pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk
when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is
traveling, or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite
half of the roadway as to be in danger, but no pedestrian shall suddenly leave
a curb or other place of safety and walk or run into the path of a vehicle
which is so close that it is impossible for the driver to yield.
   (B)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass such stopped vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 64.02) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.03 YIELDING RIGHT-OF-WAY TO TRAFFIC.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (C)   The foregoing rules in this section have no application under the
conditions stated in §
74.06 of this chapter when pedestrians are prohibited from crossing at certain
designated places.
(Prior Code, § 64.05) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.04 KEEPING TO THE RIGHT IN CROSSWALKS.
   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
(Prior Code, § 64.03)
§ 74.05 CROSSING AT RIGHT ANGLES.
   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway at any place other than by a route at
right angles to the curb or by the shortest route to the opposite curb, except
in a crosswalk.
(Prior Code, § 64.04) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.06 PROHIBITED CROSSING.
   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place, except in a crosswalk.
(Prior Code, § 64.06) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.07 WALKING ON ROADWAYS.
   Where sidewalks are provided, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to
walk along or upon an adjacent roadway. Where sidewalks or marked walkways are
not provided, any pedestrian walking along and upon a highway shall, when
practicable, walk only on the left side of the roadway or its shoulder, facing
traffic which may approach from the opposite direction.
(Prior Code, § 64.07) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.08 SOLICITING RIDES OR BUSINESS.
   No person shall stand on a street or highway for the purpose of soliciting a
ride, employment or business from the occupant of any vehicle. No person shall
stand on or in proximity to a street or highway for the purpose of soliciting
the watching or guarding of any vehicle while parked or about to be parked on a
street or highway.
(Prior Code, § 64.08) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.09 DRIVERS TO EXERCISE DUE CARE.
   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this chapter, every driver of a
vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any
roadway and shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary, and shall
exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or any confused or
incapacitated person upon a roadway.
(Prior Code, § 64.09) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be fined $10,
provided that said fine shall be reduced to $5 if such person shall pay within
72 hours after such violation the sum of $5 to the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer; provided, however, that in the event of a second offense during any
calendar year, the fine shall be $10, and the third offense shall be $25.
(Ord. 1-2012, passed 5-29-2012)
CHAPTER 75: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits
   
II.   Turning limitations
   
III.   One-way streets and alleys
   
IV.   Multi-way stop intersections
   
V.   Stop streets
   
VI.   Yield streets
   
VII.   Traffic-control signal installations
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Street speed limits. Speed limits on the streets listed in division
(B) below are modified as listed therein from the speed limits set by state
law.
(Prior Code, § 61.36)
   (B)   Speed limit schedule.
Street Name Location Maximum Speed When Applicable
Street Name         Location                Maximum Speed When Applicable
Bowen Avenue        Stock Street to South   20 mph        When children present
                    Street
Grant Street        Bowen Avenue to         20 mph        When children present
                    Marshall Street
Lincoln Street      East Street to          20 mph        All times
                    Alexander Street
Marshall Street     Grant Street to South   20 mph        When children present
                    Street
North Center Street Plymouth Street to Bike 20 mph        All times
                    Street
South East Street   Lincoln Street to Maple 20 mph        All times
                    Street
South Street        Bowen Avenue to         20 mph        When children present
                    Marshall Street
South Street        Center Street to East   20 mph        All times
                    Street
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 61, Schd. A)
   (C)   Penalty. Any person who violates a provision within this schedule
commits an infraction as scheduled by the Ordinance Violations Bureau.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014)
SCHEDULE II. TURNING LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Prohibition. Turning is prohibited at the times and in the directions
listed in division (B) below for the intersections therein described.
(Prior Code, § 61.38)
   (B)   Turning limitations schedule.
Street Direction Intersection Prohibition When Applicable
Street            Direction  Intersection Prohibition   When Applicable
Montgomery Street Northbound North Street No right turn All times
Montgomery Street Southbound North Street No left turn  All times
Washington Street Northbound North Street No right turn All times
Washington Street Northbound South Street No left turn  All times
Washington Street Southbound North Street No left turn  All times
Washington Street Southbound South Street No right turn All times
Whitlock Street   Northbound North Street No right turn All times
Whitlock Street   Northbound South Street No left turn  All times
Whitlock Street   Southbound North Street No left turn  All times
Whitlock Street   Southbound South Street No right turn All times
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 61, Schd. B)
   (C)   Penalty. Any person who violates a provision within this schedule
commits an infraction as scheduled by the Ordinance Violations Bureau.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014)
SCHEDULE III. ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   Restriction. The streets listed in division (B) below are designated
one-way in the direction therein indicated for the distances described.
(Prior Code, § 61.39)
   (B)   One-way street schedule.
 
Street or Alley Location                       Direction of Travel
North Street    Marshall Street to East Street Westbound
South Street    Bowen Avenue to East Street    Eastbound
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 61, Schd. C)
   (C)   Penalty. Any person who violates a provision within this schedule
commits an infraction as scheduled by the Ordinance Violations Bureau.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014)
SCHEDULE IV. MULTI-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Designation. The intersections listed in division (B) below are
designated as stop intersects for all traffic.
(Prior Code, § 61.40)
   (B)   Multi-way stop intersection schedule.
Intersection Stop Details
Intersection                                    Stop Details
Bike Street and Industrial Drive                4-way
Dewey Street and Center Street                  4-way
East Street and Sherman Street                  3-way
Faith Avenue and Faith Court and Hope Boulevard 4-way
Grant Street and Birkey Street                  4-way
Grant Street and Bowen Avenue                   4-way
Grant Street and Center Street                  4-way
Grant Street and East Street                    3-way
Grant Street and Marshall Street                4-way
Grant Street and Stewart Street                 4-way
Grant Street and Whitlock Street                4-way
Lincoln Street and East Street                  4-way
Liberty Street and South Street                 4-way
Maple Street and Alexander Street               4-way
Maple Street and Marshall Street                3-way
Maple Street and Woodies Lane                   3-way
Mill Street and Baltimore Street                4-way
Mill Street and Montgomery Street               4-way
North Street and Alexander Street               4-way
North Street and Baltimore Street               4-way
North Street and First Source Drive             3-way
North Street and Liberty Street                 4-way
North Street and Marshall Street                3-way
North Street and Maryland Street                4-way
South Street and Baltimore Street               2-way
South Street and Indiana Street                 2-way
South Street and Marshall Street                3-way
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 61, Schd. D)
   (C)   Penalty. Any person who violates a provision within this schedule
commits an infraction as scheduled by the Ordinance Violations Bureau.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014)
SCHEDULE V. STOP STREETS.
   (A)   Designation. The streets listed in division (B) below are designated
as stop streets for all traffic thereon at the cross street indicated.
(Prior Code, § 61.41)
   (B)   Stop street schedule.
Stop Street Cross Street
Stop Street                    Cross Street
Alexander Street               Lincoln Street
Alexander Street               Plymouth Street
Baltimore Street               Plymouth Street
Baltimore Street (northbound)  Grant Street
Baltimore Street (southbound)  Bike Street
Beechwood Court (eastbound)    Oakmont Drive
Beyler Street (southbound)     Second Street
Bike Street                    Center Street
Bike Street                    Baltimore Street
Bike Street                    East Street
Bike Street                    Indiana Street
Bike Street                    Marshall Street
Bike Street                    Montgomery Street
Bike Street                    Whitlock Street
Bike Street (eastbound)        Alexander Street
Bike Street (eastbound)        Birkey Street
Birkey Street                  Plymouth Street
Birkey Street (northbound)     Dewey Street
Burket Lane                    Grant Street
Carol Street (northbound)      Dewey Street
Carol Street (southbound)      Bike Street
Cemetery Drive #1              Second Street
Cemetery Drive #2              Second Street
Cemetery Drive #3              Second Street
Cemetery Drive #4              Second Street
Cemetery Drive #5              Second Street
Cemetery Drive #6              Second Street
Cemetery Drive #7              Second Street
Collier Street (northbound)    Maple Street
Corey Drive (westbound)        Faith Avenue
Dewey Street                   Baltimore Street
Dewey Street                   Marshall Street
East Street                    North Street
East Street                    Plymouth Street
East Street                    South Street
Enterprise Drive               S.R. 331
Foltz Street                   Maple Street
Foltz Street                   South Street
Foltz Street (northbound)      Plymouth Street
Fourth Street                  Center Street
Grant Street (westbound)       Faith Avenue
Harding Street (eastbound)     Center Street
High Road                      S.R. 331
High Road (eastbound)          Center Street
Holland Street (southbound)    Second Street
Hope Boulevard                 Grant Street
Hope Boulevard (northbound)    Plymouth Street
Huff Street                    North Street
Huff Street (northbound)       Bike Street
Huff Street (southbound)       Plymouth Street
Indiana Street                 Dewey Street
Indiana Street                 Mill Street
Indiana Street                 North Street
Indiana Street                 Plymouth Street
Industrial Drive (northbound)  Dewey Street
Industrial Drive (southbound)  Plymouth Street
Jacinda Drive (westbound)      Birkey Street
Jackson Street                 Bike Street
Jackson Street                 North Street
Jackson Street                 Plymouth Street
Jackson Street                 Sherman Street
Jackson Street                 South Street
Jackson Street (southbound)    Grant Street
Joey Court (westbound)         Faith Avenue
Legner Street (northbound)     Second Street
Liberty Drive                  Plymouth Street
Liberty Drive (northbound)     Dewey Street
Liberty Street                 Grant Street
Lincoln Street (westbound)     Center Street
Maple Street                   Center Street
Maple Street                   East Street
Maple Street                   Jackson Street
Maple Street                   Montgomery Street
Maple Street                   Washington Street
Maple Street                   Whitlock Street
Marshall Street                Plymouth Street
Maryland Street                Bike Street
Maryland Street                Mill Street
Maryland Street                Plymouth Street
Maryland Street (southbound)   South Street
Meadowlark Lane (2 exits)      Stewart Street
Mill Street                    Center Street
Mill Street                    Marshall Street
Mill Street                    Whitlock Street
Montgomery Street              Dewey Street
Montgomery Street              North Street
Montgomery Street              Plymouth Street
Montgomery Street              South Street
Montgomery Street (southbound) Grant Street
Morningside Drive              Raymond Street
Morningside Drive (northbound) Lincoln Street
North Street                   Birkey Street
North Street (westbound)       Center Street
Oakmont Street (northbound)    Grant Street
Raymond Street                 Washington Street
Raymond Street (westbound)     Center Street
Railroad Street (eastbound)    Center Street
Second Street (eastbound)      S.R. 106
Second Street (westbound)      Center Street
Sherman Street                 Center Street
Sherman Street                 Liberty Street
Sherman Street                 Montgomery Street
Sherman Street                 Stewart Street
Sherman Street                 Washington Street
Sherman Street                 Whitlock Street
Sherman Street (eastbound)     Bowen Avenue
Sherman Street (westbound)     Marshall Street
Sherman Street (westbound)     Stewart Street
Shumaker Drive                 Grant Street
Shumaker Drive                 North Street
Shumaker Drive                 Plymouth Street
Shumaker Drive                 Sherman Street
Shumaker Drive                 Stock Street
South Street                   Alexander Street
South Street                   Stewart Street
South Street (eastbound)       Center Street
South Street (eastbound)       Liberty Street
South Street (eastbound)       Shumaker Drive
South Street (eastbound)       Whitlock Street
South Street (eastbound)       Woodies Lane
Southlawn Court (eastbound)    Stewart Street
Spencer Street                 North Street
Spencer Street                 Plymouth Street
Spencer Street (northbound)    Dewey Street
Stewart Street                 Plymouth Street
Stock Street (eastbound)       Bowen Avenue
Stock Street (westbound)       Stewart Street
Third Street                   Beyler Street
Third Street (eastbound)       Holland Street
Third Street (westbound)       Center Street
Timberwood Court (2 exits)     Birkey Street
Wahl Street (southbound)       Second Street
Washington Street              Bike Street
Washington Street              Grant Street
Washington Street              Lincoln Street
Washington Street              North Street
Washington Street              Plymouth Street
Washington Street              South Street
Water Street (eastbound)       Center Street
Water Street (westbound)       Marshall Street
Whitlock Street                North Street
Whitlock Street                Plymouth Street
Whitlock Street (northbound)   Dewey Street
Woodies Lane (northbound)      S.R. 331
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 61, Schd. E)
   (C)   Penalty. Any person who violates a provision within this schedule
commits an infraction as scheduled by the Ordinance Violations Bureau.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014)
SCHEDULE VI. YIELD STREETS.
   (A)   Designation. The streets listed in division (B) below are designated
yield streets for all traffic thereon at the cross street indicated.
(Prior Code, § 61.43)
   (B)   Yield street schedule.
Yield Street Cross Street
Yield Street                   Cross Street
Collier Street (northbound)    South Street
Collier Street (southbound)    Maple Street
East Street                    Raymond Street
Jackson Street (northbound)    Mill Street
Maryland Street (northbound)   Dewey Street
Mill Street (eastbound)        Washington Street
Montgomery Street (northbound) Water Street
Pleasant Court (westbound)     Hope Boulevard
Wahl Street                    Third Street
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 61, Schd. G)
   (C)   Penalty. Any person who violates a provision within this schedule
commits an infraction as scheduled by the Ordinance Violations Bureau.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014)
SCHEDULE VII. TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL INSTALLATIONS.
   (A)   Designation. Traffic-control signals shall be installed as designated
in division (B) below.
(Prior Code, § 61.42)
   (B)   Traffic-control signal installation schedule.
 
Location                         Intersection
Grant Street (red flasher light) Bowen Avenue
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 61, Schd. F)
   (C)   Penalty. Any person who violates a provision within this schedule
commits an infraction as scheduled by the Ordinance Violations Bureau.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014)
CHAPTER 76: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Prohibited parking
SCHEDULE I. PROHIBITED PARKING.
   Parking is prohibited on the following streets subject to the conditions
listed.
 
Location                                                   Condition
200 block of N. East Street                                East side only
200 block of N. Montgomery Street                          West side only
300 block of N. Washington Street                          West side only
Dewey Street east of Center Street                         South side only
E. Bike Street between Center Street and Washington Street North side only
E. South Street between Flotz Street and Alexander Street  North side only
 
(Ord. 10-2014, passed 9-22-2014)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   FAIR HOUSING
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
93.   PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
94.   ABANDONED AND JUNKED VEHICLES
      
95.   ANTI-NOISE REGULATIONS
      
96.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
97.   CEMETERY
CHAPTER 90: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
90.01   Policy statement
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Unlawful practice
   
90.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
90.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
90.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
90.07   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
90.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
90.09   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
90.10   Exemptions
   
90.11   Administrative enforcement
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional
limitations, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 3601
to 3619, the federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended,
being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq., and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 46.01) (Ord. 5-2018, passed 7-23-2018; Ord. 5a-2018, passed 7-
23-2018)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes such person will be injured by a discriminatory housing
practice about to occur.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-2)
   COMMISSION. The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9-1-4 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
90.04, 90.05, 90.06, 90.07 or 90.08 of this chapter or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or part of a building or structure that is
occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a
residence by one or more families.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS.
      (1)   One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18 years
being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of such
individual or the written permission of such parent or other person.
      (2)   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
FAMILIAL STATUS shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual (I.C. 22-9.5-2-9), with the status of
such FAMILY being further defined in the definition of “familial status” in
this section.
   HANDICAP.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990; or
         (e)   Any other impairment defined under I.C. 22-9-6-1.
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or
addictions to a controlled substance as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under 11 U.S.C., receivers and fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Prior Code, § 46.02) (Ord. 5-2018, passed 7-23-2018; Ord. 5a-2018, passed 7-
23-2018)
§ 90.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, §
90.09 of this chapter and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against
discrimination in the sale or rental of housing set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-
1 and in §
90.04 of this chapter shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings, except as exempted by division (B) below and I.C. 22-
9.5-3;
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
90.04 of this chapter shall apply to:
      (1)   (a)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption, shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his or her behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time.
         (b)   The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
exempted from the application of this section only if such house is sold or
rented:
            1.   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental
facilities or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson or any
person in the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or
agent of any such broker, agent or salesperson or person; and
            2.   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
90.04(A)(3) of this chapter, but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the
use of attorneys, escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by not more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as agent,
other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in providing sales
or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions involving the sale
or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   They are the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Prior Code, § 46.03) (Ord. 5-2018, passed 7-23-2018; Ord. 5a-2018, passed 7-
23-2018)
§ 90.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   (A)   As made applicable by §
90.03 of this chapter and except as exempted by §§
90.03(B) and
90.09 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful:
      (1)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or
to refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable
or deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin;
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin;
      (3)   To make, print or publish, or to cause to be made, printed or
published, any notice, statement or advertisement with respect to the sale or
rental of a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or
discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status
or national origin, or an intention to make any such preference, limitation or
discrimination;
      (4)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available;
      (5)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induct any person to sell or
rent any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry
into the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin;
      (6)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
         (a)   That buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (7)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
         (a)   That person;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (8)   For the purposes of this division (A), DISCRIMINATION includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises, except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
or landlady may, where it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a
modification on the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to
the condition that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear
excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
         (c)   1.   In connection with the design and construction of covered
multi-family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months
after September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in
such a manner that:
               a.   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings
are readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
               b.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
               c.   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
                  i.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
                  ii.   Light switches, electrical outlets, thermostats and
other environmental controls in accessible locations; and
                  iii.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in
a wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
            2.   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the Americans
with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. § 12101, and of the American
National Standard for Buildings and Facilities providing accessibility and
usability for physically handicapped people (commonly cited as ANSI A117.1)
suffices to satisfy the requirements of division (A)(8)(c)1.c.iii. above.
   (B)   Nothing in this section requires that a dwelling be made available to
an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health or
safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Prior Code, § 46.04) (Ord. 5-2018, passed 7-23-2018; Ord. 5a-2018, passed 7-
23-2018) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap or familial status.
(Prior Code, § 46.05) (Ord. 5-2018, passed 7-23-2018; Ord. 5a-2018, passed 7-
23-2018) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’
organization or other service, organization or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national
origin.
(Prior Code, § 46.06) (Ord. 5-2018, passed 7-23-2018; Ord. 5a-2018, passed 7-
23-2018) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
90.03,
90.04,
90.05 or
90.06 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 46.07) (Ord. 5-2018, passed 7-23-2018; Ord. 5a-2018, passed 7-
23-2018) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force, willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempt to injure,
intimidate or interfere with, any of the following shall be fined or
imprisoned, or both, as set out in §
90.99 of this chapter:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin, and because he or she is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A)
above; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons the opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, in
any of the activities, services, organizations or facilities described in
division (A) above, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly
opposing any denial of the opportunity to participate.
(Ord. 5-2018, passed 7-23-2018; Ord. 5a-2018, passed 7-23-2018) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to 24 C.F.R. § 5.403 and 24 C.F.R. § 574.3, the definition of
FAMILY is revised to include families regardless of the actual or perceived
sexual orientation, gender identity or marital status of its members.
(Ord. 5-2018, passed 7-23-2018; Ord. 5a-2018, passed 7-23-2018)
§ 90.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter, to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public which, as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes,
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose
from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members or from
giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the state’s Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly persons (as defined in the state or federal program);
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Prior Code, § 46.08) (Ord. 5-2018, passed 7-23-2018; Ord. 5a-2018, passed 7-
23-2018)
§ 90.11 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) below shall be vested in the chief elected official of the
town.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the town, because
of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under the chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the provisions of this
chapter by complainants to the state’s Civil Rights Commission for
administrative enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6, and the chief
elected official of the town shall refer all said complaints to the Commission,
as provided for under division (A) above for the purposes of investigation,
resolution and appropriate relief as provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the town shall administer
their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the chief elected official and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The chief elected official of the town, or the chief elected
official’s designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any
aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Prior Code, § 46.09) (Ord. 5-2018, passed 7-23-2018; Ord. 5a-2018, passed 7-
23-2018)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Whoever violates this chapter as set out in §
90.08 of this chapter shall be fined according to local, state and federal law;
and if bodily injury results, shall be fined not more than $10,000 or
imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if death results, shall be
subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 5-2018, passed 7-23-2018; Ord. 5a-2018, passed 7-23-2018)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.001   Definitions
   
91.002   Maximum number of dogs or cats
   
91.003   Excluding service animals prohibited
   
91.004   Prohibited domestic animals
   
91.005   Dangerous or poisonous animals
   
91.006   Removing animal wastes or dead animals
   
91.007   Motor vehicle accidents involving animals
Treatment of Animals
   
91.020   Care requirements generally
   
91.021   Animals in motor vehicles
   
91.022   Poisoning animals
   
91.023   Trapping animals
   
91.024   Confinement by other than town officials; required notice
   
91.025   Sale of animals as novelties or use as prizes
Public Health and Safety Provisions
   
91.040   Barking dogs and other animal noise
   
91.041   Spaying or neutering adopted animals
   
91.042   Vaccination of dogs and cats
   
91.043   Animal bites and reports
Administration and Impoundment
   
91.055   Inspections
   
91.056   Interference with Humane Officer
   
91.057   Impounding procedures
   
91.058   Breaking into animal shelters
Registration, Permits and Fees
   
91.070   Pet registration
   
91.071   Controlled animal permit
   
91.072   Pet shop/breeder permit
   
91.073   Dangerous animal/attack dog permit
   
91.074   Animal performance/exhibition permit
   
91.075   Permit exemptions
   
91.076   Permit issuance
   
91.077   Permit revocation
   
91.078   Fees
 
   
91.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Pet Registration and License Form
   
Appendix B: Controlled Animal Permit Form
   
Appendix C: Pet Shop/Breeder Permit Form
   
Appendix D: Dangerous Animal/Attack Dog Permit Form
   
Appendix E: Circus/Animal Performance Exhibition Permit Form
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. To deposit, leave, drop off or otherwise dispose of any live
domestic animal without providing immediate humane care on any public or
private property.
   AGENT. Person(s) 18 years or older authorized by an owner to act in the
owner’s behalf.
   ALTERED ANIMAL. Any animal that has been operated on to prevent it from
procreating.
   ANIMAL. Any live non-human vertebrate creature, domestic, wild or exotic.
   ANIMAL CONTROL AGENCY. Any governmental or private entity charged with or
contracted with and given authority for the enforcement of the provisions of
this chapter for and on behalf of the Town of Bremen (hereinafter “town”).
   ANIMAL PERFORMANCES OR EXHIBITIONS. Any spectacle, performance, display,
act, exhibition or event in which an animal or animals are used.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. A facility or vehicle operated by a governmental or private
entity for the purpose of providing or promoting animal welfare and the humane
treatment of animals.
   AT LARGE. Any animal that is not under restraint.
   ATTACK DOG. Any dog trained to attack upon command or those which do attack
or have attacked another animal or human being upon command. This definition is
intended to cover dogs bred for fighting and shall include, but not be limited
to, the breed of dog commonly referred to as the American pit bull, or American
pit bull terrier, or pit bull terrier, or cross-breeds therewith, which breed
is hereby found and considered to be unsafe and potentially hazardous to the
citizens of the town. This definition excludes K-9 Corps dogs in use by the law
enforcement agencies.
   AUCTION. Any place or facility where animals are regularly bought, sold or
traded by means of auction sale, except for those facilities otherwise defined
in this chapter or state law.
   BREEDER. Any person, for-profit business or corporation which harbors or
keeps dogs and/or cats and allows or causes those animals to procreate for the
purpose of selling said animals for profit.
   CONTROLLED ANIMAL.
      (1)   Any animal not defined as a domestic animal in this chapter, with
the exception of small, nonpoisonous aquatic or nonpoisonous amphibious
animals, nonpoisonous reptilian animals and small cage birds and psittacines,
and possession of which requires a valid town-controlled animal permit.
      (2)   Such CONTROLLED ANIMALS shall include, but not be limited to, the
following:
         (a)   All poisonous animals, including rear-fang snakes;
         (b)   Apes: chimpanzees (Pan), gibbons (Hylobates), gorillas
(Gorilla), orangutans (Pongo) and siamangs (Symphalangus);
         (c)   Baboons (Papoe, Mandrilluis);
         (d)   Bears (Ursidae);
         (e)   Bison (Bison);
         (f)   Cheetahs (Acinonyx jubatus);
         (g)   Crocodilians (Crocodilia);
         (h)   Constrictor snakes, including, but not limited to, boas, pythons
and anacondas;
         (i)   Coyotes (Canis latrans);
         (j)   Deer (Cervidae); includes all member of the deer family, for
example, white-tailed deer, elks, antelopes and moose;
         (k)   Elephants (Elephas and Loxodonta);
         (l)   Game cocks and other fighting birds;
         (m)   Hippopotami (Hippopotamidae);
         (n)   Hyenas (Hyaenidae);
         (o)   Jaguars (Panthera onca);
         (p)   Leopards (Panthera pardus);
         (q)   Lions (Panthera leo);
         (r)   Lynxes (Lynx);
         (s)   Monkeys;
         (t)   Ostriches (Struthio);
         (u)   Piranha fish (Characidea);
         (v)   Pumas (Fells concolor); also known as cougars, mountain lions
and panthers;
         (w)   Rhinoceroses (Rhinocero tidae);
         (x)   Sharks (class Chondrichthyes);
         (y)   Snow leopards (Panthera uncia);
         (z)   Spiders and insects which are poisonous;
         (aa)   Tigers (Panthera tigris); and
         (bb)   Wolves (Canis lupus).
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL.
      (1)   Any animal:
         (a)   That has, off its owner’s property, attacked another animal or
livestock;
         (b)   Which has attacked or which has attempted to attack, unprovoked,
any human being, whether on or off the owner’s property;
         (c)   Which has bitten or attacked a person, causing wounds or
injuries creating a potential danger to the health and life of the victim; or
         (d)   Which is found to be at large three times or more.
      (2)   However, no animal shall be a DANGEROUS ANIMAL if injury or damage
is inflicted by that animal upon a person or another animal if such person or
other animal, at the time such injury or damage was sustained, was committing a
willful trespass upon premises occupied by the owner or keeper of the animal,
or was teasing, tormenting, abusing or assaulting the animal, or was committing
or attempting to commit a crime. This definition excludes K-9 Corps dogs in use
by law enforcement agencies.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal that is a member of one of the following
species:
      (1)   Dogs (Canis familiaris);
      (2)   Cats (Felis cattus or Felis domesticus);
      (3)   Cattle (Bos domesticus or Bos taurus or Bos indicus);
      (4)   Horses (Equus caballus);
      (5)   Donkeys (Equus asinus);
      (6)   Sheep (Ovis aries);
      (7)   Goats (Capra hilrcus);
      (8)   Rabbits (Oryctolagus cuniculus);
      (9)   Mice (Mus musculus);
      (10)   Rats (Rattus rattus);
      (11)   Guinea pigs (Cavis procellus);
      (12)   Hamsters (Mesocriecetus auratus);
      (13)   Gerbils (Gerbillus gerbillus);
      (14)   Cows or oxen (Bovine);
      (15)   Pigeons, homing or racing; or
      (16)   Chickens, turkeys, geese or ducks.
   ESCAPE-PROOF ENCLOSURE. The owner’s home or an enclosure at least six feet
by 12 feet constructed of ten-gauge commercial chain link steel wire at least
six feet high above grade unless covered with a roof of similar wire, and two
feet of similar wire buried below grade unless there is a cement floor. (If the
dog escapes the enclosure, a five-sided enclosure on concrete will be
required).
   EXOTIC ANIMAL. Any animal whose normal native habitat is not indigenous to
the continental United States, excluding Alaska and Hawaii, except fish, fur-
bearing animals commercially bred for the furrier trade and birds protected
under federal laws and regulations.
   EXPOSED TO RABIES. Any human or nonhuman warm-blooded mammal that has been
bitten or in contact with any other animal known or reasonably suspected to
have been infected with rabies.
   FOWL. Any kind of wild or domestic bird, excluding homing or racing pigeons,
canaries, parrots or similar types of birds normally kept in cages.
   GUIDE DOGS. Dogs formally trained to assist handicapped persons.
   HARBORING. The actions of any person that permit any animal habitually to
remain or lodge or to be fed within his or her home, store, enclosure, yard or
place of business or any premises on which such person resides or controls. An
animal shall be presumed HARBORED if it is fed or sheltered for three
consecutive days or more.
   HUMANE OFFICER(S). Any person(s) and/or agency designated by the state or
the town as a person who is qualified to perform duties required by the laws of
this town and state regarding animals.
   NOT-FOR-PROFIT. A business, association or entity established or organized
as a NOT-FOR-PROFIT corporation under sate law or recognized as NOT-FOR PROFIT
by the Internal Revenue Service or the state’s Department of Revenue. FOR-
PROFIT means all other types of businesses, associations or entities.
   OWNER. Any person age 18 years or older, partnership or corporation owning,
keeping or harboring one or more animals.
   PET. Any animal kept for pleasure rather than utility.
   PET SHOP. Any person, group of persons, partnership or corporation, whether
operated separately or in connection with another business enterprise, engaged
in the humane care and possession for sale, display and sale of pets.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any animal or animals which:
      (1)   Interferes with passers-by or passing vehicles;
      (2)   Attacks other animals or persons;
      (3)   Is at large;
      (4)   Damages private or public property;
      (5)   Causes frequent or long-continued loud noises or other sounds
common to its species which disturbs the comfort or repose of any person in the
immediate neighborhood;
      (6)   Causes foul or noxious odors which offend residents in the
neighborhood; or
      (7)   Is at large or on a public playground, swimming pool or school yard
unless the animal is authorized by school officials.
   RABIES VACCINATION. The injection by a licensed veterinarian of a dog or cat
or other animal with a rabies vaccine licensed by the U.S.D.A. and approved by
the state’s Board of Health.
   RESTRAINT. The securing of an animal by leash or lead or confining it within
the real property limits of its owner or agent.
   STRAY. Any animal that is not within the real property limits of its owner
and is not under restraint or is unattended.
   VETERINARIAN. Any person licensed and accredited to practice veterinary
medicine in the state.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any animal not a domestic or exotic animal, with the exception
of small, nonpoisonous aquatic or amphibious animals and small cage birds which
are normally found in the wild state.
   ZOOLOGICAL PARK. Any facility, other than a pet shop or kennel, displaying
or exhibiting one or more species or non-domesticated animals operated by a
person, partnership, corporation or governmental agency that is established for
educational purposes and is properly zoned for such use and which possesses
valid licenses and permits as required under federal or state law.
(Prior Code, § 71.01) (Ord. 10-92, passed 11-9-1992)
§ 91.002 MAXIMUM NUMBER OF DOGS OR CATS.
   Not more than an aggregate of three dogs or cats over the age of six months
may be kept on any residential, commercial or other premises within the town
unless the owner of the animals holds a valid pet shop/breeder permit,
whichever may be appropriate. Provided, however, if an owner of more than three
cats, within 60 days of the adoption of this chapter, provides the Clerk-
Treasurer’s office with a list of the cats, including their names, sex,
approximate ages and general description, such owner may retain those cats for
their lifetime but may not acquire additional cats until the total number falls
below three.
(Prior Code, § 71.08) (Ord. 10-92, passed 11-9-1992) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.003 EXCLUDING SERVICE ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, operating or maintaining any
public place of business or conveyance into which the general public is invited
for any business purpose to debar or exclude therefrom any service animal, as
defined by I.C. 16-32-3-1.5, as it may be amended, which has been trained to
assist, do work or perform tasks for the benefit of an individual with a
disability. The service animal must be in the company of the individual whom it
was trained to assist.
(Prior Code, § 71.15) (Ord. 10-92, passed 11-9-1992) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.004 PROHIBITED DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall keep any of the following named domestic animals
or fowl in the town:
         (a)   Cows, oxen, cattle, calves or other livestock;
         (b)   Donkeys, asses, burros or mules;
         (c)   Sheep;
         (d)   Goats;
         (e)   Chickens, roosters, geese, turkeys, ducks or other fowl, except
racing or homing pigeons; and
         (f)   Horses.
      (2)   Provided, however, that an owner of such animals legally located
within the town shall have 60 days from the enactment of this chapter to
provide the Clerk-Treasurer’s office with a list of such animals (including
their names, sex, approximate ages and general description), and such owners
may retain those animals for their natural life but may not replace them.
   (B)   (1)   A person shall be permitted to maintain not more than two
colonies of domestic honeybees, provided that said hives:
         (a)   Are placed not less than ten feet away from the property lines
in all directions;
         (b)   Are housed in a stable, appropriate apiary; and
         (c)   Are enclosed by a fence not less than four feet high.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed or construed to prohibit
the keeping of bees in a hive, stand or box located or kept within a zoological
park, school or university building for the purpose of study or observation as
long as the public safety in ensured.
   (C)   Any person desiring to raise rabbits or pets or racing or homing
pigeons within the town must keep such animals and birds in safe and sanitary
conditions so that a public nuisance as defined herein is not created.
   (D)   No person may keep within the town, as presently or hereinafter
established, any swine or pig pens or hog sties, which are hereby declared to
be a nuisance in the town.
(Prior Code, § 71.09) (Ord. 10-92, passed 11-9-1992; Ord. 9-2015, passed 10-26-
2015) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.005 DANGEROUS OR POISONOUS ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to harbor or possess within the town any
poisonous animal, reptile, amphibian, fish or insect, any dangerous animal or
any animal that poses a threat to public health and safety, and the same may be
impounded by the animal control agency and disposed of in the best interest of
the animal and to protect the safety of the public and humane officers.
(Prior Code, § 71.18) (Ord. 10-92, passed 11-9-1992) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.006 REMOVING ANIMAL WASTES OR DEAD ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any owner or his or her agent taking the owner’s dog(s) or cat(s)
outside of the owner’s real property limits must immediately remove any
excrement deposited by the animal(s) on any such public or private property,
except in the case of a service animal for an individual with a disability.
   (B)   The owner of any dead animal shall remove and properly dispose of the
animal within 24 hours after its death. The real property owner is responsible
for the removal of any strange animal carcass on such real property.
(Prior Code, § 71.10) (Ord. 10-92, passed 11-9-1992) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.007 MOTOR VEHICLE ACCIDENTS INVOLVING ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any person operating a motor vehicle who knowingly hits, runs over or
causes injury to an animal shall immediately notify the Police Department.
   (B)   Such notice shall include the motorist’s name, address, type of animal
hit and the location of the animal.
(Prior Code, § 71.04) (Ord. 10-92, passed 11-9-1992) Penalty, see §
91.999
TREATMENT OF ANIMALS
§ 91.020 CARE REQUIREMENTS GENERALLY.
   Every owner and/or his or her agent within the town shall see that each of
his or her animals:
   (A)   Is kept in a clean, sanitary and healthy manner and is not confined so
as to be forced to stand, sit or lie in its own excrement;
   (B)   Has sufficient and wholesome water and food which is proper and
nutritional for that species of animals;
   (C)   Has a proper and adequate structure provided that it will protect that
animal from all elements of the weather and will allow that animal to stand,
sit and lie down without restriction and is kept in a sanitary manner;
   (D)   If ill, diseased or injured, receives proper veterinary care as
necessary to promote the good health of the animal and prevent the transmittal
of a disease to other animals or human beings;
   (E)   Is not beaten, cruelly ill-treated, overloaded, overworked, tormented
or otherwise abused or neglected, nor shall any person cause, instigate or
permit any dogfight, cockfight, bullfight or other combat between animals or
between animals and humans;
   (F)   Is not physically altered in any manner by anyone other than a
veterinarian, with the exception of tattooing for identification purposes and
grooming;
   (G)   Is not abandoned, neglected or tortured;
   (H)   Does not become a public nuisance;
   (I)   Does not become a dangerous animal;
   (J)   In the case of a dog or cat over the age of six months, is properly
vaccinated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian annually, or upon such
frequency as may be specified by state statute, and such animals shall be
licensed as required by this chapter and state law;
   (K)   Is properly restrained; and
   (L)   In mating season, shall be kept in a secure enclosure in such a manner
that it cannot come into contact with another animal of the same species except
for planned breeding.
(Prior Code, § 71.02) (Ord. 10-92, passed 11-9-1992) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.021 ANIMALS IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No animal shall be left in a motor vehicle when the conditions in that
vehicle would constitute a health hazard to such animal confined in said motor
vehicle; nor shall any person transport any animal in an unenclosed truck bed
or open portion of any vehicle unless the animal is enclosed in a cage or
attached to a harness designed for vehicles which is securely fastened to the
vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 71.05) (Ord. 10-92, passed 11-9-1992) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.022 POISONING ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or deposit any known poisonous
substance in any of the streets, alleys, parks, commons, yards or other places,
whether public or private, within the town so that the same shall be liable to
be consumed by any animal, provided that is shall not be unlawful for a person
to expose on his or her own property common rat or mouse poison or insecticide,
unmixed or mixed only with vegetable substances if used so as to restrict
access to the poison only to the targeted rodents or insects.
(Prior Code, § 71.06) (Ord. 10-92, passed 11-9-1992) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.023 TRAPPING ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall set traps for animals or fowl within the town unless
such trap(s) are approved by a humane officer or the town’s animal control
agency and issued for the control of nuisance animals.
   (B)   This prohibition shall not apply to any trap specifically designed to
kill rats, mice, gophers or moles so long as the owner of the property is aware
of where the trap(s) are set.
(Prior Code, § 71.07) (Ord. 10-92, passed 11-9-1992) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.024 CONFINEMENT BY OTHER THAN TOWN OFFICIALS; REQUIRED NOTICE.
   No person shall, without the knowledge or consent of the owner, hold or
retain possession of any animal of which he or she is not the owner for more
than 24 hours without first reporting the possession of the animal to a humane
officer, an animal control agency or its designee, giving:
   (A)   His or her name and address;
   (B)   A description of the animal;
   (C)   A true and complete statement of the circumstance under which he or
she took possession of the animal; and
   (D)   The precise location where said animal is confined.
(Prior Code, § 71.16) (Ord. 10-92, passed 11-9-1992) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.025 SALE OF ANIMALS AS NOVELTIES OR USE AS PRIZES.
   (A)   No person shall display, sell, offer for sale, barter or give away any
animal, reptile, fish or bird as a novelty or as an advertising device.
   (B)   No rabbit, chick, gosling, duckling, turkey or other fowl may be dyed
or otherwise colored artificially, nor may dyed or artificially colored
rabbits, chicks, goslings, ducklings, turkeys or other fowl be sold, offered
for sale, displayed, used as barter or given away.
   (C)   This section shall not be construed to prohibit the sale or display of
natural chicks, ducklings, goslings, turkeys or other domestic fowl in proper
brooder facilities by hatcheries or stores engaged in the business of selling
them to be raised for commercial purposes; nor shall this section prohibit a
pet shop holding a valid permit under this chapter, or a legitimate humane
society or animal shelter, from humanely caring for, adopting out or selling
animals as pets.
(Prior Code, § 71.03) (Ord. 10-92, passed 11-9-1992) Penalty, see §
91.999
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY PROVISIONS
§ 91.040 BARKING DOGS AND OTHER ANIMAL NOISE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation being the owner or
keeper of any dog and/or animal to permit such dog and/or animal to bark, howl,
whine or otherwise disturb or annoy any other resident of the town for any
single period of 15 minutes, or for intermittent periods of shorter duration if
such shorter disturbances of the peace occur more than three times in any
period of 24 hours.
(Prior Code, § 71.30) (Ord. 10-92, passed 11-9-1992) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.041 SPAYING OR NEUTERING ADOPTED ANIMALS.
   Any dog or cat adopted from a local humane society or animal care facility
must be spayed or neutered by a licensed veterinarian within 30 days of
adoption if the dog or cat is over six months of age. If the dog or cat is less
than six months of age upon adoption, it shall be spayed or neutered by a
licensed veterinarian upon reaching the age of six months. An exception is made
only if a licensed veterinarian certifies that said animal is physically unable
to undergo such an operation within the time limitations. The individual
adopting the dog or cat must sign a written agreement with the adopting
facility guaranteeing that such animal shall be neutered or spayed within the
time limitations specified in this section.
(Prior Code, § 71.14) (Ord. 10-92, passed 11-9-1992) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.042 VACCINATION OF DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   No animal owner or his or her agent shall keep or harbor a dog or cat
over the age of six months unless it has been vaccinated annually by a licensed
veterinarian with an anti-rabies vaccine.
   (B)   Proof of vaccination shall be maintained by the owner for display if
requested by the town or its agents.
(Prior Code, § 71.12) (Ord. 10-92, passed 11-9-1992) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.043 ANIMAL BITES AND REPORTS.
   (A)   If any person is a victim of an animal bite, he or she shall
immediately notify the county’s Health Department and/or the town’s Department
of Code Enforcement of the incident and provide a description of the animal and
the identification, if possible, of the owner. When an animal is determined to
have bitten a person, the animal shall be confined in quarantine for a period
of not less than 14 days.
   (B)   If the owner of an animal which has bitten a person has proof of
current rabies inoculations, the animal may be left in the charge of the owner
under quarantine unless, in the judgment of the humane officer, and based upon
considerations of public safety, the humane officer determines if it should be
removed to an animal shelter or veterinary hospital for the period of
observation.
   (C)   In addition to any other legal obligations prescribed by law, the
owner shall be liable for all costs incurred in the quarantine of the animal.
   (D)   If the ownership of the biting animal cannot be determined, or if the
owner does not furnish proof of current rabies inoculation, the animal shall be
impounded under the authority of the town’s animal control agency and confined
in the town’s animal control facility for a period of observation of not less
than 14 days.
   (E)   Humane officers shall be empowered to enter onto private property for
the purpose of impounding animal(s) which are known to have bitten a person and
shall obtain legal process to do so if necessary.
   (F)   Unless otherwise provided, the town and any of its agents shall comply
with the standards set forth in I.C. 15-17-6, entitled “Rabies.”
(Prior Code, § 71.11) (Ord. 10-92, passed 11-9-1992) Penalty, see §
91.999
ADMINISTRATION AND IMPOUNDMENT
§ 91.055 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Whenever it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of or perform any duty imposed by this chapter, or when there is
reasonable cause to believe that there exists in any building or upon any
premises any violation of the provisions of this chapter or state law, a health
officer, police officer or humane officer is authorized at all reasonable times
to inspect the same for compliance with the provisions of this chapter or any
state law, provided that:
      (1)   If the property is occupied, the officer shall first present proper
credentials to the occupant and request entry, explaining the reasons therefor;
and
      (2)   If the property is unoccupied, the officer shall make a reasonable
effort to locate the owner or other persons having control of the property and
request entry, explaining the reasons therefor.
   (B)   In the event the officer has reasonable cause to believe that the
keeping or maintaining of an animal(s) is so hazardous, unsafe or dangerous, or
constitutes a public nuisance, so as to require immediate inspection to
safeguard the animal or the public health or safety, the officer shall first
present proper credentials and request entry, explaining the reasons therefor.
If entry is refused or cannot be obtained, the officer shall have recourse to
secure lawful entry and inspection of the property.
(Prior Code, § 71.29) (Ord. 10-92, passed 11-9-1992)
§ 91.056 INTERFERENCE WITH HUMANE OFFICER.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter to interfere with or impede a humane
officer or officers in the performance of their duties as set forth in this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 71.13) (Ord. 10-92, passed 11-9-1992) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.057 IMPOUNDING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   All animals found to be at large, stray or being a public nuisance may
be taken by the police or humane officer and impounded.
   (B)   If any dangerous, ferocious or vicious animal is found a large and
cannot be safely taken up and impounded, the animal may be tranquilized, slain
or humanely euthanized, to prevent undue suffering, by a police officer or his
or her designee or a humane officer.
   (C)   Impounded dogs and cats not wearing town tags (licenses) must be kept
for no fewer than three days before being adopted out or humanely euthanized.
   (D)   (1)   If dogs and cats wearing town tags (licenses) are impounded by
the animal control agency, an attempt shall be made by the humane officer to
return said animal to the owner, as indicated on the records of the animal
control agency, as soon as is practical after the time of the impoundment. If
said attempt to return said animal is impossible or without success, the animal
control agency shall send a written notice to the owner at the address
indicated in the records of the animal control agency that said agency has in
its possession said animal and that unless said animal is claimed by the owner
within ten days from the date of said impoundment, said animal may be placed
for adoption or humanely euthanized.
      (2)   This process shall be followed for the first offense only. On
second and subsequent violations, the impounded dogs or cats wearing town tags
(licenses) shall be kept for not fewer than five days to permit their owners to
claim them. After the fifth day of said second or subsequent violations, such
dogs or cats may be placed for adoption or humanely euthanized if their owners
have not claimed them and paid the required fees.
   (E)   All other impounded animals (except dogs and cats specifically covered
herein) shall be under the authority of the humane officer. The animals shall
be held at least one day, after which time the animal shelter shall have the
authority to take whatever action is necessary with regard to the adoption or
euthanasia of such animals.
   (F)   An owner reclaiming an impounded animal shall pay to the town’s animal
control agency its then-current redemption fee plus the total daily boarding
fee for redemption of the animal.
   (G)   (1)   No unlicensed dog or cat shall be released from an animal
shelter without a license being issued in accordance with this chapter, except
a dog or cat less than six months old. However, because proof of current,
effective rabies vaccination is required before the license is issued, if such
shelter does not have licensed veterinary services on site to administer such
required rabies vaccination, the dog or cat may be released upon presentation
of a veterinarian’s charges for such vaccination and must be vaccinated within
48 hours after such release, and the owner shall supply proof of same to the
town’s animal control agency within 72 hours after the release, at which time
the license tag shall be issued.
      (2)   Failure of the animal owner to obtain such vaccination after such
release shall constitute a breach of the release agreement and entitle the
town’s animal control agency to regain possession of the animal.
   (H)   (1)   An animal owner redeeming an impounded animal belonging to him
or her shall pay to the town or its agent a redemption fee of $15 on the
occasion that an animal is released to such owner by the town’s animal control
agency. An owner redeeming an impounded unlicensed animal shall pay to the town
a redemption fee of $25 before the animal is released by the animal control
agency. Such redemption fee shall increase by an additional $25 per impoundment
for each subsequent time within a three-month period that the same or any other
animal belonging to the same owner may be impounded.
      (2)   Any impounded animal which is not required to be licensed under the
provisions of this chapter may be redeemed by its owner for a $10 fee for the
first impoundment.
      (3)   The town’s animal control agency shall collect all such licensing
and redemption fees for the town and shall account to the town and pay over to
the Clerk-Treasurer such amounts of such fees as required by the animal control
contract between the town and the animal control agency then in effect.
   (I)   The town’s animal control agency shall have the authority to take
whatever action is reasonably necessary, including humane euthanization, to
deal with a sick or injured animal for the welfare of the animal and for the
safety of humane officers and the public.
   (J)   In the event that an animal is retained at the impounding facility
because its owner has been in violation of this chapter, the person redeeming
the animal by paying the redemption fee shall also be subject to paying for
veterinary bills incurred, for routine vaccinations for the animal(s), if
necessary, veterinary services, boarding fees, all pertinent expenses and all
applicable permit and/or licensing fees reasonably necessary and incurred for
the benefit of the animal.
   (K)   Any animal impounded in an animal control facility, if not reclaimed
by its owner as provided for herein, shall thereby become the property of the
animal control agency and, if not adopted out, must be humanely euthanized.
(Prior Code, § 71.19) (Ord. 4-91, passed 5-28-1991; Ord. 10-92, passed 11-9-
1992)
§ 91.058 BREAKING INTO ANIMAL SHELTERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to break into any animal shelter wherein
animals are impounded by the town or in any way to remove or assist in the
removal of any animal from the described property without lawful permission.
(Prior Code, § 71.17) (Ord. 10-92, passed 11-9-1992) Penalty, see §
91.999
REGISTRATION, PERMITS AND FEES
§ 91.070 PET REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Any person owning, keeping, harboring or having custody of any dog or
cat over the age of six months must obtain a pet registration for such animal;
provided that no pet registration shall be required of any municipal animal
control facility or governmental agency or guide dog. Animals belonging to
those agencies or persons will be issued complimentary registration tags.
   (B)   Written application for such registration shall be made to the town’s
animal control agency and shall include the name and address of the applicant,
description of the animal, payment of the appropriate fee and valid rabies
certificate and written verification if the pet has been spayed or neutered,
issued by a licensed veterinarian. Said application must be made within 30 days
after either obtaining a dog or cat over six months of age or after a younger
animal attains six months, except that this requirement will not apply to a
nonresident keeping a dog or cat within the town for not longer than 30 days.
   (C)   A durable tag stamped with the registration number and year of
issuance will be provided to the pet registration holder for each registration
granted. Dogs and cats must wear their tags at all times, except when involved
in any organized show, obedience demonstration, training situation or under the
care of a licensed veterinarian, or when properly kenneled.
   (D)   No such registration shall be issued for a dog or cat unless the
animal owner provides proof of current and effective rabies vaccination.
(Prior Code, § 71.20) (Ord. 10-92, passed 11-9-1992) Penalty, see §
91.999
Cross-reference:
   Related form, see
Ch. 91, Appx. A
§ 91.071 CONTROLLED ANIMAL PERMIT.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess within the town
any controlled animal or controlled animals as defined herein unless the owner
of said animal or animals possesses proper state and/or federal permits as
required for said animal or animals and a valid town controlled animal permit.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess within the town any
protected or endangered species as may be listed or published from time to time
by any department or agency of the federal or state government unless the owner
of said animal possesses proper state and/or federal permits and a valid town
controlled animal permit as defined in this chapter.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess within the town any
wild animal indigenous to this state unless said owner possesses proper state
and/or federal permits and a valid town controlled animal permit.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess within the town any
non-domestic animal unless said owner possesses proper state and/or federal
permits as required by law for said animal and a valid town controlled animal
permit.
   (B)   This section shall not be deemed to prevent the importation,
possession, purchase or sale of any species by any institute of higher
learning, zoological park, persons holding valid state or federal permits
together with a valid town controlled animal permit, or to any person or
organization licensed to present a circus or carnival pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   Any animal being possessed in violation of this section may be seized
by a humane officer and impounded.
(Prior Code, § 71.21) (Ord. 10-92, passed 11-9-1992) Penalty, see §
91.999
Cross-reference:
   Related form, see
Ch. 91, Appx. B
§ 91.072 PET SHOP/BREEDER PERMIT.
   (A)   (1)   No person, partnership or corporation shall operate a pet shop
or operate as a breeder, as defined herein, in the town without first obtaining
from the town or its agent a pet shop/breeder permit and paying the necessary
fees.
      (2)   Any person holding a pet shop/breeder permit shall furnish to each
customer purchasing a dog or cat a written statement at the time of sale
containing the following information:
         (a)   Date of sale;
         (b)   Name, address and telephone number of purchaser and permit
holder;
         (c)   Permit number of permit holder;
         (d)   Species, bred, description, age and sex of dog or cat sold;
         (e)   Vaccination and parasite medication(s) administered to said
animal and date(s) administered and the name of the veterinarian or person who
administrated the same; and
         (f)   Guarantee of good health for a period of not less than one week,
with recommendation to have the animal examined by a licensed veterinarian.
   (B)   The permit holder shall retain a copy of said written statement for a
period of 12 months from the date of sale and provide a duplicate copy to the
licensing authority if the purchaser resides within the town.
   (C)   The permit holder shall also deliver to the purchaser at the time of
sale a written statement of registration and licensing requirements under this
chapter applicable to the purchased animal if the purchaser resides within the
town. Such statement shall be prepared by the town and provided by the animal
control agency.
   (D)   All pet shops and breeding facilities shall take care to house animals
in a sanitary manner, providing appropriate veterinary services and humane
care, and housing shall be provided according to the needs of individual
species.
(Prior Code, § 71.22) (Ord. 10-92, passed 11-9-1992) Penalty, see §
91.999
Cross-reference:
   Related form, see
Ch. 91, Appx. C
§ 91.073 DANGEROUS ANIMAL/ATTACK DOG PERMIT.
   (A)   No person shall harbor, hold for sale, sell, keep or maintain in the
town any dangerous animal or attack dog unless:
      (1)   Such person or entity shall first submit a written application for
and obtain from the town’s animal control agency a dangerous animal/attack dog
permit, which application shall be accompanied by a current photograph of the
animal being registered and written proof of liability insurance in the minimum
sum of $300,000;
      (2)   The dangerous animal/attack dog owner at all times maintains
liability insurance covering possible injury or damages caused by said dog in a
minimum amount of $300,000 coverage and written agreement that the town’s Code
Enforcement Department will be notified within 24 hours, excluding Sundays and
holidays, in the event that said insurance coverage is canceled or
discontinued;
      (3)   The dangerous animal/attack dog is at all times confined in an
escape-proof enclosure which protects the public from coming into direct
contact with the dangerous animal/attack dog;
      (4)   The dangerous animal/attack dog, when not confined, is muzzled and
reined or tethered to its master, owner or keeper, who must be over the age of
18 years and who, at all times, must maintain control over the animal to
prevent injury to any person or animal;
      (5)   The dangerous animal/attack dog at all times wears the registration
tag issued by the town designating said animal as a registered dangerous
animal/attack dog;
      (6)   In the event that the animal is lost or escapes, the same will be
reported immediately to the town and to the town’s designated animal control
agency;
      (7)   The property on which the dangerous animal/attack dog is kept is
posted with signs clearly visible from the closest street advising the general
public that a dangerous animal/attack dog is on the premises; and
      (8)   Upon licensing a dog hereunder, the town’s animal control agency
shall assign a specific number of ownership to said dog without duplication.
This number shall be tattooed on and through the skin on the inside of the rear
leg of said dog. The tattooing shall be done by a licensed veterinarian and
shall be made by use of a permanent tattoo ink. The tattoo shall be not less
than one inch long and not less than one-quarter inch high. A person,
corporation, club or organization shall not tattoo any number over or upon the
number tattooed on a dog pursuant to this section so as to deface the number,
nor shall any such person or organization remove or otherwise deface the number
tattooed on a dog pursuant to this section so as to deface the number or
prevent identification of the dog.
   (B)   Duly authorized members of the police or other law enforcement
departments, including, but not limited to, game wardens, conservation officers
and other law enforcement officers, shall be exempt from the provisions of this
section in the performance of their law enforcement duties.
(Prior Code, § 71.23) (Ord. 10-92, passed 11-9-1992) Penalty, see §
91.999
Cross-reference:
   Related form, see
Ch. 91, Appx. D
§ 91.074 ANIMAL PERFORMANCE/EXHIBITION PERMIT.
   (A)   No person or entity shall operate or maintain for profit an animal
performance or exhibition without first having obtained a permit from the
town’s animal control agency.
   (B)   The application for such permit shall describe the proposed location,
the purposes for which it is maintained and the dates and hours of such
performances or exhibitions. The application must be accompanied by the written
approval of the Department of Code Enforcement showing compliance with the
local and state regulations governing the location of and sanitation at the
establishment, the written approval of the town’s Building Department official
showing compliance with the local regulations concerning building, zoning and
public health and safety regulations, and compliance with local, state and
federal laws regulating the humane care and treatment of such animals.
   (C)   The applicant shall provide proof of insurance executed by a company
legally authorized to do business in this state in limits of liability not less
than the amounts set forth in I.C. 34-13-3-4, as such statute may be amended
from time to time.
   (D)   Such permit shall not be transferable.
   (E)   Any permit issued under the provisions of this section may be revoked
by the town’s Department of Code Enforcement or Building Commissioner after
reasonable notice or hearing for violation of any local, county or state law
regulating such performance or exhibition.
(Prior Code, § 71.24) (Ord. 10-92, passed 11-9-1992) Penalty, see §
91.999
Cross-reference:
   Related form, see
Ch. 91, Appx. E
§ 91.075 PERMIT EXEMPTIONS.
   No permits shall be required of the town’s animal control agency or a state-
licensed veterinary hospital/clinic, birds held under state or federal falconry
permits or guide dogs specifically trained to assist their handicapped owners.
However, all other animal care provisions of this chapter shall apply to such
exempt persons or entities.
(Prior Code, § 71.25) (Ord. 10-92, passed 11-9-1992) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.076 PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   (1)   Application for registrations or permits shall be made to the
town’s animal control agency on such forms providing such information as is
required for the particular permit and shall include the name, address and
phone number of the applicant, type of permit applied for, number and
description of the animal(s), proof of valid rabies vaccination, when required
by law, information regarding sterilization and the appropriate fee.
Appropriate state and federal permit numbers must be provided in cases which
involve wildlife or federally protected animals or any animal which requires
any state or federal permit.
      (2)   All applicants must be in compliance with all other applicable
state, local and federal laws germane to this chapter, and the applicant shall
not have been convicted of any cruelty to animal offenses as set forth in the
state statutes.
      (3)   Applicants for permits must agree in writing to on-site inspections
by the town’s animal control agency prior to the issuance of any permit, or at
any time during the valid term of such permit upon reasonable advance notice.
   (B)   The town’s animal control agency shall have the authority and
discretion for the issuance or denial of all of the registrations and permits
provided for herein, subject to the following criteria.
      (1)   No person shall be issued a registration or permit if they have
been convicted of cruelty to animals.
      (2)   Applicants must have proper facilities in place for such species
before registrations or permits shall be approved.
      (3)   Applicants shall exhibit sufficient knowledge and proof of previous
experience in the handling and keeping of such species of animal.
      (4)   Applicants shall have no previous record of providing inadequate or
improper care for animals.
   (C)   Registrations and permits are to be issued for a term of one year,
effective January 1 through December 31 of each year, and may be purchased
during the first three months of each calendar year or within 30 days of
acquiring the animal, whichever comes later, except for the animal performance/
exhibition permit, which shall be valid for 14 days.
   (D)   Upon approval of the application for pet registrations or permits, the
town’s animal control agency shall issue a pet registration or permit in
written form which includes the number of the registration or permit, type of
registration or permit and all pertinent information. In addition, for each pet
registration, the town’s animal control agency shall issue a durable tag
stamped with the registration number and year of issuance for each said
registration.
   (E)   The town’s animal control agency shall maintain records of the
identifying registration, permit, license or tag for any animal when the agency
determines the identifying registration, permit, license or tag was issued to
another animal.
   (F)   All fees shall be paid at the time of application and prior to the
issuance of the permit or registration.
   (G)   No person may use any registration permit, license or tag for any
animal other than the animal for which it was issued.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture, to cause to be
manufactured, or to have in his or her possession or control a stolen,
counterfeit or forged animal registration, permit, license or tag, rabies or
neutering certificate or other form of licensing or documentation required by
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 71.26) (Ord. 10-92, passed 11-9-1992) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.077 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   Any pet registration or permit provided for herein may be revoked after
notice and hearing before the town’s Code Enforcement Hearing Officer upon his
or her finding that the animal owner/permit holder has failed to comply with
any requirement of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 71.28) (Ord. 10-92, passed 11-9-1992)
§ 91.078 FEES.
   (A)   In addition to all other fees required by law to be paid, the
following fees shall be paid:
Registration or Permit Type Fee
Registration or Permit Type                                                       Fee
Animal performance or exhibit permit, fee per animal                              $100
Controlled animal permit, fee per animal                                          $100
Dangerous animal/attack dog permit, fee per animal                                $50
Pet registration
   Each altered dog or cat                                                     $2
   Each unaltered dog or cat                                                   $10
   Except upon a statement from a licensed veterinarian that neutering shall   $5
constitute a threat to the health of said animal, the fee shall be as follows
   Replacement tag                                                             $2
   Senior citizens (age 62 or older) upon presentation of written verification
from a licensed veterinarian that said animal(s) have been spayed or neutered,    $1
the fee shall be as follows (no part of which will be paid to the town)
Pet shop/breeder permit                                                           $50
 
   (B)   The town’s animal control agency shall collect all such registration
and permit fees for the town and shall account to and pay over to the Clerk-
Treasurer such amounts of such fees as required by the animal control contract
between the town and the animal control agency then in effect.
(Prior Code, § 71.27) (Ord. 10-92, passed 11-9-1992)
§ 91.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Warning notices. Persons who violate any provision of this
chapter, or whose animals violate any provision of this chapter, or who fail to
comply with the registration and permit sections of this chapter, may, for the
first offense, be served with a warning notice requesting immediate compliance,
except that in the case human beings’ or other animals’ health and safety are
endangered, the offending animal may be immediately impounded or may be
humanely slain by a police officer or his or her designee or a humane officer,
if such impoundment is not feasible.
      (2)   Citations. Any person who violates any provision of this chapter,
except where otherwise specified herein, shall be subject to a civil forfeiture
of not more than $2,500, nor less than $25, for the first offense, $50 for the
second offense and $75 for each offense thereafter. If any violation is
continuing, each day’s violation shall be deemed a separate offense.
      (3)   Reduction. All penalties shall be reduced by 50% if paid within 72
hours of notice to the offender.
(Prior Code, § 71.31)
   (B)   A first violation of §
91.057 of this chapter shall be $15 for a licensed animal and $25 for an
unlicensed animal. A second offense is $50 and a third offense is $75. All
penalties shall be reduced by 50% if paid within 72 hours of notice to the
offender.
   (C)   (1)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
91.071 of this chapter shall be fined not more than $100 for the first offense
and not more than $250 for each subsequent offense, and a separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues.
(Prior Code, § 71.21)
      (2)   All penalties shall be reduced by 50% if paid within 72 hours of
notice to the offender.
   (D)   A person or entity who violates §
91.073(A)(8) of this chapter shall be guilty of an infraction punishable by a
fine of not more than $50.
(Prior code, § 71.23)
(Ord. 10-92, passed 11-9-1992)
APPENDIX A: PET REGISTRATION AND LICENSE FORM
 
PET REGISTRATION AND LICENSE
 
Date: _______________________________________ Pet License #
_______________________
 
Name: ____________________________________________ Fee Paid $ ___________________
 
Address:
_________________________________________________________________________
 
Phone #
__________________________________________________________________________
 
Name of Pet:
_____________________________________________________________________
 
Description: _______________________________________________ Sex: M _____ F _____
_________________________________________________________________________________
 
Altered ____________ Unaltered ____________ Rabies Vaccinated ____________
 
 
   Marshall County Humane Society
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 71)
APPENDIX B: CONTROLLED ANIMAL PERMIT FORM
 
TOWN OF BREMEN, INDIANA
CONTROLLED ANIMAL PERMIT
 
 
   Permit No. __________
 
Applicant’s Name: __________________________________________________
 
Address: __________________________________________ Phone:
______________________
 
Type of Controlled/Exotic Animal
____________________________________________________
 
Number of Animals __________
 
 
   Fee $100.00 per animal: ____________________
 
 
If Applicable:
 
Federal Permit Number ____________________
 
State Permit Number ______________________
 
 
Applicant Signature ______________________________ Date ____________________
 
 
______________________________
Approved by: Clerk-Treasurer
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 71)
APPENDIX C: PET SHOP/BREEDER PERMIT FORM
 
PET SHOP/BREEDER’S PERMIT
 
 
NO. ____________
 
 
FEE: $50.00
 
 
APPLICANT’S NAME ________________________________________________________
 
ADDRESS ___________________________________________________________________
 
PHONE NUMBER ____________________________________________________________
 
 
Applicant must adhere to all rules and regulations contained in the Town of
Bremen Ordinance 10-92.
 
 
Date ________________________
 
 
________________________________ ________________________________
Applicant’s Signature               Clerk-Treasurer Approval
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 71)
APPENDIX D: DANGEROUS ANIMAL/ATTACK DOG PERMIT FORM
 
TOWN OF BREMEN, INDIANA
DANGEROUS ANIMAL/ATTACK DOGS PERMIT
 
 
   PERMIT No. ____________
 
Applicant’s Name: _____________________________________________
 
Address: _____________________________________ Phone: ______________________
 
Type of Dangerous Animal/Attack Dog(s)
________________________________________________________________
 
Number of Animals ____________
 
 
   Fee $50.00 per animal: _______________
 
 
Photograph Submitted:            ______________________________
 
Proof of Liability Insurance:         ______________________________
(minimum $300,000)
 
Town of Bremen Registration Tag:      ______________________________
 
 
Applicant Signature ___________________________________________ Date _________
 
 
Approved by:                        ______________________________
                              Clerk-Treasurer
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 71)
APPENDIX E: CIRCUS/ANIMAL PERFORMANCE EXHIBITION PERMIT FORM
 
CIRCUS/ANIMAL PERFORMANCE
EXHIBITION PERMIT
 
PERMIT NUMBER __________
 
 
NAME OF CIRCUS/EXHIBITOR ___________________________________________________
ADDRESS _______________________________________________________________________
CITY ____________________________________ STATE ____________ ZIP ____________
TELEPHONE NUMBER ___________________________________________________________
 
 
LOCATION OF EXHIBITION: _____________________________________________________
PURPOSE _______________________________________________________________________
DATES: ____________________________________________ HOURS ___________________
 
 
PROOF OF INSURANCE ________________ YES ______________ NO ______________
FEE PAID _____________________________ FEE WAIVED __________________________
 
 
THIS APPLICATION IS: APPROVED _________________ DENIED ________________
 
 
SIGNED ____________________________
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 71)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
Smoke Detectors
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Smoke detectors required
   
92.03   Installation and location
   
92.04   Maintenance
   
92.05   Certification of proper working condition
   
92.06   Enforcement
 
   
92.99   Penalty
SMOKE DETECTORS
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE HOME RENTAL. Any mobile home or trailer occupied by or offered for
occupancy to an individual or individuals as a residence on a rental basis.
   MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING UNIT. Any building that contains quarters for two or
more occupancies, and shall include hotels, motels, boarding houses, sleeping
rooms, buildings of mixed occupancy having any residential units, nursing
homes, convalescent homes, licensed halfway houses or lodging houses.
   SLEEPING AREA. The area of a unit in which bedrooms or sleeping rooms are
located. Bedrooms or sleeping rooms separated by another use area such as a
kitchen or living room are separate SLEEPING AREAS, but bedrooms or sleeping
rooms separated by a bathroom are not separate SLEEPING AREAS.
   SMOKE DETECTOR. A device which detects particles or products of combustion
other than heat, approved by Underwriters Laboratories, Inc., or Factory
Mutual, equipped with a test button, and either battery powered (minimum nine-
volt) or 120-volt alternating current (AC).
(Prior Code, § 47.01) (Ord. 2-88, passed 3-28-1988)
§ 92.02 SMOKE DETECTORS REQUIRED.
   All multi-family dwelling units, motels, hotels, boarding houses, sleeping
room houses, mobile home rentals and buildings of mixed occupancy having any
residential units located in the town shall be equipped with approved smoke
detectors.
(Prior Code, § 47.02) (Ord. 2-88, passed 3-28-1988) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 INSTALLATION AND LOCATION.
   (A)   Every owner, manager or agent of any multiple-dwelling shall install
at least one functional smoke detector, installed as follows:
      (1)   According to the manufacturer’s instructions;
      (2)   Outside of each sleeping area in the immediate vicinity of the
bedrooms;
      (3)   On the ceiling or a wall not less than four inches or more than 12
inches from the ceiling. However, a smoke detector may not be recessed into a
ceiling; and
      (4)   On each additional story of the dwelling, including basements,
cellars and habitable attics; unless there is a door between levels in a
dwelling with split levels, a smoke detector must be installed only on the
upper level if the lower level is less than one full story below the upper
level.
   (B)   All smoke detectors must be:
      (1)   Battery operated or hard wired into the dwelling’s electrical
system;
      (2)   Accessible for servicing and testing; and
      (3)   Maintained and, at least one time every six months, tested by the
occupant to ensure that the smoke detector is in operational condition.
   (C)   Each owner or the manager or rental agent of the owner is responsible
for:
      (1)   The installation of a required smoke detector; and
      (2)   The replacement and repair of a required smoke detector within
seven working days after the owner, manager or rental agent is given written
notification of the need to replace or repair the smoke detector.
   (D)   A person may not tamper with or remove a smoke detector, except when
necessary for maintenance purposes.
(Prior Code, § 47.03) (Ord. 2-88, passed 3-28-1988; Ord. 1-2009, passed 2-23-
2009) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   At every change of tenant in every multiple-dwelling, it shall be the
responsibility of the owner, manager or agent to test and ascertain that the
approved smoke detectors are in operable condition.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with or remove any smoke
detector, except when it is necessary for maintenance or inspection purposes.
Any smoke detector removed for repair or replacement must be reinstalled or
replaced so that it is in place during normal sleeping hours.
(Prior Code, § 47.05) (Ord. 2-88, passed 3-28-1988) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 CERTIFICATION OF PROPER WORKING CONDITION.
   Between January 1 and January 31 each year, the owner of each dwelling unit
or mobile home in which a smoke detector has been installed shall certify in
writing, on forms prescribed by the town, to the Fire Department of the town
that the required maintenance has been performed on all detectors in the
owner’s units and that the detectors are in good working condition as of the
date of certification. Each owner shall certify to each new occupancy of any
dwelling unit and mobile home covered by this subchapter that all smoke
detectors required have been installed and are in proper working condition.
(Prior Code, § 47.06) (Ord. 2-88, passed 3-28-1988) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Building Commissioner and the Fire Department of the town shall be
charged with the duty of enforcing the terms of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 47.08) (Ord. 2-88, passed 3-28-1988)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Failure to comply with the terms of §§
92.01 to
92.06 of this chapter shall result in charges being brought against the person
obligated herein to maintain the equipment as provided in §§
92.01 to
92.06, and upon conviction or violation of §§
92.01 to
92.06, such offending party shall be fined in an amount of not less than $100,
nor more than $1,000, for each violation. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 47.07)
(Ord. 2-88, passed 3-28-1988)
CHAPTER 93: PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
   
93.01   Littering
   
93.02   Throwing burning material from a motor vehicle
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 LITTERING.
   (A)   A person who recklessly, knowingly or intentionally places or leaves
refuse on the property of another person, except in a container provided for
refuse, commits littering.
   (B)   REFUSE includes solid and semisolid wastes, dead animals and offal.
   (C)   Evidence that littering was committed from a moving vehicle other than
a public conveyance constitutes prima facie evidence that it was committed by
the operator of that vehicle.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 THROWING BURNING MATERIAL FROM A MOTOR VEHICLE.
   No person shall throw from a moving motor vehicle:
   (A)   A lighted cigarette, cigar or match; or
   (B)   Other burning material.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision within this chapter commits an
ordinance infraction scheduled by the Ordinance Violations Bureau. A set out in
§
34.20 of this code, a first violation of §§
93.01 or
93.02 of this chapter is $25, a second violation is $50 and a third violation
is $75. These penalties shall be reduced by 50% if paid within 72 hours of
notice to the offender.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014)
CHAPTER 94: ABANDONED AND JUNKED VEHICLES
Section
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Prohibitions
   
94.03   Authority to impound
   
94.04   Abandoned vehicles on private or rental property
   
94.05   Removal of abandoned vehicles
   
94.06   Removal of junked vehicles
   
94.07   Notice tags; placement by officer
   
94.08   Responsibility and liability of vehicle owner
   
94.09   Failure of owner or lienholder to appear
   
94.10   Release of vehicle to owner or lienholder
   
94.11   Towing and storage charges
   
94.12   Payments to and from Abandoned Vehicle Removal Fund
   
94.13   Exceptions
   
94.14   Exemptions from liability
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED. When used in conjunction with the term vehicle:
      (1)   A vehicle located on public property illegally;
      (2)   A vehicle left on public property without being moved for 24 hours;
      (3)   A vehicle located on public property in such a manner as to
constitute a hazard or obstruction to the movement of pedestrian or vehicular
traffic on a public right-of-way;
      (4)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without the consent
of the owner or person in control of that property for more than 48 hours;
      (5)   A vehicle from which the engine, transmission or differential has
been removed or that is otherwise partially dismantled or inoperable and left
on public property;
      (6)   A vehicle that has been removed by a towing service or public
agency upon the request of an officer enforcing a statute or an ordinance other
than this chapter if the impounded vehicle is not claimed or redeemed by the
owner or the owner’s agent within 20 days after the vehicle’s removal;
      (7)   A vehicle that is at least three model years old, is mechanically
inoperable and is left on private property continuously in a location visible
from public property for more than 20 days. For the purposes of this
definition, a vehicle covered by a tarpaulin or other plastic, vinyl, rubber,
cloth or textile covering is considered to be VISIBLE; or
      (8)   A vehicle:
         (a)   That was repaired or stored at the request of the owner;
         (b)   That has not been claimed by the owner; and
         (c)   For which the reasonable value of the charges associated with
the repair or storage remain unpaid more than 30 days after the date on which
the repair work is completed or the vehicle is first stored.
   BUREAU. The Bureau of Motor Vehicles of this state.
   COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of the Bureau.
   DISPOSAL AGENT. Any firm or individual engaged in the business of converting
vehicles and parts of vehicles into processed scrap or scrap metal.
   JUNKED. A vehicle that meets at least one of the following criteria:
      (1)   Is wrecked, dismantled or partially dismantled, or discarded, or
unattended on jack stands or blocks or other means;
      (2)   Is in a condition with one or more flat tires for 14 days or more,
or is missing one or more wheels for 14 days or more;
      (3)   Is used primarily for storage and remains unmoved for 14 days or
more;
      (4)   Is a habitat for rats, mice, snakes or other vermin;
      (5)   Is substantially disfigured, damaged or disintegrated;
      (6)   Is ruined, destroyed or demolished;
      (7)   Is inoperable and has remained inoperable for more than 20 days on
private property;
      (8)   Is parked on grass, dirt or other unpaved areas not ordinarily used
for parking a vehicle in regular use; or
      (9)   Does not have a current, valid license plate affixed to the
vehicle. This item cannot be the sole criteria for determining whether a
vehicle is a junked vehicle.
   OFFICER. Any regular member of the town’s Police Department, or any
individual of the town designated by ordinance of the Town Council.
   OWNER. A person, other than a lienholder, that holds the property in or the
title to a vehicle, or is entitled to the use or possession of a vehicle
through a lease or other agreement intended to operate as a security.
   PARTS. All components of a vehicle that, as assembled, do not constitute a
complete vehicle.
   PERSON. All natural persons, firms, partnerships and corporations, excluding
officers as defined herein.
   PRIVATE PREMISES. All privately owned property which is not classified
within the definition of public premises.
   PUBLIC AGENCY. The local agency given the responsibility by statute and/or
ordinance for the removal, storage and disposal of abandoned vehicles.
   PUBLIC PREMISES. Any public right-of-way, street highway, alley, park or
other state-, county- or municipally-owned property.
   VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, automobile, motorcycle, truck, trailer, semi-
trailer, truck tractor, bus, school bus, pickup truck camper, camper trailer,
horse-drawn vehicle, utility trailer, boat and/or boat trailer, RV, snowmobile
and/or snowmobile trailer, jet ski, motor home, house car or motorized bicycle,
or any portion or part thereof.
   WRECKED. A vehicle that has been physically damaged or destroyed, has
substantial visible damage and may be mechanically inoperable.
(Prior Code, § 72.01) (Ord. 21-93, passed 11-22-1993; Ord. 3-2021, passed 5-24-
2021)
§ 94.02 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall abandon his or her vehicle on any public premises or
private premises in a location which is visible from public premises, except as
otherwise set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   The keeping, parking or storing of any wrecked, junked or abandoned
vehicle, or parts thereof, on private or public property exposed to public
view, except as provided in this chapter, is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 72.02) (Ord. 3-2021, passed 5-24-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND.
   The town’s Police Department is the authorized agency assigned the
responsibility for removing vehicles defined as abandoned under the provisions
of this chapter and I.C. 9-22-1.
(Prior Code, § 72.03) (Ord. 3-2021, passed 5-24-2021)
§ 94.04 ABANDONED VEHICLES ON PRIVATE OR RENTAL PROPERTY.
   The procedure to be followed for abandoned vehicles on private or rental
properties shall be as set forth in I.C. 9-22-1-15 to 9-22-1-18.
(Ord. 3-2021, passed 5-24-2021)
§ 94.05 REMOVAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   When an officer discovers an abandoned vehicle as defined by §
94.01 of this chapter, or a vehicle in the possession of a person other than
the owner of the vehicle, and the person cannot establish the right to
possession of the vehicle, the vehicle shall be taken to and stored in a
suitable place as determined by the officer.
   (B)   Seventy-two hours after having placed a tag on a vehicle, the officer
shall require the vehicle or parts to be towed to a storage yard or towing
service.
   (C)   If, in the opinion of the officer, the market value of the abandoned
vehicle or parts is at least $1,000, then the officer, before placing a notice
tag on the vehicle or parts, shall make a reasonable effort to ascertain the
person who owns the abandoned vehicle or parts or who may be in control of said
vehicle or parts.
   (D)   If the vehicle is a junk vehicle and the market value of an abandoned
vehicle or parts is less than $750, the towing service shall immediately
transfer the vehicle to a storage yard. A copy of the abandoned vehicle report
and photographs, if applicable, relating to the abandoned vehicle shall be
provided to the storage yard. A towing service or storage yard may dispose of
an abandoned vehicle not less than 30 days after the date on which the towing
service removed the abandoned vehicle.
   (E)   If a vehicle or a part tagged under §
94.07 of this chapter is not removed within the applicable period, the officer
shall prepare a written abandoned vehicle report of the vehicle or parts,
including information on the condition and missing parts, prior to having the
vehicle towed. Photographs may be taken to describe the condition of the
vehicle or parts.
   (F)   Within 72 hours after removal of a vehicle to a storage yard or towing
service under this section, the Police Department shall conduct a search of
national databases, including a database of vehicle identification numbers, to
attempt to obtain the last state of record of the vehicle in order to attempt
to ascertain the name and address of the person who owns or holds a lien on the
vehicle.
   (G)   If a vehicle or parts are in a condition that vehicle identification
numbers or other means of identification are not available to determine the
person who owns or holds a lien on the vehicle, the vehicle may be disposed of
without notice.
(Prior Code, § 72.03) (Ord. 1-88, passed 2-22-1988; Ord. 3-2021, passed 5-24-
2021)
§ 94.06 REMOVAL OF JUNKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Upon the determination of any vehicle to be a junked vehicle as
defined herein, and therefore a public nuisance, the owner of said vehicle
shall be issued a citation.
   (B)   If the owner of said vehicle fails to abate said nuisance within seven
days of the date said citation is issued, the town shall file suit to abate
such nuisance and may request, but is not limited to, the following relief:
      (1)   On order to abate said nuisance;
      (2)   Reimbursement for the costs to abate said nuisance;
      (3)   An entry of judgment for the fines assessed by each citation issued
hereunder;
      (4)   Court costs and costs of collection, including attorney fees; and
      (5)   All other relief allowed under the statutes of the state and this
code.
(Ord. 3-2021, passed 5-24-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 NOTICE TAGS; PLACEMENT BY OFFICER.
   An officer who finds or is notified of a vehicle or parts believed to be
abandoned shall attach in a prominent place a notice tag containing the
following information:
   (A)   The date, time, officer’s name, “the Town of Bremen Police Department”
and the address and telephone number for the Police Department to contact for
information;
   (B)   That the vehicle or parts are considered abandoned;
   (C)   That the vehicle or parts will be removed after:
      (1)   Twenty-four hours if the vehicle is located on or within the right-
of-way of an interstate highway or any highway that is designated as part of
the state highway system under I.C. 8-23-4; or
      (2)   Seventy-two hours for any other vehicle.
   (D)   That the person who owns the vehicle will be held responsible for all
costs incidental to the removal, storage and disposal, and if the costs are not
paid, the person’s registration privileges will be suspended on the vehicle;
and
   (E)   That the person who owns the vehicle may avoid costs by removal of the
vehicle or parts within:
      (1)   Twenty-four hours if the vehicle is located on or within the right-
of-way of an interstate highway or any highway that is designated as part of
the state highway system under I.C. 8-23-4; or
      (2)   Seventy-two hours for any other vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 72.03) (Ord. 3-2021, passed 5-24-2021)
§ 94.08 RESPONSIBILITY AND LIABILITY OF VEHICLE OWNER.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (C) below, the owner of an abandoned
vehicle or parts is responsible for the abandonment and liable for all of the
costs incidental to the removal, storage and disposal of the vehicle or parts
under this chapter.
   (B)   The costs for storage of an abandoned vehicle may not exceed $2,000.
   (C)   If an abandoned vehicle is sold by a person who removed, towed or
stored the vehicle, the person who previously owned the vehicle is not
responsible for storage fees.
   (D)   If an abandoned vehicle is sold by a person who removed, towed or
stored the vehicle, and proceeds from the sale of the vehicle covered the
removal, towing and storage expenses, any remaining proceeds from the sale of
the vehicle shall be returned to the previous owner of the vehicle if the
previous owner is known.
(Ord. 3-2021, passed 5-24-2021)
§ 94.09 FAILURE OF OWNER OR LIENHOLDER TO APPEAR.
   If the owner or lienholder under I.C. 9-22-1-8 does not appear to pay all
costs, or the owner of a vehicle cannot be determined by a search conducted
under I.C. 9-22-1-19, the vehicle is considered abandoned and must be disposed
of as set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 3-2021, passed 5-24-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 9-22-1-7
§ 94.10 RELEASE OF VEHICLE TO OWNER OR LIENHOLDER.
   If the properly identified person who owns or holds a lien on a vehicle
appears at the site of storage before disposal of the vehicle or parts and pays
all costs incurred against the vehicle or parts at that time, the vehicle or
parts shall be released. A towing service shall notify the appropriate public
agency of all releases under this section. The notification must include the
name, signature and address of the person that owns or holds a lien on the
vehicle, a description of the vehicle or parts, costs and date of release.
(Ord. 3-2021, passed 5-24-2021)
§ 94.11 TOWING AND STORAGE CHARGES.
   The Town Council shall establish, by ordinance, the charges allowed for the
towing and storage of abandoned and/or junked vehicles, which shall be filed
with the Bureau of Motor Vehicles and shall be available for public inspection
at the office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 3-2021, passed 5-24-2021)
§ 94.12 PAYMENTS TO AND FROM ABANDONED VEHICLE REMOVAL FUND.
   (A)   An Abandoned Vehicle Fund was established as required under I.C. 9-22-
1-30.
   (B)   (1)   The costs for removal and storage of an abandoned vehicle or
parts not claimed by the person who owns or holds a lien on a vehicle shall be
paid from the Abandoned Vehicle Fund. The charge payable by the person who owns
or holds a lien on a vehicle for towing, storing or removing an abandoned
vehicle or parts may not exceed the limits established by the ordinances of the
town.
      (2)   The proceeds from the sale of abandoned vehicles or parts,
including charges for bills of sale and money received from persons who own or
hold liens on vehicles for the cost of removal or storage of vehicles, shall be
deposited in the Abandoned Vehicle Fund by the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (3)   The costs incurred by any authorized towing agency in administering
this chapter shall be paid from the Abandoned Vehicle Fund.
   (C)   The Town Council shall annually appropriate sufficient money to the
fund to carry out this chapter. Money remaining in the fund at the end of a
year remains in the fund and does not revert to the General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 72.05) (Ord. 3-2021, passed 5-24-2021)
§ 94.13 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter does not apply to the following:
   (A)   A vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or constructed
for operation on privately-owned raceways;
   (B)   A vehicle stored as the property of a member of the armed forces of
the United States who is on active duty assignment;
   (C)   A vehicle located on a vehicle sale lot or at a commercial vehicle
servicing facility;
   (D)   A vehicle located upon property licensed or zoned as an automobile
scrapyard;
   (E)   A vehicle registered and licensed under I.C. 9-18.1-5-5 as an antique
vehicle;
   (F)   A golf cart; or
   (G)   An off-road vehicle.
(Ord. 3-2021, passed 5-24-2021)
§ 94.14 EXEMPTIONS FROM LIABILITY.
   The following are not liable for loss or damage to a vehicle or parts
occurring during the removal, storage or disposition of a vehicle or parts
under this chapter:
   (A)   A person who owns, leases or occupies property from which an abandoned
vehicle or its contents or parts are removed or a junked vehicle is removed by
court order;
   (B)   The town;
   (C)   A towing service;
   (D)   An automobile scrapyard;
   (E)   A storage yard; or
   (F)   An agent of a person or entity listed in divisions (A) through (E)
above.
(Ord. 3-2021, passed 5-24-2021)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of
a Class C infraction and, upon conviction thereunder, shall be fined not
exceeding $500. Each day a violation is committed or permitted to continue
shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 72.06) (Ord. 1-88, passed 2-22-1988; Ord. 3-2021, passed 5-24-
2021)
CHAPTER 95: ANTI-NOISE REGULATIONS
Section
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Noise provisions generally
   
95.03   Specific restrictions
   
95.04   Stationary sources
   
95.05   Motor vehicles
   
95.06   Permits
   
95.07   Guidelines for permit application, issuance
   
95.08   Exemptions
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      A-WEIGHTED SOUND LEVEL. The sound pressure level of a sound measured
through an A-weighting filter network. The level read is designated dB(A) or
dBA.
      COMMERCIAL ZONE. Zones C-1, C-2 and C-3 as defined in the Town Zoning
Ordinance.
      DECIBEL. The unit used for comparing the sound pressure level of a sound
to the sound pressure level of a reference sound having a sound pressure of 20
micropascals.
      FREQUENCY. The number of periodic oscillations, vibrations or waves per
unit time (usually one second).
      HERTZ or Hz. The unit used for measuring the frequency of a sound. The
number of HERTZ is the number of cycles per second of a periodic sound pressure
wave.
      INDUSTRIAL ZONE. Zones 1-1 and l-2 as defined in the Town Zoning
Ordinance.
      LIGHT MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motorized vehicle with a gross vehicular weight
less than 8,000 pounds, including automobiles, vans, motorcycles, motor-driven
cycles, motor scooters, dune buggies, snowmobiles, all-terrain vehicles, go-
karts, mini bikes, trail bikes and light trucks.
      MODIFIED EXHAUST SYSTEMS. Any exhaust system in which the original noise
abatement devices have been removed, altered or replaced to produce more noise.
      NOISE. Any sound subject to complaint.
      OCTAVE BANK. Means a portion of the entire sound frequency spectrum
contained between two frequencies, A and B, such that A = 2B.
      PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company or organization of any kind.
      PLAINLY AUDIBLE. Any noise for which the information content is
unambiguously communicated to the listener, including understandable spoken
speech, comprehension of whether a voice is raised (agitated) or normal, or
comprehensible musical rhythms.
      RESIDENTIAL ZONE. Zones R-1, R-2 and R-3 as defined in the Town Zoning
Ordinance.
      SOUND LEVEL METER. An instrument designed to measure sound pressure
levels.
      SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL. Twenty times the logarithm (base 10) of the ratio
of the measured sound pressure to a reference pressure of 20 micropascals. The
SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL is expressed in decibels (DB).
         SPL = 20 LOG      Sound pressure A
               10      Sound pressure B
         Sound pressure A = Measured sound pressure
         Sound pressure B = Reference sound pressure (20 micropascals)
   (B)   All other terminology used in this chapter which is not specifically
defined shall be in conformance with applicable publications of the American
National Standards Institute (ANSI) or its successor body.
(Prior Code, § 73.01)
§ 95.02 NOISE PROVISIONS GENERALLY.
   No person shall make or cause to be made any noise that unreasonably annoys,
disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, safety or
welfare of any person or precludes his or her enjoyment of property or affects
his or her property’s value. This general prohibition is not limited by the
specific restrictions listed in the following sections.
(Prior Code, § 73.02) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03 SPECIFIC RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Restrictions generally. The following specific acts are declared to be
unlawful:
      (1)   Radios, televisions, musical instruments, tape or record players,
amplifiers and similar devices. Operating or permitting the use or operation of
any such devices between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in such a manner
so as to be plainly audible across property boundaries or through partitions
common to two or more persons within a building;
      (2)   Domestic power tools. Operating or permitting the use or operation
of any mechanically powered saw, drill, sander, grinder, lawn or garden tool,
lawn mower, snow blower or similar device used outdoors between the hours of
10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in such a manner that will disturb or annoy any
reasonable person nearby;
      (3)   Construction. Operating or permitting the operation of any tools or
equipment in construction, drilling or demolition between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in such a manner that will disturb or annoy any reasonable
person nearby;
      (4)   Horns, signaling devices. Operating a horn or other audible
signaling device on any motor vehicle except in an emergency or when required
by law;
      (5)   Participation in noisy parties or gatherings. Participation in any
party or gathering between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. giving rise to
noise that is plainly audible across property boundaries or between partitions
common to two or more persons within a building;
      (6)   Animals. Harboring or keeping any animal which is causing frequent
or long-continued noise which shall disturb or annoy any reasonable person
nearby;
      (7)   Schools, courts, churches and hospitals. The creation of any
excessive noise on any street adjacent to any school, institution of learning,
church or court while the same is in use, or adjacent to any hospital, which
reasonably interferes with the workings of such institution, or which disturbs
or unduly annoys patients in the hospital, provided conspicuous signs are
displayed in or near such streets indicating that the same is a school,
hospital or court street;
      (8)   Yelling, shouting and the like. Yelling, shouting, hooting,
whistling or singing on the public streets, particularly between the hours of
10:00 p.m and 7:00 a.m. or at any time or place so as to annoy or disturb the
quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any office, or in any dwelling, hotel or
other type of residence, or of any persons in the vicinity; and
      (9)   Loudspeakers, amplifiers and the like for advertising or attention-
getting. The using, operating or permitting to be played, used or operated any
radio, receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, loudspeaker, sound
amplifier or other machine or device for the producing of sound which is cast
upon the public streets for the purpose of commercial advertising or attracting
the attention of the public, or attracting the attention of a singular person.
(Prior Code, § 73.03)
   (B)   Additional restrictions for burglar alarms. Burglar alarms on light
motor vehicles shall only be of the electronic signaling type which transmits a
non-audible signal to a receiver which can be carried by the owner or operator
of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 63.04)
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 STATIONARY SOURCES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause the sound pressure level
to exceed the limits below at any point on the boundary of the property where
the person is located.
   (B)   (1)   If the person is located within a residential zone, 55 dBA
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. The octave-band breakdowns of the
dBA limits used in this division (B)(1) shall be:
 
Octave-Band Center Frequency (Hz) Maximum Boundary SPL (dB)
31.5  72
1,000 45
2,000 39
4,000 34
8,000 32
 
      (2)   If the person is located within a commercial zone, 64 dBA at all
times. The octave-band breakdowns of the dBA limits used in this division (B)
(2) shall be:
 
Octave-Band Center Frequency (Hz) Maximum Boundary SPL (dB)
31.5  79
1,000 55
2,000 50
4,000 46
8,000 43
 
      (3)   If the property boundary lies between the two zones, the lower
limit shall apply regardless of the zone in which the person creating the noise
is located.
   (C)   In addition to the above, no person within a residential or a
commercial zone shall make or cause to be made any earth-shaking vibrations
perceptible without the aid of instruments beyond the property boundary of the
vibration source. No person within an industrial zone shall make or cause to be
made any earth-shaking vibrations perceptible without the aid of instruments
beyond the zone boundary of the zone in which the vibration source is located.
(Prior Code, § 73.05) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         A-WEIGHTED SOUND LEVEL. The sound pressure level in decibels as
measured on a sound level meter using the A-weighting network. The level so
read is designated dB(A) or dBA.
         HEAVY MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motorized vehicle with a gross vehicular
weight of more than 8,000 pounds.
         LIGHT MOTOR VEHICLE. Any automobile, van, motorcycle, motor-driven
cycle, motor scooter or light truck with a gross vehicular weight of less than
8,000 pounds.
         MODIFIED EXHAUST SYSTEM. An exhaust system in which:
            1.   The original noise abatement devices have been physically
altered, causing them to be less effective in reducing noise;
            2.   The original noise abatement devices have been either removed
or replaced by noise abatement devices which are not as effective in reducing
noise as the original devices; or
            3.   Devices have been added to the original noise abatement
devices such that noise levels are increased.
         NOISE. Any sound which annoys or disturbs humans or which causes or
tends to cause an adverse psychological or physiological effect on humans.
         NOISE LEVEL. The A-weighted sound level produced by a light motor
vehicle.
         PERSON. Any individual, association, partnership or corporation, and
includes any officer, employee, department, agency or instrumentality of a
state or any political subdivision of a state.
         SOUND LEVEL METER. An instrument, which includes a microphone,
amplifier, RMS detector, integrator or time average or output meter, and
weighing networks used to measure sound pressure levels. The instrument shall
comply with the standards for Type 1 or Type 2 sound level meters as specified
in ANSI S1.4-1971 or its successor.
         SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL. Twenty times the logarithm to the base 10 of the
ration of the RMS sound pressure to the reference pressure of 20 micropascals.
The SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL is expressed in decibels.
      (2)   Terminology. All terminology used in this section not defined in
division (A)(1) above shall be in conformance with applicable publications of
the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) or its successor body.
(Prior Code, § 63.01)
   (B)   Noise limit. It shall be unlawful for any person to cause noise levels
from the operation of a light motor vehicle in excess of 80 dBA and from a
heavy motor vehicle in excess of 95 dBA in any area within the corporate limits
of the town. Measurement shall be made on pedestrian walkways or on other
suitable locations at a point closest to the street in accordance with
procedures outlined in the Code of Recommended Practices on file with the
Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 63.02)
   (C)   Excessive noise.
      (1)   Generally. In addition to the prohibitions provided for in division
(B) above, it shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle which
causes excessive noise levels as a result of a defective or modified exhaust
system, or as a result of unnecessary rapid acceleration, deceleration, revving
or tire squeal.
      (2)   Testing. At the request of the operator of the light motor vehicle,
the officer can administer a stationary motor vehicle noise test as outlined in
the Code of Recommended Practices on file with the Clerk-Treasurer. The
stationary motor vehicle noise test can provide information as to the extent of
defectiveness of the exhaust system or as to whether excessive noise levels
were cause by improper operation of the light motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 63.03)
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.06 PERMITS.
   (A)   The office of the Clerk-Treasurer shall have the authority to issue
permits for:
      (1)   Holidays, celebrations, concerts, parades or other special events
(public or personal); or
      (2)   Persons who demonstrate that bringing the source of sound or
activity for which the permit is sought into compliance with the provisions of
this chapter would constitute an unreasonable hardship on the applicant, the
community or other persons and that the adverse impact on the health, safety
and welfare of persons affected by the permit has been outweighed by such
hardship. Permits may contain any conditions (including a time limit) that are
necessary in order to limit the adverse impact of the activity.
   (B)   Noncompliance with any condition of the permit shall terminate it and
subject the person holding it to the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 73.07) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.07 GUIDELINES FOR PERMIT APPLICATION, ISSUANCE.
   The Town Council shall issue guidelines defining the procedures to be
followed in applying for a permit and the specific criteria to be considered in
deciding whether to issue a permit. The Town Council shall also determine fees
for such permits to be issued.
(Prior Code, § 73.08)
§ 95.08 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the emission of
sound for the purpose of alerting persons to the existence of an emergency or
the emission of sound in the performance of work to prevent or alleviate
physical or property damage threatened or caused by a public calamity or other
emergency.
   (B)   Furthermore, the provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any
procession in honor of any extracurricular team sponsored by the town’s public
schools commencing as soon as reasonably possible after any sectional,
regional, semi-state or state championship contest.
(Prior Code, § 73.06) (Ord. 7-2015, passed 6-22-2015)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person found in violation of the motor vehicle noise limits
set forth in this chapter shall have committed a Class B infraction.
      (2)   Any person found in violation of any other provisions of this
chapter shall have committed a Class A infraction.
      (3)   Each day that a violation is in effect shall constitute a separate
offense.
      (4)   During any trial concerning the provisions of this chapter, the
court may admit evidence of the sound pressure level as tested by a sound level
meter which meets or exceeds ANSI specifications for Type 2 equipment.
      (5)   In addition to any and all other remedies, the town may, at its
discretion, file a suit in civil action in any court having jurisdiction
thereof for an injunction against any person to prohibit the violation of the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 73.09)
   (B)   For violation of §
95.02 of this chapter, a first offense is $25, a second offense is $50 and a
third offense is $75. All penalties shall be reduced by 50% if paid within 72
hours of notice to the offender.
   (C)   (1)   For a violation of §
95.05 of this chapter, a first offense is $25, a second offense is $50 and a
third offense is $75.
      (2)   All penalties shall be reduced by 50% if paid within 72 hours of
notice to the offender. Each day a violation is permitted or is permitted to
continue shall be considered a subsequent offense.
(Prior Code, § 73.04)
   (D)   (1)   For a violation of §
95.06 of this chapter, a first offense is $25, a second offense is $50 and a
third offense is $75.
      (2)   All penalties shall be reduced by 50% if paid within 72 hours of
notice to the offender. Each day a violation is permitted or is permitted to
continue shall be considered a subsequent offense.
(Prior Code, § 73.09)
CHAPTER 96: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Provisions
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Town park usage
   
96.03   Facility rental policy
   
96.04   Facility rental rate schedule
   
96.05   Animals and nature
   
96.06   Bodies of water
   
96.07   Fire, fireworks and explosives
   
96.08   Alcohol
   
96.09   Golfing and the like
   
96.10   Destructive actions
   
96.11   Trash and dumpster usage
   
96.12   Motor vehicles; exemptions
Administration
   
96.25   Department of Parks and Recreation
   
96.26   Membership; terms
   
96.27   Officers
   
96.28   Powers; notice to Town Council
   
96.29   Budget
   
96.30   Gifts, donations and the like
 
   
96.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Littering, see
Ch. 93
   Recreational vehicles, see
Ch. 73
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARK AMENITY. Any improvement, other than a park facility, provided by the
Parks and Recreation Department for public use.
   PARK FACILITY. Any standing structure, open or enclosed, and its furnishings
located within any town park.
   PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT. The town’s Parks and Recreation Department,
which can be represented by the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation and/or
the town’s Park Board.
   TOWN PARK. All lawns, fields, playgrounds, recreation facilities, greenways,
water areas, nature preserves or other recreation areas, including any adjacent
public parking areas as well as the driveways, entranceways or pedestrian
walkways used by the public to access the aforementioned areas, developed or
undeveloped, and all structures thereon, owned, operated, leased or managed by
the town.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014)
§ 96.02 TOWN PARK USAGE.
   Programs and activities sanctioned, scheduled or sponsored through or by the
Parks and Recreation Department have first priority for use of any town park
(including athletic fields), park facility or park amenity. In the absence of a
sanctioned, scheduled or sponsored program or activity, lawful use of any town
park, park facility or park amenity will be on a first come, first served
basis.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014)
§ 96.03 FACILITY RENTAL POLICY.
   (A)   The following rules and regulations shall be applied to all persons or
entities who intend to reserve park facilities. Copies of this policy shall be
available at the Town Hall and the Park Department office.
   (B)   The policy shall read as follows.
BREMEN PARK DEPARTMENT FACILITY RENTAL POLICY
1.   Reservations
   a. Renters must reserve facilities at least one (1) week prior the desired rental
date. A rental fee and refundable rental deposit are required to reserve any facility.
No reservation is final until both of these fees are paid and the Town of Bremen
confirms the facility reservation. We highly recommend that you do not advertise or
send invitations for your date until confirming your rental with the Town of Bremen.
The rental deposit will serve as a refundable damage/cleaning deposit.
   b. Payment of rental fee and refundable rental deposit are due at the time of
reservation. A reservation cannot be made without complete payment of both the rental
fee and rental deposit.
   c. In the event of a cancellation, all monies paid will be returned if cancellation
is made no later than one (1) week prior to reserved date. If the renter cancels a
rental less than one (1) week prior to the reserved date, the Town of Bremen will
return the refundable rental deposit, but the renter will forfeit the rental fee.
2.   Renters’ Responsibilities
   a. A responsible adult must be present at the rented facility at all times during
the rental period.
   b. Renters will be responsible for stating approximate arrival and departure times
as part of the rental application. All gatherings must be finished and cleaned up at 8:
00 p.m.. Renters staying after 8:00 p.m. will automatically forfeit the rental deposit.
   c. The Town of Bremen owns the facilities and park property. Alcoholic beverages are
strictly prohibited. Smoking is strictly prohibited within enclosed facilities and
within 8 feet of enclosed facilities’ entrances.
   d. Renters will be responsible for any and all damages at the replacement cost
(material and labor) as determined by the Town of Bremen Parks Department through the
inspection process. This includes but is not limited to:
      1.   Missing chairs and tables.
      2.   Damage to walls or other building areas.
      3.   Excessive damage to grassed areas (by vehicles, slip-n-slides, etc.).
   e. The renter will forfeit deposit if the building and area are not left in proper
order. Leaving the facility in proper order includes but is not limited to:
      1.   Placing all trash (including table coverings) in provided trash cans.
      2.   Removing all decorations (including glitter, fasteners, tape and string)
completely.
      3.   Cleaning up all food and drinks (including spills) and sweeping the floors.
      4.   Returning tables and chairs to their original configurations.
      5.   Turning off the facility’s lights and closing the doors.
      6.   If renting a facility with a kitchen: wiping down all counters, sinks and
stove after use.
      7.   If renting a facility with self-contained restroom: placing any trash or
restroom debris in provided trash cans.
   f. The Park Department will refund the refundable rental deposit only after has
completed the inspection process. Depending on your rental date, it may take up to four
(4) weeks for the Town of Bremen to issue the renter a check.
 
(Ord. 8-2020, passed - -; Ord. 10-2013, passed 10-15-2013) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.04 FACILITY RENTAL RATE SCHEDULE.
   The following rates shall be applied to all persons or entities who intend
to reserve park facilities. Copies of this rate schedule shall be available at
the Town Hall and the Park Department office, but may be incorporated into a
rental form.
Park Facility Rental Schedule
Park Facility Rental Schedule
   Shadyside Park
Shadyside Pavilion (whole building)
   Refundable rental depos$100
   Rental fee             $50
   Sunnyside Park
JC Building
   Refundable rental depos$100
   Rental fee             $75
North Building (north half)
   Refundable rental depos$100
   Rental fee             $25
North Building (south half)
   Refundable rental depos$100
   Rental fee             $25
North Building (whole building)
   Refundable rental depos$100
   Rental fee             $50
South Building (east half)
   Refundable rental depos$100
   Rental fee             $25
South Building (west half)
   Refundable rental depos$100
   Rental fee             $25
South Building (whole building)
   Refundable rental depos$100
   Rental fee             $50
   Swimming Pool
Daily admission fee          $2 per person
Rental fee                   $30 per hour plus $10 per hour per pool**
Season pass                  $40 individual/$85 family (4 persons)
Swim lessons                 $30 for ten 30-minute sessions*
   West Park
The Pines (whole building)
   Refundable rental depos$100
   Rental fee             $75
NOTES TO TABLE
* Subject to availability. Contact pool for additional terms and conditions.
** Groups of 40 or more swimmers require additional staff and will be charged
an additional $10 per hour.
 
(Ord. 8-2020, passed - -; Ord. 10-2013, passed 10-15-2013; Ord. 3-2018, passed
4-9-2018) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.05 ANIMALS AND NATURE.
   (A)   No person shall engage in any form of hunting, trapping, injuring,
killing or disturbing the nest, eggs or habitat of any kind of living creature
within any town park.
   (B)   No person shall tie or tether any animal to a tree, plant or structure
not specifically designed and designated for that purpose within a town park.
   (C)   While in any town park, all dogs must be controlled by their owners in
compliance with
Chapter 91 of this code or other such ordinances as are adopted by the Town
Council.
   (D)   No person shall damage, injure, prune, trim, collect or remove any
plant, tree or portion thereof, living or dead, from any town park, except on-
the-clock town employees, contractors with the town, contracted employees of
the town or volunteers approved by the Parks and Recreation Department.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014) Penalty, see §
96.99
Cross-reference:
   Treatment of animals, see
Ch. 91
§ 96.06 BODIES OF WATER.
   No person shall swim, bathe or wade in any lake, pond, fountain or stream
not specifically designed and designated for that purpose within a town park.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.07 FIRE, FIREWORKS AND EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   Fires. No person shall create or attempt to create a fire of any kind
in any town park or park facility, except for the sole purpose of cooking food
in specifically designed and designated Parks and Recreation Department-
provided grilling stations. Any person creating an approved fire as detailed in
this section must fully extinguish the fire before leaving the immediate
vicinity of the fire.
   (B)   Fireworks and explosives. No person shall ignite or possess fireworks
or explosives of any kind, except as detailed by the town’s Fourth of July
fireworks ordinance, within town parks.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.08 ALCOHOL.
   No person shall possess or consume any alcoholic beverage within any town
park or park facility (unless granted written permission by both the Director
of Operations and the Parks and Recreation Department prior to the event at
which it is consumed).
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.09 GOLFING AND THE LIKE.
   No golfing or derivative thereof (driving, chipping, putting or any other
action in which a club is used to strike a gold ball) is permitted within any
town park.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.10 DESTRUCTIVE ACTIONS.
   No person shall intentionally, recklessly tamper with or negligently
operate, destroy, damage, remove or tamper with any park facility or park
amenity in a way that damages or may cause injury or damage to other persons,
the surrounding town park, the park facility or the park amenity.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.11 TRASH AND DUMPSTER USAGE.
   (A)   All refuse generated within a town park or park facility through the
lawful use of the park or facility must be deposited within designated
receptacles or removed from the town park entirely. Dumpsters located within
any town park are to be used solely by the Parks and Recreation Department and
the activities, programs or events sanctioned, scheduled or sponsored through
or by the Parks and Recreation Department.
   (B)   No person shall leave or deposit any refuse or other material
(including yard waste, clippings, debris, building materials and trash)
generated outside a town park in any town park.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.12 MOTOR VEHICLES; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall operate or park a motorized vehicle (including
automobiles, motorcycles, motorbikes, motor scooters, golf carts, snow mobiles
or any other motor-driven device or vehicle) on any path designated for walking
and/or the use of non-motorized vehicles.
   (B)   This provision shall not apply to the use and operation of a motorized
wheelchair by a person who ordinarily uses such equipment, employees of the
town on official business during the course of employment and persons providing
emergency, search and rescue, medical or veterinary services.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014) Penalty, see §
96.99
ADMINISTRATION
§ 96.25 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   There is hereby established a Department of Parks and Recreation, composed
of the Board of Parks and Recreation, a Superintendent and such other personnel
as the Town Council may determine.
(Prior Code, § 17.01) (Ord. 8-2020, passed - -)
§ 96.26 MEMBERSHIP; TERMS.
   (A)   The Parks and Recreation Board shall be composed of four members
appointed by the President of the Town Council on the basis of their interest
in and knowledge of parks and recreation. Not more than two members shall be of
the same political party. A fifth member shall be designated by the Board of
Trustees of the town’s public schools.
(Prior Code, § 17.02)
   (B)   (1)   As a term expires, each new appointment shall be made by the
President of the Town Council for a term of four years. All terms expire on the
first Monday in January, but a member shall continue in office until his or her
successor is appointed. If an appointment for a new term is not made by the
President by the first Monday in April, the incumbent shall serve another term.
      (2)   If a vacancy occurs, the President of the Town Council shall
appoint a new member for the remainder of the unexpired term. If the Board of
Trustees of the town’s public schools does not make a new appointment by the
first Monday in April after the expiration of the previous appointment’s term,
the incumbent shall serve another term.
(Prior Code, § 17.03)
(Ord. 8-2020, passed - -)
§ 96.27 OFFICERS.
   At its first regular meeting in each year, the Board shall elect a President
and a Vice-President. The Vice-President shall have the authority to act as the
President of the Board during the absence or disability of the President. The
Board may select a Secretary either from within or without its own membership.
(Prior Code, § 17.04) (Ord. 8-2020, passed - -)
§ 96.28 POWERS; NOTICE TO TOWN COUNCIL.
   (A)   Powers. The Board shall have the power to perform all acts necessary
to acquire and develop sites and facilities and to conduct such programs as are
generally understood to be park and recreation functions. In addition, the
Board shall have all powers and duties listed in I.C. 36-10-3.
(Prior Code, § 17.05)
   (B)   Notice.
      (1)   Prior to exercising the following powers, the Park Board, by any or
all of its members, shall present its plans to act at a public meeting of the
Town Council after notifying the Clerk-Treasurer to be added to the agenda of
the next meeting.
      (2)   Said powers shall include:
         (a)   To issue bonds and levy a special tax as described in I.C. 36-
10-3-24 and 36-10-3-27;
         (b)   To acquire and dispose of real and personal property, either
within or outside the state;
         (c)   To exercise the power of eminent domain;
         (d)   To sell, lease or enter into a royalty contract for the natural
or mineral resources of land dedicated to the town’s park system;
         (e)   To release and transfer, by resolution, a whole or any part of
the real estate dedicated to the town’s park system to the park authorities of
another unit for park and recreational purposes upon petition of the park or
recreation board of the acquiring unit;
         (f)   To establish standards and qualifications for the appointment of
all personnel and approve their appointments without regard to politics; and
         (g)   To appoint, hire and retain the necessary administrative
officers and personnel of the Department and fix their duties.
(Ord. 8-2020, passed - -)
§ 96.29 BUDGET.
   The Board shall prepare and submit an annual budget in the same manner as
other departments of the town government as prescribed by the state’s Board of
Accounts.
(Prior Code, § 17.06) (Ord. 8-2020, passed - -)
§ 96.30 GIFTS, DONATIONS AND THE LIKE.
   The Board may accept gifts, donations and subsidies for park and recreation
purposes.
(Ord. 8-2020, passed - -)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   Excepting §§
96.03 and
96.04 of this chapter, any person who violates any provision within this
chapter commits an ordinance infraction as scheduled by the Ordinance
Violations Bureau. As set out in §
34.20 of this code, a first offense is $25, a second offense is $50 and a third
offense is $75 for violation of §§
96.02,
96.05 to
96.08 and
96.10 to
96.12 of this chapter. All penalties shall be reduced by 50% if paid within 72
hours of notice to the offender.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-28-2014)
CHAPTER 97: CEMETERY
Section
Policies and Regulations
   
97.01   Perpetual care
   
97.02   Cemetery area
   
97.03   Time when burials are permitted
   
97.04   Cemetery restrictions
   
97.05   Sale of cemetery real estate
   
97.06   Sale of crypts on contract
   
97.07   Selection of grave sites
   
97.08   Memorial garden bricks
   
97.09   Bequests and donations
   
97.10   Pauper section
   
97.11   Infant section
   
97.12   Indigent burial policy
   
97.13   Disinterment and reinterment
   
97.14   Chapel use
   
97.15   Chapel door key provided
   
97.16   Crypt and niche identification
   
97.17   Crypt and niche flower vases
   
97.18   Mausoleum site restrictions
Fee Schedules
   
97.30   Grave fees
   
97.31   Mausoleum fees
Administration
   
97.45   Cemetery Board created
   
97.46   Number of members and qualifications of Board
   
97.47   Officers of Board
   
97.48   Duties of Board
   
97.49   Meetings of Board
   
97.50   Report by Cemetery Superintendent
   
97.51   Compensation of Board
POLICIES AND REGULATIONS
§ 97.01 PERPETUAL CARE.
   (A)   There is hereby created, ratified and confirmed a permanent
maintenance cemetery fund or perpetual care fund for the Bremen Cemetery, which
fund shall be maintained and kept as a separate fund. Any part of the proceeds,
not exceeding 75% thereof, derived from the sale of cemetery property within
said cemetery may be set aside to be and to constitute the permanent
maintenance or perpetual care fund, the income from which shall be added to and
become a part of said fund until such time as the revenue from the sale of
cemetery property and other income from such cemetery shall cease to be
sufficient to meet the expenses of the maintenance, care and upkeep of such
cemetery, after which the income derived from such fund and its accretions
shall be used in whole or in part, as the needs of the cemetery may require,
and to appropriation by the Town Council as other funds are appropriated.
   (B)   The Town Council shall from time to time by Council action establish
the limitations with respect to the sale of real estate within said cemetery
and the sale price thereof and the percent of monies to be set over to said
permanent maintenance cemetery fund or perpetual care fund, provided that until
changed by said Council, all lots sold in said cemetery shall contain the
restrictions on use as hereinafter set forth.
(Prior Code, § 106.08) (Ord. 12-89, passed 9-11-1989)
§ 97.02 CEMETERY AREA.
   The Bremen Cemetery is known and consists of the Old Cemetery, Yockey’s
Addition, Vollmer and Sauer’s First Addition, Vollmer and Sauer’s Second
Addition, Balsley’s Addition, Balsley’s Second Addition, Meyers Addition,
Chapel View Addition, Cox Addition, Bowen Addition and Keyser Addition, the
complete legal description and platting of which is on record in the office of
the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 106.09) (Ord. 12-89, passed 9-11-1989; Ord. 7-2007, passed 9-24-
2007)
§ 97.03 TIME WHEN BURIALS ARE PERMITTED.
   (A)   It shall be the established policy of the Cemetery Board that all
burials Monday to Friday at the cemetery shall take place between the hours of
8:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. It shall also be established policy of the Cemetery
Board that all burials on Saturday shall take place between the hours of 9:00
a.m. to 1:00 p.m. See §
97.30 of this chapter for grave fees, gate times and additional charges.
   (B)   No burials or interments are permitted on Sundays or holidays.
(Prior Code, § 106.17) (Ord. 12-89, passed 9-11-1989; Ord. 13-2020, passed 10-
13-2020)
§ 97.04 CEMETERY RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Each lot or part thereof in the cemetery shall be, and hereby is,
subject to the following conditions and limitations and with the privileges
specified as follows, to wit:
      (1)   Before any foundations are constructed for monuments and markers,
the contractor constructing the foundation shall first submit a foundation plan
to the Cemetery Sexton for approval;
      (2)   All monument foundations shall be constructed of concrete and shall
extend a minimum of 30 inches below grade. All four sides shall be straight and
vertical. Aprons shall be flush with the ground and normally extend four inches
from the outside of the nearest portion of the monument erected above the
ground unless otherwise directed by the Cemetery Sexton to change the width to
other than four inches;
      (3)   All monument foundations shall be constructed of concrete and shall
extend a minimum of 20 inches below and flush with the grade. All four sides
shall be straight and vertical;
      (4)   All monuments shall be placed with the front side thereof flush
with the west lot line of any grave and flush with the ground, and there shall
not be more than one marker on each grave. The term MONUMENT, as used herein,
shall be deemed to mean any head or grave identification of bronze, granite,
marble, stone and the like. Any other human-made object placed on a grave or
lot shall be construed to be a marker;
      (5)   Not more than one monument or one pondering bench shall be
permitted on any one grave; such monument shall be placed either flush with the
west lot line of any such lot and shall be erected only upon a concrete
foundation and apron;
      (6)   Not more than two inverted-type permanent flower vases may be set
next to a marker or a monument, and when the flowers have withered or become
stale, the same may be removed by the proper cemetery authority and the cover
on the inverted-type flower vase may be put on, which cover shall stand flush
with the ground;
      (7)   No markers, concrete aprons, flower vases, monuments or plantings
of any nature whatsoever shall be set or installed until the approval of the
proper cemetery authority has been given consistent with the terms hereof;
      (8)   The grantor hereby expressly agrees to keep and maintain a complete
permanent record of the title to all graves and lots in said cemetery, and the
grantor covenants that said real estate is free and clear of all liens and
encumbrances;
      (9)   The above-named grantees, their heirs, successors and assigns are
hereby given a perpetual right to the free use of the passageways of the entire
cemetery, together with the right to use the other facilities that are now or
may hereafter be erected in said cemetery for use by the owners of real estate
within said cemetery or the general public, provided that any user thereof
shall so do as not to interfere with the rights of other owners of real estate
therein and consistent with the rules and regulations now or hereafter adopted
respecting the maintenance, operation and control of said cemetery;
      (10)   The burial of any animals shall not be allowed in the cemetery;
and
      (11)   Not more than two cremation burials shall be allowed on any single
grave. If two remains should be buried at the same time, only one opening and
closing charge will be assessed.
   (B)   It is understood and agreed that each of the foregoing conditions,
limitations and provisions constitute a covenant running with the land and
shall be binding upon each direct or subsequent purchaser by the within
procedure, and a breach by such purchasers or grantees shall entitle the
grantor, its successors or assigns to the possession of said real estate herein
conveyed, and it is hereby expressly agreed that as a part of the consideration
for the above purchase of said real estate, all other real estate in said
cemetery shall be sold and transferred under the same provisions and conditions
as herein set out.
(Prior Code, § 106.10) (Ord. 12-89, passed 9-11-1989; Ord. 7-2007, passed 9-24-
2007; Ord. 7-2012, passed 8-13-2012)
§ 97.05 SALE OF CEMETERY REAL ESTATE.
   Any person purchasing any real estate in the cemetery shall be given a deed
to said real estate executed on behalf of the town by the Cemetery Board
President and the Cemetery Board Secretary. Such deed shall contain all of the
above set forth conditions, restrictions, privileges and limitations, numbered
one through 11.
(Prior Code, § 106.11) (Ord. 12-89, passed 9-11-1989)
§ 97.06 SALE OF CRYPTS ON CONTRACT.
   The Town Council has authorized the sale of crypts on contract pursuant to
Res. 92-18 and the terms attached and marked Exhibit A. This resolution allows
for the purchase of a crypt or crypts over a period of 24 or 36 months.
(Prior Code, § 106.22)
§ 97.07 SELECTION OF GRAVE SITES.
   (A)   The purchaser of four or more lots shall be entitled to select the
location or site of the lots purchased; provided, however, that the Cemetery
Board reserves the right to choose the site where less than four graves are
purchased.
   (B)   Four graves must be purchased to place a single crypt/mausoleum; eight
graves must be purchased to place a double crypt/mausoleum.
   (C)   Two adjacent graves must be purchased to place a small columbarium
with not more than four niches. The columbarium must be centered on the two
graves.
(Prior Code, § 106.14) (Ord. 12-89, passed 9-11-1989; Ord. 8-2016, passed 11-
14-2016; Ord. 6-2019, passed 5-28-2019)
§ 97.08 MEMORIAL GARDEN BRICKS.
   Engraved memorial bricks to be placed around the memorial garden can be
purchased for $150, with a maximum of 35 letters per brick. The bricks may be
purchased by contacting the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
(Ord. 8-2016, passed 11-14-2016)
§ 97.09 BEQUESTS AND DONATIONS.
   Any gifts, donations, bequests or devises of money or property, real or
personal, for the use of the cemetery may be received and accepted for and on
behalf of said cemetery by the Town Council, and any such so received and
accepted, or any interest or income derived therefrom, shall be used in the
same manner as proceeds from the sale of burial permits and lots as
hereinbefore set forth; provided, however, that any such gifts, donations,
bequests or devises of money or property, real or personal, received and
accepted for the use of a particular lot or plat of real estate in said
cemetery shall be used for the care and maintenance of such particular lot or
real estate and for no other purpose.
(Prior Code, § 106.12) (Ord. 12-89, passed 9-11-1989)
§ 97.10 PAUPER SECTION.
   The Cemetery Board shall have the authority to designate a special section
reserved for paupers and to adopt rules and regulations for that section.
(Prior Code, § 106.15) (Ord. 12-89, passed 9-11-1989)
§ 97.11 INFANT SECTION.
   The Cemetery Board shall have the authority to designate a special section
reserved for the burial of INFANTS, defined as children under two years of age,
and to adopt rules and regulations for that section. An infant grave shall be
one-fourth the size of a regular grave, and all markers shall be six inches by
ten inches with a three-inch wash border and shall be flush with the ground.
(Prior Code, § 106.16) (Ord. 12-89, passed 9-11-1989)
§ 97.12 INDIGENT BURIAL POLICY.
   (A)   It shall be the policy of the cemetery to furnish, without charge, a
gravesite for a deceased indigent person who was a resident of the town at the
time of death or a former resident of the town who was residing in a health
care facility or a county facility for indigents at the time of death. In order
to qualify, the former resident must have moved from the town to one of the
above facilities prior to becoming deceased.
   (B)   The cemetery charges for grave openings and closing shall apply and be
billed to the proper authority that is responsible for the indigent’s other
funeral and burial expenses.
(Prior Code, § 106.19)
§ 97.13 DISINTERMENT AND REINTERMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the established policy of the Cemetery Board that anyone
wishing to have the remains of a relative disinterred and reinterred at another
location in the cemetery, or elsewhere, shall contract with a private firm
having the proper equipment and experience to perform this service.
   (B)   The firm providing this service shall notify the Cemetery Board of
their intention of moving the remains and provide a signed letter or contract
from the relative desiring this service. The firm providing this service shall
be under the direct supervision of the Cemetery Sexton and shall restore all
areas of the cemetery disturbed back to their original condition.
(Prior Code, § 106.18) (Ord. 12-89, passed 9-11-1989)
§ 97.14 CHAPEL USE.
   The chapel will be available for services at the cemetery for a fee of $200.
Use of the chapel for services shall be mandatory when, in the opinion of the
Cemetery Sexton, adverse conditions, weather or otherwise, shall warrant such
use, at no charge.
(Prior Code, § 106.20) (Ord. 6-2014, passed 5-12-2014; Ord. 11-2023, passed 11-
13-2023)
§ 97.15 CHAPEL DOOR KEY PROVIDED.
   A chapel door key shall be furnished by the town, without charge, to anyone
purchasing a chapel crypt.
(Prior Code, § 106.26) (Ord. 5-91, passed 8-26-1991)
§ 97.16 CRYPT AND NICHE IDENTIFICATION.
   All crypts and niches shall be identified with a brass name plate, furnished
by the town when the crypt is purchased. A name plate allowance shall be
included in the price of each crypt purchased and a name plate allowance shall
be included in the price of each niche purchased. Any name plate costs in
excess of the above named allowances shall be added to the purchase price of
each crypt or niche, and all such excess costs shall be borne by the purchaser
of the crypt(s) or niche(s). No other name plates or inscriptions shall be
allowed unless a marker is issued by a governmental agency.
(Prior Code, § 106.23) (Ord. 5-91, passed 8-26-1991; Ord. 5-96, passed 3-25-
1996; Ord. 3-2006, passed 5-8-2006; Ord. 6-2014, passed 5-12-2014)
§ 97.17 CRYPT AND NICHE FLOWER VASES.
   Flower vases for crypts and niches can be purchased from the town.
(Prior Code, § 106.24) (Ord. 5-91, passed 8-26-1991)
§ 97.18 MAUSOLEUM SITE RESTRICTIONS.
   Embalming is required for all crypt interments. Crypts and niches may be
decorated with flowers only. No other ornaments, statues, pictures or other
decorations shall be allowed around or in the mausoleum or chapel.
(Prior Code, § 106.25) (Ord. 5-2008, passed 6-9-2008)
FEE SCHEDULES
§ 97.30 GRAVE FEES.
   Grave fees and gate times are as follows.
Type Price
Type                                     Price
Grave Openings
   Cremation opening/nonresident (in-ground)
      Monday—Friday, 8:00 a.m.—$250 p.m.
      Saturday, 9:00 a.m.—1:00 p.$500
   Cremation opening/resident (in-ground)
      Monday—Friday, 8:00 a.m.—$200 p.m.
      Saturday, 9:00 a.m.—1:00 p.$400
   Infant opening
      Monday—Friday, 8:00 a.m.—$200 p.m.
      Saturday, 9:00 a.m.—1:00 p.$300
   Non-residents
      Monday—Friday, 8:00 a.m.—$700 p.m.
      Saturday, 9:00 a.m.—1:00 p.$950
   Town residents and property tax payers
      Monday—Friday, 8:00 a.m.—$500 p.m.
      Saturday, 9:00 a.m.—1:00 p.$700
Graves
   Full-size grave                    $500
   Infant grave                       $150
 
(Prior Code, § 106.13) (Ord. 12-89, passed 9-11-1989; Ord. 2-93, passed 2-22-
1993; Ord. 4-97, passed 8-11-1997; Ord. 6-2014, passed 5-12-2014; Ord. 4-2018,
passed 4-9-2018; Ord. 17-2019, passed 12-30-2019; Ord. 13-2020, passed 10-13-
2020; Ord. 11-2023, passed 11-13-2023)
§ 97.31 MAUSOLEUM FEES.
   (A)   The price of a crypt or niche is as follows.
Mausoleum Fees for Town Residents and Property Tax Payer*
 Price Amt. Put into Perpetual Care Fund Name Fund Amt. Put into Operating Fund
Mausoleum Fees for Town Residents and Property Tax Payer*
                Price  Amt. Put into       Name Fund Amt. Put into Operating
                       Perpetual Care Fund           Fund
Chapel crypts
   Rows 1 and$2,650 $85                 $280      $2,285
   Rows 2 and$2,850 $85                 $280      $2,485
Niches
   All rows  $600   $135                $345      $120
Outside crypts
   Rows 1 and$1,850 $85                 $280      $1,485
   Rows 2 and$2,050 $85                 $280      $1,685
NOTES TO TABLE
* Residents of the town and property tax payer (owner) on a parcel inside
the town’s corporate limits
 
   (B)   The price of an opening is as follows.
Openings
Type Price
Openings
Type               Price
   Nonresidents
Crypt openings
   Monday – Fr$300
   Saturday     $400
Niche openings
   Monday – Fr$300
   Saturday     $400
   Residents of the town and property tax payer*
Crypt openings
   Monday – Fr$150
   Saturday     $300
Niche openings
   Monday – Fr$150
   Saturday     $300
NOTES TO TABLE
* Residents of the town and property tax payer (owner) on a parcel of land
inside the town’s corporate limits
 
   (C)   The price of a mausoleum vase and bracket is as follows.
 
Vases with Brackets for Mausoleum
Crypt, outside (brown plastic vase) Cost plus tax
Crypt, inside (brass vase)          Cost plus tax
Niche (brass vase)                  Cost plus tax
 
   (D)   Additional charges are as follows:
      (1)   Additional charge of $150 for arrivals after 1:00 p.m. on Saturday;
and
      (2)   Additional charge of $150 for arrivals after 3:00 p.m. on Monday to
Friday.
   (E)   No burials or interments are allowed on Sundays or holidays. Please
see §
97.03 of this chapter for clarification on times when burials and interments
are permitted.
(Prior Code, § 106.21) (Ord. 5-91, passed 8-26-1991; Ord. 11-91, passed 11-11-
1991; Ord. 20-93, passed 9-24-1993; Ord. 3-00, passed 5-8-2000; Ord. 2-2004,
passed 4-12-2004; Ord. 6-2014, passed 5-12-2014; Ord. 4-2018, passed 4-9-2018;
Ord. 13-2020, passed 10-13-2020)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 97.45 CEMETERY BOARD CREATED.
   There is hereby created a board for the Bremen Cemetery, which shall be
known as the “Bremen Cemetery Board.”
(Prior Code, § 106.01) (Ord. 12-89, passed 9-11-1989)
§ 97.46 NUMBER OF MEMBERS AND QUALIFICATIONS OF BOARD.
   The Cemetery Board shall consist of three members appointed by the Town
Council from lot owners of said cemetery residing in the town, provided that
the Clerk-Treasurer shall be one of the members of said Board by virtue of his
or her office regardless of whether or not he or she possesses the other
qualifications herein set forth.
(Prior Code, § 106.02) (Ord. 12-89, passed 9-11-1989)
§ 97.47 OFFICERS OF BOARD.
   The officers of the Cemetery Board shall consist of a Chair, Vice-Chair and
a Secretary-Treasurer, provided, however, that the Office of Secretary-
Treasurer shall be held by one person and the same shall be held by the Clerk-
Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 106.03) (Ord. 12-89, passed 9-11-1989)
§ 97.48 DUTIES OF BOARD.
   (A)   The duties of the Cemetery Board shall be the control and management
of the affairs of the cemetery, subject to the directives of the Town Council
from time to time given to said Cemetery Board and consistent with the rules,
regulations, ordinances and resolutions of the town applicable to the control
and management and operation of the cemetery.
   (B)   The duties of the officers of the Board shall be as follows.
      (1)   The Chair shall preside at all meetings of the Cemetery Board and
conduct all proceedings before said Board and execute with the Secretary-
Treasurer for the town deeds of conveyance to cemetery real estate.
      (2)   The Vice-Chair shall, in the absence of the Chair, assume all of
the duties of the Chair.
      (3)   The Secretary-Treasurer shall prepare and submit to the Town
Council all reports required by said Town Council; shall pass on the approval
of all applications for burial permits and issue said permits on behalf of the
town; shall, with the Chair for said town, execute deeds of conveyance to
cemetery real estate; shall receive and accept for said town all payments
respecting said cemetery matters; shall keep and maintain accounts and records
as from time to time are required by the Town Council and the state respecting
town cemeteries; shall keep and maintain a plat of the Bremen Cemetery and
record all burial permits; shall keep and maintain a record of the names and
addresses of all persons to whom burial permits have been issued and to whom
deeds of conveyance or transfers of such deeds have been made; and shall
perform such other duties as may from time to time be assigned or delegated to
such Secretary-Treasurer by the Town Council respecting cemetery matters.
(Prior Code, § 106.04) (Ord. 12-89, passed 9-11-1989)
§ 97.49 MEETINGS OF BOARD.
   The Cemetery Board shall hold meetings from time to time throughout the year
whenever it is deemed necessary to conduct the business of the cemetery.
(Prior Code, § 106.05) (Ord. 12-89, passed 9-11-1989)
§ 97.50 REPORT BY CEMETERY SUPERINTENDENT.
   The Cemetery Board shall require the Cemetery Superintendent to prepare an
annual report concerning the activities and business of the cemetery, to be
submitted to the Town Council as soon as possible after the last Town Council
meeting of the year.
(Prior Code, § 106.06) (Ord. 12-89, passed 9-11-1989)
§ 97.51 COMPENSATION OF BOARD.
   The Cemetery Board shall receive no compensation for service on the Cemetery
Board.
(Prior Code, § 106.07) (Ord. 12-89, passed 9-11-1989)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ITINERANT MERCHANTS, PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
111.   SOLICITORS OF FUNDS
      
112.   GARAGE AND YARD SALES
      
113.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
      
114.   DEALERS AND RESELLERS
      
115.   CIRCUSES, CARNIVALS AND PARADES
      
116.   CABLE TELEVISION
      
117.   TAXICABS
CHAPTER 110: ITINERANT MERCHANTS, PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   License required
   
110.03   License; application; fee
   
110.04   Term; expiration; renewal
   
110.05   Exhibition of license
   
110.06   Reporting in daily; badge issuance
   
110.07   Time allowed
   
110.08   Use of streets
   
110.09   Exceptions and exemptions
   
110.10   Orders taken by solicitors; copy to purchaser
   
110.11   Report of post-application criminal conviction
   
110.12   Violations
   
110.13   Suspension or revocation of license
   
110.14   Procedure for revocation of license
   
110.15   Application for re-issuance of revoked or suspended license
   
110.16   New applications
 
   
110.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Application for Itinerant Merchants, Solicitors and Peddlers Form
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent, consignee, employee
or otherwise, and whether a resident of the town or not, who engages in a
temporary business of making or selling and delivering goods, wares and
merchandise within the town, and who, in furtherance of such purposes, hires,
leases, uses or occupies any building, structure or motor vehicle, or any
street, alley or any other place within the town, for the exhibition and sale
of any goods, wares or merchandise, either privately or at public auction.
   PEDDLER. Any person, whether a town resident or not, who travels by foot,
wagon, motorized vehicle or any other type of conveyance from place to place
carrying, conveying or transporting goods, wares, merchandise, foods or
provisions, offering and exposing the same for sale or making sales and
delivering articles to purchasers, or who, without traveling from place to
place, shall sell or offer the same for sale from any type of vehicle or
conveyance; provided, however, that such does not apply to the sale of farm
products cultivated and raised in this state by its farmers.
   SOLICITOR. Any individual, whether a town resident or not, traveling by
foot, wagon, motorized vehicle or any other type of conveyance from place to
place taking, or attempting to take, orders for the sale of goods, wares and
merchandise, or personal property of any nature whatsoever, for future
delivery; or for services to be furnished or performed in the future, whether
or not such individual has a sample of the subject of such sale or whether he
or she is collecting advance payments on such sales or not; provided, such
definition shall include any person who, for himself or herself or for another
person, hires, uses or occupies any building, structure or motor vehicle or any
street, alley or any other place within the town for the purpose of exhibiting
samples and taking orders for future delivery.
(Ord. 1-2015, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 110.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any itinerant merchant, peddler or solicitor to
perform any of his or her defined business within the town without first having
obtained a license as herein provided. Violations of this section shall be
punishable by a fine according to the schedule of fines maintained by the
Ordinance Violations Bureau, and may also result in the suspension or
revocation of a license or the denial of an application for a new license.
(Ord. 1-2015, passed 5-11-2015) Penalty, see §
110.99
Cross-reference:
   Schedule of fines maintained by the Ordinance Violations Bureau, see
Ch. 34
§ 110.03 LICENSE; APPLICATION; FEE.
   (A)   License required. All itinerant merchants, solicitors and peddlers are
required to obtain a license from the office of the Clerk-Treasurer prior to
conducting business. The Police Department shall keep a complete record in its
office of all licenses issued.
   (B)   Application.
      (1)   Any person, firm, corporation or other entity desiring to engage in
the business of itinerant merchant, peddler or solicitor as herein defined
shall make an application in writing to the Clerk-Treasurer of the town at
least seven days before said applicant shall be authorized to begin business.
Such application shall state the name and address of the applicant, company or
firm which he or she represents, place where such business is to be conducted
and kind of goods to be sold. In the event that the applicant is a corporation
or other entity, all persons acting on the applicant’s behalf must be listed on
the application. A form of application is available from the Director of
Operations’ office.
      (2)   As part of the application for the license, each applicant must
submit:
         (a)   The name and address of the person, company or entity applying
for the license;
         (b)   The name, address and birth date of each person who will
participate in business activity under the license, and a photocopy of each
person’s photo identification or driver’s license. Only state-issued
identification shall be accepted;
         (c)   The year, make, model, color and license number for any vehicle
to be used in the business activity; and
         (d)   A state police limited criminal history search for each person
who will participate in business activity under the license, obtained not later
than 60 days before the submission of the application.
   (C)   Fee. The license fee for an itinerant merchant, peddler or solicitor
shall be $100 per year and shall be payable in advance for each such license.
(Ord. 1-2015, passed 5-11-2015) Penalty, see §
110.99
Cross-reference:
   Related form, see
Ch. 110, Appx. A
§ 110.04 TERM; EXPIRATION; RENEWAL.
   (A)   Licenses shall be issued for the period of January 1 through December
31 each year. Licensees may renew their license each year by submitting a new
application.
   (B)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire at the time
stipulated on the license or upon revocation.
(Ord. 1-2015, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 110.05 EXHIBITION OF LICENSE.
   All peddlers, solicitors and itinerant merchants shall be required to
exhibit their license and identification badge at all times and must produce
either document upon the request of any resident or law enforcement officer.
(Ord. 1-2015, passed 5-11-2015) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 REPORTING IN DAILY; BADGE ISSUANCE.
   All peddlers, solicitors and itinerant merchants must report in at the
Police Department daily prior to engaging in any business. Upon presenting
photo identification, the Police Department shall provide an identification
badge for each person licensed to engage in business that day; said badge must
be worn at all times and returned to the Police Department upon the completion
of all business activities that day. Any vehicle to be used by the license
holder or any agents must be identified and designated to the Police Department
at this time. Failure to return all badges will result in a replacement cost of
$10 per unreturned badge and could result in the suspension and/or revocation
of the license.
(Ord. 1-2015, passed 5-11-2015) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07 TIME ALLOWED.
   Licensed business activity under this chapter shall be permitted between the
hours of 10:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m., Monday to Friday. Business activity, as
described in this chapter, at any other time is not permitted outside of the
hours stated above Monday to Friday, and is expressly prohibited on Saturday
and Sunday.
(Ord. 1-2015, passed 5-11-2015) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.08 USE OF STREETS.
   No itinerant merchant, peddler or solicitor, nor any person on his or her
behalf, shall have any exclusive right to any location in the public streets,
nor shall any be permitted a stationary location, nor shall he or she be
permitted to operate in any congested area where his or her operations might
impede or inconvenience the public. For the purpose of this chapter, the
judgment of the Chief of the Police Department, exercised in good faith, shall
be deemed conclusive as to whether the area is congested or the public impeded
or inconvenienced.
(Ord. 1-2015, passed 5-11-2015) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.09 EXCEPTIONS AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions hereof shall not apply to sales by producers of farm or
dairy products.
   (B)   Any person exempt by the laws of this state from the payment of the
license fee shall, before beginning such business, present to the Police
Department his or her credentials showing that the applicant is entitled to
such exemption, and upon the acceptance and approval thereof, the applicant
shall then receive a certificate from the Clerk-Treasurer authorizing the
applicant to engage in the business of itinerant merchant, peddler or
solicitor, subject to the terms of his or her license and the other applicable
provisions hereof.
(Ord. 1-2015, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 110.10 ORDERS TAKEN BY SOLICITORS; COPY TO PURCHASER.
   All orders taken by solicitors within the town shall be in writing in
duplicate, stating the terms thereof and the amount paid in advance, and one
copy of such order shall be given to the purchaser.
(Ord. 1-2015, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 110.11 REPORT OF POST-APPLICATION CRIMINAL CONVICTION.
   Each licensee must report to the Director of Operations any conviction, in
any state, for any felony or Class A misdemeanor-level offense by any of the
persons who engage in business activity under a license issued under this
chapter.
(Ord. 1-2015, passed 5-11-2015) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.12 VIOLATIONS.
   Violations of this chapter are punishable as provided under the schedule of
fines maintained by the town’s Ordinance Violations Bureau and may also subject
any licensee to the suspension or revocation of any license issued under this
chapter.
(Ord. 1-2015, passed 5-11-2015)
Cross-reference:
   Schedule of fines maintained by the Ordinance Violations Bureau, see
Ch. 34
§ 110.13 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter may be suspended
by the Director of Operations upon the recommendation of the Chief of Police.
   (B)   Licenses may be revoked by the President of the Town Council after
notice and hearing for any of the following causes:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
license application;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in the course of
carrying on business as an itinerant merchant, peddler or solicitor, or agent
thereof;
      (3)   Conviction of any crime or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
      (4)   Conducting the business of peddling or soliciting in an unlawful
manner so as to constitute a breach of the peace or to constitute a menace to
the health, safety or general welfare of the public; or
      (5)   Any other violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 1-2015, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 110.14 PROCEDURE FOR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The Director of Operations may initiate a hearing for the suspension or
revocation of a license at any time upon written complaint from any resident or
the Chief of Police. Notice of the hearing for revocation of a license shall be
given in writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and
the time and place of hearing before the Town Council.
(Ord. 1-2015, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 110.15 APPLICATION FOR RE-ISSUANCE OF REVOKED OR SUSPENDED LICENSE.
   In the event that a license has been suspended or revoked, an applicant may
request, in writing, a hearing before the Town Council to consider whether the
suspension should be lifted or, in the case of a license revocation, a new
license should be granted.
(Ord. 1-2015, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 110.16 NEW APPLICATIONS.
   A new license shall not be granted to any person or entity that has a
suspended or revoked license without the approval of the Town Council. No
license shall be granted to any person or entity that has a suspended or
revoked license, regardless of the type of business, if the application
includes any persons or entities whose business activity in the town has been
suspended under this chapter.
(Ord. 1-2015, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   For violation of §
110.02 of this chapter, a first offense is $50, a second offense is $75 and a
third offense is $100. All penalties shall be reduced by 50% if paid within 72
hours of notice to the offender.
(Ord. 1-2012, passed 5-29-2012)
APPENDIX A: APPLICATION FOR ITINERANT MERCHANTS, SOLICITORS AND PEDDLERS FORM
 
APPLICATION FOR: ITINERANT MERCHANTS, SOLICITORS AND PEDDLERS
 
1. Name of Applicant
___________________________________________________________________
 
Address __________________________________________________________________________
 
2. Name of Company
___________________________________________________________________
 
Address __________________________________________________________________________
 
3. Place where business will be conducted
__________________________________________________
 
_________________________________________________________________________________
 
4. Kind of goods to be sold
_______________________________________________________________
 
5. Length of time license required (Not to exceed one year)
____________________________________
 
_________________________________________________________________________________
 
Fee: $10.00
 
Date of Application
____________________________________________________________________
 
Signature of Applicant
__________________________________________________________________
 
License # of car or cars
_________________________________________________________________
 
Description of car
______________________________________________________________________
 
Names of other people soliciting
__________________________________________________________
 
Date of Birth of applicant
_______________________________________________________________
 
Social Security # of applicant
____________________________________________________________
 
Social Security # of additional applicants
___________________________________________________
 
_____________________________________________________________________________________
 
_____________________________________________________________________________________
 
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 41)
CHAPTER 111: SOLICITORS OF FUNDS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Charitable Solicitations Commission
   
111.03   Permit required
   
111.04   Permit application
   
111.05   Fees
   
111.06   Investigation after application
   
111.07   Standards for granting permit
   
111.08   Charitable solicitations registration and permit form
   
111.09   Cost of solicitations; limitations
   
111.10   Cost of promotion; limitations
   
111.11   Misrepresentation
   
111.12   Books and records
   
111.13   Reports required
   
111.14   Notice of intent
   
111.15   Written receipt requirement
   
111.16   Hearings
   
111.17   Review
   
111.18   Suspension or revocation of permit; process
 
   
111.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Application for Solicitation Permit Form
   
Appendix B: Charitable Solicitations Registration and Permit Form
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHARITABLE. Includes the words PATRIOTIC, PHILANTHROPIC, SOCIAL SERVICE,
WELFARE, BENEVOLENT, EDUCATIONAL, CIVIC or FRATERNAL, either actual or
purported.
   COMMISSION. The Charitable Solicitations Commission of the town.
   CONTRIBUTIONS. Includes the words ALMS, FOOD, CLOTHING, MONEY, PROPERTY,
SUBSCRIPTION or PLEDGE, and also DONATIONS under the guise of loans of money or
property.
   COST OF PROMOTION. In connection with a charitable solicitation, the
reasonable cost of acquiring goods or merchandise or an entertainment event
when such is used in connection with the solicitation, but does not include the
cost of selling the goods or admissions nor the cost of bona fide educational
materials. No cost included in the definition of cost of solicitation shall be
considered a COST OF PROMOTION.
   COST OF SOLICITATION. All costs of whatever nature incurred in raising the
funds solicited, except bona fide educational material in such instances where
the solicitation plan involves the promotion or sale of merchandise or an
entertainment event; the cost of such merchandise or entertainment shall not be
considered as part of the COST OF SOLICITATION. Compensation, in whatever form,
paid to a professional promoter or professional solicitor is part of the COST
OF SOLICITATION.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company,
association, society, league or organization, and includes any trustee,
receiver, assignee, agent or other representative thereof.
   POLITICAL PARTIES. As defined by state law, their subdivisions and their
bona fide candidates for public office are specifically exempted from and shall
not be subject to the provisions of this chapter, as the intent of this chapter
is to regulate the solicitation of charitable contributions.
   PROFESSIONAL PROMOTER. A person who for compensation plans, promotes,
conducts, manages or carries on, or attempts to plan, promote, conduct, manage
or carry on, any drive or campaign for the purpose of solicitation
contributions for or on behalf of any charitable person or engages in the
business of soliciting contributions for charitable purposes. A bona fide
officer or regular employee of a charitable person shall not be deemed a
PROFESSIONAL PROMOTER by reason of his or her participation in charitable
solicitations made by or on behalf of his or her employer.
   PROFESSIONAL SOLICITOR. Any person other than a professional promoter who is
employed or retained for compensation to make solicitations in connection with
a charitable solicitation or solicitations. A bona fide officer or regular
employee of a charitable person shall not be deemed a PROFESSIONAL SOLICITOR by
reason of his or her participation in charitable solicitations made by or on
behalf of his or her employer.
   RELIGIOUS, RELIGION or CHURCH. Any activity directly involving the
promulgation or observance of any system of worship or to the building or
maintenance of places of worship. The words RELIGIOUS and RELIGION or CHURCH,
as used herein, do not include charitable activities as defined herein even
though carried on or sponsored by a religious organization.
   SOLICIT AND SOLICITATION.
      (1)   The request, directly or indirectly, of money, credit, property,
financial assistance or other thing of value on the plea or representation that
such money, credit, property, financial assistance or other thing of value will
be used for a charitable purpose as those purposes are defined in this section.
      (2)   These words shall also mean and include, but not be limited to, the
following methods of securing such money, credit, property, financial
assistance or other thing of value:
         (a)   Any oral or written request;
         (b)   The making of any announcement to the local press or by
telephone concerning a local appeal or campaign to which the public is
requested to make a contribution for any charitable purpose connected
therewith;
         (c)   The distribution, circulation, posting or publishing of any
handbill, written advertisement or other local publication; or
         (d)   The sale of, or the offer or attempt to sell, any advertisement,
advertising space, book, card, chance, coupon, device, membership, merchandise,
subscription, ticket or other thing.
   SOLICITATION. Shall be deemed to have taken place when the request is made,
whether or not the person making the same receives any contribution referred to
in this section.
(Prior Code, § 43.01)
§ 111.02 CHARITABLE SOLICITATIONS COMMISSION.
   There is hereby created a Charitable Solicitations Commission of the town,
which Commission shall be responsible for the regulation of charitable
solicitations. Said Commission shall be composed of the Town Council, and their
terms on the Commission shall be the same as their terms on the Council.
(Prior Code, § 43.02)
§ 111.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall solicit charitable contributions in the town without first
having registered with and obtained a permit from the Charitable Solicitations
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 43.03) Penalty, see §
111.99
Cross-reference:
   Related form, see
Ch. 111, Appx. B
§ 111.04 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any person desiring to register and obtain a permit as herein required
shall make application to the Commission. Such application shall be sworn to or
affirmed and filed with the Commission not less than 60 days prior to the time
at which the permit applied for shall become effective; provided, however, that
the Commission may, for good cause shown, allow the filing of an application
less than 60 days prior to the effective date of the registration and permit
applied for.
   (B)   The application herein required shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The name, address or principal office of the person applying for
the permit;
      (2)   If the applicant is not an individual, the names and addresses of
the applicant’s principal officers and executives and a copy of the resolution,
if any, authorizing such solicitation, certified to as a true and correct copy
of the original by the officer having charge of the applicant’s records;
      (3)   The purpose for which solicitation is to be made, the total amount
of funds proposed to be raised thereby and the use or disposition to be made of
any receipts therefrom;
      (4)   A specific statement, supported by facts and figures, if any,
showing the need for the contributions to be solicited;
      (5)   The name and address of the person or persons by whom the receipts
of such solicitations will be disbursed;
      (6)   The name and address of the person or persons who will be in direct
charge of conducting the solicitation, and the names of all fundraisers
connected, or to be connected, with the proposed solicitation if said
fundraisers shall receive any paid compensation for their services;
      (7)   An outline of the method or methods to be used in conducting the
solicitation;
      (8)   The time when such solicitation will be made, giving the preferred
dates and the hour of day for the commencement and termination of such
solicitation;
      (9)   The estimated cost of the solicitation;
      (10)   The amount of any wages, fees, commissions, expenses or emoluments
to be expended or paid to any person in connection with such solicitations and
the names and addresses of all such persons. The Commission may elect not to
require such information as to regular staff or charitable organizations
maintaining a permanent office in the town;
      (11)   A financial statement for the past preceding fiscal year of any
funds collected for charitable purposes by the applicant, said statement giving
the amount of money so raised, together with the cost of raising it, and the
final distribution thereof;
      (12)   A full statement of the character and extent of the charitable
work being done or to be done by the applicant, and showing how much thereof is
being done or to be done in the town;
      (13)   A statement to the effect that if registration and a permit is
granted, it will not be used or represented in any way as an endorsement by the
town or by any department or officer thereof; and
      (14)   Such other information as may be reasonably required by the
Commission in order for it to determine the kind, character and method of the
proposed solicitation, and whether such solicitation is in the interest of, and
not inimical to, the safety, convenience or welfare of the residents of the
town.
   (C)   If, while any application is pending or during the term of any permit
granted thereof, there is any substantial change in fact, policy or method that
would materially alter the information given in the application, the applicant
shall notify the Commission in writing thereof within 72 hours after such
change. Should the applicant fail to so notify the Commission, any permit
issued to said applicant prior thereto shall stand suspended until a hearing is
had pursuant to §
111.16 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 43.04)
Cross-reference:
   Related form, see
Ch. 111, Appx. A
§ 111.05 FEES.
   (A)   Each person registered for each applicant, at the time of application
for registration and permit, shall pay to the Clerk-Treasurer a fee fixed by
the Commission, which shall not be less than $1 nor more than $500, unless the
Town Council shall waive the same.
   (B)   The Commission shall establish a schedule of fees based upon the
amount raised by solicitations on behalf of the person during the person’s
preceding fiscal year and the town’s total expense of regulating charitable
solicitations during the preceding calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 43.05)
§ 111.06 INVESTIGATION AFTER APPLICATION.
   (A)   The Commission shall examine all applications filed under §
111.04 of this chapter and shall make, or cause to be made, such further
investigation of the application and the applicant as the Commission shall deem
necessary in order for it to perform its duties under this chapter.
   (B)   Upon request by the Commission, the applicant shall make available for
inspection by the Commission, or any person designated in writing by the
Commission as its representative for such purpose, all of the applicant’s
books, records and papers at any reasonable time before the application is
granted, during the time a permit is in effect or after a permit has expired.
(Prior Code, § 43.06)
§ 111.07 STANDARDS FOR GRANTING PERMIT.
   The Commission shall grant the registration and permit provided for in §
111.04 of this chapter whenever it finds or reasonably believes:
   (A)   That all of the statements made in the application are true;
   (B)   That the applicant, or if the applicant is not an individual person,
that its managing officers or managing agents, be of good character and
reputation for honesty and integrity;
   (C)   That the local control and supervision of the solicitation will be
under local, responsible and reliable persons;
   (D)   That the applicant is not engaged in any fraudulent transaction or
enterprise;
   (E)   That the solicitation will not be a fraud on the public;
   (F)   That the solicitation is promoted solely by a desire to finance the
charitable cause described in the application and will not be conducted
primarily for private profit;
   (G)   That the cost of solicitation or promotion shall be reasonable and
shall not exceed a reasonable portion of the receipts to be realized from the
solicitation. Whenever any professional promoters or professional solicitors
are employed in connection with the solicitation, a copy of the contract
between the applicant and such professional promoters or professional
solicitors must be submitted to the Commission, who may determine whether said
contract is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter;
   (H)   That the kind, character and method of the proposed solicitation are
such that the solicitation will be in the interests of and not inimical to the
safety, convenience or welfare of the residents of the town; and
   (I)   That the Commission shall file with its Secretary for public
inspection a written statement of its findings of fact and its decision upon
each application. If the application is denied, the Commission shall notify the
applicant by certified mail.
(Prior Code, § 43.07)
§ 111.08 CHARITABLE SOLICITATIONS REGISTRATION AND PERMIT FORM.
   (A)   Registrations and permits issued under this chapter shall bear the
name and address of the person to whom the permit is issued, the serial number
of the permit, the date issued, the dates within which the permit holder may
solicit and a statement that the permit does not constitute an endorsement by
the town or by any of its departments, officers or employees of the purpose or
of the persons conducting this solicitation. All permits must be signed by the
Chairperson of the Commission and the Clerk-Treasurer of the town.
   (B)   Each solicitor of the charitable organization will be provided with an
information card or similar identification signed by the person having control
and supervision of the solicitation. Said card or identification shall carry on
its face the name and address of the person to whom the permit was issued, the
number of the permit and the dates during which the permit holder may solicit
and shall identify by name the individual holder of said card or
identification. Any individual soliciting without said card or identification
shall be deemed to be in violation of this chapter, and said card or
identification shall be provided for said individual solicitor by and at the
expense of the permit holder.
   (C)   Any permit that is issued by the Commission under this chapter shall
not be transferable or assignable.
(Prior Code, § 43.13)
Cross-reference:
   Related form, see
Ch. 111, Appx. B
§ 111.09 COST OF SOLICITATIONS; LIMITATIONS.
   The cost of solicitation for a charitable solicitation shall not exceed a
reasonable portion of the gross amount realized from such solicitation after
deduction of the cost of promotion. A cost of solicitation in excess of 25% of
the gross amount realized from the solicitation after the deduction of the cost
of promotion shall establish a prima facie case that the cost of solicitation
is unreasonable.
(Prior Code, § 43.08)
§ 111.10 COST OF PROMOTION; LIMITATIONS.
   The cost of promotion for a charitable solicitation shall not exceed a
reasonable portion of the gross amount realized from all events held and
publications, debts and services sold, given away or used as prizes in
connection with the solicitation. A cost of promotion in excess of 75% of the
gross amount realized from such events, publications, goods and services shall
establish a prima facie case that the cost of promotion is unreasonable.
(Prior Code, § 43.09)
§ 111.11 MISREPRESENTATION.
   (A)   No person shall directly or indirectly solicit contributions for any
purpose by misrepresentation of his or her name, occupation, financial
condition, social position, residence or principal place of business, and no
person shall make or cause to be made any misstatement, deception or fraud in
connection with any solicitation of any contribution for any purpose in the
town or in any application or report filed under this chapter.
   (B)   No charitable organization or professional fundraiser soliciting
contributions shall use a name, symbol or statement so closely related or
similar to that used by another charitable organization or governmental agency
that the use thereof would tend to confuse or mislead the public.
   (C)   No charitable organization or professional fundraiser shall solicit
funds by the use of statements or materials that would indicate that such funds
were being raised for an organization or agency from which such organization or
agency explicit permission for the raising of such funds has not been received
in accordance with other provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 43.10) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.12 BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   No person shall solicit any contributions for any charitable purpose without
maintaining a system of accounting whereby all donations to said person and all
disbursements by said person are entered upon the official books or records of
such person’s treasurer or other financial officer.
(Prior Code, § 43.11) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.13 REPORTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of all persons registered and issued permits
under this chapter to furnish to the Commission within 60 days after the
solicitation has been completed a report and financial statement showing the
amount raised by the solicitation, the amount expended in collecting such
funds, including a report of the wages, fees, commissions and expenses paid to
any person in connection with such solicitation, and the disposition of the
balance of the funds collected by the solicitation. In the case of charitable
organizations maintaining a permanent office in the town, the wages of regular
full-time staff employees may be entered as a total figure. The entire report
filed by said person shall be available for public inspection.
   (B)   The permit holder shall make available to the Commission, or to any
person designated in writing by the Commission as its representative for such
purpose, all books, records and papers whereby the accuracy of such report may
be verified.
(Prior Code, § 43.12) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.14 NOTICE OF INTENT.
   (A)   Any person, except churches and their directly connected agencies,
desiring to conduct a charitable solicitation, or on whose behalf a charitable
solicitation is to be conducted, shall file at least 60 days prior to the
commencement thereof with the Commission a notice of intent containing the
following information:
      (1)   The proposed use of the net proceeds of the solicitation under the
general headings required for reports under division (A)(5) below;
      (2)   The manner in which the solicitation shall be conducted and an
estimate of the cost of solicitation and the cost of promotion, if any, and of
the net proceeds expected for the charitable purpose;
      (3)   If a professional promoter or any professional solicitor are to be
employed, a copy of the contract of each;
      (4)   A certified copy of the resolution or other action authorizing the
solicitation; and
      (5)   A report of all the receipts of the person during his or her
preceding fiscal year or all of his or her receipts from solicitations during
the most recent year in which a charitable solicitation was conducted by or on
behalf of such charitable person. Such report shall show the gross amount
raised by solicitation during the period covered, what portion thereof, if any,
is attributable to promotional activities, the cost of promotion, the cost of
solicitation and the amounts, if any, paid to each professional promoter and
professional solicitor. The report shall also show what portion of the
proceeds, if any, was allocated for local use and what portion, if any was
allocated to a national organization.
   (B)   The proportions allocated, respectively, to local use or to a national
organization shall each be broken down in the report under the following
categories insofar as they are applicable or among such other categories as may
be approved by the Commission:
      (1)   Agency administration;
      (2)   Information and public education activities;
      (3)   Social services;
      (4)   Hospital care;
      (5)   Educational institutions;
      (6)   Research;
      (7)   Other civic or philanthropic purposes; and
      (8)   Capital improvements.
   (C)   The Commission may, in its discretion, waive the filing of such
statements as are duplicated substantially by reports already on file pursuant
to this section or to any other section of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 43.14)
§ 111.15 WRITTEN RECEIPT REQUIREMENT.
   Any person receiving money or anything having a value of $1 or more from any
contributor under a solicitation made pursuant to a permit granted under this
chapter shall give to the contributor, upon request, a written receipt signed
by the solicitor showing plainly the name and permit number of the person under
whose permit the solicitation is conducted, the date and the amount received;
provided, however, that this section shall not apply to any contributions
collected by means of a closed box or receptacle used in solicitation, with the
written approval of the Commission, where it is impractical to determine the
amount of such contributions.
(Prior Code, § 43.15)
§ 111.16 HEARINGS.
   (A)   If the Commission denies an application for registration and permit,
it shall notify the applicant of its decision and the grounds therefor by
certified mail, return receipt requested, and within five days after the
receipt of such notification, the applicant may file a written request for
public hearing on the application, together with exceptions to the grounds upon
which the Commission based its denial of the application. Upon the filing of
such request, the Commission shall fix a time and place for the hearing, which
shall be within 15 days after the request is filed, and shall notify the
applicant thereof.
   (B)   At the hearing, the applicant may present evidence in support of his
or her application and exceptions. Any interested person may be allowed to
participate in the hearing to present evidence in opposition to the application
and exceptions.
   (C)   Within ten days after the conclusion of the hearing, the Commission
shall render a written report either granting or denying the application and
shall state the grounds upon which the decision is based. A copy of said report
shall be served by certified mail, return receipt requested, upon the
applicant. Said report shall constitute a public record.
(Prior Code, § 43.16)
§ 111.17 REVIEW.
   Any person claiming to be prejudiced by an action of the Commission under
this chapter may appeal to the County Circuit or Superior Court to reverse such
action, but such appeal shall be limited to the claim that the Commission has
violated the appellant’s constitutional rights, has acted in excess of its
jurisdiction or has acted unreasonably, arbitrarily and beyond the limits of
its reasonable discretion. The members of the Commission shall not be liable
for damages or for any claim against them as individuals because of action
taken by them in performance of their duties under this chapter. This chapter
shall be liberally construed to achieve its purpose.
(Prior Code, § 43.17)
§ 111.18 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT; PROCESS.
   (A)   Whenever it shall be shown, or whenever the Commission has reason to
believe, that any person registered under this chapter has violated any of the
provisions thereof, or that any promoter, agent or solicitor of a permit holder
has misrepresented the purpose of the solicitation, the Commission shall
immediately suspend the permit and give the permit holder written notice in
person or by certified mail, return receipt requested, of the suspension and of
a hearing to be held within seven days of such suspension to determine whether
or not the permit should be revoked. This notice must contain a statement of
the facts upon which the Commission has acted in suspending the permit. At the
hearing, the permit holder and any other interested persons shall have the
right to present evidence as to the facts upon which the Commission based the
suspension of the permit and any other facts which may aid the Commission in
determining whether this chapter has been violated and whether the purpose of
the solicitation has been misrepresented.
   (B)   (1)   If, after such hearing, the Commission finds that this chapter
has been violated or the purpose of the solicitation has been misrepresented,
it shall within two days after the hearing file in its office for public
inspection and send to the permit holder by registered mail, or serve him or
her in any manner provided by general law for the service of notices, a written
statement of the facts upon which it based such a finding and shall immediately
revoke the permit.
      (2)   If, after the hearing, the Commission finds that this chapter has
not been violated and the purpose of the solicitation has not been
misrepresented, it shall within two days after the hearing give to the permit
holder a written statement canceling the suspension of the permit and stating
that no violation or misrepresentation was found to have been committed.
   (C)   In all cases where a suspension of the permit occurs, the Chief of
Police shall be notified forthwith by the Commission of the suspension or
revocation of any permit issued under this chapter. In like manner, the
Commission shall immediately notify the Chief of Police, subsequent to the
hearing provided for herein, of the decision of the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 43.18)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, as herein defined, or any agent, servant, employee or
officer thereof, violating any of the provisions of this chapter, or who aids
or abets in the procuring of a violation of any provision, part or portion of
this chapter, or who files or causes to be filed an application for a permit
which contains false or fraudulent statements of fact, shall be deemed guilty
of an infraction and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined. Each violation
shall be deemed a separate offense, and each act in violation of this chapter
shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such.
   (B)   A first offense is $50, a second offense is $75 and a third offense is
$100.
   (C)   All penalties shall be reduced by 50% if paid within 72 hours of
notice to the offender.
(Prior Code, § 43.19)
APPENDIX A: APPLICATION FOR SOLICITATION PERMIT FORM
APPLICATION FOR SOLICITATION PERMIT
(If spaces allowed are insufficient, attach additional sheets)
1.)   Name of Organization ____________________________________________________________
Address ________________________________________________________________________
Federal Tax Exempt Number # _____________________________________________________
2.)   Name of Person Preparing Application _______________________________________________
Title or Relationship to Applicant   _________________________________________________
Address                  _________________________________________________
Phone Number               _________________________________________________
3.)   If Applicant is not an individual, list name and addresses of principal Officers and
Executives:
Name ___________________________         Name ___________________________
Address _________________________         Address _________________________
________________________________         ________________________________
   Name ___________________________         Name ___________________________
Address _________________________         Address _________________________
________________________________         ________________________________
4.)   Names and addresses of Person or Persons by whom the receipts of such solicitation
will be disbursed:
Name ___________________________         Name ___________________________
Address _________________________         Address _________________________
________________________________         ________________________________
5.)   Describe purpose of solicitation: ____________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________
Amount of Funds to be raised (estimate): $ ____________________________________________
Proposed use of disposition of funds raised: ___________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________
Will any funds raised by used in the Bremen Community:      Yes ________ No ________
If Yes, to what extent? ____________________________________________________________
6.)   Describe Method of Solicitation: ____________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________
7.)   Name and Address of Person in charge of solicitation:
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
8.)   Names and Addresses of Persons actually involved in direct solicitation:
__________________________________         __________________________________
__________________________________         __________________________________
__________________________________         __________________________________
   __________________________________         __________________________________
__________________________________         __________________________________
__________________________________         __________________________________
   __________________________________         __________________________________
__________________________________         __________________________________
__________________________________         __________________________________
9.)   Date and Hour of Commencement of Solicitation:
_________________, 20_____ at ________:________ ___ M.
10.)   Date and Hour of Termination of Solicitation:
_________________, 20_____ at ________:________ ___ M.
11.)   Estimated Cost of Solicitation: _____________________________________________________
Do any Solicitors receive compensation?   Yes ________ No ________
If Yes, describe: _________________________________________________________________
12.)   Attachments, to complete Application.
Attach the following:
a.)   Specific Statement of need for funds being solicited.
b.)   Financial Statement for preceding fiscal year showing funds raised, expenses and
distributions.
c.)   If not an individual, a certified copy of Resolution of Directors, authorizing the
solicitation.
   The undersigned certifies that the foregoing information is true and accurate. Further,
the undersigned also certifies that he is authorized to execute this Application on behalf
of the Applicant. In addition, if there are any changes in the information furnished, the
undersigned will promptly notify the Town prior to beginning solicitations. Any permit
granted by the Town of Bremen will not be used or represented as an endorsement by the Town
or any Officers of the Town of this organization or the solicitation.
                              Applicant
________________________            ________________________
Dated
By: __________________
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 43)
APPENDIX B: CHARITABLE SOLICITATIONS REGISTRATION AND PERMIT FORM
CHARITABLE SOLICITATIONS REGISTRATION AND PERMIT
Permit No. ______________________________               Date __________________
Issued to:
____________________________________________________________________________
Address:
____________________________________________________________________________
Date of Solicitation:
___________________________________________________________________
This permit does not constitute an endorsement by the Town of Bremen or by any
of its departments, officers, or employees of the purpose or of the persons
conducting this solicitation.
                           Approved by: _________________________________
                                  Town Council of Town of Bremen
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 43)
CHAPTER 112: GARAGE AND YARD SALES
Section
   
112.01   Limitations in residential areas
   
112.02   Permit required; application; fee
   
112.03   Displaying permit
   
112.04   Sign regulations
   
112.05   Consent to location of signs required
 
   
112.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Application for Sale Permit Form
   
Appendix B: Sale Permit Form
§ 112.01 LIMITATIONS IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS.
   No person, firm or corporation and no group or groups of persons shall
organize, operate and maintain a yard or garage sale in any residential areas
or on any premises primarily used for residential purposes for any period or
term exceeding three days, and no person, firm, corporation, group or groups of
persons may thus organize, operate or maintain such yard or garage sale more
than two times during any calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 45.01) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.02 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION; FEE.
   (A)   (1)   Any person desiring to organize, operate or maintain a yard or
garage sale in any residential area as herein related shall make application at
the office of the Clerk-Treasurer for a permit for the operation and
maintenance of such sale and shall state, in detail, the full name and address
of the persons, firm or group who shall operate the same, the address thereof,
the term or duration of said sale, a general description of the items and
articles offered for sale and such other information and data as may be
pertinent thereto.
      (2)   One copy of each such application shall be forwarded, forthwith, to
the Chief of Police or to such officer who may be delegated by the Chief to
receive such applications.
   (B)   It shall be the duty and responsibility of the Chief or such officer
to investigate such parking, traffic flow and similar or other health and
safety aspects of such proposed yard or garage sale and to make such reasonable
recommendations or orders as are in the best interests of the public safety of
the citizens and the peace and dignity of the residential area, and to approve,
disapprove or approve as modified such application, all of which investigation
and activity shall be done and accomplished within 48 hours of the receipt of
such application.
   (C)   The fee for each such application shall be the sum of $1, which sum
shall be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer upon submission of such application.
(Prior Code, § 45.04)
Cross-reference:
   Related form, see
Ch. 112, Appx. A
§ 112.03 DISPLAYING PERMIT.
   Upon the approval of such application as herein related, the Chief of Police
or other designated officer shall execute the same and shall issue such license
or other certificate to such applicant, which such license or certificate shall
be attached or displayed to the residential premises at which such garage or
yard sale is being operated or maintained and in clear view for public
inspection thereof at all times during such sale.
(Prior Code, § 45.05) Penalty, see §
112.99
Cross-reference:
   Related form, see
Ch. 112, Appx. B
§ 112.04 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   No person, firm or corporation, nor group or groups of persons, shall
construct, attach or otherwise display any yard or garage sale sign as herein
defined on any public street or street right-of-way within the limits of the
town, nor attach such sign to any stop sign, street sign, telephone or utility
pole or other permanent installation of any utilities company.
(Prior Code, § 45.02) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 CONSENT TO LOCATION OF SIGNS REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation, nor group or groups of persons, shall
construct, attach or otherwise install any yard or garage sale sign as herein
defined on any private property of any third person without first obtaining the
consent of the owner or occupant of the real estate upon which such sign is
constructed, attached or installed.
(Prior Code, § 45.03) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation, or group of persons, who shall
violate any of the provisions of this chapter or fail to comply therewith, or
with any of the requirements thereof, shall for the first violation or
noncompliance be guilty of an infraction and, upon conviction, shall be fined.
Each day a violation is permitted or is permitted to continue shall be
considered a subsequent offense.
   (B)   A first offense is $25, a second offense is $50 and a third offense is
$100.
   (C)   All penalties shall be reduced by 50% if paid within 72 hours of
notice to the offender.
(Prior Code, § 45.06)
APPENDIX A: APPLICATION FOR SALE PERMIT FORM
TOWN OF BREMEN, INDIANA
APPLICATION FOR SALE PERMIT
   PERMIT No. __________
Date _______________________________________
Name (I) (We)
_________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________________
hereby apply for a permit to hold a Garage . Patio . Yard . Auction Sale
at
____________________________________________________________________________________
                        (Street Address)
for the period of
_______________________________________________________________________
One family . two family . three family . Other
______________________________________________
General description of articles and items to be sold
__________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
                                 ____________________________________
                                  Signature of Applicant
Date ________________________
Fee Paid   $1.00
                           Approved by __________________________________
                                        Bremen Police Dept.
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 45)
APPENDIX B: SALE PERMIT FORM
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7c7f1d94187c4b67abf5563233f5614aae1a062c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1840.png]
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 45)
CHAPTER 113: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
113.01   Purpose and intent
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   Permit required
   
113.04   Annual permit fee
   
113.05   Expiration of permit
   
113.06   Transfer of permit
   
113.07   Investigation and application
   
113.08   Inspection of premises
   
113.09   Suspension of permit
   
113.10   Revocation of permit
   
113.11   Judicial review of permit denial, suspension or revocation
   
113.12   Hours of operation
   
113.13   Sexually oriented business employee license
   
113.14   Video booth regulations
   
113.15   Prohibitions regarding minors
   
113.16   Advertising and lighting
   
113.17   Nudity at sexually oriented businesses
   
113.18   Live entertainment
   
113.19   Exemptions
   
113.20   Distribution of sexual devices
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually oriented
businesses to promote the health and safety, morals and general welfare of the
citizens of the town and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to
prevent deleterious effects of sexually oriented businesses within the town.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect of
imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative
materials, including sexually oriented materials. Similarly, it is not the
intent nor effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to
sexually oriented materials protected by the First Amendment to the United
States Constitution or by the State Constitution, or to deny access by the
distributors and exhibitors of sexually oriented entertainment to their
intended market. Neither is it the intent or effect of this chapter to in any
way condone or legitimize the distribution of obscene material or material
harmful to minors.
(Prior Code, § 50.01) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 5-23-2001)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      EMPLOYEE. A person who works or performs in or for a sexually oriented
business, regardless of whether or not said person is paid a salary, wage or
other compensation by the operator of said business.
      ESTABLISHMENT. Any of the following:
         (a)   The opening or commencement of any such business as a new
business;
         (b)   The conversion of an existing business, regardless of whether it
currently exists as a sexually oriented business, to any of the sexually
oriented businesses defined in this chapter;
         (c)   The addition of any of the sexually oriented businesses defined
in this chapter to any other existing sexually oriented business; or
         (d)   The relocation of any such sexually oriented business.
      NUDITY or STATE OF NUDITY.
         (a)   The appearance of a human bare buttocks, anus, male or female
genitals or the areola or nipple of the female breast; or
         (b)   A state of dress which fails to opaquely and fully cover a human
buttocks, anus, male or female genitals, pubic region or the areola or nipple
of the female breast.
      OPERATOR. The owner, permit holder, custodian, manager, operator or
person in charge of any permitted or licensed premises.
      PERMITTED OR LICENSED PREMISES. Any premises that requires a license or
permit and that is classified as a sexually oriented business.
      PERMITTEE or LICENSEE. A person in whose name a permit or license to
operate a sexually oriented business has been issued, as well as the individual
listed as an applicant on the application for a permit or license.
      PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
association, limited liability company or other legal entity.
      PUBLIC BUILDING. Any building owned, leased or held by the United States,
the state, the county or the town, any special district or school district or
any other agency or political subdivision of the state or the United States,
which building is used for governmental purposes.
      PUBLIC PARK or RECREATION AREA. Public land which has been designated for
park or recreational activities, including, but not limited to, a park,
playground, nature trail, swimming pool, reservoir, athletic field, basketball
or tennis court, pedestrian/bicycle path, open space, wilderness area or
similar public land within the town which is under the control, operation or
management of the town parks and recreation authorities.
      RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION. Any church, synagogue, mosque, temple or building
which is used primarily for religious worship and related religious activities.
      RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT OR USE. A single-family, duplex, townhouse,
multiple-family or mobile home park or subdivision as defined in the town’s
Zoning Code.
      SCHOOL. Any public or private educational facility, including, but not
limited to, child day care facilities, nursery schools, preschools,
kindergartens, elementary schools, primary schools, intermediate schools,
junior high schools, middle schools, high schools, vocational schools,
secondary schools, continuation schools, special education schools, junior
colleges, colleges and universities. The term SCHOOL includes the school
grounds but does not include facilities used primarily for another purpose and
only incidentally as a school.
      SEMI-NUDE. A state of dress in which clothing covers not more than the
genitals, pubic region and areola of the female breasts, as well as portions of
the body that are covered by supporting straps or devices.
      SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult
novelty shop, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion
picture theater, adult theater, massage parlor, sexual encounter establishment
and escort agency or nude model studio.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Any of the following:
         (a)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breasts below a point immediately above the
top of the areola; or
         (b)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Any of the following:
         (a)   The fondling or other intentional touching of human genitals,
pubic region, buttocks, anus or female breasts;
         (b)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation or sodomy;
         (c)   Masturbation, actual or simulated;
         (d)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal or
tumescence; or
         (e)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in divisions (a) through (d) above.
      SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An increase in
the floor areas occupied by the business by more than 15% as the floor areas
exist on the date this chapter takes effect.
      TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Any of
the following:
         (a)   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;
         (b)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling
interest in the business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means; or
         (c)   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal device
which transfers ownership or control of the business, except for transfer by
bequest or other operation of law upon the death of a person possessing the
ownership or control.
   (B)   Additionally, SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES are those businesses which
are defined as follows.
      (1)   ADULT ARCADE. An establishment where, for any form of
consideration, one or more still or motion picture projectors, slide projectors
or similar machines, or other image-producing machines, for viewing by five or
fewer persons each, are regularly used to show films, motion pictures, video
cassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions which are characterized
by the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
      (2)   ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. A
commercial establishment which has as a significant or substantial portion of
its stock-in-trade, or derives a significant or substantial portion of its
revenues, or devotes a significant or substantial portion of its interior
business or advertising, to the sale or rental, for any form of consideration,
of any one or more of the following:
         (a)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other visual
representations, which are characterized by the depiction or description of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas;
         (b)   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia which are designed for use
or marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of themselves or others; or
         (c)   An establishment may have other principal business purposes that
do not involve the offering for sale, rental or viewing of materials depicting
or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas and
still be categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty store or adult video
store. Such other business purposes will not serve to exempt such
establishments from being categorized as an ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY
STORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE so long as one of its principal business purposes is
offering for sale or rental, for some form of consideration, the specified
materials which depict or describe specified anatomical areas or specified
sexual activities.
      (3)   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant, bottle club or similar
commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages are served, which
regularly features:
         (a)   Persons who appear nude of in a state of nudity or semi-nudity;
         (b)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities; or
         (c)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (4)   ADULT MOTEL. A motel, hotel or similar commercial establishment
which:
         (a)   Offers public accommodations, for any form of consideration,
which provide patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films,
motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions
which are characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas and which advertise the availability
of this sexually oriented type of material by means of a sign visible from the
public right-of-way or by means of any off-premises advertising, including, but
not limited to, newspapers, magazines, pamphlets, leaflets, radio or
television;
         (b)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time less than
ten hours; or
         (c)   Allows for a tenant or occupant to sub-rent the sleeping room
for a time period of less than ten hours.
      (5)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or similar photographic
reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or description of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas are regularly shown
for any form of consideration.
      (6)   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar
commercial establishment which, for any form of consideration, regularly
features persons who appear in a state of nudity or live performances which are
characterized by the exposure of specified anatomical areas or by specified
sexual activities.
      (7)   ESCORT. A person who, for any form of consideration, agrees or
offers to act as a companion, guide or date for another person, or who agrees
or offers to privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for
another person.
      (8)   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business association who furnishes,
offers to furnish or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary
business purposes for a fee, tip or other consideration.
      (9)   MASSAGE PARLOR. Any place where, for any form of consideration or
gratuity, massage, alcohol rub, administration of fomentations, electric or
magnetic treatments or any other treatment or manipulation of the human body
which occurs as a part of or in connection with specified sexual activities, or
where any person providing such treatment, manipulation or service related
thereto exposes his or her specified anatomical areas. The definition of
sexually oriented businesses shall not include the practice of massage in or by
any licensed hospital; nor by a licensed physician, surgeon, chiropractor or
osteopath; nor by trainers for any amateur, semiprofessional or professional
athlete or athletic team or school athletic program; nor by any person so
licensed by the state to perform such activities.
      (10)   NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person who regularly appears
in a state of nudity or displays specified anatomical areas for money or any
form of consideration and is to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted,
sculptured, photographed or similarly depicted by other persons.
      (11)   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER ESTABLISHMENT. A business or commercial
establishment that, as one of its primary business purposes, offers for any
form of consideration a place where two or more persons may congregate,
associate or consort for the purpose of engaging in specified sexual activities
or the exposure of specified anatomical areas or activities when one or more of
the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-nude. The definition of sexually
oriented businesses shall not include an establishment where a medical
practitioner, psychologist, psychiatrist or similar professional person
licensed by the state engages in medically approved and recognized sexual
therapy.
(Prior Code, § 50.02) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 5-23-2001)
§ 113.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall conduct, maintain or operate, or cause to be
conducted, maintained or operated, any sexually oriented business within the
corporate limits of the town without first being licensed under this chapter.
   (B)   The Town Council or its designee is responsible for granting, denying,
revoking, renewing, suspending and canceling sexually oriented business permits
for proposed or existing sexually oriented businesses. The Town Council or its
designee is also responsible for ascertaining whether a proposed sexually
oriented business for which a permit is being applied complies with all
applicable zoning laws or regulations now in effect, or as amended or enacted
subsequent to the effective date of this chapter, in the town and the town’s
Comprehensive Plan.
   (C)   The town’s Police Department shall be responsible for providing
information on whether an applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal
act during the time period set forth.
   (D)   The town’s Code Enforcement Department shall be responsible for
inspecting a proposed permitted or non-permitted sexually oriented business in
order to ascertain whether it is in compliance with applicable statutes and
ordinances.
   (E)   An application for a permit must be made on a form provided by the
Town Council. Any person desiring to operate a sexually oriented business shall
file with the town an original and two copies of a sworn permit application on
the standard application form supplied by the Town Council or its designee.
   (F)   The completed application shall contain the following information and
shall be accompanied by the following documents:
      (1)   If the applicant is:
         (a)   An individual, the individual shall state his or her legal name
and any aliases and submit satisfactory proof that he or she is 18 years of
age;
         (b)   A partnership, the partnership shall state its complete name and
the names of all partners, whether the partnership is general or limited, and a
copy of the partnership agreement, if any; and
         (c)   A corporation, the corporation shall state its complete name,
the date of its incorporation, evidence that the corporation is in good
standing under the laws of the state, the names and capacity of all officers,
directors and principal stockholders, the name of the registered corporate
agent and the address of the registered office for service of process.
      (2)   If the applicant intends to operate the sexually oriented business
under a name other than that of the applicant, he or she must state the
sexually oriented business’s fictitious name and submit the required state
registration documents;
      (3)   Whether the applicant or any of the other individuals listed in the
application has, within a five-year period immediately preceding the date of
the application, been convicted of a specified criminal act, and if so, the
specified criminal act involved and the date and place of conviction;
      (4)   Whether the applicant or any of the other individuals listed in the
application has had a previous permit under this chapter, or other similar
sexually oriented business ordinances from another city or county, denied,
suspended or revoked, including the name and location of the sexually oriented
business for which the permit was denied, suspended or revoked, as well as the
date of the denial, suspension or revocation, and whether the applicant or any
other individuals listed in the application has been a partner in a partnership
or an officer, director or principal stockholder of a corporation that is
permitted under this chapter whose permit has previously been denied, suspended
or revoked, including the name and location of the sexually oriented business
for which the permit was denied, suspended or revoked, as well as the date of
denial, suspension or revocation;
      (5)   Whether the applicant or any other individual listed in the
application holds any other permits or licenses under this chapter or other
similar sexually oriented business ordinance from another city, county or
state, and if so, the names and locations of such other permitted businesses;
      (6)   The single classification of permit for which the applicant is
filing;
      (7)   The location of the proposed sexually oriented business, including
a legal description of the property, street address and telephone number(s), if
any;
      (8)   The applicant’s mailing address and residential address;
      (9)   A recent photograph of the applicant(s);
      (10)   The applicant’s driver’s license number, Social Security number
and/or his or her state or federally issued tax identification number;
      (11)   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared, but it must be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches;
      (12)   A current certificate and straight-line drawing prepared within 30
days prior to application by a state-registered land surveyor depicting the
property lines and the structures containing any established existing uses
regulated by this chapter that are within 1,000 feet of the property to be
certified; the property lines of any established religious institution/
synagogue, school or public park or recreation area within 1,000 feet of the
property to be certified; and the property lines of any residentially zoned
area or residential property within 1,000 feet of the property to be certified.
For the purposes of this section, a use shall be considered EXISTING OR
ESTABLISHED if it is in existence at the time an application is submitted;
      (13)   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is
an individual, he or she must sign the application for a permit as applicant.
If a person wishes to operate a sexually oriented business collectively with a
group of individuals, each individual who has a 10% or greater interest in the
business must sign the application for a permit as applicant. If a corporation
is listed as the owner of a sexually oriented business or as the entity that
wishes to operate such a business, each individual having a 10% or greater
interest in the corporation must sign the application for a permit as
applicant; and
      (14)   If a person wishes to operate a sexually oriented business which
shall exhibit on the premises films, video cassettes or other video
reproductions which depict specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas, then said person shall comply with the application requirements.
   (G)   Applicants for a permit under this section shall have a continuing
duty to promptly supplement application information required by this section in
the event that said information changes in any way from what is stated on the
application. The failure to comply with said continuing duty within 30 days
from the date of such change shall be grounds for suspension of a permit.
   (H)   In the event that the Town Council or its designee determines or
learns at any time that the applicant has improperly completed the application
for a proposed sexually oriented business, it shall promptly notify the
applicant of such fact and allow the applicant ten days to properly complete
the application. (The time period for granting or denying a permit shall be
stayed during the period in which the applicant is allowed an opportunity to
properly complete the application.)
   (I)   The applicant must be qualified according to the provisions of this
chapter and the premises must be inspected and found to be in compliance with
health, fire and building codes and laws.
   (J)   The applicant shall be required to pay a non-refundable application
fee of $100 at the time of filing an application under this section.
   (K)   Prior to obtaining any permit or license to operate any sexually
oriented business defined in this chapter, and as part of any application for a
permit under this section, the applicant shall obtain from the Town Council or
its designee a certification that the proposed location of such business
complies with the town’s Zoning Code.
   (L)   The fact that a person possesses other types of state or town permits
or licenses does not exempt him or her from the requirement of obtaining a
sexually oriented business permit.
   (M)   By applying for a permit under this chapter, the applicant shall be
deemed to have consented to the provisions of this chapter and to the exercise
by the Town Council or its designee, the Police Department and all other town
agencies charged with enforcing the laws, ordinances and codes applicable in
the town of their respective responsibilities under this chapter.
   (N)   The applicant shall be required to provide the town with the names of
any and all employees who are required to be licensed pursuant to §
113.13 of this chapter. This shall be a continuing requirement even after a
permit is granted or renewed.
(Prior Code, § 50.03) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 5-23-2001) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04 ANNUAL PERMIT FEE.
   The annual fee for a sexually oriented business permit is $200.
(Prior Code, § 50.06) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 5-23-2001)
§ 113.05 EXPIRATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Each permit shall expire one year from the date of issuance and may be
renewed only by making an application as provided in §
113.07 of this chapter (for renewals, filing of the original survey shall be
sufficient). An application for renewal shall be made at least 30 days before
the expiration date, and when made less than 30 days before the expiration
date, the expiration of the permit will not be affected.
   (B)   (1)   When the Town Council or its designee denies renewal of the
permit, the applicant shall not be issued a permit under this chapter for one
year from the date of denial.
      (2)   If, subsequent to denial, the Town Council or its designee finds
that the basis for denial of the renewal of the permit has been corrected, the
applicant shall be granted a permit if at least 90 days have elapsed since the
date denial became final.
(Prior Code, § 50.08) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 5-23-2001)
§ 113.06 TRANSFER OF PERMIT.
   (A)   A permittee shall not operate a sexually oriented business under the
authority of a permit at any place other than the address designated in the
application for permit.
   (B)   A permittee shall not transfer his or her permit to another person.
   (C)   A permittee shall not transfer his or her permit to another location.
   (D)   Any attempt to transfer a permit either directly or indirectly in
violation of this section is hereby declared void and the permit shall be
deemed revoked.
(Prior Code, § 50.12) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 5-23-2001) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.07 INVESTIGATION AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   Investigation. Upon receipt of an application properly filed with the
town and upon payment of the non-refundable application fee, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall immediately stamp the application as received and shall
immediately thereafter send photocopies of the application to the Police
Department and any other town agencies responsible for the enforcement of
health, fire and building codes and laws. Each department or agency shall
promptly conduct an investigation of the applicant, application and the
proposed sexually oriented business in accordance with its responsibilities
under law and as set forth in this chapter. Said investigation shall be
completed within 20 days of receipt of the application by the Clerk-Treasurer.
At the conclusion of its investigation, each department or agency shall
indicate on the photocopy of the application its approval or disapproval of the
application, date it, sign it and, in the event it disapproves, state the
reasons. The Police Department shall only be required to certify the NCIC
records request check mentioned at §
113.03 of this chapter. The Police Department shall not be required to approve
or disapprove applications.
   (B)   Grant of application for permit.
      (1)   The Town Council or its designee shall grant the application unless
one or more of the criteria set forth in division (C) below is present.
      (2)   The permit, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the
person or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date and the address of
the sexually oriented business. The permit shall also indicate that the
sexually oriented business shall be subject to prohibitions against public
nudity and indecency pursuant to the state’s Penal Code, I.C. 35-45-4-1. The
permit shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the entrance to the
sexually oriented business so that it can be read easily at any time.
   (C)   Denial of application for permit.
      (1)   The Town Council or its designee shall deny the application for any
of the following reasons:
         (a)   An applicant is under 18 years of age;
         (b)   An applicant or an applicant’s spouse is overdue on his or her
payment to the town of taxes, fees, fines or penalties assessed against him or
her or imposed upon him or her in relation to a sexually oriented business;
         (c)   An applicant is residing with a person who has been denied a
permit by the town’s Board of Public Works and Safety to operate a sexually
oriented business within the preceding 12 months, or residing with a person
whose permit to operate a sexually oriented business has been revoked within
the preceding 12 months;
         (d)   An applicant has failed to provide information required by this
section or a permit application for the issuance of the permit or has falsely
answered a question or request for information on the application form;
         (e)   The premises to be used for the sexually oriented business has
not been approved as being in compliance with health, fire and building codes
by the department or agency responsible under law for investigating said
compliance;
         (f)   The application or permit fees required by this chapter have not
been paid;
         (g)   An applicant of the proposed business is in violation of, or is
not in compliance with, any of the provisions of this chapter or the town’s
Zoning Code;
         (h)   The granting of the application would violate a statute,
ordinance or court order;
         (i)   The applicant has a permit under this chapter that has been
suspended or revoked;
         (j)   An applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal act for
which:
            1.   Less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement, whichever is the later date, if the
conviction is of a misdemeanor offense for the specified criminal acts, which
are sexual crimes against children, sexual abuse, rape or crimes connected with
another sexually oriented business, including, but not limited to, the
distribution of obscenity or material harmful to minors, prostitution,
pandering or tax violations;
            2.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement, whichever is the later date, if the
conviction is of a felony offense for the specified criminal acts, which are
sexual crimes against children, sexual abuse, rape or crimes connected with
another sexually oriented business, including, but not limited to, the
distribution of obscenity or material harmful to minors, prostitution or tax
violations;
            3.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement, whichever is the later date, if the
convictions are of two or more misdemeanor offenses for specified criminal
acts, which are sexual crimes against children, sexual abuse, rape or crimes
connected with another sexually oriented business, including, but not limited
to, the distribution of obscenity or materials harmful to minors, prostitution,
pandering or tax violations, offenses occurring with any 24-month period;
            4.   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no
effect on disqualification of the applicant; and
            5.   An applicant who has been convicted of the above-described
specified criminal acts may qualify for a sexually oriented business permit
only when the time period required above in this division (C)(1)(j) has
elapsed.
         (k)   An applicant knowingly has in his or her employ an employee who
does not have a valid license as required in §
113.13 of this chapter.
      (2)   If the Town Council or its designee denies the application, it
shall notify the applicant of the denial and state the reason(s) for the
denial.
      (3)   If a person applies for a permit for a particular location within a
period of 12 months from the date of denial of a previous application for a
permit at the location and there has not been an intervening change in the
circumstances which could reasonably be expected to lead to a different
decision regarding the former reasons for denial, the application shall be
denied.
(Prior Code, § 50.04) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 5-23-2001)
§ 113.08 INSPECTION OF PREMISES.
   (A)   An applicant or permittee shall permit representatives of the town and
of the county to inspect the premises of a sexually oriented business for the
purpose of ensuring compliance with the law at any time it is occupied or open
for business.
   (B)   A person who refuses to permit any such inspection of the premises at
any time that it is occupied or open for business shall be in violation of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.07) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 5-23-2001) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.09 SUSPENSION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The town’s Board of Public Works and Safety or its designee shall
suspend a permit for a period not to exceed 30 days if it determines that a
permittee, or an employee of a permittee, has:
      (1)   Violated, or is not in compliance with, any section of this
chapter;
      (2)   Been under the influence of alcoholic beverages or any controlled
substances while working in the sexually oriented business premises;
      (3)   Refused to allow an inspection of a sexually oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter;
      (4)   Knowingly permitted gambling by any person on the sexually oriented
business premises;
      (5)   Operated the sexually oriented business in violation of a building,
fire, health or zoning statute, code, ordinance or regulation, whether federal,
state or local, said determination being based on investigation by the
division, department or agency charged with enforcing said rules or laws. In
the event of such statute, code, ordinance or regulation violation, the Town
Council or its designee shall promptly notify the permittee of the violation
and shall allow the permittee a seven-day period in which to correct the
violation. If the permittee fails to correct the violation before the
expiration of the seven-day period, the Town Council or its designee shall
forthwith suspend the permit and shall notify the permittee of the suspension;
      (6)   Operated the sexually oriented business in violation of the hours
of operation in §
113.12 of this chapter; or
      (7)   Knowingly employs a person who does not have a valid license as
required in §
113.13 of this chapter.
   (B)   The suspension shall remain in effect until the violation of the
statute, code, ordinance or regulation in question has been corrected.
(Prior Code, § 50.09) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 5-23-2001)
§ 113.10 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The Town Council or its designee shall revoke a permit if a cause of
suspension in §
113.09 of this chapter occurs and the permit has been suspended within the
preceding 12 months.
   (B)   The town’s Board of Public Works and Safety or its designee shall
revoke a permit upon determining that:
      (1)   A permittee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process that tended to enhance the applicant’s
opportunity for obtaining a permit;
      (2)   A permittee or an employee has knowingly allowed possession, use or
sale of controlled substances in or on the premises;
      (3)   A permittee or an employee has knowingly allowed prostitution on
the premises;
      (4)   A permittee or an employee knowingly operated the sexually oriented
business during a period of time when the permittee’s permit was suspended;
      (5)   A permittee has been convicted of a specified criminal act for
which the time period required in §
113.07 of this chapter has not elapsed; or on two or more occasions within a
12-month period, a person or persons committed an offense, occurring in or on
the permitted premises, constituting a specified criminal act for which a
conviction has been obtained and the person or persons were employees of the
sexually oriented business at the time the offenses were committed. The fact
that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on the revocation of
the permit;
      (6)   A permittee is convicted of tax violations for any taxes or fees
related to a sexually oriented business;
      (7)   A permittee or an employee has knowingly allowed any act of sexual
intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation or any other specified
sexual activity to occur in or on the permitted premises;
      (8)   A permittee has been operating more than one sexually oriented
business under a single roof; or
      (9)   A permittee has engaged in or attempted to engage in a transfer of
permit in violation of §
113.06 of this chapter.
   (C)   (1)   When the Town Council or its designee revokes a permit, the
revocation shall continue for one year and the permittee shall not be issued a
sexually oriented business permit for one year from the date revocation became
effective.
      (2)   If, subsequent to revocation, the Town Council or its designee
finds that the basis for revocation under this section has been corrected, the
applicant shall be granted a permit if at least 90 days have elapsed since the
date of revocation became effective. If the permit was revoked under this
section, an applicant may not be granted another permit until the number of
years required under this section has elapsed.
(Prior Code, § 50.10) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 5-23-2001)
§ 113.11 JUDICIAL REVIEW OF PERMIT DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   After denial of an application, or denial of a renewal of an application, or
suspension or revocation of a permit, the applicant or permittee may seek
judicial review of the administrative action in the County Superior Court or
Circuit Court.
(Prior Code, § 50.11) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 5-23-2001)
§ 113.12 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, or cause to be
operated, a sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or not a permit
has been issued for said business under this chapter, and allow such business
to remain open for business, or to permit any employee to engage in a
performance, solicit a performance, make a sale, solicit a sale, provide a
service or solicit a service, between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m. of
any particular day.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person while working as an employee of a
sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or not a permit has been
issued for said business under this chapter, to allow such business to remain
open for business, or to permit any employee to engage in a performance,
solicit a performance, make a sale, solicit a sale, provide a service or
solicit a service, between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m. of any
particular day.
(Prior Code, § 50.17) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 5-23-2001) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.13 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS EMPLOYEE LICENSE.
   (A)   License required. Each individual to be employed in a sexually
oriented business, as defined in §
113.02 of this chapter, who engages in the services rendered by a nude model
studio, escort or escort agency, sexual encounter establishment, massage parlor
(except for massage parlors licensed pursuant to this code), or a live
performer or entertainer shall be required to obtain a sexually oriented
business employee license. Each applicant shall pay a permit fee of $25. Said
fee is to cover reasonable administrative costs of the licensing application
process.
   (B)   Application.
      (1)   Before any applicant may be issued a sexually oriented business
employee license, the applicant shall submit on a form, to be provided by the
Town Council or its designee, the following information:
         (a)   The applicant’s name or any other names (including “stage”
names) or aliases used by the individual;
         (b)   Age, date and place of birth;
         (c)   Height, weight and hair and eye color;
         (d)   Present residence address and telephone number;
         (e)   Present business address and telephone number;
         (f)   Social Security number; and
         (g)   Acceptable written proof that the individual is at least 18
years of age.
      (2)   (a)   Attached to the application form as provided above, a color
photograph of the applicant clearly showing the applicant’s face and the
applicant’s fingerprints on a form provided by the Police Department. Any fees
for the photograph and fingerprints shall be paid by the applicant;
         (b)   A statement detailing the license or permit history of the
applicant for the five years immediately preceding the date of the filing of
the application, including whether such applicant previously operating, or
seeking to operate, in this or any other county, city, state or country has
ever had a license, permit or authorization to do business denied, revoked or
suspended, or had any professional or vocational license or permit denied,
revoked or suspended. In the event of any such denial, revocation or
suspension, state the date and the name of the issuing or denying jurisdiction
and describe in full the reasons for the denial, revocation or suspension. A
copy of any order of denial, revocation or suspension shall be attached to the
application; and
         (c)   Whether the applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal
act as defined in §
113.07(C)(1)(j) of this chapter. This information shall include the date,
place, nature of each conviction or plea of nolo contendere and identify the
convicting jurisdiction.
      (3)   (a)   The Town Council designee shall refer the sexually oriented
business employee license application to the Police Department for an
investigation to be made of such information as is contained on the
application. The application process shall be completed within ten days from
the date the completed application is filed.
         (b)   After the investigation, the Town Council or its designee shall
issue a license unless the report from the Police Department finds that one or
more of the following findings are true:
            1.   That the applicant has knowingly made any false, misleading or
fraudulent statement of a material fact in the application for a license, or in
any report or record required to be filed with the Sheriff’s Department or
other department of the town;
            2.   That the applicant is under 18 years of age;
            3.   That the applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal
act as defined in §
113.07(C)(1)(j) of this chapter;
            4.   That the sexually oriented business employee license is to be
used for employment in a business prohibited by local or state law, statute,
rule or regulation, or prohibited by particular provisions of this chapter; or
            5.   That the applicant has had a sexually oriented business
employee license revoked by the town within two years of the date of the
current application.
   (C)   Renewal of license.
      (1)   A license granted pursuant to this section shall be subject to
annual renewal by the town’s Board of Public Works and Safety or its designee
upon the written application of the applicant and a finding by the Town Council
or its designee and the Police Department that the applicant has not been
convicted of any specified criminal act as defined in §
113.07(C)(1)(j) of this chapter or committed any act during the existence of
the previous license period which would be grounds to deny the initial permit
application.
      (2)   The renewal of the license shall be the same as the initial
application fee.
(Prior Code, § 50.13) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 5-23-2001) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.14 VIDEO BOOTH REGULATIONS.
   (A)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business, other than a sexually oriented motel/hotel, regardless of whether or
not a permit has been issued to said business under this chapter, which
exhibits on the premises in a viewing room of less than 150 square feet of
floor space a film, video cassette or other video reproduction which depicts
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas shall comply with the
following requirements.
      (1)   Upon application for a sexually oriented business permit, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of one or more manager’s stations, the location
of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the premises
wherein patrons will not be permitted. A manager’s station may not exceed 32
square feet of floor area, with no dimension greater than eight feet. The
diagram shall also designate the place where this permit will be conspicuously
posted, if granted.
      (2)   A professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer’s or
architect’s blueprint shall not be required; however, each diagram should be
oriented to north or to some designated street or object and should be drawn to
a designated scale, with marked dimensions which are sufficient to show the
various internal dimension of all areas of the interior of the premises, to an
accuracy of plus or minus six inches.
      (3)   The Town Council or its designee may waive the foregoing diagram
for renewal applications if the applicant adopts a diagram that was previously
submitted and certifies that the configuration of the premises has not been
altered since it was prepared.
      (4)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
   (B)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager’s station
may be made without the prior approval of the Town Council or its designee.
   (C)   It is the duty of the owner and operator of the premises to ensure
that at least one employee is on duty and situated at each manager’s station at
all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
   (D)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that
there is an unobstructed view from a manager’s station of every area of the
premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If the
premises have two or more manager’s stations designated, then the interior of
the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed
view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for
any purpose from at least one of the manager’s stations. The view required in
this division (D) must be by direct line of sight from the manager’s station.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of the owner and operator, and it shall also be
the duty of any agents and employees present on the premises, to ensure that
the view area specified in division (D) above remains unobstructed by any
doors, walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials or persons at all
times and to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of the
premises which has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be
permitted in the application filed pursuant to division (A) above.
   (F)   No viewing room may be occupied by more than one person at any one
time. No holes, commonly known as “glory holes,” shall be allowed in the walls
or partitions which separate each viewing room from an adjoining viewing room
or restroom.
   (G)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access and an illumination of not less than two foot-candles as measured at the
floor level.
   (H)   It shall be the duty of the owner and operator, and it shall also be
the duty of any agents and employees present on the premises, to ensure that
the illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present on the premises.
(Prior Code, § 50.14) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 5-23-2001) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.15 PROHIBITIONS REGARDING MINORS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person who operates or causes to be
operated a sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or not a permit
has been issued for said business under this chapter, to knowingly or with
reasonable cause know, permit, suffer or allow:
      (1)   Admittance of a person under 18 years of age to the business
premises; or
      (2)   A person who is under 18 years of age to work at the business
premises as an employee.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the operator of each sexually oriented
business to ensure that an attendant is stationed at each public entrance at
all times during such sexually oriented business’s regular business hours. It
shall be the duty of the attendant to prohibit any person under the age of 18
years from entering the establishment.
      (2)   It shall be presumed that an attendant knew a person was under the
age of 18 unless the attendant asked for and was furnished:
         (a)   A valid operator’s, commercial operator’s or chauffeur’s
license; or
         (b)   A valid personal identification certificate issued by the state
reflecting that such person is 18 years of age or older.
(Prior Code, § 50.15) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 5-23-2001) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.16 ADVERTISING AND LIGHTING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of a sexually oriented
business, regardless of whether or not a permit has been issued for said
business under this chapter, to advertise the presentation of any activity
prohibited by any applicable state statute or local ordinance.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of a sexually oriented
business, regardless of whether or not a permit has been issued for said
business under this chapter, to display or otherwise exhibit the materials or
performances at such sexually oriented business in any advertising or any
portion of the interior premises which is visible outside the premises. This
prohibition shall not extend to advertising of the existence or location of
such sexually oriented business.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of a sexually oriented
business, regardless of whether or not a permit has been issued for said
business under this chapter, to allow the exterior portion of the sexually
oriented business to have flashing lights or any words, lettering, photographs,
silhouettes, drawings or pictorial representations of any manner, except to the
extent permitted by the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of a sexually oriented
business, regardless of whether or not a permit has been issued for said
business under this chapter, to erect, construct or maintain any sign for the
sexually oriented business other than as permitted by the town’s on-premises
sign ordinance and as follows.
      (1)   Signage shall contain no photographs, silhouettes, drawings or
pictorial representations in any manner and may contain only the legal name of
the enterprise.
      (2)   Each letter forming a word on a primary sign shall be of solid
color, and each such letter shall be the same print-type, size and color. The
background behind such lettering on the display surface of a primary sign shall
be of a uniform and solid color.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of a sexually oriented
business, regardless of whether or not a permit has been issued for said
business under this chapter, to allow the exterior portions of the
establishment to be painted any color other than a single achromatic color.
This provision shall not apply to a sexually oriented business if the following
conditions are met: the establishment is a part of a commercial multi-unit
center and the exterior portions of each individual unit in the commercial
multi-unit center, including the exterior portions of the business, are painted
the same color as one another or are painted in such a way so as to be a
component of the overall architectural style or pattern of the commercial
multi-unit center.
   (F)   All off-street parking areas and premises entries of the sexually
oriented business shall be illuminated from dusk to closing hours of operation
with a lighting system which provides an average maintained horizontal
illumination of one foot-candle of light on the parking surface or walkways.
This required lighting level is established in order to provide sufficient
illumination of the parking areas and walkways serving the sexually oriented
business for the personal safety of patrons and employees and to reduce the
incidence of vandalism and criminal conduct. The lighting shall be shown on the
required sketch or diagram of the premises.
   (G)   Nothing contained in this section of the chapter shall relieve the
operator(s) of a sexually oriented business from complying with the
requirements of this chapter, as it may be amended from time to time, or any
subsequently enacted town ordinances or regulations.
(Prior Code, § 50.16) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 5-23-2001) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.17 NUDITY AT SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   No person shall allow public nudity in any sexually oriented business. Any
sexually oriented business which is found in violation of this section shall
have its permit suspended pursuant to the provisions of §
113.09 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.18) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 5-23-2001) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.18 LIVE ENTERTAINMENT.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, LIVE ENTERTAINMENT is defined as a
person who appears nude or seminude or a performance which is characterized by
the exposure of specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities.
   (B)   No person shall perform live entertainment for patron(s) of a sexually
oriented business establishment, except upon a stage at least 18 inches above
the level of the floor which is separated by a distance of at lease ten feet
from the nearest area occupied by patron(s). No patron shall be permitted
within ten feet of the stage while the stage is occupied by a performer.
   (C)   The sexually oriented business establishment shall provide separate
dressing room facilities for female and male performers that shall not be
occupied or used in any way by anyone other than performers.
   (D)   The sexually oriented business establishment shall provide access for
performers between the stage and the dressing rooms which are completely
separated from the patrons. If such separate access is not physically feasible,
the establishment shall provide a minimum four-foot-wide walk aisle for
performers between the dressing room area and the stage with a railing, fence
or other barrier separating the patrons and the performers which prevents any
physical contact between the patrons and performers.
   (E)   No entertainer before, during or after a performance shall have
physical contact with any patron and no patron shall have physical contact with
any entertainer before, during or after a performance. This division (E) shall
only apply to physical contact while in or on the premises of the
establishment.
   (F)   Fixed rails at least 30 inches in height shall be maintained
establishing the separations between performers and patrons required by this
section.
   (G)   No patron shall directly pay or give any gratuity to any entertainer.
A patron who wishes to pay or give a gratuity to a performer shall place the
gratuity in a container that is at all times located separately from the
performers for the purpose of preventing any physical contact between a patron
and a performer. No performer shall solicit any gratuity from any patron.
   (H)   No operator of a sexually oriented business establishment shall cause
or allow a performer to engage in any entertainment, such as a “couch” or
“straddle” dance, with a patron while in or on the establishment premises. No
performer shall contract to or engage in a “couch” or “straddle” dance with a
patron while in or on the establishment premises. For the purposes of this
division (H), a COUCH OR STRADDLE DANCE is defined as an employee of the
establishment intentionally touching or coming within ten feet of any patron
while engaged in the display or exposure of any specified anatomical area or
any specified sexual activity. For the purposes of this division (H),
“employee” is defined as it is in §
113.02 of this chapter.
   (I)   This section shall not apply to an employee of an establishment who,
while acting as a waiter, waitress, host, hostess or bartender, comes within
ten feet of a patron. No employee shall engage in any specified sexual activity
or display or expose any specified anatomical area while acting as a waiter,
waitress, host, hostess or bartender.
   (J)   Compliance with this section is as follows.
      (1)   For the purposes of this section, “establishment” is defined as it
is in §
113.02 of this chapter. No establishment shall be in compliance with this
section until the town’s designated agent(s) have inspected and approved of the
establishment’s compliance. The town shall have ten days from the date it
receives written notice from the operator that the establishment is ready for
inspection to approve or disapprove of compliance required by this section.
Failure to approve or disapprove of compliance within ten days shall constitute
a finding of compliance under this section.
      (2)   The operator of an establishment that has been providing live
entertainment under a valid sexually oriented business permit shall have the
time periods listed below in which to bring the establishment into compliance
with this section. Failure to do so while continuing to provide live
entertainment shall cause the establishment’s permit to be suspended under §
113.09 of this chapter. The permit shall remain suspended until the
establishment is approved by the town’s designated agent(s) as being in full
compliance with this section.
      (3)   The operator of an establishment that has been operating under a
valid permit for another classification of sexually oriented business and who
wishes to provide live entertainment at that establishment shall apply for and
receive a sexually oriented business permit for the operation of an
establishment providing live entertainment before any live entertainment is
provided at that establishment. No live entertainment permit shall be issued
until the establishment is approved as being in full compliance with this
section and all other applicable requirements of this section.
      (4)   The applicant for a permit to operate a new establishment who
wishes to provide live entertainment shall apply for and receive a sexually
oriented business permit for the operation of an establishment providing live
entertainment before any live entertainment is provided. No live entertainment
permit shall be issued until the establishment is approved as being in full
compliance with this section and all other applicable requirements of this
chapter.
      (5)   (a)   Compliance with division (B) above must occur within 60 days
from the date this section becomes effective.
         (b)   Compliance with division (C) above must occur within 90 days
from the date this section becomes effective.
         (c)   Compliance with division (D) above must occur within 90 days
from the date this section becomes effective.
         (d)   Compliance with division (E) above must occur upon the date this
section becomes effective.
         (e)   Compliance with division (F) above must occur within 60 days
from the date this section becomes effective.
         (f)   Compliance with division (G) above must occur upon the date this
section becomes effective.
         (g)   Compliance with division (H) above must occur upon the date this
section becomes effective.
(Prior Code, § 50.19) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 5-23-2001) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.19 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   It is a defense to prosecution for any violation of this chapter that
a person appearing in a state of nudity did so in a modeling class operated:
      (1)   By a college, junior college or university supported entirely or
partly by taxation;
      (2)   By a private college or university that maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
      (3)   In a structure:
         (a)   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and
no other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing;
         (b)   Where, in order to participate in a class, a student must enroll
at least three days in advance of the class; and
         (c)   Where not more than one nude model is on the premises at any one
time.
   (B)   It is a defense to prosecution for a violation of this chapter that an
employee of a sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or not it is
permitted under this chapter, exposed any specified anatomical area during the
employee’s bona fide use of a restroom or during the employee’s bona fide use
of a dressing room which is accessible only to employees.
(Prior Code, § 50.20) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 5-23-2001)
§ 113.20 DISTRIBUTION OF SEXUAL DEVICES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for anyone to distribute for commercial purposes, or
sell or offer for sale, any device, instrument or paraphernalia designed or
marketed primarily for the stimulation of human genital organs or for the
sadomasochistic use or abuse of themselves or others.
   (B)   Such devices, instruments or paraphernalia shall include, but are not
limited to, phallic-shaped vibrators, dildos, muzzles, whips, chains, bather
restraints, racks, non-medical enema kits, body piercing elements (excluding
earrings or other decorative jewelry) or other tools of sadomasochistic abuse.
(Prior Code, § 50.22) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 5-23-2001) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be subject
to a fine not to exceed $2,500 for each violation. Each day of continued
violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   In addition to seeking penalties against individuals who violate
provisions of this chapter, the Town Attorney or his or her designated
representative may commence legal action seeking injunctive relief against any
individuals violating the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.21) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 5-23-2001)
CHAPTER 114: DEALERS AND RESELLERS
Section
Junk Dealers
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   License required
   
114.03   Additional requirements
   
114.04   Operational restrictions
   
114.05   Fire hazard prevention
   
114.06   Health regulations
   
114.07   Examinations and control
Precious Metal Dealers
   
114.20   Registration required
 
   
114.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Precious Metal Dealer License
   
Appendix B: Precious Metal Dealer Daily Report Form
JUNK DEALERS
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNK DEALER. Any person who buys, sells at retail or wholesale, and trades
in, barters and exchanges new and used metals, rags, paper, scrap iron, scrap
metal or new and used rubber, or who wrecks and demolishes buildings and
personal property for the purpose of salvaging all junk, irons, metals and
kindred articles therein contained.
   JUNKYARDS. Any real estate or building used by a junk dealer for the sale,
purchase, maintenance or storage of personal property of or for a junk dealer.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, joint enterprise, corporation,
association or other legal entity.
(Prior Code, § 40.01)
§ 114.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or operate the
business of junk dealer or junkyard within the town limits without first having
obtained a junk dealer’s license. If the same person is a junk dealer and has a
junkyard, only one license is required.
   (B)   Any person desiring a junk dealer’s license shall apply to the Clerk-
Treasurer, stating in the application the name of the person, the proposed
place of business and evidence of the compliance and agreement to comply with
the terms of this subchapter, and requesting the issuance of a junk dealer’s
license. Upon the approval of such application by the Town Council, said
Council shall order the Clerk-Treasurer to issue to such person a junk dealer’s
license after the payment by said person of the required license fee.
   (C)   Any license granted hereunder shall be valid for a period of one year
from the date of issuance, and any subsequent license or renewal of license
shall be obtained in the same manner as herein set forth for the issuance of an
initial junk dealer’s license.
(Prior Code, § 40.02) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.03 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No junk dealer’s license shall be granted to any person who is or proposes
to be the operator of a business of junk dealer or junkyard in violation,
nonconformity or noncompliance with any of the statutes of the state or the
applicable statutes, laws, rules and regulations of the State Fire Marshal’s
office or the Zoning Code of the town.
(Prior Code, § 40.04) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.04 OPERATIONAL RESTRICTIONS.
   No person shall permit the maintenance of a junkyard within the town limits
outside of a building without first constructing a solid wall or fence
completely enclosing the area in which any of the property of said junkyard is
contained.
   (A)   Said wall or fence shall be at least eight feet high and shall be of
solid metal or cement construction from the ground up.
   (B)   Any gates or similar openings shall be of the same or similar solid
construction as said wall or fence.
   (C)   None of the personal property maintained or used in said junkyard
within said wall or fence shall be located at a height of greater than three
feet below the top of said wall or fence.
(Prior Code, § 40.05) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.05 FIRE HAZARD PREVENTION.
   (A)   No person shall maintain or use any building within the town as a
junkyard unless said building is first approved by the State Fire Marshal’s
office as being of such repair and structure, for the purpose to which it is to
be used, as not to constitute a fire hazard.
   (B)   No fire shall be permitted within the confines of a junkyard unless an
attendant shall be present with a fire extinguisher for the purpose of
safeguarding against fire hazard.
(Prior Code, § 40.06) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.06 HEALTH REGULATIONS.
   No person shall maintain, use or permit the operation of a junkyard without
taking such action and precaution as may be necessary to eliminate, by
extermination measures, the habitat or breeding of any disease-carrying animals
or insects detrimental to the health of the inhabitants of the town.
(Prior Code, § 40.07) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.07 EXAMINATIONS AND CONTROL.
   (A)   At all reasonable times, the Fire Marshal or any Deputy Fire Marshal
may examine any location alleged to be operated or being used as a junkyard in
order to ascertain compliance with the fire protection provisions of this code.
   (B)   The Town Council may, at any time, examine any person who proclaims to
be a junk dealer and any place alleged to be a junkyard for the purpose of
determining whether or not he or she is complying with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 40.08)
PRECIOUS METAL DEALERS
§ 114.20 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   All precious metal dealers within the town shall submit the registration
required by I.C. 24-4-19-13 to the town’s Police Department at 123 S. Center
Street, Bremen, Indiana.
(Ord. 3-2014, passed 2-24-2014) Penalty, see §
114.99
Cross-reference:
   Related form, see
Ch. 114, Appx. A
   Related form, see
Ch. 114, Appx. B
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   The fine for violation of §§
114.01 to
114.07 of this chapter shall be as set forth by the Town Council, and each day
it continues to exist shall be a separate offense. Such fine shall be in
addition to other penalties and remedies provided for in this code.
         (a)   A first offense is $100, a second offense is $150 and a third
offense is $250.
         (b)   All penalties shall be reduced by 50% if paid within 72 hours of
notice to the offender.
      (2)   Each day a violation is permitted or is permitted to continue shall
be considered a subsequent offense. Any violation of any of the terms of this
chapter shall be deemed to constitute a nuisance which may be prevented,
abated, removed or may be subject to such other measures as are necessary for
the protection of the public safety of the inhabitants of the town.
(Prior Code, § 40.03)
APPENDIX A: PRECIOUS METAL DEALER LICENSE
Town of Bremen Precious Metal Dealers License
Dealer Information:
   Name: ______________________________________________________________________
         (permanent place of business)
   Address:
____________________________________________________________________
      Bremen, Indiana 46506
   Business telephone number:
_____________________________________________________
   Home telephone number:
_______________________________________________________
   Cell phone number:
____________________________________________________________
   Employees                        Home or cell phone number
   ________________________________         _________________________________
   ________________________________         _________________________________
   ________________________________         _________________________________
   ________________________________         _________________________________
   ________________________________         _________________________________
   ________________________________         _________________________________
   ________________________________         _________________________________
Date license issued:
________________________________________________________________
Fee $50.00
 
(Ord. 3-2014, passed 2-24-2014)
APPENDIX B: PRECIOUS METAL DEALER DAILY REPORT FORM
Town of Bremen Precious Metal Dealers Daily Report
Seller/Purchaser Information:
   Name: _______________________________________________________________________
   Address:
_____________________________________________________________________
   Date of birth:
_________________________________________________________________
   Drivers license number:
________________________________________________________
   or
   Social security number:
_________________________________________________________
   Telephone number:
____________________________________________________________
   Government issued photographic ID used to verity seller:
   _____________________________________________________________________________
   Unique identification number on ID:
______________________________________________
Metal Dealer Information:
   Amount of consideration paid:
____________________________________________________
   Description of each piece of precious metal bought or sold:
   (all precious metals must be photographed)
   _____________________________________________________________________________
   _____________________________________________________________________________
   _____________________________________________________________________________
   _____________________________________________________________________________
   Dealer Name:
_________________________________________________________________
   Dealer Address:
_______________________________________________________________
   Telephone number:
_____________________________________________________________
 
(Ord. 3-2014, passed 2-24-2014)
CHAPTER 115: CIRCUSES, CARNIVALS AND PARADES
Section
   
115.01   License required
   
115.02   License; application; fee
   
115.03   Expiration of license
   
115.04   Exhibition of license
   
115.05   Use of streets
   
115.06   Revocation of license
   
115.07   Procedure for revocation of license
 
   
115.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Circus/Animal Performance Carnival and Parade Exhibition Permit
Form
§ 115.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct a parade, circus or carnival,
or other similar event, within the town without first having obtained a license
as herein provided
(Prior Code, § 42.06) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.02 LICENSE; APPLICATION; FEE.
   (A)   Clerk-Treasurer to issue. Any person or group of persons desiring to
conduct a parade, circus or carnival, or other similar event, within the town
shall first obtain a license from the office of the Clerk-Treasurer. The Clerk-
Treasurer shall keep a complete record in his or her office of all licenses
issued.
   (B)   Application. Any person, firm or corporation desiring to conduct a
parade, circus or carnival, or other similar event, within the town as herein
defined shall make an application in writing to the Clerk-Treasurer of the town
at least seven days before said applicant shall be authorized to begin
business. Such application shall state the name and residence of the applicant,
the company or firm which he or she represents, the place where such business
is to be conducted, the kind of goods to be sold and the length of time for
which a license is desired.
   (C)   Fee. No license fee shall be required under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 42.01) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.03 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire at the time stipulated
on the license or upon revocation.
(Prior Code, § 42.05)
§ 115.04 EXHIBITION OF LICENSE.
   All circuses, carnivals and parades, or similar events, coming within the
terms of this chapter are required to exhibit their license at the request of
any citizen.
(Prior Code, § 42.01) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.05 USE OF STREETS.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall notify the Town Council of the issuance of any
license for any circus, carnival or parade, or similar event, and if the
streets of the town or any other public place is required to be used therefor,
the same shall be done in conformity with the directions of said Council.
(Prior Code, § 42.02)
§ 115.06 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter may be revoked by the
President of the Town Council after notice and hearing for any of the following
causes:
   (A)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the license
application;
   (B)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in the course of
carrying on business as a circus, carnival or parade operator, itinerant
merchant, peddler or solicitor;
   (C)   Conviction of any crime or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
   (D)   Conducting the business of operating a circus, carnival or parade,
peddling or soliciting in an unlawful manner so as to constitute a breach of
the peace, or to constitute a menace to the health, safety or general welfare
of the public; or
   (E)   Any other violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 42.03)
§ 115.07 PROCEDURE FOR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Notice of the hearing for revocation of a license shall be given in writing,
setting forth specifically the grounds of complaint and the time and place of
the hearing. The Board of Police Commissioners may at any time suspend any
license pending a hearing on revocation upon an allegation and information that
such license is believed to have been violated, or has been violated, or is
guilty of any of the causes upon which a revocation of such license could be
predicated hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 42.04)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A first offense for a violation of this chapter is $100, a second
offense is $150 and a third offense is $250.
   (B)   All penalties shall be reduced by 50% if paid within 72 hours of
notice to the offender.
(Prior Code, § 42.06)
APPENDIX A: CIRCUS/ANIMAL PERFORMANCE CARNIVAL AND PARADE EXHIBITION PERMIT
FORM
CIRCUS/ANIMAL PERFORMANCE
CARNIVAL AND PARADE
EXHIBITION PERMIT
   PERMIT NUMBER _________________
   NAME _______________________________________________________________________
   CIRCUS/EXHIBITOR __________________________________________________________
   ADDRESS ____________________________________________________________________
   CITY _________________________   STATE ___________________   ZIP ________
   TELEPHONE NUMBER ____________________________
LOCATION OF EXHIBITION: ______________________________________________________
PURPOSE
________________________________________________________________________
DATES: ___________________________________________   HOURS
_____________________
PROOF OF INSURANCE _____________________      YES ________      NO ________
FEE PAID _______________________      FEE WAIVED _____________________
THIS APPLICATION IS:   APPROVED ______________       DENIED ______________
                              SIGNED _____________________________
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 42)
CHAPTER 116: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
   
116.01   FCC rate regulations followed
   
116.02   Consideration of views of interested parties
   
116.03   Director of Operations authority
§ 116.01 FCC RATE REGULATIONS FOLLOWED.
   The town will follow the FCC rate regulations in its regulation of the basic
service rates and charges of the company and any other cable television system
operating in the town, notwithstanding any different or inconsistent provisions
in the franchise.
(Prior Code, § 49.01)
§ 116.02 CONSIDERATION OF VIEWS OF INTERESTED PARTIES.
   In connection with the regulation set out in §
116.01 of this chapter, the town will ensure a reasonable opportunity for
consideration of the views of interested parties.
(Prior Code, § 49.02)
§ 116.03 DIRECTOR OF OPERATIONS AUTHORITY.
   The Director of Operations, or his or her designee, is authorized to execute
on behalf of the town and file with the FCC such certification forms or other
instruments as are now or may hereafter be required by the FCC rate regulations
in order to enable the town to regulate basic service rates and charges.
(Prior Code, § 49.03)
CHAPTER 117: TAXICABS
Section
   
117.01   Definitions
   
117.02   License required
   
117.03   License application
   
117.04   Fees
   
117.05   Term
   
117.06   Financial responsibility
   
117.07   Taxicab driver requirements
   
117.08   Issuance requirements
   
117.09   Issuance of license
   
117.10   License limitations
   
117.11   Renewal, revocation, transfer of license
   
117.12   Suspension of license
   
117.13   Taxicab equipment
   
117.14   Taxicab stands
   
117.15   Taxicab rates
 
   
117.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Taxicab Permit/License Form
   
Appendix B: Annual Taxicab Inspection Form
   
Appendix C: Police Annual Inspection Form
§ 117.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TAXICAB. Any motorized vehicle carrying passengers for hire upon the streets
and public ways of the town, except those vehicles lawfully authorized to
operate under and by virtue of a certificate or permit duly granted by the
Public Service Commission of this state or the Interstate Commerce Commission
of the United States.
   TAXICAB SERVICE. The business or occupation of operating taxicabs and
furnishing taxicab service to the public.
(Prior Code, § 44.01) (Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 117.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a taxicab or a taxicab
service or business within the town without first having obtained a license
therefor as provided herein.
   (B)   Provided, however, taxicabs licensed by other cities or towns may be
driven within the town when said taxicab and driver are properly licensed by
the city or town of origin.
(Prior Code, § 44.02) (Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.03 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   Prior to the issuance of any taxicab service license, the applicant
shall file with the Clerk-Treasurer any general information as requested, as
well as the specific information as follows:
      (1)   A description of each vehicle to be operated;
      (2)   A certificate of insurance from the insurance company or surety
insuring each taxicab with the expiration date of said policy; and
      (3)   A statement naming and describing the qualifications of each
driver.
   (B)   In addition, the application fee for said license shall be filed prior
to licensing.
(Prior Code, § 44.04) (Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 117.04 FEES.
   (A)   The annual license fee for each taxicab service shall be $5. In
addition, there shall be an annual fee of $1 each for each taxicab licensed
through the service.
   (B)   The full annual license fee must be paid in advance to the Clerk-
Treasurer and a receipt therefor given to the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 44.05) (Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 117.05 TERM.
   Taxicab permits issued under this chapter shall be operative for the period
of January 1 to December 31 of each calendar year unless revoked.
(Prior Code, § 44.09) (Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 117.06 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   (1)   Before a license for a taxicab shall be issued, the owners shall
file with the Clerk-Treasurer a certificate issued by a duly authorized officer
of an insurance company authorized to do business in the state to the effect
that an insurance policy for each specific taxicab has been issued to the
applicant and is in full force and effect, and shall show the amount, the
effective date, the expiration date and that the premium has been paid. A true
copy of the policy shall also be filed.
      (2)   This policy shall be kept in effect during the life of the license,
and failure to do so shall serve to automatically revoke any such license.
   (B)   Such policy shall provide coverage for liability of a minimum of
$100,000 for the injury or death of any one person and, subject to the same
limit per person, a minimum liability of $300,000 for the injury or death of
any number of persons in any one accident, and a minimum liability of $50,000
for property damage in any one accident.
(Prior Code, § 44.06) (Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989; Ord. 13-90, passed 12-10-
1990)
§ 117.07 TAXICAB DRIVER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Each driver employed to drive a taxicab pursuant to a permit issued
under the provisions of this chapter shall be required to have a public
passenger chauffeur’s license issued pursuant to and under the provisions of
this state, and such license shall be carried with said driver at all times of
operation of the vehicle and be displayed upon demand to any police officer for
inspection.
   (B)   A violation of any of the above provisions, or of the provisions of
this code or the traffic laws of the state or the town, shall be a basis for a
revocation of the taxicab license granted hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 44.11) (Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.08 ISSUANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No taxicab service license shall hereafter be issued unless and until
the Town Council shall approve an application thereof. In making its decision,
the Council shall take into consideration any and all facts which are necessary
and proper.
   (B)   If the Town Council determines that the public convenience and
necessity requires the proposed taxicab service, it shall issue certificates of
convenience executed by the President of the Council and attested to by the
Clerk-Treasurer. The certificate shall remain in effect until canceled, either
by its term or otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 44.03) (Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.09 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   For each taxicab permit issued under this chapter, the Clerk-Treasurer shall
issue one taxicab license or authorization, to be publicly exhibited in or upon
said vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 44.07) (Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
Cross-reference:
   Related form, see
Ch. 117, Appx. A
§ 117.10 LICENSE LIMITATIONS.
   There shall be no limitation on the number of taxicab services or the number
of taxicabs.
(Prior Code, § 44.08) (Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 117.11 RENEWAL, REVOCATION, TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Taxicab permits shall be renewed upon the payment of the prescribed
fees by the person holding the taxicab permits.
   (B)   The Town Council shall have the power to revoke and terminate or
refuse to renew any taxicab permit if, after notice to the holder and a
hearing, said Council shall find that the holder of said permit is not
rendering or cannot render efficient service or is in violation of any other
provisions of this code.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any holder of a taxicab permit to sell,
transfer, assign or set over said permit to another person or persons.
(Prior Code, § 44.10) (Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.12 SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Any taxicab license granted hereunder shall be suspended if such
taxicab shall, with the knowledge and consent of the owner, be used in
violation of any law or provision of this code.
   (B)   No owner or taxicab operator shall permit any unlicensed driver, or
any driver whose license has been suspended or has been revoked, to operate any
taxicab within the town or as provided for in this code.
(Prior Code, § 44.12) (Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.13 TAXICAB EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   (1)   No taxicab shall be licensed until the vehicle shall have been
inspected by the police and found to be equipped in a safe condition for the
transportation of passengers.
      (2)   Said taxicab shall also be clean, of good appearance, and shall be
well painted.
   (B)   The police are hereby authorized to inspect all taxicabs from time to
time as often as deemed necessary to see that the terms and conditions of this
chapter are being complied with, and any taxicab license may be revoked
whenever the vehicle shall be found to be unfit for public patronage. Written
reports of inspection shall be made by the police and filed with the Town
Council.
(Prior Code, § 44.13) (Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989) Penalty, see §
117.99
Cross-reference:
   Related form, see
Ch. 117, Appx. B
   Related form, see
Ch. 117, Appx. C
§ 117.14 TAXICAB STANDS.
   (A)   The Town Council may, pursuant to this chapter, designate places on
the streets of the town for use by taxicabs as stands. Taxicab stands so
designated shall be clearly marked or indicated by signs.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle other than a taxicab in any
such taxicab stand.
(Prior Code, § 44.14) (Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.15 TAXICAB RATES.
   (A)   Annually, upon receiving a taxicab license, the licensee shall
immediately publish a schedule of rates in a newspaper of general circulation
in the town, a certified copy of which rates and publication shall be filed
with the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   That schedule shall be the maximum rates to be charged for the
operation of a taxicab.
(Prior Code, § 44.15) (Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 117.99 PENALTY.
   For violation of this chapter, a first offense is $50, a second offense is
$75 and a third offense is $100. All penalties shall be reduced by 50% if paid
within 72 hours of notice to the offender.
(Ord. 1-2012, passed 5-29-2012)
APPENDIX A: TAXICAB PERMIT/LICENSE FORM
TAXICAB PERMIT/LICENSE
TOWN OF BREMEN
PERMIT NUMBER _____________________
DATE ________________________________         EXPIRES
__________________________
OWNER’S NAME _______________________________________________
ADDRESS ____________________________________   PHONE
___________________________
FOR OFFICE USE ONLY
PERMIT FEES ______________   CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE   YES ______   NO ______
NUMBER OF VEHICLES _________________________   FEE ______________
POLICE ANNUAL INSPECTION
ATTACH INSPECTION REPORT FOR EACH VEHICLE
APPROVED BY ______________________________________________   DATE
________________
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 44)
APPENDIX B: ANNUAL TAXICAB INSPECTION FORM
TOWN OF BREMEN
ANNUAL TAXI CAB INSPECTION
DATE: _____________________TAXI CAB LICENSE #
_____________________________________________
TAXI COMPANY
_______________________________________________________________________________
DRIVER’S NAME
_______________________________________________________________________________
STATE VEHICLE LICENSE PLATE # & YEAR
_____________________________________________________
VIN # _______________________________________MILEAGE
_____________________________________
 
                            PASS FAIL
GLASS
CLEANLINESS
RATE CARD & LICENSE DISPLAY
PERMANENT TOP LIGHT
FREE OF RUST & BODY DAMAGE
BUMPERS
HEADLIGHTS
TURN SIGNALS
STOP LAMPS
REFLECTORS
WIPERS
WARNING FLASHERS
HORNS
EXHAUST SYSTEM
TIRES
BRAKES
MIRRORS
IMPORTANT!! PLEASE READ!!
If a taxicab fails to pass ANY INSPECTION REQUIREMENTS, the owner shall be
given FORTY EIGHT HOURS (48) in which to correct defects and return for
REINSPECTION. Failure to correct defects and return for re-inspection will
result in the vehicle being rejected for use as a taxicab.
 
APPROVED: ___________________________REJECTED: __________________________
Rejected by: __________________________
Reason for rejection: ___________________________________
Inspector:
________________________________________________________________________
Date: ______________________________
Re-inspected on: _____________________________APPROVED:
___________________________________
Re-inspected by: _____________________________
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 44)
APPENDIX C: POLICE ANNUAL INSPECTION FORM
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7c7f1d94187c4b67abf5563233f5614aae1a062c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1854.png]
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 44)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES BASED UPON AGE
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES BASED UPON AGE
Section
   
130.01   Curfew
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 CURFEW.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CURFEW HOURS.
         (a)   11:00 p.m. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday
until 6:00 a.m. of the following day; and
         (b)   12:01 a.m. until 6:00 a.m. on any Saturday or Sunday.
      EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances, or the resulting
state, that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited
to, a fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident or any situation
requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
      ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately-owned place of business operated for a
profit to which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any place
of amusement or entertainment.
      GUARDIAN.
         (a)   A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person
of a minor; or
         (b)   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by
a court.
      MINOR. Any person under 17 years of age.
      OPERATOR. Any individual, firm, association, partnership or corporation
operating, managing or conducting any establishment. The term includes the
members or partners of an association or partnership and the officers of a
corporation.
      PARENT. A person who is:
         (a)   A natural parent, adoptive parent or step-parent of another
person; or
         (b)   At least 18 years of age and authorized by a parent or guardian
to have the care and custody of a minor.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access, and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities and shops.
      REMAIN.
         (a)   Linger or stay; or
         (b)   Fail to leave the premises when requested to do so by a police
officer or the owner, operator or other person in control of the premises.
      SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
   (B)   Offenses.
      (1)   A minor commits an offense if he or she remains in any public place
or on the premises of any establishment within the town during curfew hours.
      (2)   A parent or guardian of a minor commits an offense if he or she
knowingly permits, or by insufficient control allows, the minor to remain in
any public place or on the premises of any establishment within the town during
curfew hours.
      (3)   The owner, operator or any employee of an establishment commits an
offense if he or she knowingly allows a minor to remain upon the premises of
the establishment during curfew hours.
   (C)   Exemptions.
      (1)   It is a exemption to division (B) above that the minor was:
         (a)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
         (b)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
         (c)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
         (d)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
         (e)   Involved in an emergency;
         (f)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence, or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
         (g)   Attending an official school, religious or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the town, a civic organization
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the town, a civic organization or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
         (h)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech and the
right of assembly; or
         (i)   Married, or had been married, or had disabilities of minority
removed in accordance with state law.
      (2)   It is a defense to prosecution under division (B)(3) above that the
owner, operator or employee of an establishment promptly notified the Police
Department that a minor was present on the premises of the establishment during
curfew hours and refused to leave.
   (D)   Enforcement. Before taking any enforcement action under this section,
a police officer shall ask the apparent offender’s age and reason for being in
the public place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest
under this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has
occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances, including any
investigation additional to the actions required by this division (D) as a
reasonable person would deem necessary, no exemption in division (C) above is
present.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDINGS AND CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
152.   TREES, GRASS AND WEEDS
      
153.   SIGNS
      
154.   FLOOD HAZARD REGULATIONS
      
155.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDINGS AND CONSTRUCTION
Section
   
150.01   Address identification numbers
   
150.02   Building or structure demolition requires a permit
   
150.03   Building Code adopted by reference
   
150.04   Unsafe building provisions adopted by reference
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 ADDRESS IDENTIFICATION NUMBERS.
   (A)   Authority. The authority to develop, plan, coordinate, facilitate and
implement the address identification numbers for all premises in the town shall
be vested in the Street Department.
(Prior Code, § 48.01)
   (B)   Requirements. All homes, businesses, premises and parcels of real
estate in the town shall prominently display their street address in numerals
not less than two inches in height on the structure in a location clearly
visible from the nearest street.
(Prior Code, § 48.02)
   (C)   Enforcement. The town’s Building Commissioner shall have the power and
authority to inspect all such premises and compile a list of noncompliance and
notify the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 48.03)
   (D)   Noncompliance. The Town Council, upon notification, shall cause due
notice of noncompliance to be sent to each affected property owner or other
persons having an interest in such property, and said persons shall be given 30
days within which to comply.
(Prior Code, § 48.04)
   (E)   Remedy. Upon notice to the Town Council that a property has remained
in noncompliance following such notice and 30-day waiting period, the Town
Council may direct the Building Commissioner to take all necessary and
appropriate steps to appropriately number the noncompliant premises, and the
town may thereafter enforce a lien against the property for all costs incurred
by the town in correcting the noncompliance.
(Prior Code, § 48.05)
(Ord. 2-94, passed 4-25-1994) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 BUILDING OR STRUCTURE DEMOLITION REQUIRES A PERMIT.
   (A)   No person, firm, corporation or other entity shall demolish or cause
to be demolished a building or structure in the town without first obtaining a
permit to do so from the town, which permit shall be issued by the Director of
Operations according to the terms and provisions hereof.
   (B)   Any party applying for such a permit shall pay a fee of $10 to the
Clerk-Treasurer in consideration of the issuance of such permit. Any contractor
who applies for such permit must be properly registered as a contractor who is
allowed to do work in this county. The Director of Operations, in his or her
discretion, may waive either or both of these requirements for any party
applying for the permit who is an individual who owns the property that is to
be demolished and intends to do that work themselves.
   (C)   The party applying for the demolition permit shall also produce a bond
in an amount not less than $10,000 indemnifying the town against all loss or
damage to public ways, public places or any other public property during the
course of any such demolition. The Director of Operations may require a larger
or smaller bond if he or she determines, in his or her sole discretion, that
the same is necessary.
   (D)   In all instances where traffic control may be required by such
demolition, the party applying for the demolition permit must obtain and
provide a letter from the town’s Chief of Police evidencing that traffic-
control issues caused by the demolition have been resolved.
   (E)   In all instances where such proposed demolition might require the
shutoff of town utilities to the building or structure to be demolished, such
party shall provide a letter from the appropriate department head of such town
utility showing that appropriate arrangements have been made therewith for the
shutoff of town utilities as might be required.
   (F)   Any party seeking the approval of the demolition must also provide to
the Building Inspector its plan for the cleanup and removal of any such debris
resulting from such demolition, including, but not limited to, the anticipated
length of the demolition process and the completion date for removal of debris.
Said plan must also include measures for the prevention of debris, trash or
property of any kind leaving the demolition site during the time of demolition.
   (G)   Upon completion of approved demolition, the party shall also be
required to return the property to grade level and grade such property with at
least three inches of top soil unless a replacement structure is to be built on
such property and a proper building permit has been obtained for such
replacement structure.
   (H)   The party requesting such demolition approval or its contractor for
such demolition shall also supply to the Director of Operations proof of
liability insurance with limits of not less than $1,000,000 in the aggregate
for the demolition of a commercial or industrial structure and of not less than
$250,000 in the aggregate for the demolition of a residential structure.
   (I)   The bond required for consideration of the demolition request by the
Building Inspector shall specifically provide that it will be payable to the
town in the event that the party requesting the demolition approval fails to
comply with any term or condition of this section. Such bond shall be released
only upon approval by the Director of Operations that such bond may be
released.
(Ord. 1-2014, passed 2-10-2014) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.03 BUILDING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The town’s Building Code, together with any amendments thereto, is hereby
adopted by reference and enforceable as if herein set out in full.
(Ord. 6-2003, passed 6-23-2003)
§ 150.04 UNSAFE BUILDING PROVISIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The town’s unsafe building provisions, together with any amendments thereto,
are hereby adopted by reference and enforceable as if herein set out in full.
(Ord. 1-2016, passed 3-14-2016; Ord. 16-2019, passed 10-28-2019)
Cross-reference:
   Unsafe Building Commission, see §
31.47
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   In the alternative to the remedy set out in §
150.01(E) of this chapter, the property owner may be cited for a Class C
infraction after notice of noncompliance is given as provided in §
150.01(D) of this chapter and the property remains in noncompliance after the
30-day waiting period.
(Prior Code, § 48.06)
(Ord. 2-94, passed 4-25-1994)
CHAPTER 151: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Street Excavations
   
151.01   Excavations restricted
   
151.02   Permit application
   
151.03   Permit fee
   
151.04   Performance and damage bond required
   
151.05   Insurance required
   
151.06   Permit approval and issuance
   
151.07   Separate permits required
   
151.08   Excavation time limit
   
151.09   Obstructions prohibited
   
151.10   Each day a separate offense
Street Improvements
   
151.25   Participation by the town
   
151.26   Limitations
   
151.27   Scope of participation
   
151.28   Methods of participation
Sidewalks
   
151.40   Construction material
   
151.41   Minimum width
   
151.42   Sidewalks required
   
151.43   Sidewalk openings
   
151.44   Ice and snow removal
   
151.45   Failure to remove ice and snow
   
Appendix A: Permit Application to Excavate in a Right-of-Way
   
Appendix B: Guarantee for Sidewalk Installation Form
STREET EXCAVATIONS
§ 151.01 EXCAVATIONS RESTRICTED.
   No person shall excavate or dig in any of the streets, highways, alleys or
public grounds of the town without first obtaining a permit from the town.
(Prior Code, § 92.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.02 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   Any person desiring to make any openings in any of the streets, highways,
alleys or public grounds of the town, or to excavate or dig therein, shall file
an application provided by the town with the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 92.02)
Cross-reference:
   Related form, see
Ch. 151, Appx. A
§ 151.03 PERMIT FEE.
   A permit fee of $100 shall be paid at the time that the application for the
permit is filed.
(Prior Code, § 92.07) (Ord. 6-2016, passed 7-25-2016)
§ 151.04 PERFORMANCE AND DAMAGE BOND REQUIRED.
   The applicant shall file a bond in the penal sum of not less than $2,000,
conditioned for the performance of the work and the maintenance of said work
for a period of one year from the completion of such work. In the event
personal sureties are used, they shall sign an affidavit that they are worth
over and above the amount of their indebtedness the penalty of said bond.
(Prior Code, § 92.03)
§ 151.05 INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   The applicant shall further furnish to the town at the time of making
application proof of the fact that he or she is covered by liability insurance
in an amount not less than $5,000 for property damage and $25,000 for injury to
any one person, and $50,000 for any one accident. Said applicant shall prove to
the satisfaction of the town the payment of a premium for said insurance so
that the town will be protected for a period of one year from the date of the
commencement.
(Prior Code, § 92.04)
§ 151.06 PERMIT APPROVAL AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon the filing of the application and bond, the Clerk- Treasurer
shall notify the Town Council. If said application is satisfactory and the bond
is sufficient as to form and surety, the Town Council shall approve the
application by endorsing its approval thereon.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a permit only upon receipt of approval
of the application by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 92.06)
§ 151.07 SEPARATE PERMITS REQUIRED.
   A separate permit shall be obtained for the making of separate openings and
excavations. However, a person may file one bond to cover and apply to all work
to be done under several permits.
(Prior Code, § 92.05)
§ 151.08 EXCAVATION TIME LIMIT.
   (A)   No opening in any street, highway, alley or public grounds of the town
shall remain open for a period of more than ten consecutive days.
   (B)   One ten-day extension of time on excavation openings may be granted by
the Clerk-Treasurer upon a showing by the permit holder of good and sufficient
reason for such extension. Any additional extension of time on excavation
openings may be granted by the Town Council on petition of the permit holder
demonstrating necessity.
(Prior Code, § 92.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.09 OBSTRUCTIONS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall erect any building, fence or other obstruction upon any
street, alley, sidewalk or public grounds in the town.
(Prior Code, § 92.09) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.10 EACH DAY A SEPARATE OFFENSE.
   Each day any portion of this subchapter is violated shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 92.10)
STREET IMPROVEMENTS
§ 151.25 PARTICIPATION BY THE TOWN.
   (A)   The town may participate with owners of lands abutting streets within
the town in the creation and improvement and development of such streets in
accordance with the requirements and standards for street improvements
established by the town by its Town Council.
   (B)   If the town shall determine to participate in the cost of the
development or improvement of streets with owners of lands abutting new streets
without new residential or new commercial areas or new subdivisions of the
town, then such participation by the town shall be undertaken by the enactment
of a special ordinance by the town setting forth the extent and amount of
participation, in dollars, undertaken by the town.
(Prior Code, § 90.01)
§ 151.26 LIMITATIONS.
   Participation by the town in the cost of development or improvement of such
streets in new residential or new commercial areas or new subdivisions of the
town shall be limited so that the total cost to the town for its share in
participating in the cost of any particular new residential or new commercial
street, development or improvement shall not exceed a total of $20,000 in any
calendar year, and the participation of said town in said cost shall further be
limited to a cost not exceeding 15% of a local street, 20% of a minor collector
street and 25% of a major collector street or larger street, all as defined in
the Master Plan of the town.
(Prior Code, § 90.02)
§ 151.27 SCOPE OF PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   The participation by the town in the cost of development and
improvement of new streets and roads in new residential areas and new
commercial areas or new subdivisions within the corporate limits of the town
shall extend to and may apply only to the installation of concrete or asphalt
streets in said areas for the construction of said streets. The participation
in the cost of said streets by the town shall not be deemed mandatory in any
instance and participation shall not be undertaken unless and until provisions
of this code and all applicable ordinances have been fully complied with.
   (B)   In computing or calculating the cost of any such street wherein the
town shall undertake to participate with adjoining property owners abutting
said street, the cost thereof, the cost of grading and excavating and the cost
of engineering, not to exceed 10% of the total street cost, which said
engineering cost shall be subject to approval by the town, incurred in
connection with the development and improving of said street is to be
considered as part of the total cost of said street.
(Prior Code, § 90.03)
§ 151.28 METHODS OF PARTICIPATION.
   Participation by the town shall be limited by the provisions herein provided
for and shall be undertaken only after:
   (A)   Plans and specifications for such proposed streets or roads have been
drawn as required by law and submitted and filed with and approved by the town;
   (B)   Bids have been submitted and made pursuant to published notice to
bidders, which said notice to bidders shall be published twice, at least one
week apart, in a newspaper of general circulation in the town, and which said
notice to bidders shall provide notice that bids for the construction of said
streets or roads will be awarded at a meeting of the Town Council not less than
14 days after the first published notice to bidders has been published, and
which said notice to bidders shall provide that the town may accept the lowest
and best bid and reserves the right to reject any and all bids, and which said
notice shall set forth where the plans and specifications shall be available to
the bidders for their use in preparing their bids; and
   (C)   In the event that the dollar amount of participation to be undertaken
by the town, after bids have been received for a project of street development
or improvement as herein provided for, is less than $2,000, or in the event
that a developer or property owner of land abutting said street or road to be
developed or improved with the participation of the town hereunder satisfies
the Town Council that share of the cost to be undertaken by the town can in no
event exceed the sum of $2,000, then the town, in cooperation and jointly with
the owner of the land abutting said street or individually, may contract for
the town’s share of the cost or for the total cost of the project and may bill
the developer or abutting land owner of the land abutting said street for their
share, or the town may require the developer or owner of the land abutting said
street to enter into a contract for the entire project with the contractor and
the town may participate by making payment of its share of the cost directly to
the owner of the property adjoining said street, provided that payment therefor
shall not be made by the town until such time as the street improvement has
been completed on the particular phase of the total project which has been
established for completion at the particular time.
(Prior Code, § 90.04)
SIDEWALKS
§ 151.40 CONSTRUCTION MATERIAL.
   All sidewalks constructed in the town shall be composed of concrete.
(Prior Code, § 91.01)
§ 151.41 MINIMUM WIDTH.
   No sidewalk constructed in the town shall have a width of less than four
feet.
(Prior Code, § 91.02)
§ 151.42 SIDEWALKS REQUIRED.
   No person shall occupy any building, house or other structure prior to the
time sidewalks are constructed meeting the requirements of this subchapter
existing at the time of the proposed occupancy.
(Prior Code, § 91.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.43 SIDEWALK OPENINGS.
   No person shall leave or keep open any cellar door, or window grating, or
vault, on any sidewalk so as to endanger life and limb.
(Prior Code, § 91.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.44 ICE AND SNOW REMOVAL.
   The occupant, or if unoccupied, the owner, of any premises situated within
the town shall remove ice and snow from the sidewalks in front of and adjacent
to such premises within 24 hours after its accumulation.
(Prior Code, § 91.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.45 FAILURE TO REMOVE ICE AND SNOW.
   If any such owner or occupant does not remove such ice and snow as provided
in §
151.44 of this chapter, the Street Superintendent is hereby authorized to
remove or cause to be removed the same and report in writing the necessary
expense incident thereto to the Clerk-Treasurer, who shall certify the amount
with a description of the lot or parcel of ground, and with the owner or
owners’ name or names, to the Clerk-Treasurer, which amount shall then become a
lien upon said lot or parcel of ground and shall be collected by the same
Clerk-Treasurer at the same time and in the same manner that he or she collects
other assessments on real estate.
(Prior Code, § 91.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
APPENDIX A: PERMIT APPLICATION TO EXCAVATE IN A RIGHT-OF-WAY
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7c7f1d94187c4b67abf5563233f5614aae1a062c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1860.png]
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 92)
APPENDIX B: GUARANTEE FOR SIDEWALK INSTALLATION FORM
   I _________________________, hereby pay over to the Town of Bremen the sum of
$____________ to be held by the Town of Bremen to guarantee installation of
sidewalk at _________________________________. Installation of the sidewalk will
be completed (by), in _____________________. If the sidewalk is installed within
the time allowed the funds herein paid shall be returned to
______________________________.
   If the installation is not made within the time allowed, the Town of Bremen
shall make the repairs, deduct the cost from the sum held in escrow and pay the
balance, if any over to ___________________________.
Dated this ___________________ day of ________________________ 20____
By ______________________________________   ATTEST:
                              By ___________________________________
   The Town of Bremen acknowledges receipt of ___________________ to be held to
guarantee performance of above obligation. Dated this _____________________ day of
_______________________ 20____.
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 91)
CHAPTER 152: TREES, GRASS AND WEEDS
Section
Street Trees
   
152.01   Definitions
   
152.02   Tree Committee established
   
152.03   Tree Committee duties and responsibilities
   
152.04   Public tree care by the town
   
152.05   Street Superintendent and/or Electric Superintendent authority
   
152.06   Permit required for tree care
   
152.07   Permit issuance
   
152.08   Contractor’s license required for tree care
   
152.09   Pruning, trimming and removal of trees
   
152.10   Removal of stumps
   
152.11   Tree care when emergency declared
   
152.12   Tree proximity to construction or excavation
   
152.13   Injury to trees
   
152.14   Tree planting generally
   
152.15   Tree and shrub planting; species and sizes to be planted
   
152.16   Alteration of tree lawn
Grass and Weeds
   
152.30   Definition
   
152.31   Administration
   
152.32   Obnoxious weeds prohibited
   
152.33   Mowing required
   
152.34   Notice
   
152.35   Town to cut weeds or mow grass
 
   
152.99   Penalty
STREET TREES
§ 152.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purposes of this subchapter, certain terms are defined in this
section. When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present
tense include the future tense, words in the singular number include the plural
number and words in the plural number include the singular number. The word
SHALL is always mandatory and not merely directory. Terms not defined in this
section shall have the meanings customarily assigned to them.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACCEPTED STREET TREE LIST. A list of proven trees deemed adaptable to the
street conditions of the town. The list is located in the Arboricultural
Specifications Manual, which is deemed incorporated by reference into this
subchapter. Two copies of the Arboricultural Specifications Manual for the town
are on file for inspection in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
      BOUNDARY TREE.
         (a)   A tree that meets one or more of the following criteria:
            1.   The stem of the tree straddles the actual property line
between town public property and adjoining property;
            2.   The town and the adjoining property owner have previously
agreed that the tree will identify the property boundary; and
            3.   The town and the adjoining property owner have previously
agreed to share the cost of maintaining the tree.
         (b)   A BOUNDARY TREE is the common property of both landowners.
      CALIPER. The diameter measurement of the trunk taken six inches above
ground level for, up to and including four-inch caliper size.
      CRITICAL ROOT ZONE. A circular region measured outward from the tree
trunk representing the essential area of the roots that must be maintained or
protected for the tree’s survival. CRITICAL ROOT ZONE is one foot in radial
distance for every inch of tree DBH, with a minimum distance of eight feet. For
specimen trees, the formula changes to one and one-half feet for every inch of
tree DBH.
      CROWN. The aboveground parts of a tree consisting of the branches, stems,
buds, fruits and leaves. It may also be referred to as CANOPY.
      DIAMETER BREAST HEIGHT or DBH. The diameter measurement in inches of the
trunk four and one-half feet above ground level. If a tree splits into multiple
trunks below four and one-half feet, the trunk is measured at its most narrow
point beneath the split.
      DRIP LINE. A vertical line extending from the outermost edge of the tree
canopy or shrub branch to the ground.
      OWNER-OCCUPANT. The property owner or the residing occupant with the
permission of the property owner.
      PARK TREES. Trees on town-owned park areas.
      PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company
or organization of any kind.
      PROPERTY OWNER. The person owning such property as shown by the County
Auditor’s plat of Marshall County, Indiana.
      ROOT BARRIER. An anchored physical device used to stop or divert the
growth of tree roots.
      SHRUB. A woody plant which is characteristically below 20 feet in height
and is multi-stemmed supporting the main leafy growth.
      SPECIMEN TREE OR STAND. Any tree or grouping of trees that has been
determined by the Tree Committee to be of high value because of its species,
size, age, form, historical significance or professional criteria.
      STREET. The entire width of every public way or right-of-way when any
part thereof is open to the use of the public, as a matter of right, for
purposes of vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
      STREET TREES. Trees lying on the real estate owned or controlled by the
town, excluding the real estate owned or controlled by the town’s Park
Department, except for an area 15 feet in depth from the pavement edge on
either side of any paved through streets within any park.
      TOPPING. The cutting back of the leading shoot or shoots of major limbs
which form the natural canopy of the tree as to disfigure the tree crown.
      TREE. A perennial woody plant, ordinarily with one main stem or trunk,
which develops many branches and which ordinarily grows to a height of 20 feet
or more.
      TREE CARE. The treating, removal, spraying, pruning and any other tree
maintenance or horticultural work intended for the enhancement or preservation
of trees and the removal and prevention of any and all damages to any trees
caused by tree pests, blights and diseases.
      TREE LAWN. The part of a street or highway, not covered by sidewalk or
other paving, lying within the town’s right-of-way.
      TREES, LARGE. Trees capable of attaining a height of 45 feet or more at
maturity.
      TREES, SMALL. Trees capable of attaining a height of 20 to 30 feet at
maturity.
      WHEEL STOP. A solidly anchored concrete or wooden barrier at least six
inches in height that is designed to stop the forward motion of a motor
vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 77.01) (Ord. 4-2001, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 152.02 TREE COMMITTEE ESTABLISHED.
   There shall be created a committee that services solely in an advisory
capacity to the Town Council that shall be known as the Tree Committee. The
Tree Committee shall be composed of five members, two of whom are residents of
the town who shall be appointed by the Town Council. The term of office for the
members shall be two years. The Street Superintendent, the Electric Utility
Superintendent and the Park Superintendent shall be members of the Tree
Committee by virtue of their appointive positions. All members of the Tree
Committee serve at the pleasure of the Town Council, and the Town Council has
the ability to remove any member at any time for any reason deemed sufficient
to the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 77.02) (Ord. 4-2001, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 152.03 TREE COMMITTEE DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The Tree Committee shall serve in an advisory capacity to the Town
Council on all matters pertaining to these municipal street tree regulations.
   (B)   Matters upon which the Tree Committee may advise the Town Council
include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Assist in policy development concerning the care, preservation,
selection, planting, transplanting, spraying, maintenance and removal of trees
and shrubs in the street rights-of way, public parks and other public places,
assuring that good arboricultural practices are followed;
      (2)   Make recommendations regarding the tree care of street trees and
park trees and the siding, seeding and maintenance of lawns along existing town
streets;
      (3)   Assist, when requested by the Town Council, in the preparation of
grant applications that would fund municipal tree-related projects;
      (4)   Assist the Street Superintendent, when requested, concerning
matters contained within the municipal street tree regulations;
      (5)   When requested by the Town Council, present an inventory of public
trees in the town;
      (6)   Cooperate with the state’s Department of Transportation concerning
planting efforts along
state road rights-of-way within the town’s boundaries;
      (7)   Conduct educational programs as necessary while working with
private and public agencies and organizations to establish programs for
planting and the care of street trees;
      (8)   Advise, as needed, concerning amendments to these municipal street
tree regulations, including the Arboricultural Specifications Manual;
      (9)   Meet as needed;
      (10)   Elect a President and Vice-President annually and keep a written
record of its proceedings, all in accordance with state law; and
      (11)   Serve without compensation.
(Prior Code, § 77.03) (Ord. 4-2001, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 152.04 PUBLIC TREE CARE BY THE TOWN.
   The town shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove trees,
shrubs and plants within the lines of all streets, alleys, squares and public
grounds as may be necessary to ensure the public safety or to preserve the
aesthetics of such public grounds. Whenever the town finds it necessary to
remove a tree, the town shall, when reasonably possible, replant or replace it
consistent with the specifications and standards herein.
(Prior Code, § 77.04) (Ord. 4-2001, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 152.05 STREET SUPERINTENDENT AND/OR ELECTRIC SUPERINTENDENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   (1)   The Street Superintendent and/or Electric Superintendent or his
or her designee can cause or order to be removed any tree or part thereof which
is in an unsafe condition or is affected with any injurious fungus, insect or
other pest, or any street tree, or which, by reason of its nature, is injurious
to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water lines or other public
improvements.
      (2)   The Street Superintendent and/or Electric Superintendent will in
writing notify the owner of such tree or the adjoining owner of such a street
tree. In the event of an emergency as determined by the Street Superintendent
and/or Electric Superintendent, the owner shall be given such notice as is
reasonable under the circumstances.
      (3)   If the owner requests removal of a tree, the owner shall be
responsible for the expense for dropping the tree and the town shall assume
responsibility for removal of the stump and cleanup.
   (B)   The Street Superintendent and/or Electric Superintendent or his or her
designee can cause or order to be pruned limbs or branches of any trees or
shrubbery which overhang any town public property and which constitute a menace
to the safety of the public, obstruct the light from any street lamp, obstruct
motorists’ view of any street intersection or any traffic-control signal or
sign or obstruct or endanger passing vehicles and pedestrians.
   (C)   The Street Superintendent and/or Electric Superintendent or his or her
designee will govern the issuance of tree work permits as required by this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 77.05) (Ord. 4-2001, passed 8-27-2001; Ord. 3-2008, passed 5-27-
2008)
§ 152.06 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR TREE CARE.
   No person, company or public utility shall plant, remove, excavate within a
ten-foot radius of, trench within the critical root zone of or cut above the
ground any public tree or disturb or plant any shrubbery within any tree lawn,
park or other public place unless the town shall have first granted a tree care
permit. No permit shall be required for the trimming of any branches with a
diameter of three inches or less. No permit shall be necessary for tree removal
or trimming in the emergency situations detailed in §
152.11 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 77.06) (Ord. 4-2001, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.07 PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Tree care permits shall be administered and issued by the Street
Superintendent or his or her designee.
   (B)   The person receiving the permit shall abide by the standards set forth
in this subchapter, including the Arboricultural Specifications Manual of the
town, and any additional requirements placed upon the permit by the Street
Superintendent.
   (C)   An annual permit shall be issued to any public utility for trimming
and cutting trees in the public rights-of-way. The permit application shall
include utility trimming schedules and locations.
   (D)   There shall be no charge for the tree care permit issuance.
(Prior Code, § 77.07) (Ord. 4-2001, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 152.08 CONTRACTOR’S LICENSE REQUIRED FOR TREE CARE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to work for hire performing tree care
activities in the town for private or municipal street trees without first
registering with the Clerk-Treasurer for an annual license and paying the
permit fee of $10; showing proof of liability insurance for personal injury and
property damage in the amount of $100,000; and shall be familiar with OSHA’s
laws governing power line tree trimming maintenance.
(Prior Code, § 77.08) (Ord. 4-2001, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.09 PRUNING, TRIMMING AND REMOVAL OF TREES.
   (A)   No person or property owner shall remove a tree or a boundary tree
from the public tree lawn for the purpose of construction, or for any other
reason, without first securing a tree care permit from the town. The person or
property owner shall bear the cost of complete removal, including the chipping
of all limbs and removal of the stump.
   (B)   All trimming, pruning and any other tree care activities shall comply
with good arboricultural practices as delineated in the Arboricultural
Specifications Manual of the town. The person or property owner shall bear the
cost of these activities.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person to top any
street tree. TOPPING is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs
larger than three inches in diameter within the tree’s crown to such a degree
so as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely
damaged by storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility wires or
other obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical, may be
exempted from this requirement by a written determination made by the Street
Superintendent or his or her designee.
   (D)   No person shall pave, asphalt or apply poison, rock, sand or gravel to
any tree row, or public right-of-way, or public ground of any kind, without the
specific authority of the Street Superintendent.
   (E)   No person shall deposit, place, store or maintain upon any public
place or right-of-way of the town any stone, brick, sand, concrete or other
material that may impede the free passage of water, air and fertilizer to the
roots of any tree growing therein, except by written permission of the Street
Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 77.09) (Ord. 4-2001, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.10 REMOVAL OF STUMPS.
   In the process of tree removal, all stumps of street trees shall be removed
at least six inches below the surface of the ground.
(Prior Code, § 77.10) (Ord. 4-2001, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.11 TREE CARE WHEN EMERGENCY DECLARED.
   (A)   In emergencies, when a tree or trees have been severely damaged by
storms or other causes, the Street Superintendent may waive the requirement for
a tree care permit. All removals of public trees under those conditions shall
be reported to the town.
   (B)   The town’s Street Department or public utilities may act to trim or
remove trees in emergency situations.
   (C)   Topping and the severe cutting back of limbs may be allowed by the
Street Superintendent under emergency situations.
(Prior Code, § 77.11) (Ord. 4-2001, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 152.12 TREE PROXIMITY TO CONSTRUCTION OR EXCAVATION.
   (A)   All trees on any street or other publicly owned property near any
excavation or construction of any building, structure or street work shall be
guarded whenever possible with a fence, frame or box not less than four feet
high and eight feet square, and all building material, dirt or other debris
shall be kept outside the barrier. Where heavy equipment will pass repeatedly
over the tree’s critical root zone, particularly in wet conditions, a temporary
layer of four inches of shredded bark or wood chips shall be placed and
maintained on the ground. At the time of tree care permit issuance, it may be
specified that the barrier size be enlarged to further protect the critical
root zone of that tree during construction activities.
   (B)   No person shall excavate any ditches, tunnels or trenches or lay any
drive within a radius of ten feet from any public tree without first obtaining
street cut and tree care permits from the Street Superintendent.
   (C)   Any and all installations of underground utilities upon the public
rights-of-way that impact on public trees due to necessary removals or
underground conflicts (roots) require a tree care permit and are specifically
subject to protection measures designated by the Street Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 77.12) (Ord. 4-2001, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.13 INJURY TO TREES.
   Unless specifically authorized by the Street Superintendent or Park
Superintendent for park trees, no person shall intentionally damage, cut,
carve, transplant or remove any public tree; attach any wire or nails,
advertising posters or other contrivance to any public tree; allow any gaseous
liquid or solid substance which is harmful to such trees to come in contact
with them; or set fire to or allow to burn when such fire or heat will injure
any portion of any public tree.
(Prior Code, § 77.13) (Ord. 4-2001, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.14 TREE PLANTING GENERALLY.
   The owner-occupant of property abutting public ways may plant street trees
in the tree lawn at his or her own expense in strict accordance with the
Arboricultural Specifications Manual of the town and these municipal street
tree regulations. A tree care permit must first be obtained for such a
planting.
(Prior Code, § 77.14) (Ord. 4-2001, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.15 TREE AND SHRUB PLANTING; SPECIES AND SIZES TO BE PLANTED.
   It should be specifically noted that the Arboricultural Specifications
Manual contains a list of acceptable trees, including species and sizes to be
planted, spacing, distance from curbs, sidewalks and parking and distance from
street corners, fireplugs, utility poles, utilities and other regulations. In
accordance with this chapter, no person shall plant or maintain any shrubs,
bushes, trees or other forms of vegetation or material in such a manner that it
obstructs or hinders the passage of pedestrians on sidewalks or vehicular
traffic on streets or alleys within the town.
(Prior Code, § 77.15) (Ord. 4-2001, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.16 ALTERATION OF TREE LAWN.
   No person shall pave, gravel, remove or otherwise convert existing grassed
tree lawn into hard space with the addition of the aforementioned without the
advice of the Tree Committee and the consent of the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 77.16) (Ord. 4-2001, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
152.99
GRASS AND WEEDS
§ 152.30 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   RANK, OBNOXIOUS AND TROUBLESOME VEGETATION OR WEEDS. Such vegetation or
weeds shall exceed 18 inches in height and are as follows:
      (1)   Canada thistle (Cirsium arvense);
      (2)   Johnson grass and Sorghum almiun (Sorghous halepeuse);
      (3)   Bur cucumber (Sicyos angulatus);
      (4)   Marijuana (Cannabis sativa);
      (5)   Ragweed;
      (6)   Milkweed; and
      (7)   All such vegetation that is not generally cultivated for lawns,
landscaping, gardens, decoration or farming, including, but not limited to,
briars, brambles, horseweed, brush, thistles, tall grasses and other weeds,
which have an adverse effect on agricultural production or cultivation or
provide harborage for rodents or other pests.
(Prior Code, § 75.02) (Ord. 7-2002, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 152.31 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Director of Operations or Building Commissioner shall be responsible for
the administration of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 75.01) (Ord. 7-2002, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 152.32 OBNOXIOUS WEEDS PROHIBITED.
   No owner or occupant of any real estate within the town shall permit any
rank, obnoxious or troublesome vegetation or weeds to grow:
   (A)   More than 12 inches high or mature upon premises owned or occupied by
such person; or
   (B)   Upon, in or along any of the sidewalks, streets or alleys adjoining
the same.
(Prior Code, § 75.03) (Ord. 7-2002, passed 8-26-2002; Ord. 7-2013, passed 8-26-
2013) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.33 MOWING REQUIRED.
   No owner or occupant of real estate within the town shall permit the growth
of grasses or other vegetation of more than 12 inches in areas defined as
front, side or backyards by this code in residentially-zoned areas in the town.
(Prior Code, § 75.04) (Ord. 7-2002, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.34 NOTICE.
   (A)   Whenever the Director of Operations or Building Commissioner
determines that a violation of this subchapter exists, he or she shall give the
owner (as determined by real estate tax records of the county) written notice
of the violation at the address real estate taxes are billed, by regular United
States Mail, and post a copy on the premises. The owner shall have ten days to
abate the violation or appeal the same to the Town Council. In the event of an
adverse ruling by the Town Council, the owner shall have ten days from the date
of the decision to abate the violation.
   (B)   Whenever the Street Department, after such notice, shall proceed to
mow or otherwise abate the violation, the Director of Operations or Building
Commissioner shall send the owner a bill at the same address as the notice in
division (A) above for the expenses related thereto, and the owner shall have
30 days to pay the same or appeal the same as provided herein to the Town
Council. A bill not paid within 30 days of issuance or of the determination of
the appeal shall be collected as provided in §
152.35 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 75.05) (Ord. 7-2002, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 152.35 TOWN TO CUT WEEDS OR MOW GRASS.
   If the owner of any real estate within the town, after notice as provided
herein, fails to destroy the weeds or vegetation prohibited herein, the town
may employ some person to cut down and destroy such weeds and remove any trash
or rubbish which interferes with mowing or cutting. The expenses incurred with
regard to weed cutting or mowing shall be a lien against such premises and may
be entered upon the tax duplicated and collected as other taxes, or such lien
may be foreclosed against the premises as in the case of mortgages. Expenses
shall be incurred at a rate of $50 per hour per town employee, and the minimum
expense charged to abate a nuisance under this subchapter shall be $100.
(Prior Code, § 75.06) (Ord. 7-2002, passed 8-26-2002; Ord. 7-2013, passed 8-26-
2013)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violations of §§
152.01 to
152.16 of this chapter shall subject the offender to the general penalty
provisions of this code, which provides for, among other things, a fine not to
exceed $2,500 per violation, and that every day any violation of §§
152.01 to
152.16 shall continue, it shall constitute a separate offense. Additionally,
pursuant to I.C. 36-1-2, the town may enter onto real property and take
appropriate action to bring the property into compliance with §§
152.01 to
152.16, including, but not limited to, the replanting of trees damaged or
improperly removed by the offender; provided, however, before action to bring
compliance may be taken, all persons holding a substantial interest in the
property must be given a reasonable opportunity to bring the property into
compliance. If action to bring compliance is taken by the town, the expense
involved may be made a lien against the property.
(Prior Code, § 77.17) (Ord. 4-2001, passed 8-27-2001)
CHAPTER 153: SIGNS
Section
   
153.01   Findings
   
153.02   Intent
   
153.03   Non-commercial signs
   
153.04   Improvement location permits
   
153.05   Signs restricted
   
153.06   Sign provisions generally
   
153.07   Freestanding signs
   
153.08   Marquee or canopy signs
   
153.09   Projecting signs
   
153.10   Roof-mounted signs
   
153.11   Temporary signs
   
153.12   Revolving signs
   
153.13   Permitted signs by district
   
153.14   Signs not permitted in any district
   
153.15   Unsafe, obsolete or nonconforming signs
   
153.16   Alterations to signs
   
153.17   Maintenance of signs
§ 153.01 FINDINGS.
   (A)   The Town Council finds:
      (1)   The manner of the erection, location and maintenance of signs
affects the public health, safety, morals and public welfare of the people of
this community;
      (2)   The safety of motorists, cyclists, pedestrians, other users of the
public streets and property is effected by the number, size, location and
appearance of signs that are intended to and result in the diversion of the
attention of drivers;
      (3)   The size and location of signs may, if uncontrolled, constitute an
obstacle to effective firefighting and the provision of other emergency
services;
      (4)   The construction, erection and maintenance of signs suspended from
or placed on the tops of buildings, walls or other structures may constitute a
direct danger to pedestrian and vehicular traffic below, especially during
periods of strong winds;
      (5)   Uncontrolled and unlimited signs degrade the aesthetic
attractiveness of the natural human-made attributes of the community and
thereby undermine the economic value of tourism, visitation and permanent
economic growth; and
      (6)   Uncontrolled and unlimited signs may result in a roadside clutter
that impedes the flow of information from businesses to consumers, thereby
harming the economic health of the community, and that impedes the flow of
information from traffic signs and signals, thereby creating hazards to drivers
and pedestrians.
   (B)   It is therefore necessary for the promotion and preservation of the
public health, safety and welfare of the people of this community that the
erection, construction, location and maintenance of signs be regulated and
controlled.
(Ord. 13-93, passed 7-26-1993)
§ 153.02 INTENT.
   (A)   This chapter shall be constructed and implemented to create a
comprehensive and balanced system of sign control that accommodates both the
need for a well-maintained, safe and attractive community and the need for
effective business identification, advertising and communication.
   (B)   It is the intent of this chapter, and it shall be interpreted, to
promote the health, safety, convenience, aesthetics and general welfare of the
community by controlling signs that are intended to communicate to the public,
and to authorize the use of signs that are:
      (1)   Compatible with their surroundings and the historical theme of the
town;
      (2)   Designed, constructed, installed and maintained in a manner that
does not endanger public safety or unduly distract motorists;
      (3)   Appropriate to the type of activity to which they pertain; and
      (4)   Large enough to convey sufficient information about the owner or
occupants of a particular property, the products or services offered for sale
or the activities advertised, and small enough to satisfy the needs for
regulation.
(Ord. 13-93, passed 7-26-1993)
§ 153.03 NON-COMMERCIAL SIGNS.
   Any sign allowed under this chapter may be used to convey any non-commercial
message or expression in lieu of the message specifically permitted under this
chapter. All regulations and restrictions regarding the size, the location, the
illumination, the configuration and the number shall remain in effect.
(Ord. 13-93, passed 7-26-1993)
§ 153.04 IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMITS.
   No sign shall be erected until an improvement location permit is issued by
the Building Commissioner.
(Ord. 13-93, passed 7-26-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.05 SIGNS RESTRICTED.
   Certain uses located in properly zoned districts need and have a right to
advertise through the use of sign displays. So, it is the intent of this
chapter to encourage creative and imaginative design and use of signs in order
to create a more attractive economic and business climate. To ensure that the
physical appearance of the community is protected and maintained, it is
necessary to regulate the size, location, construction and manner of the
display of signs as set forth in the chapter.
(Ord. 13-93, passed 7-26-1993)
§ 153.06 SIGN PROVISIONS GENERALLY.
   (A)   All signs, permanent and temporary, shall be constructed, connected,
operated and maintained according to the specifications of the applicable
building and electrical codes;
   (B)   All signs shall be maintained in a good state of repair;
   (C)   The total area of any embellishments shall not exceed 15% of the
display area of the sign to which the embellishment is added;
   (D)   One non-illuminated identification sign on each side of each entrance
to subdivisions not exceeding 30 square feet in area and not more than three
feet in height, to be designed as an integral architectural feature of the
entrance or of the building complex, giving only the name of the subdivision
and logo; and
   (E)   One non-illuminated “For Sale” or “For Rent” sign per lot not
exceeding six square feet in area nor closer than ten feet to adjacent zoning
lots; said “For Sale” or “For Rent” signs permitted in this division (E) shall
be placed only on the lot to which the signs refer.
(Ord. 13-93, passed 7-26-1993)
§ 153.07 FREESTANDING SIGNS.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   The sign, pole or standard shall not extend beyond the property
line or into the public right-of-way.
      (2)   Freestanding signs shall be designed so that all framework for the
lateral support of the sign shall be contained within the body of the sign or
within the structure to which it is attached and shall not be visible. Exposed
guy wires, chains or other connections shall not be made a permanent part of
the sign.
   (B)   Height.
      (1)   The maximum height of freestanding signs located along other than
limited access highways shall vary with the width of the lot on which the sign
is located as follows.
 
Lot Width   Maximum Height
0 – 50 fee25 feet
51 or over  35 feet
 
      (2)   Along limited access highways, the maximum height of freestanding
signs shall be 35 feet, subject to approval by the Board of Appeals, provided
that:
         (a)   Such signs shall identify highway-oriented uses, such as
automobile service stations, motels and restaurants, located within 2,000 feet
of the centerline of the interchange; and
         (b)   A variance may be granted by the Board of Appeals permitting
signs in excess of 35 feet where a physical obstruction exists which would
otherwise restrict the visibility of the sign, provided that in no case shall
the visual height of the sign, as viewed from the highway, exceed 85 feet above
the grade of the highway.
      (3)   Freestanding signs which function as directional signs shall have a
maximum height of three feet. Freestanding signs located within 25 feet of the
street pavement shall have a minimum clearance of the ten feet above the grade
of the right-of-way and the lowest point of the sign, except that, for the
purposes of this chapter, decorative pole covers shall not be considered to be
part of the sign.
   (C)   Location.
      (1)   Freestanding signs shall be located a minimum of ten feet from the
right-of-way line of other than limited access highways, provided, however,
that a setback of five feet may be permitted by the granting of a variance by
the Board of Appeals where a physical obstruction exists which would otherwise
restrict the visibility of the sign.
      (2)   Along limited access highways, freestanding signs shall be located
a minimum of 50 feet from the right-of-way line.
      (3)   Freestanding signs which function as directional signs shall be
located a minimum of five feet from the right-of-way line.
(Ord. 13-93, passed 7-26-1993)
§ 153.08 MARQUEE OR CANOPY SIGNS.
   The following provisions shall apply to marquee or canopy signs.
   (A)   One sign shall be permitted for each entrance to the building or
structure to which the sign is attached.
   (B)   No sign shall extend beyond the outer edge of the marquee or roofed
structure.
   (C)   There shall be at least an eight-foot, six-inch clearance between the
grade of the sidewalk and the lowest point of the sign.
(Ord. 13-93, passed 7-26-1993)
§ 153.09 PROJECTING SIGNS.
   The following provisions shall apply to projecting signs.
   (A)   Except as may be provided hereafter, one projecting sign shall be
permitted for each ground floor use. If the lineal ground floor use frontage
exceeds 200 feet, an additional projecting sign shall be permitted, and for
each additional 300 lineal feet, another projecting sign shall be permitted.
   (B)   Where a use has such frontage on more than one street, there may be
one projecting sign for each frontage, provided that only a sign computed for
the frontage of a street shall face the street, or there may be one corner
projecting sign, which shall be computed on the basis of one-half the frontage
of the use on both streets.
   (C)   It is the intent of this section to require the use of lateral
supports that are contained within the framework of the sign or lateral
supports that run parallel to the sign frame, and chains shall not be permitted
for use as a supporting member.
   (D)   The height of a projecting sign shall not exceed eight feet above the
parapet wall of the building, and the lowest point of the projecting sign shall
be not less than ten feet above the grade.
   (E)    The projection of projecting signs shall be limited by the more
restrictive of the following.
      (1)   No projecting sign shall project further that the properly line or
over any public sidewalk or right-of-way (except for under canopy signs not to
exceed three square feet).
      (2)   No projecting sign shall project further than one-half the distance
from the sign location to the nearest side lot line.
      (3)   The projection of a projecting sign shall be limited to five feet,
three inches.
(Ord. 13-93, passed 7-26-1993)
§ 153.10 ROOF-MOUNTED SIGNS.
   The following provisions shall apply to roof-mounted signs.
   (A)   Roof-mount signs shall not be permitted, except where:
      (1)   The supporting members of roof-mounted signs shall appear to be
free of any extra bracing, angle irons, guy wires or cables;
      (2)   Supports shall appear to be an architectural and integral part of
the building;
      (3)   Supporting columns of round, square or shaped steel members may be
erected if required bracing visible to the public is minimized or covered;
      (4)   The maximum height of roof-mounted signs shall be six feet and
shall not at its highest point exceed the highest point of the roof itself; and
      (5)   The backs of roof-mounted signs shall be concealed by another sign,
shall be screened by suitable architectural treatment or shall be painted to
blend with the surroundings and kept so painted.
   (B)   Signs shall be illuminated by direct or indirect lighting, provided
that the beam from an indirect source shall be effectively concealed from view.
(Ord. 13-93, passed 7-26-1993)
§ 153.11 TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   (A)   Generally. Temporary mobile signs shall be permitted, provided that:
      (1)   There shall not be more than one temporary sign per lot;
      (2)   A temporary sign shall not exceed 32 square feet in display area;
      (3)   Temporary signs shall be for temporary use only, not to exceed 30
days in any calendar year, a 12-month period of time, following the issuance of
a temporary sign permit, provided, however, that the holder of a temporary sign
permit may apply for a 30-day extension;
      (4)   Exposed lamps on temporary signs shall be covered with a wire mesh,
or similar material, so that an exposed electrical socket cannot be
accidentally touched. Lamps shall not exceed 50 watts and shall be of the
incandescent type only; and
      (5)   Flashing arrows and directional indicators shall be prohibited.
   (B)   Special signs.
      (1)   Signs of a special nature, such as temporary signs, historical
markers and public service signs, shall be authorized as conditional uses.
Other signs, such as governmental signs or public right-of-way signs, shall be
exempt from the sign provisions.
      (2)   Regulations are as follows.
         (a)   Procedure. Special signs not covered herein shall be considered
on an individual basis by the Commission and shall be authorized only upon the
showing of a special, demonstrated need not provided for elsewhere in this
chapter, and shall be in the public interest.
         (b)   Standards for special signs.
            1.   Special event posters, flags, banners, pennants or bunting
shall be permitted for a period not exceeding 30 days or the length of the
promotion. Extensions for additional one-month periods may be granted upon
petition.
            2.   Special signs for construction projects shall be permitted for
the period of time of the proposed construction. Signs must be removed upon
completion of the project.
         (c)   Public service signs. Public service and governmental signs on
private property shall be allowed if authorized by the Commission.
         (d)   Historical markers and tablets. Historical markers and tablets
may be displayed on private or public property if approved by the Commission.
Such signs shall represent a historically significant fact or event and shall
conform in design and size with others of a similar nature.
         (e)   Traffic signs. Traffic regulatory, warning, direction and
information signs shall be allowed if approved or required by the Commission in
business and manufacturing districts. Such signs shall comply with the
standards of the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control-Devices of the Federal
Highway Administration and shall be compatible with the site.
(Ord. 13-93, passed 7-26-1993)
§ 153.12 REVOLVING SIGNS.
   Slow-speed (six revolutions per minute) revolving signs shall be permitted,
provided that the mechanism required to operate the sign is effectively
concealed from view, and further provided that a direct beam of light shall not
be said to be revolving. Revolving signs shall be permitted only in the
WBD–West Business District and GB–General Business District.
(Ord. 13-93, passed 7-26-1993)
§ 153.13 PERMITTED SIGNS BY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Signs permitted in the AG–Agricultural and GU–Government Use Districts
are as follows:
      (1)   Directional signs;
      (2)   Commemorative, historical and memorial signs, markers and plaques
not exceeding six square feet in display area and containing no advertising
material thereon;
      (3)   Identification signs denoting the name of occupants and/or
professions, not exceeding one square foot in display area;
      (4)   Public information signs;
      (5)   Real estate signs, provided that such signs shall not exceed seven
square feet in display area for residential uses or 32 square feet in display
area for nonresidential uses; and
      (6)   Seasonal decorations and displays, provided that such signs shall
be temporary.
   (B)   Signs permitted in the R–12, R–8, R–6 and MF Residential Districts,
and in the residential sections of PUD developments, shall be as follows:
      (1)   All signs permitted in division (A) above;
      (2)   Development signs, provided that:
         (a)   Such signs shall be displayed on the construction site only for
the duration of the construction; and
         (b)   The maximum display area of such signs shall be 100 square feet.
      (3)   Identification signs for real estate developments, provided that
there shall not be more than one such sign a maximum of 32 square feet in copy
area, or two such signs a maximum of 16 square feet each in copy area, and
containing no advertising materials except the name and street address of the
development, located at each of the principal entrances; and
      (4)   Institutional bulletins not exceeding 32 square feet in copy area.
   (C)   Signs permitted in the DD–Downtown Business District shall be as
follows:
      (1)   All signs permitted in divisions (A) and (B) above;
      (2)   Identification signs for permitted uses, provided that the display
area of such signs shall not exceed one square foot in area per linear front
foot of the use; and
      (3)   Identification signs to identify a planned shopping center,
provided that there may be one freestanding sign, not exceeding 64 square feet
in display area, per frontage.
   (D)   Signs permitted in the WBD–West Business District, GB–General Business
District, IP–Industrial Park District and GI–General Business District, shall
be as follows:
      (1)   All signs permitted in divisions (A) and (B) above;
      (2)   All double face on-premises signs, including projecting and non-
projecting, freestanding and building-mounted, shall be limited in area as
follows:
         (a)   The total display area of all double face on-premises signs
shall not exceed three square feet for each linear foot of lot frontage; and
         (b)   When measuring area, the display area of one face of a double
face sign shall be counted.
      (3)   The copy area of a single face on-premises sign shall not be larger
than 40% of the portion of the facade of the building which is ten feet above
the grade;
      (4)   Identification signs to identify planned shopping centers and
planned industrial parks, provided that one freestanding sign shall be
permitted for the first 200 feet of frontage and one additional freestanding
sign shall be permitted for every additional 300 feet of frontage contained in
the project; and
      (5)   The combined display area of all freestanding signs shall not
exceed three square feet for each foot of frontage.
   (E)   Signs permitted in the HPO–Historic Preservation District shall be all
signs permitted in divisions (A) and (B) above.
(Ord. 13-93, passed 7-26-1993)
§ 153.14 SIGNS NOT PERMITTED IN ANY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Portable and mobile signs shall not be permitted, except under a
temporary sign permit;
   (B)   Signs which are structurally unsafe, as determined by the Building
Commissioner;
   (C)   Signs obstructing free ingress or egress from a required exit, or
which prevent light or ventilation as required in local codes and ordinances;
   (D)   Signs which by reason of size, location, content, coloring or
illumination violate municipal and state highway standards;
   (E)   Signs, words, phrases, symbols, colors or characteristics which may
mislead, interfere with or confuse traffic;
   (F)   Signs erected on or attached to any sidewalk, street or highway right-
of-way, curb, curbstone, hydrant, lamppost, tree, barricade, temporary walkway,
telephone, telegraph or electric light pole, other utility pole, public fence
or on a fixture of the fire alarm or police system, except public information
signs; and
   (G)   Signs which involve revolving or rotating beams of light.
(Ord. 13-93, passed 7-26-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.15 UNSAFE, OBSOLETE OR NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   Unsafe signs. If the Building Commissioner deems any sign as unsafe or
insecure, or as a menace to the public, he or she may give written notice to
the person to whom the sign permit has been issued or to the owner of the
building. If that person fails to remove or alter the sign or to present
compelling evidence as to the safety and security of the sign within ten days
after such notice, such sign may be removed or altered by the Building
Commissioner at the expense of the sign permit issuee or owner of the property
upon which it is located. The Building Commissioner may cause any sign which is
an immediate peril to persons or property to be removed or repaired summarily
and without notice.
   (B)   Obsolete signs.
      (1)   Any obsolete sign which does not advertise a bona fide business
conducted, or a product sold, shall be taken down and removed by the owner,
agent or person having the beneficial use of the structure upon which the sign
may be found within 60 days after written notification from the Building
Commissioner, and upon failure to comply with such notice within the time
specified in such order, the Building Commissioner may cause the removal of
such sign, and any expense incident thereto shall be paid by the owner of the
property to which such a sign is attached.
      (2)   At the termination of a business, commercial or industrial
enterprise, all signs pertaining thereto shall forthwith be removed from public
view.
   (C)   Nonconforming signs. All signs not in conformance with this chapter
shall be removed, altered or converted to conform to the provisions of this
chapter not more than ten years after the effective date thereof.
(Ord. 13-93, passed 7-26-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.16 ALTERATIONS TO SIGNS.
   No display sign or outdoor advertising device shall be altered, rebuilt,
enlarged, extended or relocated, except in conformity with the provisions of
this chapter. The repainting, changing of parts and preventative maintenance of
signs shall not be deemed to be altered.
(Ord. 13-93, passed 7-26-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.17 MAINTENANCE OF SIGNS.
   (A)   All signs shall be adequately maintained to keep them in a state of
good appearance and repair.
   (B)   Painted signs will be considered in need of refinishing if:
      (1)   Twenty percent or more of the surface shows evidence of peeling,
cracking or the blistering of paint;
      (2)   Twenty percent or more of the surface shows evidence of mildew; or
      (3)   The colors used have faded appreciably and the surface sheen is
gone.
(Ord. 13-93, passed 7-26-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 154: FLOOD HAZARD REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Definitions
   
154.02   Authorization
   
154.03   Findings
   
154.04   Purpose
   
154.05   Objectives
   
154.06   Lands to which provisions apply
   
154.07   Basis for establishing regulatory flood data
   
154.08   Floodplain development permit established
   
154.09   Compliance
   
154.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
154.11   Discrepancy between mapped floodplain and actual ground elevations
   
154.12   Interpretation
   
154.13   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
154.14   Increased cost of compliance
Administration
   
154.25   Floodplain Administrator designated
   
154.26   Permit procedures
   
154.27   Duties and responsibilities of Floodplain Administrator
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
154.40   Generally required standards
   
154.41   Specific standards
   
154.42   Subdivision proposal standards
   
154.43   Critical facility standards
   
154.44   Identified floodway standards
   
154.45   Identified fringe standards
   
154.46   SFHAs without established base flood elevation and/or flooway/fringe
standards
   
154.47   Flood-prone area standards
Variance Procedures
   
154.60   Variance and Appeals Board established
   
154.61   Duties of Variance and Appeals Board
   
154.62   Variance procedures
   
154.63   Conditions for variances
   
154.64   Variance notification
   
154.65   Historic structures
   
154.66   Special conditions
 
   
154.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A ZONE. Portions of the SFHA in which the principal source of flooding is
runoff from rainfall, snowmelt or a combination of both. In A ZONES,
floodwaters may move slowly or rapidly, but waves are usually not a significant
threat to buildings. These areas are labeled as Zone A, Zone AE, Zones A1–A30,
Zone AO, Zone AH, Zone AR and Zone A99 on a FIRM or FHBM. The definitions are
presented below.
      (1)   ZONE A. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event. Because detailed hydraulic analyses have not been performed, no base
flood elevation or depths are shown. Mandatory flood insurance purchase
requirements apply.
      (2)   ZONES AE AND A1–A30. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual
chance flood event determined by detailed methods. Base flood elevations are
shown within these zones. Mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements
apply. (ZONE AE is on new and revised maps in place of ZONES A1–A30.)
      (3)   ZONE AH. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding (usually areas of ponding) where average depths are between one and
three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed hydraulic analyses are
shown within this zone. Mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements apply.
      (4)   ZONE AO. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain) where average depths are
between one and three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed
hydraulic analyses are shown within this zone. Mandatory flood insurance
purchase requirements apply.
      (5)   ZONE AR. Areas that result from the decertification of a previously
accredited flood protection system that is determined to be in the process of
being restored to provide base flood protection. Mandatory flood insurance
purchase requirements apply.
      (6)   ZONE A99. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event, but which will ultimately be protected upon completion of an under-
construction federal flood protection system. These are areas of special flood
hazard where enough progress has been made on the construction of a protection
system, such as dikes, dams and levees, to consider it complete for insurance
rating purposes. ZONE A99 may only be used when the flood protection system has
reached specified statutory progress toward completion. No base flood
elevations or depths are shown. Mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements
apply.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE or APPURTENANT STRUCTURE. A structure that is located on
the same parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should
constitute a minimal initial investment, may not be used for human habitation
and should be designed to have minimal flood damage potential. Examples of
ACCESSORY STRUCTURES are detached garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns
and hay sheds.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls is new construction.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on the community’s
flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION or BFE. The elevation of the 1% annual chance flood.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a structure having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity that has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM or CRS. A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives for those communities in the regular
program that have gone beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to
develop extra measures to provide protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire, and emergency response
installations and installations which produce, use or store hazardous materials
or hazardous waste.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but no limited to:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction or placement of a structure or any
addition to a structure;
         (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
         (c)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction
of roads or similar projects;
         (d)   Construction of flood-control structures, such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements and the like;
         (e)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation or drilling
operations;
         (f)   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
         (g)   Storage of materials; or
         (h)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance of
existing structures and facilities, such as painting or re-roofing; resurfacing
roads; or gardening, plowing and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation or the construction of permanent
structures.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, filled stem wall foundations (also called chain walls), pilings or
columns (posts and piers).
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A certified statement that verifies a structure’s
elevation information.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The first phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP. It is intended to provide a first-layer amount of insurance at
subsidized rates on all insurable structures in that community before the
effective date of the initial FIRM.
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or the infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, permanent structures or development into a floodplain which may
impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the start of construction
commenced before the effective date of the community’s first floodplain
ordinance.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FIVE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD or 500-YEAR FLOOD. The flood that has a 0.2% chance
of being equated or exceeded in any year.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP or FBFM. An official map on which the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration
(FIA) has delineated the areas of flood hazard and regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP or FHBM. An official map of a community, issued by
FEMA, where the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard have been
identified as Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP or FIRM. An official map of a community on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY or FIS. The official hydraulic and hydrologic report
provided by FEMA. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the FIRM and
FBFM (where applicable) and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area acknowledged by a community as being
susceptible to inundation by water from any source. (See FLOOD.)
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE or FPG. The elevation of the regulatory flood plus
two feet at any given location in the SFHA. (See FREEBOARD.)
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining any wetland, lake or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory
flood. The floodplain includes both the floodway and the fringe districts.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood-control works, floodplain management
regulations and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS.
      (1)   This chapter and other zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations,
building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances and other
applications of police power which control development in flood-prone areas.
This term describes federal, state or local regulations, in any combination
thereof, which provide standards for preventing and reducing flood loss and
damage.
      (2)   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS are also referred to as
FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS, FLOODPLAIN ORDINANCE, FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION ORDINANCE
and FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   FLOODPROOFING or DRY FLOODPROOFING. A method of protecting a structure that
ensures that the structure, together with attendant utilities and sanitary
facilities, is watertight to the flood-proofed design elevation, with walls
that are substantially impermeable to the passage of water. All structural
components of these walls are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy, and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form used to certify compliance for
nonresidential structures as an alternative to elevating structures to or above
the FPG. This certification must be by a registered professional engineer or
architect.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplain adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flood flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood.
   FRINGE. Those portions of the floodplain lying outside the floodway.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to
water, such as a docking or port facility necessary for the loading and
unloading of cargo or passengers, shipbuilding, ship repair or seafood
processing facilities. The term does not include long-term storage,
manufacture, sales or service facilities.
   HARDSHIP. As related to variances of this chapter, HARDSHIP means the
exceptional hardship that would result from a failure to grant the requested
variance. The Town Council requires that the variance is exceptional, unusual
and peculiar to the property involved. Mere economic or financial hardship
alone is not exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations, physical
handicaps, personal preferences or the disapproval of one’s neighbors likewise
cannot, as a rule, qualify as an exceptional hardship. All of these problems
can be resolved through other means without granting a variance, even if the
alternative is more expensive or requires the property owner to build elsewhere
or put the parcel to a different use than originally intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to the start of construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure individually listed on the National
Register of Historic Places or the state’s Register of Historic Sites and
Structures.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE or ICC. The cost to repair a substantially
damaged structure that exceeds the minimal repair cost and that is required to
bring a substantially damaged structure into compliance with the local flood
damage prevention ordinance. Acceptable mitigation measures are elevation,
relocation, demolition or any combination thereof. All renewal and new business
flood insurance policies with effective dates on or after June 1, 1997, will
include ICC coverage.
   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT or LOMA. An amendment to the currently effective
FEMA map that establishes that a property is not located in a SFHA. A LOMA is
only issued by FEMA.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION or LOMR. An official revision to the currently
effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones, delineations
and elevations.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL or LOMR-F. An official revision by
letter to an effective NFIP map. A LOMR-F provides FEMA’s determination
concerning whether a structure or parcel has been elevated on fill above the
BFE and excluded from the SFHA.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The lowest elevation, after completion of
construction, of the ground, sidewalk, patio, deck support or basement entryway
immediately next to the structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest of the following:
      (1)   The top of the lowest level of the structure;
      (2)   The top of the basement floor;
      (3)   The top of the garage floor if the garage is the lowest level of
the structure;
      (4)   The top of the first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or
pillars; or
      (5)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure, other than a basement,
below an elevated structure where the walls of the enclosure provide any
resistance to the flow of floodwaters, unless:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters by
providing a minimum of two openings (in addition to doorways and windows) in a
minimum of two exterior walls having a total net area of one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area. The bottom of all such openings shall
be not higher than one foot above the exterior grade or the interior grade
immediately beneath each opening, whichever is higher; and
         (b)   Such enclosed space shall be usable solely for parking of
vehicles and building access.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP AMENDMENT. A change to an effective NFIP map that results in the
exclusion from the SFHA of an individual structure or a legally described
parcel of land that has been inadvertently included in the SFHA (i.e., no
alterations of topography have occurred since the date of the first NFIP map
that showed the structure or parcel to be within the SFHA).
   MAP PANEL NUMBER. The four-digit number followed by a letter suffix assigned
by FEMA on a flood map. The first four digits represent the map panel, and the
letter suffix represents the number of times the map panel has been revised.
(The letter “A” is not used by FEMA; the letter “B” is the first revision.)
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, excluding the land (as agreed to between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. MARKET VALUE can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of the building (actual cash value) or
adjusted assessed values.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of MITIGATION
is two-fold: to protect people and structures and to minimize the cost of
disaster response and recovery.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM or NFIP. The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD) OF 1929. As corrected in 1929, a
vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within
the floodplain.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the start of construction
commenced after the effective date of the community’s first floodplain
ordinance.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 or NAVD 88. As adopted in 1993, a
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, canalization,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water, or due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
   ONE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD or 100-YEAR FLOOD. The flood that has a 1% chance of
being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with
the letter A is subject to the 1% annual chance flood. See REGULATORY FLOOD.
   ONE-PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD or 1% ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. The flood that
has a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone
that begins with the letter A is subject to the ONE-PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE
FLOOD. See REGULATORY FLOOD.
   PARTICIPATING COMMUNITY. Any community that voluntarily elects to
participate in the NFIP by adopting and enforcing floodplain management
regulations that are consistent with the standards of the NFIP.
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION or PMR. An official republication of a community’s
FEMA map to effect changes to base (1% annual chance) flood elevations,
floodplain boundary delineations, regulatory floodways and planimetric
features. These changes typically occur as a result of structural works or
improvements, annexations resulting in additional flood hazard areas or
correction to base flood elevations or SFHAs.
   POST-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement that started
on or after the effective date of the initial FIRM of the community or after
December 31, 1974, whichever is later.
   PRE-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement which started
on or before December 31, 1974, or before the effective date of the initial
FIRM of the community, whichever is later.
   PROBATION. A means of formally notifying participating communities of
violations and deficiencies in the administration and enforcement of the local
floodplain management regulations.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community, neighborhood or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, river, bay, stream, canal or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
quarters for recreational camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of the community’s participation in the NFIP
where more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and
higher amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year as calculated by a method and procedure that is acceptable to
and approved by the state’s Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The regulatory flood elevation at any location is
as defined in §
154.07 of this chapter. The REGULATORY FOOD is also known by the term BASE
FLOOD, 1% ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD and 100-YEAR FLOOD.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period, ending on the date of the event
for which the second claim is made, in which the cost of repairing the flood
damage, on the average, equaled or exceeded 25% of the market value of the
structure at the time of each such flood event.
   SECTION 1316. The section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 400 et seq., which states that no new flood
insurance coverage shall be provided for any property the Administrator finds
has been declared by a duly constituted state or local zoning authority, or
other authorized public body, to be in violation of state or local laws,
regulations or ordinances that are intended to discourage or otherwise restrict
land development or occupancy in flood-prone areas.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA or SFHA. Those lands within the jurisdiction of
the town subject to inundation by the regulatory flood. The SFHAs of the town
are generally identified as such on the “Marshall County and Incorporated Areas
Flood Insurance Rate Map,” prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency,
dated November 16, 2011. The SFHAs of those unincorporated parts of the county
that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the town or that may be
annexed into the town are generally identified as such on the “Marshall County
and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map,” prepared by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency and dated November 16, 2011. (These areas are shown
on a FHBM or FIRM as Zones A, AE, A1–A30, AH, AR, A99 or AO).
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The actual START means the first placement of permanent construction of a
structure (including a manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of
slabs or footing, installation off piles, construction of columns or any work
beyond the stage of excavation for placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, foundations or the erection of temporary forms. For substantial
improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A structure that is principally aboveground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home or a prefabricated building. The term also includes
recreational vehicles to be installed on a site for more than 180 days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred repetitive loss
or substantial damage regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term
does not include improvements of structures to correct existing violations of
state or local health, sanitary or safety code requirements or any alteration
of a historic structure, provided that the alteration will not preclude the
structure’s continued designation as a historic structure.
   SUSPENSION. The removal of a participating community from the NFIP because
the community has not enacted and/or enforced the proper floodplain management
regulations required for participation in the NFIP.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter which
permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter where
specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A structure or other development without the
elevation, other certification or other evidence of compliance required in this
chapter is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as that documentation is
provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the North American
Vertical Datum of 1988 (NAVD 88) or National Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1929
(NGVD) (or other datum where specified), of floods of various magnitudes and
frequencies in the floodplains of riverine areas.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
Shaded X ZONES shown on recent FIRMS (B Zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% chance of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood). Unshaded X ZONES (C Zones on older FIRMs)
designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is less
than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a FHBM or FIRM that reflects the severity
or type of flooding in the area.
   ZONE A. See A ZONE.
   ZONES B, C, AND X. Areas identified in the community as areas of moderate or
minimal hazard from the principal source of flood in the area. However,
buildings in these zones could be flooded by severe, concentrated rainfall
coupled with inadequate local drainage systems. Flood insurance is available in
participating communities but is not required by regulation in these zones.
(ZONE X is used on new and revised maps in place of ZONES B AND C.)
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 154.02 AUTHORIZATION.
   The State Legislature has in I.C. 14-28-4 and 36-7-4 granted the power to
local government units to control land use within their jurisdictions.
Therefore, the Town Council does hereby adopt the following floodplain
management regulations.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 154.03 FINDINGS.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the town are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safely hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities, and by the
occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to
other lands which are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed or otherwise
unprotected from flood damages.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 154.04 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water or erosion hazards which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage;
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands; and
   (F)   Make federally subsidized flood insurance available for structures and
their contents in the town by fulfilling the requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 154.05 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To protect human life and health;
   (B)   To minimize the expenditure of public money for costly flood-control
projects;
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located
in floodplains;
   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood blight
areas; and
   (G)   To ensure that potential homebuyers are notified that property is in a
flood area.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 154.06 LANDS TO WHICH PROVISIONS APPLY.
   This chapter shall apply to all SFHAs and known flood-prone areas within the
jurisdiction of the town.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 154.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING REGULATORY FLOOD DATA.
   This chapter’s protection standard is the regulatory flood. The best
available regulatory flood data is listed below. Whenever a party disagrees
with the best available data, the party submitting the detailed engineering
study needs to replace existing data with better data and submit it to the
state’s Department of Natural Resources for review and approval.
   (A)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway and fringe limits for the
studied SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the town shall be as delineated on the
1% annual chance flood profiles in the “Flood Insurance Study of Marshall
County and Incorporated Areas,” dated November 16, 2011, and the corresponding
flood insurance rate map prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
and dated November 16, 2011.
   (B)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway and fringe limits for each of
the SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the town, delineated as an “A Zone” on the
flood insurance rate map prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
and dated November 16, 2011, shall be according to the best data available as
provided by the state’s Department of Natural Resources, provided the upstream
drainage area from the subject site is greater than one square mile.
   (C)   In the absence of a published FEMA map, or absence of identification
on a FEMA map, the regulatory flood elevation, floodway and fringe limits of
any watercourse in the community’s known flood-prone areas shall be according
to the best data available as provided by the state’s Department of Natural
Resources, provided the upstream drainage area from the subject site is greater
than one square mile.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 154.08 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT ESTABLISHED.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in areas of special flood hazard.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 154.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure shall thereafter be located, extended, converted or
structurally altered within the SFHA without full compliance with the terms of
this chapter and other applicable regulations. No land or stream within the
SFHA shall hereafter be altered without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 9-12-2011) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 154.11 DISCREPANCY BETWEEN MAPPED FLOODPLAIN AND ACTUAL GROUND ELEVATIONS.
   (A)   In cases where there is a discrepancy between the mapped floodplain
(SFHA) on the FIRM and the actual ground elevations, the elevation provided on
the profiles shall govern.
   (B)   If the elevation of the site in question is below the base flood
elevation, that site shall be included in the SFHA and regulated accordingly.
   (C)   If the elevation (natural grade) of the site in question is above the
base flood elevation, that site shall be considered outside the SFHA and the
floodplain regulations will not be applied. The property owner should be
advised to apply for a LOMA.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 154.12 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 154.13 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study.
   (B)   Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Therefore, this
chapter does not create any liability on the part of the town, the state’s
Department of Natural Resources or this state for any flood damage that results
from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision made lawfully
thereunder.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 154.14 INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE.
   In order for buildings to qualify for a claim payment under ICC coverage as
a “repetitive loss structure,” the National Flood Insurance Act of 1994, being
42 U.S.C. § 50, requires that the building be covered by a contract for flood
insurance and incur flood-related damages on two occasions during a ten-year
period, ending on the date of the event for which the second claim is made, in
which the cost of repairing the flood damage, on the average, equated or
exceeded 25% of the market value of the building at the time of each such flood
event.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 9-12-2011)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 154.25 FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR DESIGNATED.
   The Town Council hereby appoints the Zoning Administrator to administer and
implement the provisions of this chapter and is herein referred to as the
Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 154.26 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be made to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her prior to any
development activities, and may include, but not be limited to, the following
plans, in duplicate, drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions
and elevations of the area in question, existing or proposed structures,
earthen fill, storage of materials or equipment and drainage facilities and the
location of the foregoing.
   (B)   Specifically, the following information is required:
      (1)   Application stage.
         (a)   A description of the proposed development;
         (b)   The location of the proposed development sufficient to
accurately locate the property and structure in relation to existing roads and
streams;
         (c)   A legal description of the property site;
         (d)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed
development locations and existing and proposed land grades;
         (e)   The elevation of the top of the lowest floor (including
basement) of all proposed buildings; the elevation should be in NAVD 88 or
NGVD;
         (f)   The elevation (in NAVD 88 or NGVD) to which any nonresidential
structure will be flood-proofed; and
         (g)   A description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development.
      (2)   Construction stage. Upon placement of the lowest floor, or flood-
proofing, it shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain
Administrator a certification of the NAVD 88 or NGVD elevation of the lowest
floor or flood-proofed elevation, as built. Said certification shall be
prepared by or under the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor or
professional engineer and certified by the same. When flood-proofing is
utilized for a particular structure, said certification shall be prepared by or
under the direct supervision of a professional engineer or architect and
certified by the same. Any work undertaken prior to the submission of the
certification shall be at the permit holder’s risk. (The Floodplain
Administrator shall review the lowest floor and flood-proofing elevation survey
data submitted.) The permit holder shall correct deficiencies detected by such
review before any further work is allowed to proceed. Failure to submit the
survey or failure to make said corrections required hereby shall be cause to
issue a stop-work order for the project.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 9-12-2011) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.27 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or designated staff is hereby
authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The
Administrator is further authorized to render interpretations of this chapter
which are consistent with its spirit and purpose.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development permits to assure that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
      (2)   Inspect and inventory damaged structures in the SFHA and complete
substantial damage determinations;
      (3)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
state’s Department of Natural Resources for all development projects subject to
§§
154.44 and
154.46(A) of this chapter and maintain a record of such authorization (either a
copy of the actual permit or floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment);
      (4)   Ensure that all necessary federal or state permits have been
received prior to the issuance of the local floodplain development permit.
Copies of such permits are to be maintained on file with the floodplain
development permit;
      (5)   Notify adjacent communities and the state’s Floodplain Coordinator
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit copies of
such notifications to FEMA;
      (6)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request local
permit documents, damaged structure inventories, substantial damage
determinations, regulatory flood data, SFHA maps, letters of map amendment
(LOMA), letters of map revision (LOMR), copies of DNR permits and floodplain
analyses and regulatory assessments (letters of recommendation), federal permit
documents and “as-built” elevation and floodproofing data for all buildings
constructed subject to this chapter;
      (7)   Utilize and enforce all letters of map revision (LOMR) or physical
map revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently effective SFHA maps of the
community;
      (8)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished;
      (9)   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures in
accordance with §
154.26 of this chapter;
      (10)   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new or
substantially improved structures have been floodproofed in accordance with §
154.26 of this chapter;
      (11)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance;
      (12)   Issue stop-work orders:
         (a)   Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator, work on any
building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease; and
         (b)   Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner
of the property, or to his or her agent, or to the person doing the work, and
shall state the conditions under which work may be resumed.
      (13)   Revoke permits:
         (a)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval
issued under the provisions of this chapter in cases where there has been any
false statement or misrepresentation as to the material facts in the
application or plans on which the permit or approval was based; and
         (b)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon
determination by the Floodplain Administrator that the construction, erection,
alteration, repair, moving, demolition, installation or replacement of the
structure for which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in
conformity with, the provisions of this chapter.
      (14)   Inspect sites for compliance, and for all new and/or substantially
improved buildings constructed in the SFHA, inspect before, during and after
construction. Authorized town officials shall have the right to enter and
inspect properties located in the SFHA.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 9-12-2011)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 154.40 GENERALLY REQUIRED STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs and known flood-prone areas, the following provisions are
required.
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use
of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage below the FPG.
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, utility meters and other service facilities shall be located at/
above the FPG or designed so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components below the FPG. Water and sewer pipes, electrical and
telephone lines, submersible pumps and other water-proofed service facilities
may be located below the FPG.
   (F)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (G)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate the infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (H)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (I)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvement to a structure
in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the requirements
of “new construction” as contained in this chapter.
   (J)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvement to a structure
that is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall be
undertaken only if said nonconformity is not furthered, extended or replaced.
   (K)   Whenever any portion of the SFHA is authorized for use, the volume of
space which will be occupied by the authorized fill or structure below the BFE
shall be compensated for and balanced by an equivalent volume of excavation
taken below the BFE. The excavation volume shall be at least equal to the
volume of storage lost (replacement ratio of one-to-one) due to the fill or
structure.
      (1)   The excavation shall take place in the floodplain and in the same
property in which the authorized fill or structure is located.
      (2)   Under certain circumstances, the excavation may be allowed to take
place outside of, but adjacent to, the floodplain, provided that the excavated
volume will be below the regulatory flood elevation, will be in the same
property in which the authorized fill or structure is located, will be
accessible to the regulatory floodwater, will not be subject to ponding when
not inundated by floodwater and that it shall not be refilled.
      (3)   The excavation shall provide for true storage of floodwater, but
shall not be subject to ponding when not inundated by floodwater.
      (4)   The fill or structure shall not obstruct a drainageway leading to
the floodplain.
      (5)   The grading around the excavation shall be such that the excavated
area is accessible to the regulatory floodwater.
      (6)   The fill or structure shall be of a material deemed stable enough
to remain firm and in place during periods of flooding and shall include
provisions to protect adjacent property owners against any increased runoff or
drainage resulting from its placement.
      (7)   Plans depicting the areas to be excavated and filled shall be
submitted prior to the actual start of construction or any site work; once site
work is complete, but before the actual start of construction, the applicant
shall provide to the Floodplain Administrator a certified survey of the
excavation and fill sites demonstrating that the fill and excavation comply
with this chapter.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 9-12-2011) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.41 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   In addition to the requirements of §
154.40 of this chapter, all structures to be located in the SFHA shall be
protected from flood damage below the FPG.
      (2)   This building protection requirement applies to the following
situations:
         (a)   Construction or placement of any new structure having a floor
area greater than 400 square feet;
         (b)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure:
            1.   Where the cost of the addition or improvement equals or
exceeds 50% of the value of the existing structure (excluding the value of the
land); or
            2.   With a previous addition or improvement constructed since the
community’s first floodplain ordinance.
         (c)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged structure where the
cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure (excluding the value of the
land) before damage occurred;
         (d)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site
for more than 180 days;
         (e)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new
manufactured home on an existing site. This chapter does not apply to returning
the existing manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage; and
         (f)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive loss structure.
   (B)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest
floor, including basement, at or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood
elevation). Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a
structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of
floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of division (D)
below.
   (C)   Nonresidential construction.
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial or nonresidential structure (or manufactured home) shall either have
the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above the FPG (two feet
above the base flood elevation) or be flood-proofed to or above the FPG. Should
solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a structure, openings
sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of floodwaters shall be
provided in accordance with the standards of division (D) below.
      (2)   Structures located in all “A Zones” may be flood-proofed in lieu of
being elevated if done in accordance with the following.
         (a)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify
that the structure has been designed so that below the FPG, the structure and
attendant utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the
effects of the regulatory flood. The structure’s design shall take into account
flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures and impacts
from debris or ice. Such certification shall be provided to the official as set
forth in §
154.27(B)(10) of this chapter.
         (b)   Flood-proofing measures shall be operable without human
intervention and without an outside source of electricity.
   (D)   Elevated structures. 
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvements of elevated structures
shall have the lowest floor at or above the FPG.
      (2)   (a)   Elevated structures with fully enclosed areas formed by
foundation and other exterior walls below the flood protection grade shall be
designed to preclude finished living space and designed to allow for the entry
and exit of floodwaters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on
exterior walls.
         (b)   Designs must meet the following minimum criteria:
            1.   Provide a minimum of two openings located in a minimum of two
exterior walls (having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area);
            2.   The bottom of all openings shall be not more than one foot
above the exterior grade or the interior grade immediately beneath each
opening, whichever is higher;
            3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or
other coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of
floodwaters in both directions;
            4.   Openings are to be not less than three inches in any direction
in the plane of the wall. This requirement applies to the hole in the wall,
excluding any device that may be inserted, such as a typical foundation air
vent device;
            5.   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to
allow for parking for vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator);
            6.   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms;
            7.   The interior grade of such enclosed area shall be at an
elevation at or higher than the exterior grade; and
            8.   Where elevation requirements exceed six feet above the highest
adjacent grade, a copy of the legally recorded deed restriction prohibiting the
conversion of the area below the lowest floor to a use or dimension contrary to
the structure’s originally approved design shall be presented as a condition of
issuance of the final certificate of occupancy.
   (E)   Structures constructed on fill. A residential or nonresidential
structure may be constructed on a permanent land fill in accordance with the
following.
      (1)   The fill shall be placed in layers not greater than one foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the
Standard or Modified Procter Test method.
      (2)   The fill should extend at least ten feet beyond the foundation of
the structure before sloping below the FPG.
      (3)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap or bulkheading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be not steeper than three horizontal to one vertical.
      (4)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
      (5)   The top of the lowest floor, including basements, shall be at or
above the FPG.
   (F)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles to be installed or substantially
improved on a site for more than 180 days must meet one of the following
requirements.
      (1)   (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor shall be at or above the FPG and securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse and lateral movement.
         (b)   This requirement applies to all manufactured homes to be placed
on a site:
            1.   Outside a manufactured home park or subdivision;
            2.   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
            3.   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
            4.   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which
a manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as a result of a flood.
      (2)   (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated so that the lowest
floor of the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or
other foundation elevations that are not less than 36 inches in height above
grade and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to
resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
         (b)   This requirement applies to all manufactured homes to be placed
on a site in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision that has not
been substantially damaged by a flood.
      (3)   Manufactured homes with fully enclosed areas formed by foundation
and other exterior walls below the flood protection grade shall be designed to
preclude finished living space and designed to allow for the entry and exit of
floodwaters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior
walls as required for elevated structures in division (D) above.
      (4)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame or
foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (5)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site shall either:
         (a)   Be on site for less than 180 days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and READY FOR HIGHWAY USE (defined as being on
its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect-
type utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached additions);
or
         (c)   Meet the requirements for “manufactured homes” as stated in this
section.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 9-12-2011) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.42 SUBDIVISION PROPOSAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities,
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions) which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five acres.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals shall minimize development in the SFHA and/
or limit density of development permitted in the SFHA.
   (F)   All subdivision proposals shall ensure safe access into/out of the
SFHA for pedestrians and vehicles (especially emergency responders).
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 9-12-2011) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.43 CRITICAL FACILITY STANDARDS.
   The construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent
possible, located outside the limits of the SFHA. The construction of new
critical facilities shall be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible
alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA
shall have the lowest floor elevated to or above the FPG at the site. Flood-
proofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances
will not be displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes elevated
to or above the FRG shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent
possible.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 9-12-2011) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.44 IDENTIFIED FLOODWAY STANDARDS.
   (A)   Located within SFHAs, established in §
154.07 of this chapter, are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an
extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters, which carry debris
and potential projectiles and has erosion potential. If the site is in an
identified floodway, the Floodplain Administrator shall require the applicant
to forward the application, along with all pertinent plans and specifications,
to the state’s Department of Natural Resources and apply for a permit for
construction in a floodway. Under the provisions of I.C. 14-28-1, a permit for
construction in a floodway from the state’s Department of Natural Resources is
required prior to the issuance of a local building permit for any excavation,
deposit, construction or obstruction activity located in the floodway. This
includes land preparation activities such as filling, grading, clearing, paving
and the like undertaken before the actual start of construction of the
structure. However, it does exclude non-substantial additions or improvements
to existing (lawful) residences in a non-boundary river floodway. (I.C. 14-28-
1-26 allows for the construction of non-substantial additions or improvements
to residences in a non-boundary river floodway without obtaining a permit for
construction in the floodway from the state’s Department of Natural Resources.
Please note that if fill is needed to elevate an addition above the existing
grade, prior approval (construction in a floodway permit) for the fill is
required from the state’s Department of Natural Resources.)
   (B)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until a
permit (when applicable) has been issued by the state’s Department of Natural
Resources granting approval for construction in the floodway. Once a permit for
construction in a floodway has been issued by the state’s Department of Natural
Resources, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local floodplain
development permit, provided the provisions contained in §§
154.40 to
154.47 of this chapter have been met. The floodplain development permit cannot
be less restrictive than the permit for construction in a floodway issued by
the state’s Department of Natural Resources. However, a community’s more
restrictive regulations (if any) shall take precedence.
   (C)   No development shall be allowed which, acting alone or in combination
with existing or future development, will increase the regulatory flood more
than fourteen-hundredths (0.14) of one foot.
   (D)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill (including
levees), the town shall submit the data and request that the Federal Emergency
Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 9-12-2011) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.45 IDENTIFIED FRINGE STANDARDS.
   If the site is located in an identified fringe, then the Floodplain
Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit provided the
provisions contained in §§
154.40 to
154.47 of this chapter have been met. The key provision is that the top of the
lowest floor of any new or substantially improved structure shall be at or
above the FPG.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 9-12-2011) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.46 SFHAS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION AND/OR FLOOWAY/FRINGE
STANDARDS.
   (A)   Drainage area upstream of the site is greater than one square mile.
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area upstream
of the site is greater than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator shall
require the applicant to forward the application, along with all pertinent
plans and specifications, to the state’s Department of Natural Resources for
review and comment.
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
either a permit for construction in a floodway or a floodplain analysis/
regulatory assessment citing the 1% annual chance flood elevation and the
recommended flood protection grade has been received from the state’s
Department of Natural Resources.
      (3)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper permit
for construction in a floodway or floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment
approving the proposed development, a floodplain development permit may be
issued, provided the conditions of the floodplain development permit are not
less restrictive than the conditions received from the state’s Department of
Natural Resources and the provisions contained in §§
154.40 to
154.47 of this chapter have been met.
   (B)   Drainage area upstream of the site is less than one square mile.
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area upstream
of the site is less than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator shall
require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the limits of
the floodplain and 1% annual chance flood elevation for the site.
      (2)   Upon receipt, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
floodplain development permit, provided the provisions contained in §§
154.40 to
154.47 of this chapter have been met.
   (C)   Total cumulative effect. The total cumulative effect of the proposed
development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated development,
will not increase the regulatory flood more than fourteen hundredths (0.14) of
one foot nor increase flood damages or potential flood damages.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 9-12-2011) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.47 FLOOD-PRONE AREA STANDARDS.
   All development in known flood-prone areas not identified on FEMA maps, or
where no FEMA-published map is available, shall meet general standards as
required per §
154.40 of this chapter.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 9-12-2011) Penalty, see §
154.99
VARIANCE PROCEDURES
§ 154.60 VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD ESTABLISHED.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals, as established by the Town Council, shall hear
and decide appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 154.61 DUTIES OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD.
   The Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged an error in any
requirement, decision or determination is made by the Floodplain Administrator
in the enforcement or administration of this chapter. Any person aggrieved by
the decision of the Board may appeal such decision to the County Circuit Court.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 154.62 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   In passing upon such applications, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall
consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards
specified in other sections of this chapter and:
   (A)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
   (B)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
   (C)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
   (D)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
   (E)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
   (F)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
   (G)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
   (H)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
   (I)   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment of
transport of the floodwaters at the site; and
   (J)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including the maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems and streets and
bridges.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 154.63 CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variances shall only be issued when there is:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship; and
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public or
conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
   (B)   No variance for a residential use within a floodway subject to §§
154.44 or
154.46(A) of this chapter may be granted.
   (C)   Any variance granted in a floodway subject to §§
154.44 or
154.46(A) of this chapter will require a permit from the state’s Department of
Natural Resources.
   (D)   Variances to the provisions for flood hazard reduction of §
154.41 of this chapter may be granted only when a new structure is to be
located on a lot of one-half acre or less in size, contiguous to and surrounded
by lots with existing structures constructed below the flood protection grade.
   (E)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (F)   Variances may be granted for the reconstruction or restoration of any
structure which is individually listed on the National Register of Historic
Places or the state’s Register of Historic Sites and Structures.
   (G)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the
elevation to which the lowest floor is to be built and stating that the cost of
the flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from
the reduced lowest floor elevation (see §
154.64 of this chapter).
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency or
the state’s Department of Natural Resources upon request (see §
154.64 of this chapter).
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 154.64 VARIANCE NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
      (2)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the office of the County Recorder and shall be recorded in a
manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator will maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance, and report such variances
issued in the community’s biennial report submission to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 154.65 HISTORIC STRUCTURES.
   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum to preserve the historic character and design of
the structure.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 154.66 SPECIAL CONDITIONS.
   Upon consideration of the factors listed in §§
154.60 to
154.65 of this chapter and the purposes of this chapter, the Board of Zoning
Appeals may attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems
necessary to further the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit in the SFHA or
failure to comply with the requirements of a floodplain development permit or
the conditions of a variance as set out in this chapter shall be deemed to be a
violation of this chapter. All violations shall be considered a common nuisance
and be treated as such in accordance with the provisions of the town’s Zoning
Code.
      (1)   All violations shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding $500.
      (2)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the
violation continues to exist.
   (B)   The town’s Planning Commission shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages, and therefore,
may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall prevent the town from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 9-12-2011)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING
Section
   
155.01   Zoning Code adopted by reference
§ 155.01 ZONING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The town’s Zoning Code as adopted by Ord. 17-2021, together with any
amendments thereto, is hereby adopted by reference and enforceable as if herein
set out in full.
(Ord. 17-2021, passed - -)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cite Code Section
I.C. Cite           Code Section
1-1-1-5             10.09
1-1-1-7             10.05
1-1-1-8             10.18
1-1-6-1             10.13
5-14-1.5-1 et seq.  30.21
5-14-1.5-5(d)       30.21
5-22                33.01
8-1.5-3-1 et seq.   51.004
8-1.5-3-4(a)(11)    51.002
8-1.5-5             55.01 to
                    55.04
8-23-4              94.07
9-18.1-5-5          94.13
9-21-9-3            73.017
9-21-9-4            73.017
9-22-1              94.03
9-22-1-7            94.09
9-22-1-8            94.09
9-22-1-15—9-22-1-194.04
9-22-1-19           94.09
9-22-1-30           94.12
9-24                73.050
9-25-4-4            73.019
13-20-9             50.01
14-8-2-185          73.035
14-28-1             154.44
14-28-1-26          154.44
14-28-4             154.02
15-17-6             91.043
16-32-3-1.5         91.003
22-9-1-4 et seq.    90.02
22-9-6-1            90.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.    90.01
22-9.5-2-2          90.02
22-9.5-2-3          90.02
22-9.5-2-4          90.02
22-9.5-2-8          90.02
22-9.5-2-9          90.02
22-9.5-2-11         90.02
22-9.5-2-13         90.02
22-9.5-3 et seq.    90.10
22-9.5-3            90.03
22-9.5-4-8          90.11
22-9.5-5            90.02
22-9.5-5-1          90.03
22-9.5-6            90.02;
                    90.11
24-4-19-13          114.20
26-2-7              33.02
33-36-2-1 et seq.   34.01
34-13-3-4           91.074
35-45-4-1           113.07
36-1-2              152.99
36-1-3-8(10)        52.999
36-5-2-5            30.03
36-7-2-7            31.45
36-7-4              154.02
36-7-14             31.02
36-7-14.5           31.60
36-8-3-20           32.08
36-8-6              32.05
36-10-3             96.28
36-10-3-24          96.28
36-10-3-27          96.28
502-1-9(f)          32.08
                    
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2024 Code
Prior Code      2024 Code
1.01            10.01
1.02            10.02
1.03            10.04
1.04            10.07
1.05            10.08
1.06            10.16
1.07            10.06
1.09            10.99
1.10            10.99
1.12            10.17
2.01            10.11
2.02            10.11
2.03            10.11
2.04            10.11
2.05            10.11
2.06            10.11
2.07            10.11
2.08            10.11
2.09            10.11
2.10            10.11
2.11            10.11
2.12            10.11
2.13            10.11
2.14            10.11
2.15            10.11
2.16            10.11
3.02            10.10
3.03            10.10
3.04            10.10
3.05            10.10
3.06            10.10
3.07            10.10
3.08            10.10
3.09            10.10
3.10            10.10
3.11            10.10
3.12            10.10
3.13            10.10
3.14            10.10
3.15            10.10
3.16            10.10
3.17            10.10
3.18            10.10
3.19            10.10
3.20            10.10
3.21            10.10
4.01            30.40
4.02            30.42
4.03            30.41
4.04            30.43
4.05            30.44
10.01           30.20
10.02           30.21
10.03           30.21
10.04           30.22
10.05           30.23
10.06           30.24
10.07           30.25
10.08           31.30
10.09           31.01
10.10           31.31
10.11           30.26
10.12           30.27
10.13           30.45
11.01           30.01
11.02           30.02
11.03           30.03
11.04           30.03
11.05           30.03
11.06           30.03
11.07           30.04
11.08           30.05
11.09           30.06
11.10           30.06
11.11           30.07
11.13           30.09
11.14           32.02;
                32.03
11.15           30.08
13.01           31.46
13.02           31.46
13.03           31.46
14.01           31.15
14.02           31.15
14.03           31.15
14.04           31.15
14.05           31.15
14.06           31.15
14.07           31.15
14.08           31.15
14.09           31.15
14.10           31.15;
                31.99
15.01           32.04
15.02           32.04
15.03           32.01
15.04           32.06
15.05           32.07
15.50           32.08
15.51           32.08
15.52           32.08
15.53           32.08
16.01           70.106
16.03           32.05
16.04           32.05
16.05           32.05
16.06           32.05
16.07           32.05
16.08           32.05
16.09           32.05
16.10           32.05
16.11           32.05
17.01           96.25
17.02           96.26
17.03           96.26
17.04           96.27
17.05           96.28
17.06           96.29
18.01           32.21
18.02           32.22
18.03           32.23
18.04           32.24
18.05           32.24
18.06           32.22
18.51           32.20
18.52           32.26
18.53           32.25
18.54           32.27
20.01           31.45
20.02           31.45
20.03           31.45
20.05           31.45
21.01           33.45
21.02           33.47
21.03           33.48
21.04           33.49
21.05           33.46
21.06           33.50
21.07           33.51
21.08           33.46
40.01           114.01
40.02           114.02
40.03           114.99
40.04           114.03
40.05           114.04
40.06           114.05
40.07           114.06
40.08           114.07
Ch. 41          Ch. 110, Appx. A
Ch. 42          Ch. 115, Appx. A
42.01           115.02;
                115.04
42.02           115.05
42.03           115.06
42.04           115.07
42.05           115.03
42.06           115.01;
                115.99
Ch. 43          Ch. 111, Appx. A;
                Ch. 111, Appx. B
43.01           111.01
43.02           111.02
43.03           111.03
43.04           111.04
43.05           111.05
43.06           111.06
43.07           111.07
43.08           111.09
43.09           111.10
43.10           111.11
43.11           111.12
43.12           111.13
43.13           111.08
43.14           111.14
43.15           111.15
43.16           111.16
43.17           111.17
43.18           111.18
43.19           111.99
                Ch. 117, Appx. A;
Ch. 44          Ch. 117, Appx. B;
                Ch. 117, Appx. C
44.01           117.01
44.02           117.02
44.03           117.08
44.04           117.03
44.05           117.04
44.06           117.06
44.07           117.09
44.08           117.10
44.09           117.05
44.10           117.11
44.11           117.07
44.12           117.12
44.13           117.13
44.14           117.14
44.15           117.15
Ch. 45          Ch. 112, Appx. A;
                Ch. 112, Appx. B
45.01           112.01
45.02           112.04
45.03           112.05
45.04           112.02
45.05           112.03
45.06           112.99
46.01           90.01
46.02           90.02
46.03           90.03
46.04           90.04
46.05           90.05
46.06           90.06
46.07           90.07
46.08           90.10
46.09           90.11
47.01           92.01
47.02           92.02
47.03           92.03
47.05           92.04
47.06           92.05
47.07           92.99
47.08           92.06
48.01           150.01
48.02           150.01
48.03           150.01
48.04           150.01
48.05           150.01
48.06           150.99
49.01           116.01
49.02           116.02
49.03           116.03
50.01           113.01
50.02           113.02
50.03           113.03
50.04           113.07
50.06           113.04
50.07           113.08
50.08           113.05
50.09           113.09
50.10           113.10
50.11           113.11
50.12           113.06
50.13           113.13
50.14           113.14
50.15           113.15
50.16           113.16
50.17           113.12
50.18           113.17
50.19           113.18
50.20           113.19
50.21           113.99
50.22           113.20
60.01           70.095
60.02           70.096
60.03           70.102
60.04           70.104
60.05           70.100
60.06           70.103
60.07           70.105
60.08           70.098
60.09           70.097
60.10           70.101
61.01           70.001
61.02           70.099
61.03           70.002
61.04           70.004
61.05           70.003
61.06           70.025
61.07           70.028
61.08           70.029
61.09           70.005
61.10           71.02
61.11           71.03
61.12           71.05
61.13           71.04
61.14           71.06
61.15           71.13
61.16           71.14
61.17           71.51
61.18           71.65
61.19           71.01
61.20           71.52
61.21           71.28
61.22           71.07
61.23           71.08
61.24           71.09
61.25           71.34
61.26           71.27
61.27           70.026
61.28           70.027
61.29           71.36
61.30           71.35
61.31           71.33
61.32           70.011
61.33           73.001
61.34           70.006
61.35           71.29
61.36           Ch. 75, Schd. I
61.38           Ch. 75, Schd. II
61.39           Ch. 75, Schd. III
61.40           Ch. 75, Schd. IV
61.41           Ch. 75, Schd. V
61.42           Ch. 75, Schd. VII
61.43           Ch. 75, Schd. VI
Ch. 61, Schd. A Ch. 75, Schd. I
Ch. 61, Schd. B Ch. 75, Schd. II
Ch. 61, Schd. C Ch. 75, Schd. III
Ch. 61, Schd. D Ch. 75, Schd. IV
Ch. 61, Schd. E Ch. 75, Schd. V
Ch. 61, Schd. F Ch. 75, Schd. VII
Ch. 61, Schd. G Ch. 75, Schd. VI
62.01           72.15
62.02           72.16
62.03           72.21
62.04           72.19
62.05           72.18
62.06           72.17
62.07           72.22
62.08           72.20
62.09           72.23
62.10           72.25
62.11           72.24
62.12           72.40
62.13           72.41
62.14           72.42
62.15           72.99
62.16           72.01
63.01           95.05
63.02           95.05
63.03           95.05
63.04           95.03
64.01           74.01
64.02           74.02
64.03           74.04
64.04           74.05
64.05           74.03
64.06           74.06
64.07           74.07
64.08           74.08
64.09           74.09
64.10           73.090
65.01           70.060;
                70.061
65.02           70.063
65.03           70.062
65.04           70.999
66.01           70.075
66.02           70.077
66.03           70.076
66.04           70.079
66.05           70.080
66.06           70.078
66.07           70.081
66.08           70.999
67.01           73.065
67.02           73.067
67.03           73.068
67.04           73.069
67.05           73.070
67.06           73.071
67.07           73.072
67.08           73.073
67.09           73.074
67.10           73.075
67.11           73.076
67.12           73.078
67.13           73.066
67.14           73.079
67.15           73.077
67.16           73.091
67.17           73.999
69.01           73.035;
                73.999
70.01           50.01
70.02           50.03
70.03           50.04
70.04           50.08
70.05           50.07
70.06           50.09
70.07           50.06
70.08           50.05
70.09           50.10
70.10           50.12
                Ch. 91, Appx. A;
                Ch. 91, Appx. B;
Ch. 71          Ch. 91, Appx. C;
                Ch. 91, Appx. D;
                Ch. 91, Appx. E
71.01           91.001
71.02           91.020
71.03           91.025
71.04           91.007
71.05           91.021
71.06           91.022
71.07           91.023
71.08           91.002
71.09           91.004
71.10           91.006
71.11           91.043
71.12           91.042
71.13           91.056
71.14           91.041
71.15           91.003
71.16           91.024
71.17           91.058
71.18           91.005
71.19           91.057
71.20           91.070
71.21           91.071;
                91.999
71.22           91.072
71.23           91.073;
                91.999
71.24           91.074
71.25           91.075
71.26           91.076
71.27           91.078
71.28           91.077
71.29           91.055
71.30           91.040
71.31           91.999
72.01           94.01
72.02           94.02
                94.03;
72.03           94.05;
                94.07
72.05           94.12
72.06           94.99
73.01           95.01
73.02           95.02
73.03           95.03
73.04           95.99
73.05           95.04
73.06           95.08
73.07           95.06
73.08           95.07
73.09           95.99
75.01           152.31
75.02           152.30
75.03           152.32
75.04           152.33
75.05           152.34
75.06           152.35
76.01           32.40
76.02           32.41
76.03           32.43
76.04           32.44
76.05           32.42
76.10           32.45
76.30           32.99
77.01           152.01
77.02           152.02
77.03           152.03
77.04           152.04
77.05           152.05
77.06           152.06
77.07           152.07
77.08           152.08
77.09           152.09
77.10           152.10
77.11           152.11
77.12           152.12
77.13           152.13
77.14           152.14
77.15           152.15
77.16           152.16
77.17           152.99
90.01           151.25
90.02           151.26
90.03           151.27
90.04           151.28
Ch. 91          Ch. 151, Appx. B
91.01           151.40
91.02           151.41
91.03           151.42
91.04           151.44
91.05           151.45
91.06           151.43
Ch. 92          Ch. 151, Appx. A
92.01           151.01
92.02           151.02
92.03           151.04
92.04           151.05
92.05           151.07
92.06           151.06
92.07           151.03
92.08           151.08
92.09           151.09
92.10           151.10
Ch. 100         Ch. 53, Appx. A
100.02          53.140
103.01          53.110
103.02          53.111
103.03          53.112
103.04          53.113
103.05          53.114
103.06          53.115
103.07          53.116
103.08          53.117
103.09          53.118
103.10          53.119
103.11          53.120
103.12          53.121
103.13          53.122
103.14          53.123
103.15          53.124
103.16          53.125
103.17          53.126
103.18          53.127
103.19          53.128
103.20          53.129
                Ch. 52, Appx. B;
Ch. 104         Ch. 52, Appx. C;
                Ch. 52, Appx. D;
                Ch. 52, Appx. E
104.01          52.002
104.02          52.004
104.03          52.053
104.04          52.003
104.05          52.052
104.06          52.020
104.07          52.001
104.08          52.005
104.09          52.022
104.10          52.021
104.11          52.050
104.12          52.023;
                52.999
104.13          52.024
104.14          52.054
104.15          52.027
104.16          52.051
104.17          52.028;
                52.999
104.19          52.030
104.20          52.031
104.21          52.032
104.22          52.033
104.24          52.034
104.25          52.025
104.26          52.037
104.28          52.036
104.29          52.026;
                52.999
104.30          52.029
104.31          52.006
104.32          52.035
104.33          52.038
104.51          52.065
104.52          52.066
104.53          52.067
104.54          52.068
104.55          52.069
104.56          52.070
104.57          52.071
104.58          52.999
Ch. 105         Ch. 51, Appx. A
106.01          97.45
106.02          97.46
106.03          97.47
106.04          97.48
106.05          97.49
106.06          97.50
106.07          97.51
106.08          97.01
106.09          97.02
106.10          97.04
106.11          97.05
106.12          97.09
106.13          97.30
106.14          97.07
106.15          97.10
106.16          97.11
106.17          97.03
106.18          97.13
106.19          97.12
106.20          97.14
106.21          97.31
106.22          97.06
106.23          97.16
106.24          97.17
106.25          97.18
106.26          97.15
107.01          55.03
107.02          55.01
107.03          55.02
107.04          55.02
107.05          55.04
                
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     96.03;
8-2020   - -         96.04;
                     96.25 to
                     96.30
17-2021  - -         155.01
1-88     2-22-1988   94.05;
                     94.99
                     92.01 to
2-88     3-28-1988   92.06;
                     92.99
1-89     1-23-1989   31.02
3-89     5-8-1989    72.25;
                     72.99
                     50.01;
                     50.03;
4-89     5-8-1989    50.04;
                     50.07 to
                     50.09
5-89     5-8-1989    117.01 to
                     117.15
11-89    8-28-1989   31.60
                     97.01 to
                     97.05;
                     97.07;
                     97.09 to
12-89    9-11-1989   97.11;
                     97.13;
                     97.30;
                     97.45 to
                     97.51
                     50.01;
17-89    1-22-1990   50.03 to
                     50.09
13-90    12-10-1990  117.06
4-91     5-28-1991   91.057
                     97.15 to
5-91     8-26-1991   97.17;
                     97.31
                     73.077;
9-91     11-11-1991  73.091;
                     73.999
11-91    11-11-1991  97.31
                     32.40 to
10-91    12-9-1991   32.45;
                     32.99
                     50.01;
4-92     6-22-1992   50.03 to
                     50.10
6-92     8-10-1992   30.06
                     91.001 to
                     91.007;
                     91.020 to
                     91.025;
                     91.040 to
10-92    11-9-1992   91.043;
                     91.055 to
                     91.058;
                     91.070 to
                     91.078;
                     91.999
16-92    12-28-1992  30.03
1-93     2-22-1993   32.08
2-93     2-22-1993   97.30
13-93    7-26-1993   153.01 to
                     153.17
20-93    9-24-1993   97.31
21-93    11-22-1993  72.01;
                     94.01
2-94     4-25-1994   150.01;
                     150.99
4-94     6-27-1994   33.02
5-96     3-25-1996   97.16
                     52.065 to
12-96    9-9-1996    52.071;
                     52.999
4-97     8-11-1997   97.30
1-98     2-9-1998    30.01;
                     30.03
6-98     6-22-1998   33.01
16-99    9- -1999    55.01 to
                     55.04
3-00     5-8-2000    97.31
                     32.20;
1-2001   4- -2001    32.25 to
                     32.27
                     113.01 to
2-2001   5-23-2001   113.20;
                     113.99
                     152.01 to
4-2001   8-27-2001   152.16;
                     152.99
6-2002   8-26-2002   73.035;
                     73.999
7-2002   8-26-2002   152.30 to
                     152.35
6-2003   6-23-2003   150.03
11-2003  10-13-2003  72.99
2-2004   4-12-2004   97.31
6-2006   - -2006     52.024;
                     52.054
3-2006   5-8-2006    97.16
5-2006   6-26-2006   32.02;
                     32.03
7-2007   9-24-2007   97.02;
                     97.04
3-2008   5-27-2008   152.05
5-2008   6-9-2008    97.18
1-2009   2-23-2009   92.03
                     53.001 to
                     53.004;
                     53.015 to
                     53.020;
                     53.035 to
                     53.042;
                     53.055 to
                     53.068;
                     53.080 to
                     53.096;
                     53.140 to
                     53.150;
                     53.165;
                     54.001 to
                     54.007;
                     54.020 to
7-2010   11-22-2010  54.025;
                     54.040 to
                     54.043;
                     54.055 to
                     54.061;
                     54.075 to
                     54.081;
                     54.095 to
                     54.108;
                     54.120;
                     54.121;
                     54.135 to
                     54.143;
                     54.155 to
                     54.157;
                     54.170 to
                     54.172;
                     54.999
                     154.01 to
                     154.14;
                     154.25 to
                     154.27;
4-2011   9-12-2011   154.40 to
                     154.47;
                     154.60 to
                     154.66;
                     154.99
9-2011   12-27-2011  50.10
                     34.01 to
                     34.05;
                     34.20;
                     34.21;
1-2012   5-29-2012   72.99;
                     73.999;
                     74.99;
                     110.99;
                     117.99
                     97.04;
7-2012   8-13-2012   152.32;
                     152.35
7-2013   8-26-2013   152.31;
                     152.35
9-2013   9-9-2013    70.097
10-2013  10-15-2013  96.03;
                     96.04
1-2014   2-10-2014   150.02
                     114.20;
3-2014   2-24-2014   Ch. 114, Appx. A;
                     Ch. 114, Appx. B
4-2014   2-24-2014   50.11
7-2014   4-28-2014   32.04
                     97.14;
6-2014   5-12-2014   97.16;
                     97.30;
                     97.31
                     34.05;
                     34.20;
                     34.21;
                     70.007 to
                     70.010;
                     70.012;
                     70.040 to
                     70.048;
                     70.999;
                     71.02;
                     71.10 to
                     71.12;
                     71.25;
                     71.26;
                     71.30 to
                     71.32;
                     71.50;
                     71.53;
                     71.66;
8-2014   7-28-2014   71.99;
                     73.002;
                     73.050;
                     73.051;
                     73.999;
                     Ch. 75, Schd. I;
                     Ch. 75, Schd. II;
                     Ch. 75, Schd. III;
                     Ch. 75, Schd. IV;
                     Ch. 75, Schd. V;
                     Ch. 75, Schd. VI;
                     Ch. 75, Schd. VII;
                     93.01;
                     93.02;
                     93.99;
                     96.01;
                     96.02;
                     96.05 to
                     96.12;
                     96.99
10-2014  9-22-2014   Ch. 76, Schd. I
1-2015   5-11-2015   110.01 to
                     110.16
7-2015   6-22-2015   95.08
9-2015   10-26-2015  91.004
10-2015  11-23-2015  52.050;
                     52.051
11-2015  11-23-2015  50.07
1-2016   3-14-2016   150.04
4-2016   7-11-2016   33.30
                     52.024;
                     52.054;
                     53.112 to
6-2016   7-25-2016   53.116;
                     53.142 to
                     53.145;
                     151.03
8-2016   11-14-2016  97.07;
                     97.08
5-2017   4-24-2017   50.11;
                     50.99
                     51.001 to
                     51.015;
                     51.030 to
                     51.039;
                     51.050 to
                     51.058;
                     51.070 to
                     51.072;
14-2017  10-10-2017  51.074 to
                     51.079;
                     51.091;
                     51.115 to
                     51.119;
                     51.999;
                     Ch. 51, Appx. B;
                     Ch. 51, Appx. C;
                     Ch. 51, Appx. D;
                     Ch. 51, Appx. E
3-2018   4-9-2018    96.04
4-2018   4-9-2018    97.30;
                     97.31
                     90.01 to
5-2018   7-23-2018   90.11;
                     90.99
                     90.01 to
5a-2018  7-23-2018   90.11;
                     90.99
12-2018  11-26-2018  Ch. 51, Appx. F
                     51.071;
                     51.072;
                     51.117;
                     Ch. 51, Appx. B;
13-2018  2-25-2019   Ch. 51, Appx. C;
                     52.024;
                     52.051;
                     53.165;
                     Ch. 53, Appx. B;
                     55.05
                     51.090 to
2-2019   2-25-2019   51.100;
                     51.999
6-2019   5-28-2019   97.07
                     53.038;
                     53.055;
                     53.057;
                     53.060;
3-2019   8-12-2019   53.065;
                     53.068;
                     53.092;
                     53.140;
                     53.151;
                     53.999
16-2019  10-28-2019  150.04
17-2019  12-30-2019  97.30
9-2020   8-24-2020   51.116;
                     52.050
                     97.03;
13-2020  10-13-2020  97.30;
                     97.31
                     94.01 to
3-2021   5-24-2021   94.14;
                     94.99
                     50.01 to
4-2021   5-24-2021   50.10;
                     50.99
9-2021   5-24-2021   Ch. 53, Appx. B
10-2021  8-9-2021    53.057;
                     54.120
14-2021  9-27-2021   52.023
4-2022   6-13-2022   Ch. 52, Appx. A
                     51.071 to
6-2022   6-27-2022   51.074;
                     Ch. 51, Appx. C;
                     Ch. 51, Appx. D
9-2022   9-12-2022   33.15
11-2023  11-13-2023  97.14;
                     97.30
                     73.015—
02-2023  11-27-2023  73.024;
                     73.999
3-2024   4-8-2024    31.47
6-2024   5-28-2024   50.09
                    
 
