BROOKSTON, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2021 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 3-2020, passed 5-27-2020
State legislation current through 2020 Indiana Legislative Service, Pamphlet
No. 3
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION
CHAPTER 10:  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes,
titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Town of
Brookston Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified
ordinances”, or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04  CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or subsection.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters, or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning,
application, or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05  RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town Council.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council.
      COUNTY. White County, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads, and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver, and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      TOWN. Town of Brookston, Indiana.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing, or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06  SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a statute stating that the provisions of an act are
severable as provided in division (B) above does not affect the operation of
division (B) above with respect to that act.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority, or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties, or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority, or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers, and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10  REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday, or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture, or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture, or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12  LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15  SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section.  Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. 
Example: 
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.  Example:
      § 39.01  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
§ 10.16  PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into, or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   TOWN ORGANIZATION
      
31.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
32.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
CHAPTER 30:  TOWN ORGANIZATION
Section
   
30.01   At-large members of the Town Council
   
30.02   Redevelopment Commission
§ 30.01  AT-LARGE MEMBERS OF THE TOWN COUNCIL.
   (A)   Town legislative body districts for the purpose of conducting
elections of town officers are hereby abolished.
   (B)   All members of the Town Council shall be elected at-large.
   (C)   This section shall become effective upon passage thereof.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall file a copy of this section with the County
Circuit Court Clerk not later than 30 days after the adoption of this section.
(Ord. 4, 2006, passed 10-11-2006)
§ 30.02  REDEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   The town hereby creates a Department of Redevelopment under I.C. 36-7-
14, controlled by the Brookston Redevelopment Commission as a separate
corporate body and as an instrumentality of the town.
   (B)   The Commission is created to:
      (1)   Investigate, study, and survey areas needing redevelopment within
the town;
      (2)   Investigate, study, determine and, to the extent possible, combat
the causes of area needing redevelopment;
      (3)   Promote the use of the land in the manner that best serves the
interest of the town and its inhabitants;
      (4)   Cooperate with departments and agencies of the town and other
governmental entities; public instrumentalities; and public corporate bodies
created by state law in the manner that best serves the purposes of I.C. 36-7-
14;
      (5)   Make findings and reports of its activities under I.C. 36-7-14, and
keep those reports open to inspection by the public at the offices of the
Department;
      (6)   Select and acquire the areas needing redevelopment to be
redeveloped under I.C. 36-7-14;
      (7)   Replan and dispose of the areas needing redevelopment in the manner
that best serves the social and economic interests of the town and its
inhabitants; and
      (8)   Perform any other purposes permitted by I.C. 36-7-14.
   (C)   The Brookston Redevelopment Commission shall be composed of five
commissioners, three of whom shall be appointed by the President of the Town
Council, and two appointed by the Town Council. Each Commissioner shall serve
for one year from the first day of January after his or her appointment and
until his or her successor is appointed and has been qualified, except that the
original Commissioners shall serve from the date of their appointment to the
first day of January in the second year after their appointment. The President
of the Town Council shall also appoint a non-voting advisor to the Commission
who must be a member of the Frontier School Board or an individual recommended
by the Frontier School Board, who shall serve for a term of two years and until
a successor is appointed.
   (D)   The Commission shall adopt by-laws which shall govern its officers and
its conduct of meetings and hearings consistent with I.C. 36-7-14.
(Ord. 2017-4, passed 9-13-2017)
CHAPTER 31:  FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Procurement of supplies
   
31.02   Invoices of bills
   
31.03   Mileage rate
   
31.04   Value for fixed asset inventory
   
31.05   Issuance and use of town credit card
   
31.06   Materiality policies and procedures for reporting material losses
   
31.07   Internal control standards
Funds
   
31.15   Sewage and Wastewater Treatment Utility Funds
   
31.16   Town Police Department Gift Fund
   
31.17   LOIT Special Distribution Fund
Funds
   
31.15   Sewage and Wastewater Treatment Utility Funds
   
31.16   Town Police Department Gift Fund
Purchasing Agent and Agency
   
31.30   Purchasing agency and purchasing agents
   
31.31   Publication of notices
   
31.32   Purchase procedure
   
31.33   Requests for proposals
   
31.34   Request for specifications
   
31.35   Special purchases
   
31.36   Receiving offers
   
31.37   Purchase of services
   
31.38   Petroleum products
   
31.39   Contracts for sand, gravel, asphalt paving materials, or crushed stone
   
31.40   Purchase orders and equipment leases
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01  PROCUREMENT OF SUPPLIES.
   (A)   The Town Council is hereby designated as the purchasing agency for the
town, with all of the powers and duties authorized under I.C. 5-22. The Town
Clerk-Treasurer and the Superintendent of the Town Street and Utility
Departments are hereby designated as purchasing agents. The purchasing agency
may also designate in writing additional purchasing agents necessary.
   (B)   The purchasing agent may purchase supplies with an estimated cost of
less than $25,000 on the open market without inviting or receiving quotes for
bids.
   (C)   It is hereby determined that each agency and/or department of the town
may purchase services in whatever manner the purchaser determines to be
reasonable.
   (D)   Supplies manufactured in the United States shall be specified for all
purchases and shall be purchased unless the town determines:
      (1)   The supplies are not manufactured in the United States in
reasonable available quantities;
      (2)   The price of the supplies manufactured in the United States exceeds
by an unreasonable amount the price of available and comparable supplies
manufactured elsewhere;
      (3)   The quality of the supplies manufactured in the United States is
substantially less than the quality of comparably priced available supplies
manufactured elsewhere; or
      (4)   The purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States is not
in the public interest.
   (E)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after July 1,
1998.
(Ord. 9, 1998, passed 6-24-1998)
§ 31.02  INVOICES OF BILLS.
   (A)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer may make claim payments in advance of a
Council allowance for the following types of expenses as per I.C. 36-5-4-12:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from:
         (a)   The U.S. government; or
         (b)   An agency or a political subdivision of the U.S. government.
      (2)   License fees or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   Federal grant programs if:
         (a)   Advance funding is not prohibited; and
         (b)   The contracting party provides sufficient security for the
amount advanced.
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance agreements or service agreements;
      (8)   Lease agreements or rental agreements;
      (9)   Principal and interest payments on bonds;
      (10)   Payroll;
      (11)   State, federal, and county taxes;
      (12)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances; and
      (13)   Expenses described in an ordinance.
   (B)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer may make claim payments in advance of a
Council allowance to avoid late charges or penalties.
   (C)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer may make investments from all town funds in
advance of Council allowance.
   (D)   This section shall be in effect and full force after its passage and
signing by the Town Council.
(Ord. 1, 1996, passed 6-12-1996)
§ 31.03  MILEAGE RATE.
    Employees may be reimbursed for authorized town-related mileage at the same
rate as approved by the Internal Revenue Service for deductible business miles
at the time of travel.
(Ord. 6, 2008, passed 8-13-2008; Ord. 7-2017, passed 10-11-2017)
§ 31.04  VALUE FOR FIXED ASSET INVENTORY.
   (A)   Any item having a value of less than $5,000 shall not be necessary to
include in the fixed asset inventory.
   (B)   This section shall be in full force and effect starting January 1,
2005, and after its passage and signing the Town Council.
(Ord. 3, 2005, passed 3-9-2005)
§ 31.05  ISSUANCE AND USE OF TOWN CREDIT CARD.
   (A)   Credit card issuance.
      (1)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall be authorized to make application
for town business credit cards for the purchase of town goods or services,
subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer may obtain town business credit cards from a
credit card company or bank.
      (3)   The town credit cards so issued shall have a maximum credit limit
of $1,500.
   (B)   Credit card use policies and procedures.
      (1)   When not in use, the credit cards shall be secured in the office of
the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   Accounts payable vouchers filed in connection with the use of the
credit cards shall be prepared and submitted by the Clerk-Treasurer for
processing within 72 hours of use and shall be properly itemized and documented
as provided in I.C. 5-11-10 before being approved and paid. The charge card
account will be paid in full every billing cycle. Improperly itemized and
documented items as well as all interest, carrying charges or penalties shall
be the personal responsibility of the person using the card. Signed charge
slips showing a total charge only, with no itemization of items purchased, are
not acceptable. It is the responsibility of the Clerk-Treasurer to obtain
proper itemized receipts.
      (3)   The town credit cards may only be issued to:
         (a)   Clerk-Treasurer;
         (b)   Utility/Street Superintendent;
         (c)   Utility/Street Deputy Superintendent;
         (d)   Town Marshal.
      (4)   (a)   Town credit cards may only be used for the following
authorized charges:
            1.   Purchases of goods or services;
            2.   Travel expenses on town business for hotel/motel room, and
meals excluding gratuity.
         (b)   Credit card charges shall not include alcoholic beverages, room
service, in-room movies, cash advances, and non-business or personal expenses
of any kind.
      (5)   Receipts that do not meet audit requirements, including charges
that include the imposition of sale taxes for which the town is otherwise
exempt, are the responsibility of the person using the card. No town employee
or other elected official shall be authorized to use the town credit card.
      (6)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be immediately notified if a credit card
is lost or stolen, and the Clerk-Treasurer shall immediately thereafter notify
the Town Board of any credit card that is lost or stolen. If a credit card is
lost due to the negligence on the part of the person using the card, then that
person shall be responsible for any and all expenses incurred using the lost
card.
(Ord. 1, 2016, passed 2-10-2016)
§ 31.06  MATERIALITY POLICIES AND PROCEDURES FOR REPORTING MATERIAL LOSSES.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby endorses the Clerk-Treasurer’s Directive,
attached to Ordinance 6-2016, passed April 13, 2016, regarding a policy on
materiality and process for reporting material losses.
   (B)   The Town Council calls upon the Clerk-Treasurer and all town
officials, employees, and agents to enforce and comply with said policy on
materiality and process for reporting material items and to report as required
noteworthy to the Town Oversight Committee or the full Town Council.
   (C)   The Town Council directs its Oversight Committee to monitor, as it
deems necessary, compliance with the policy on materiality and process for
reporting material items and report noteworthy items to the full Town Council.
   (D)   The Town Council asks the Clerk-Treasurer to advise the Town Council
of any changes in the policy on materiality and process for reporting material
items.
(Ord. 6-2016, passed 4-13-2016)
§ 31.07  INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   The town adopts as policy the internal control standards as set forth by the
Indiana State Board of Accounts Uniform Internal Control Standards for Indiana
Political Subdivisions Manual as expressly written and published by the Indiana
State Board of Accounts in September 2015, and as amended from time to time. In
order to implement these standards, the Clerk-Treasurer shall certify in
writing that personnel as defined in statute have received the required
training to comply with the policy. Employees who fail to comply with this
policy are subject to discipline, including but not limited to termination of
their employment.
(Ord. 10-2016, passed 9-14-2016)
FUNDS
§ 31.15  SEWAGE AND WASTEWATER TREATMENT UTILITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town shall be the custodian of all funds
belonging to and/or associated with the Town Municipal Waste Disposal System
and shall be deposited as follows in division (B) below.
   (B)   All gross income and revenue shall be set aside and deposited,
expended, and used only in the manner and order as follows.
      (1)   Sewer Operation and Maintenance Fund. All funds will be deposited
to the Operation and Maintenance Fund. From this Fund, transfers will be made
to several special fund accounts. The balance is to be used to pay the
necessary cost of the reasonable and proper operation and maintenance of the
Sewage Treatment Plant, including any taxes required to be paid.
      (2)   Sewer Sinking Fund. A Sewer Sinking Fund is hereby created to
receive from the Sewer Operation and Maintenance Fund a monthly transfer in the
sum sufficient to pay the outstanding loan indebtedness owed by the Town
Municipal Sewage Utility to The Farmers State Bank of the town, (currently in
the sum of $1,811.30 per month) and to pay said sum to said bank as required by
the promissory note dated November 24, 1991 evidencing said indebtedness.
      (3)   Sewer Depreciation Fund. There is hereby created a Sewer
Depreciation Fund into which the sum of $120 per month shall be deposited from
the Sewer Operation and Maintenance Fund to be used for the purpose of paying
the costs of repairing or replacing any damage to the sewage treatment system,
and for making extensions or improvement to the system.
      (4)   Debt Service Reserve Fund. A Debt Service Reserve Fund is hereby
created, into which the sum of $21,735 shall be deposited from the Sewer
Sinking Fund, which sum equals one year’s payment of the above referred to
outstanding loan indebtedness owed by the Town Municipal Sewage Utility to The
Farmers State Bank of the town. Said amount shall remain in said Fund until
said outstanding loan indebtedness is paid in full, and shall be used only for
the payment of said loan indebtedness in the event the above Sewer Sinking Fund
is inadequate at any time for any such payment.
   (C)   (1)   The town shall by ordinance establish, maintain, and collect
reasonable, just, and equitable rates and charges for facilities and services
afforded and rendered by said sewage utility, which shall, to the extent
permitted by law, produce sufficient revenues at all times to pay all the legal
and other necessary expenses incident to the operation of such utility; to
include maintenance costs, operating charges, upkeep, repairs, interest charges
on bonds, or other obligations; to provide the Sewer  Sinking Fund for the
liquidation of any indebtedness; to provide adequate funds to be used as
working capital, as well as funds for making extensions, additions, and
replacements; and also, for the payment of any taxes that may be assessed
against such utility, it being the intent and purpose hereof that such charges
shall produce an income sufficient to maintain such utility property in a sound
physical and financial condition to render adequate and efficient service.
      (2)   The town shall pay like charges for any and all services rendered
by said utility to the town, and all such payments shall be deemed to be
revenues of the utility. Such rates or charges shall, if necessary, be changed
and readjusted from time to time so that the revenues therefrom shall always be
sufficient to meet the expenses of operation and maintenance, and said
requirements of the Sewer Sinking Fund.
   (D)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage and adoption by the Town Council.
(Ord. 6A, 1991, passed 12-30-1991)
§ 31.16  TOWN POLICE DEPARTMENT GIFT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Town Police Department Gift Fund for the
Town Police Department for the receipt of gifts made to such Fund as may be
received from time to time. The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall keep a full and
complete record of all receipts thereto and disbursements made therefrom.
   (B)   Subject to the approval of the Town Council, the monies in such Fund
shall be used for continuing education for the Town Marshal and members of the
Town Police Department.
(Ord. 2, 2002, passed 7-10-2002)
§ 31.17  LOIT SPECIAL DISTRIBUTION FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a LOIT Special Distribution Fund for the
purpose of receipt and account for the restricted portion of the one-time LOIT
special distribution received from the Indiana State Budget Agency and
distributed by the County Auditor, all pursuant to I.C. 6-3.6-9-17.
   (B)   The sources of funding for the newly established fund may include said
distribution and any other funding source not specifically prohibited by law.
This fund shall be subject to the same appropriation process as other municipal
funds.
(Ord. 8-2016, passed 5-11-2016)
PURCHASING AGENT AND AGENCY
§ 31.30  PURCHASING AGENCY AND PURCHASING AGENTS.
   (A)   Pursuant to this subchapter, the Town Council shall serve as the
purchasing agency for the town, including but not limited to, every agency,
board, office, branch, bureau, commission, council, department, or other
establishment.
   (B)   In the performance of its duties as purchasing agency, the Council
hereby designates the following job positions as purchasing agents of the town:
      (1)   Clerk-Treasurer;
      (2)   Superintendent of Streets, Wastewater Treatment Plant, and Water
Utility; and/or
      (3)   Town Marshal.
   (C)   (1)   The purchasing agency is authorized by this subchapter to
prepare and/or direct the preparation of any such specifications. The
purchasing agency shall be responsible for the maintenance of any and all
records relating to such specifications. Except for the small purchase
exception described in §
31.32(A), a purchase order shall be issued for every purchase and shall contain
the specifications for each such purchase, the agency making the purchase, and
the solicitation type.
      (2)   This purchase order shall serve as an index of specifications.
Alternatively, the purchasing agency may utilize specifications prepared by
others as specifications to be utilized by the town.
      (3)   (a)   Specifications prepared by others shall include, but shall
not be limited to, descriptions of property contained in catalogs or other
publications. A specification shall be appropriate and acceptable as long as
the item can be readily identified from a review of the description or any
material or document referenced in such description.
         (b)   Additional considerations for purchasing supplies shall be:
            1.   Purchasing at a fair market value;
            2.   Furnished in a timely manner;
            3.   Minimum standards of quality; and
            4.   Reasonably available quantities.
(Ord. 9-1998, passed 8-12-1998)
§ 31.31  PUBLICATION OF NOTICES.
   (A)   Invitation for bids.
      (1)   All notices of invitation for bids shall be published in accordance
with I.C. 5-3-1 in the News and Review and such other newspapers as desired by
the Town Council.
      (2)   (a)   The Clerk-Treasurer, at the request of the purchasing agent,
shall schedule the publication of notice to provide a reasonable amount of time
for preparation and submission of bids. The notice will be published two times,
at least one week apart.
         (b)   The second publication must occur at least ten days prior to the
date the bids will be opened.
   (B)   Request for proposals.
      (1)   All notices of request for proposals shall be published in
accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 in the News and Review and such other newspapers as
desired by the Town Council.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer, at the request of the purchasing agent, shall
schedule the publication of notice to provide a reasonable amount of time for
preparation and submission of proposals. The notice will be published two
times, at least one week apart. The second publication must occur at least
seven days prior to the date the proposals will be opened.
   (C)   Request for specifications.
      (1)   All notices of request for specifications shall be published in
accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 in the News and Review and such other newspapers as
desired by the Town Council.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer, at the request of the purchasing agent, shall
schedule the publication of notice to provide a reasonable amount of time for
preparation and submission of proposals. The notice will be published two
times, at least one week apart. The second publication must occur at least
seven days prior to the date the proposals will be opened.
   (D)   Electronic notices. Whenever a notice or other material, including
specifications, an invitation for bids, request for proposals or request for
specifications, is sent by mail, the purchasing agent may also send the notice
or other material by electronic means, provided that the transmission of the
information is at least as efficient as mailing the information.
(Ord. 9-1998, passed 8-12-1998)
§ 31.32  PURCHASE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Purchases from $0 to $5,000. May be purchased without purchasing
agency review or approval on the open market without inviting or receiving
quotes or issuing a purchase order.
   (B)   Purchases for $5,001 to $75,000.
      (1)   A purchasing agent may purchase supplies by inviting sealed quotes
from at least three persons known to deal in the lines or classes of supplies
to be purchased.
      (2)   The purchasing agent shall mail an invitation to quote at least
seven days before the time fixed for receiving quotes.
      (3)   If the purchasing agent receives a satisfactory quote, the
purchasing agent shall, after obtaining approval of the purchasing agency,
award a contract to the lowest responsible and responsive bidder for each line
or class of supplies quoted.
      (4)   A purchasing agent may reject all quotes.
   (C)   Purchases over $75,000.
      (1)   The purchasing agent is required to follow the procedure for
competitive bidding for all purchases of supplies over $75,000, and for all
other purchases unless another method is required or authorized.
      (2)   A contract shall be awarded by written notice to the lowest
responsible and responsive bidder. The purchasing agent may reject all bids.
(Ord. 9-1998, passed 8-12-1998)
§ 31.33  REQUESTS FOR PROPOSALS.
   (A)   A purchasing agent may award a contract through a request for
proposals procedure instead of competitive sealed bidding when the purchasing
agency makes a written determination that the use of competitive sealed bidding
is either not practicable or not advantageous to the governmental body.
   (B)   As provided in the request for proposals, or under the rules or
policies established by the town, discussions may be conducted with, and best
and final offers obtained from, responsible offerors who submit proposals
determined to be reasonably susceptible of being selected for an award.
   (C)   A contract shall be awarded to the responsible offeror whose proposal
is determined in writing to be the most advantageous to the town, taking into
consideration price and the other evaluation factors set forth in the request
for proposals. Such contract shall be awarded at a meeting of the governmental
body.
(Ord. 9-1998, passed 8-12-1998)
§ 31.34  REQUEST FOR SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   A request for specifications may be issued if the purchasing agent
makes a written determination that the development of specifications by the
governmental body is not feasible and the purchasing agency approves the use of
a request for specifications.
   (B)   The purchasing agent may discuss proposed specifications with persons
proposing specifications to clarify specification requirements. Persons
proposing specifications must be accorded fair and equal treatment with respect
to any opportunity for discussion and revisions of proposed specifications.
   (C)   The purchasing agent shall present the prepared specifications to the
purchasing agency for their review and approval.
   (D)   The purchasing agency may reject all specifications.
(Ord. 9-1998, passed 8-12-1998)
§ 31.35  SPECIAL PURCHASES.
   A purchasing agent may make a special purchase with the approval of the
purchasing agency:
   (A)   When there exists, under emergency conditions, a threat to public
health, welfare, or safety;
   (B)   When there exists a unique opportunity to obtain supplies or services
at a substantial savings to the governmental body;
   (C)   At an auction;
   (D)   Of data process contracts or license agreement for software programs
or supplies or services, when only one source meets the using agency’s
reasonable requirements;
   (E)   When:
      (1)   The compatibility of equipment, accessories, or replacement parts
is a substantial consideration in the purchase; and
      (2)   Only one source meets the using agency’s reasonable requirements.
   (F)   When purchase of the required supplies or services under another
purchasing method provided under I.C. 5-22 would seriously impair the
functioning of the using agency;
   (G)   When the purchasing agency has solicited for a purchase under other
methods provided for in I.C. 5-22 and has not received a responsive offer;
   (H)   For the evaluation of supplies or a system containing supplies for any
of the following reasons:
      (1)   To obtain functional information or comparative data; or
      (2)   For a purpose that in the judgment of the purchasing agent, may
advance the long-term competitive position of the governmental body.
   (I)   When the market structure is based on price but the governmental body
is able to receive a dollar or percentage discount of the established price; or
   (J)   From a public utility if the price is a negotiated price that
considers the results of an independent appraisal obtained by the public
utility and a separate independent appraisal obtained by the purchasing agency.
(Ord. 9-1998, passed 8-12-1998)
§ 31.36  RECEIVING OFFERS.
   (A)   Opening offers.
      (1)   Bids received in response to an invitation for bids must be opened
publicly at a meeting of the Town Council, in the presence of at least one or
more witnesses, at the time and place designated in the invitation for bids.
      (2)   Proposals received in response to a request for proposals must be
opened so as to avoid disclosure of the contents to competing offerors during
the process of negotiation. Proposals received in response to a request for
specifications may be opened as specified in the request for specifications.
   (B)   Electronic receipt of offers.
      (1)   The purchasing agency may receive electronic offers in response to
an invitation to bid, request for proposals, or request for specifications.
      (2)   The purchasing agency may only receive an electronic offer if:
         (a)   The solicitation includes the procedure for the electronic
transmission of the offer; and
         (b)   The purchasing agency receives the offer on a fax machine or
other system with a security feature that protects the contents of an
electronic offer with the same degree of protection as provided to an offer not
transmitted electronically.
   (C)   Correction of bids.
      (1)   An offeror may correct inadvertent errors in a bid up to the time
at which bids will be opened by supplementing the erroneous bid and submitting
a revised bid.
      (2)   A bidder may not supplement an inadvertently erroneous bid after
the time at which the bids were opened.
   (D)   Cancellation of solicitation. The purchasing agency may cancel a
solicitation or reject all offers.
   (E)   Delay of opening of offers.
      (1)   When the purchasing agency makes a written determination that it is
in the town’s best interests, offers may be opened after the time stated in the
solicitation.
      (2)   The date, time, and place of the rescheduled opening must be
announced at the time and place of the originally scheduled opening.
   (F)   Modification and termination of contracts.
      (1)   Price adjustments.
         (a)   The purchasing agent may include provisions to permit price
adjustments in a purchase contract.
         (b)   The following provisions for price adjustments may be included.
            1.   Price adjustments must be computed by agreement on a fixed
price adjustment before the beginning of the pertinent performance or as soon
after the beginning of performance as possible.
            2.   Price adjustments must be computed by costs attributable to
the events or situations under such clauses with adjustment of profit or fee,
all as specified in the contract or subsequently agreed upon.
            3.   Price adjustments must be computed by costs attributable to
the events or situations under such clauses with adjustment of profit or fee,
all as specified in the contract or subsequently agreed upon.
            4.   Price adjustments must be computed in such other manner as the
contracting parties may mutually agreed upon.
            5.   In the absence of agreement by the parties, price adjustments
must be computed by a unilateral determination by the governmental body of the
costs attributable to the events or situations under such clauses with
adjustment of profit or fee, all as computed by the governmental body in
accordance with applicable rules adopted by the governmental body.
      (2)   Adjustments in time of performance. The purchasing agency may
include provisions in a purchase contract concerning adjustments for time of
performance under the contract.
      (3)   Unilateral rights of town. The purchasing agent may include in a
purchase contract provisions dealing with the unilateral right of the town to
order changes in the work within the scope of the contract or to order
temporary work stoppage or delays in time of performance.
      (4)   Quantity variations. The purchasing agent may include in a purchase
contract provisions dealing with variations between the estimated quantities of
work in a contract and the actual quantity delivered.
   (G)   Award of contract to an offeror other than the lowest offeror. If,
after soliciting for offers, the purchasing agent awards a contract for a line
or class of supplies or services, or any combination of lines or classes, to an
offeror other than the lowest offeror, the purchasing agent must make a written
determination stating the reasons for awarding a contract to that offeror.
(Ord. 9-1998, passed 8-12-1998)
§ 31.37  PURCHASE OF SERVICES.
   Each town agency, department, office, and county official shall invite
quotes to be submitted to the town purchasing agency for all purchases of
services, unless the purchasing agency determines, in writing, that no quote is
necessary or makes a determination that an alternate method should be used.
(Ord. 9-1998, passed 8-12-1998)
§ 31.38  PETROLEUM PRODUCTS.
   (A)   A purchasing agent may award a contract for petroleum products to:
      (1)   The lowest responsible and responsive offeror; or
      (2)   All responsible and responsive offerors.
   (B)   (1)   If a contract is awarded to all responsible and responsive
offerors, the purchasing agent must purchase the petroleum product from the
lowest responsible and responsive offeror.
      (2)   The contract must provide that the offeror from whom the petroleum
products are being purchased shall provide five business days’ written notice
of any change in price.
   (C)   (1)   Upon receipt of the notice, the purchasing agent shall request
current price quotes in writing based upon the terms and conditions of the
original offer as awarded, from all successful responsible and responsive
offerors.
      (2)   The purchasing agent shall record the quotes in a written
memorandum, and shall then purchase the petroleum products from the lowest
offeror, taking into account the price change of the current supplier and the
price quotes of the others.
(Ord. 9-1998, passed 8-12-1998)
§ 31.39CONTRACTS FOR SAND, GRAVEL, ASPHALT PAVING MATERIALS, OR CRUSHED STONE.
   A purchasing agent may award a contract for sand, gravel, asphalt paving
materials, or crushed stone to more than one responsible and responsive offeror
if:
   (A)   The specifications allow for offers to be based upon service to
specific geographic areas; and
   (B)   The contracts are awarded by geographic areas.
(Ord. 9-1998, passed 8-12-1998)
§ 31.40  PURCHASE ORDERS AND EQUIPMENT LEASES.
   Within 30 days after accepting an offer, the purchasing agent shall:
   (A)   Deliver to the successful offeror, either in person or by first class
mail, the original of each purchase order or equipment lease;
   (B)   Retain a copy for the purchasing agent’s records; and
   (C)   File a copy of the purchase order or equipment lease with the Clerk-
Treasurer.
(Ord. 9-1998, passed 8-12-1998)
CHAPTER 32:  PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
   
32.01   Introduction
   
32.02   ADA compliance
   
32.03   Drug-Free Workplace Act
   
32.04   Recruitment policy
   
32.05   Employee conduct and behavior
   
32.06   Employee status
   
32.07   Alterations in employment status
   
32.08   Leave
   
32.09   Holidays
   
32.10   Vacation
   
32.11   Town property
   
32.12   Police Department; points of emphasis
   
32.13   Effective date
   
Appendix A: Americans with Disabilities Act Notice and Grievance Procedure
§ 32.01  INTRODUCTION.
   (A)   It is the intent of the town to supply each department head,
supervisor, and employee with a comprehensive collection of personnel policies
and procedures. These policies and procedures are developed and standardized to
increase understanding, reduce the need of individual decision-making on
matters of town policy, and to establish a consistent manner of enforcement and
fair and equitable treatment of all employees throughout all departments of the
town.
   (B)   It is the responsibility of each department head and/or supervisor to
administer these policies in a consistent and impartial manner.
   (C)   It is the responsibility of every town employee to read and be aware
of the policies and procedures for the town outlined in this chapter.
   (D)   In the interest of good and efficient government and the citizens of
the town, each employee is expected to abide by the rules and policies set
forth by the town, and by his or her department policies.
   (E)   These provisions shall apply uniformly to all employees of the town,
except for the specific provisions which are found to be in conflict with state
or federal law. Specific provisions which are found to be unlawful shall be
struck from these policies and shall not as a result, automatically void any
other provisions contained herein.
   (F)   (1)   The government of the town is charged with, and continues to
maintain, the responsibility and authority to manage and direct, on behalf of
the citizens of the town, the operations and activities of the  town to the
full extent of the law.
      (2)   Such responsibility and authority shall include, but not be limited
to:
         (a)   Directing the work of its employees;
         (b)   Establishing policies;
         (c)   Hiring, promoting, demoting, transferring, assigning, and
retaining employees;
         (d)   Suspending or discharging its employees in accordance with
applicable law;
         (e)   Maintaining the efficiency of public operations;
         (f)   Relieving its employees from duties because of lack of work or
other legitimate reasons; and
         (g)   Taking actions necessary to carry out the mission of the town as
provided by law.
      (3)   Such action may include changes of policy or parts thereof by
deletion, amendment, supplementation, or clarification when deemed pertinent or
constructive to the better operation of the government of the town.
(Ord. 4, 1998, passed 3-25-1998)
§ 32.02  ADA COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   It is the policy of the town, to not exclude qualified
individuals with disabilities from participation in or benefitting from the
services, programs, or activities of the municipality. Also, it is the policy
of this municipality not to discriminate against a qualified individual with a
disability in its job application procedures; the hiring, advancement, or
discharge of employees; employee compensation; job training; and other terms,
conditions, and privileges of employment.
         (b)   It is the intention of this municipality to comply with all
applicable requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act.
      (2)   Members of the public, including individuals with disabilities and
groups representing individuals with disabilities, are encouraged to submit
suggestions to municipal officials as to how the town might better meet the
needs of individuals with disabilities pursuant to its stated policy.
   (B)   (1)   The Town Utility Superintendent is designated as the ADA
Coordinator for the town and is responsible for the town’s compliance with the
ADA.
      (2)   The notice under the Americans with Disabilities Act, a copy of
which is attached hereto as
Appendix A, is adopted as the town notice under the Americans with Disabilities
Act (ADA), and is included in the Town Facilities Transition Plan.
      (3)   The town grievance procedure under the ADA, a copy of which is
attached hereto as
Appendix A, is adopted as the grievance procedure for addressing complaints
alleging discrimination on the basis of disability in the provisions of
services, activities, programs, or benefits by the town.
      (4)   In compliance with federal and state laws as set forth above, the
Town Council resolves to post the required information regarding the ADA
Coordinator. Notice under the ADA and the town grievance procedure under the
ADA on its website and at such other locations as may be determined from time
to time.
      (5)   This division (B) shall be in full force and effect from and after
its adoption.
(Ord. 4, 1998, passed 3-25-1998; Ord. 14, 2012, passed 12-12-2012)
§ 32.03  DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE ACT.
   (A)   All grantees receiving grants, including cooperative agreements, from
any federal agency must certify that they will provide a drug-free workplace,
or, in the case of a grantee who is an individual, certify to the agency that
his or her conduct of grant activity will be drug-free. Making the required
certification has been a precondition of receiving a grant from a federal
agency since March 10, 1989.
   (B)   Every grantee, except a state or state agency, is required to make
this certification for each grant. A state or a state agency may elect to make
a single annual certification to each federal agency from which it obtains
grants if the federal agency has designated a central location for submission.
   (C)   The grantee certifies that it will provide a drug-free workplace by:
      (1)   Publishing a policy statement notifying employees that the unlawful
manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or use of a controlled
substance is prohibited in the grantee’s workplace and specifying the actions
that will be taken against employees for violation of such prohibition;
      (2)   Establishing an ongoing drug-free awareness program to inform
employees about:
         (a)   The dangers of drug abuse in the workplace;
         (b)   The grantee’s policy of maintaining a drug-free workplace;
         (c)   Any available drug counseling, rehabilitation, and employee
assistance programs; and
         (d)   The penalties that may be imposed upon employees for drug abuse
violations occurring in the workplace.
      (3)   Making it a requirement that each employee to be engaged in the
performance of the grant be given a copy of the statement required by division
(C)(1) above;
      (4)   Notifying the employee in the statement required by division (C)(1)
above that, as a condition of employment under the grant, the employee will:
         (a)   Abide by the terms of the statement; and
         (b)   Notify the employer in writing of any criminal drug statute
conviction for a violation occurring in the workplace no later than five
calendar days after such conviction.
      (5)   Notifying the agency in writing within ten calendar days after
receiving notice under division (C)(4)(b) above from an employee or otherwise
receiving actual notice of such conviction; and
      (6)   Taking one of the following actions, within 30 calendar days of
receiving notice under division (C)(4)(b) above, with respect to any employee
who is so convicted:
         (a)   Taking appropriate personnel action against such an employee, up
to and including termination; or
         (b)   Requiring such employee to participate satisfactorily in a drug
abuse assistance or rehabilitation program approved for such purposes by a
federal, state, or local health, law enforcement, or other appropriate agency.
(Drug-Free Workplace Act, being 41 U.S.C. §§ 701 et seq.)
(Ord. 4, 1998, passed 3-25-1998)
§ 32.04  RECRUITMENT POLICY.
   (A)   Responsibility. Recruitment of employees for positions in various
departments in the  town shall be the responsibility of the appropriate
department head and the Town Council. All applicants, regardless of race,
religion, age, sex, national origin, or political background shall be given
equal consideration for all positions with the town. When recruitment details
and procedures are completed, applications shall be presented to the Town
Council for study and final approval.
   (B)   Disqualification of applicants.
      (1)   The department head may present in writing to the Town Council his
or her recommendation and his or her reasons as to the employment of an
applicant. The Town Council may reject any application which indicates that the
applicant does not possess the minimum qualifications required for that
particular position.
      (2)   Applications should also be rejected if the applicant:
         (a)   Is physically unqualified to perform the duties of that
particular position;
         (b)   Is addicted to drugs or intoxicants;
         (c)   Has made false statements in his or her application; or
         (d)   Has been a former employee dismissed for a disciplinary reason.
   (C)   Filing and disposal of applications. The head of the department and
the Clerk-Treasurer shall preserve for at least three years, all applications
of applicants who fail the examination, who are permanently rejected, or who
fail to report to work after being appointed. The application and other
materials of all other applicants shall remain on file for three years and may,
at the end of this period, be destroyed by the head of the department or the
Clerk-Treasurer. Applications of those persons who are appointed to a position
with the town shall be placed in the employee’s file.
   (D)   Medical examination required. As a condition of employment, any person
applying for employment with the town, shall submit to a medical examination by
the physician approved or appointed by the Town Council. Any employee of the
town may be required to submit to such a medical examination on an annual
basis.
   (E)   Nepotism.
      (1)   The town will comply with state statues on nepotism.
      (2)   (a)   It is necessary and desirous to adopt a policy of conduct
with regard to town employee nepotism and in contracting with relatives of
elected officials by the town in order to continue to provide local government
services to its residents and to comply with I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21,
respectively effective July 1, 2012.
         (b)   On July 1, 2012 the town shall have and implement a nepotism and
a contracting with a unit policy that complies with the minimum requirements of
I.C. 36-1-20.2 (hereinafter “nepotism policy”) and I.C. 36-1-21 (hereinafter
“contracting with a unit by a relative policy”).
         (c)   The town nepotism policy is hereby established effective July 1,
2012 by adopting and incorporating by reference the minimum requirement
provisions of I.C. 36-1-20.2, including all future supplements and amendments
thereto, and making them a part hereof as if fully set forth herein. In
addition, a copy of I.C. 36-1-20.2 in effect on July 1, 2012, is attached
hereto and made a part hereof.
         (d)   The town contracting with a unit by a relative policy is hereby
established effective July 1, 2012, by adopting and incorporating by reference
the minimum requirement provisions of I.C. 36-1-21, and including all future
supplements and amendments thereto, and making them a part hereof as if fully
set forth herein. In addition, a copy of I.C. 36-1-21 in effect on July 1,
2012, is attached hereto and made a part hereof.
         (e)   Both I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21 specifically permit the
town to adopt requirements that are “more stringent or detailed” in the future.
         (f)   A single member of the Town Council cannot act for the Council
to make work assignments, determine compensation, hear grievances, consider
advancement or a performance evaluation of a town employee without prior
authority of a majority vote of the Town Council, and therefor, without such
authority by the majority, he or she will not be in the direct line of
supervision of a  town employee (see I.C. 36-4-6-11 and I.C. 36-5-2-9.4).
         (g)   A single member of any governing body, council, board, or
commission of the town with authority over employees of the town cannot act for
the governing body to make work assignments, compensation, hear grievances,
consider advancement or a performance evaluation without prior authority by a
majority of the governing body, board, or commission, when a statute provides
that a majority is needed to act, and therefor, without such authority by the
majority the single member will not be in the direct line of supervision of a
town employee.
         (h)   All elected and appointed officials and employees of the town
are hereby directed to cooperate fully in the implementation of the policies
created by this division (E)(2) and demonstrating compliance with these same
policies.
         (i)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation,
compliance, and certifications connected with the nepotism policy is a
violation and may result in the discipline, including termination, of an
employee or a transfer from the direct line of supervision or other curative
action. An elected or appointed official of the town who fails to abide by or
cooperate with the implementation, with the compliance, and with mandated
certifications of the nepotism policy may be subject to action allowed by law.
         (j)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation,
compliance, and certifications connected with the contracting with unit by a
relative policy is a violation and may result in the discipline, including
termination, of an employee or a curative action. An elected or appointed
official of the town who fails to abide by or cooperate with the
implementation, with the compliance, and with mandated certifications of the
contracting with unit by a relative policy may be subject to action allowed by
law.
         (k)   The polices created by this division (E)(2) are hereby directed
to be implemented by any of the following actions:
            1.   Posting a copy of this division (E)(2) in its entirety in at
least one of the locations in the town where it posts employer posters or other
notices to its employees;
            2.   Providing a copy of this division (E)(2) to its employees and
elected and appointed officials;
            3.   Providing or posting a notice of the adoption of this division
(E)(2); or
            4.   Any such other action or actions that would communicate the
polices established by this division (E)(2) to its employees and elected and
appointed officials. Upon the taking of any of these actions the policies are
deemed implemented by the town.
         (l)   A copy of the provisions of I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21,
effective July 1, 2012 are annexed hereto made a part hereof and incorporated
herein by reference.
         (m)   Two copies of I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21, and as
supplemented or amended, are on file in the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer
for public inspection as maybe required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
   (F)   Residency requirements.
      (1)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer, Town Superintendent, and Town Marshal
shall reside within the corporate limits of the town, unless for cause shown
the Town Council permits otherwise.
      (2)   All other full-time employees must live within a three-mile radius
of the town limits.
      (3)   Violation of this by any employee shall subject any such employee
to immediate dismissal.
   (G)   Additions to staff. No new job nor additions in any job category shall
be created and added to the staff of any department without approval of the
Town Council.
      (1)   Requests for such shall be substantiated in writing, describing job
qualification requirements, need, and method of financing.
      (2)   The Town Council shall inform the Clerk-Treasurer of action taken
and procedures to follow, if any.
(Ord. 4, 1998, passed 3-25-1998; Ord. 9, 2012, passed - -)
§ 32.05  EMPLOYEE CONDUCT AND BEHAVIOR.
   (A)   Outside employment.
      (1)   All outside employment must be reported to the employee’s
supervisor. If, in the opinion of the supervisor and department head, the
outside employment is interfering with the employee’s duties with the
municipality, the employee shall be asked to resign from one place of
employment. Continued unauthorized outside employment will be cause for
dismissal.
      (2)   Outside employment is expressly prohibited if such employment is
with an individual, company, or corporation that directly transacts business
from which payment is received from the municipality.
   (B)   Alcoholic beverages and controlled substances.
      (1)   Alcoholic beverages, non-prescribed control substances as defined
by state statutory law as from time to time amended, or any other intoxication
substances are not to be consumed during working hours, break periods, or at
any meals when the employee is returning to work after the meal during a
regularly scheduled work shift, or when it is known or should reasonably be
known that the employee will be working in addition to the regularly scheduled
work shift.
      (2)   Any employee reporting to work at any time whose abilities have
been impaired by, or is under the influence of, any alcoholic beverages,
controlled substance, or other intoxicants shall be sent home immediately by
his or her supervisor and shall not be entitled to pay or sick leave for such
day.
      (3)   Violations of either divisions (B)(1) or (B)(2) above will be
regarded as a major rule infraction and will be subject to appropriate
disciplinary action.
   (C)   Anti-sexual harassment.
      (1)   It is the town’s intent to provide a working environment for all
employees that is free from sexual harassment.
      (2)   Sexual harassment is a form of illegal sex discrimination which the
town will not tolerate. Sexual harassment does not refer to occasional
compliments of a socially acceptable nature. It refers to behavior that is
unwelcome, personally offensive, and which interferes with our work
effectiveness. The regulations of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
define unlawful sexual harassment as follows.
 
“Unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other verbal or
physical conduct of a sexual nature constitute sexual harassment when (1)
submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly a term or
condition of employment, (2) submission or rejection of such conduct by an
individual is used as the basis for employment decisions affecting such
individual, or (3) such conduct has the purpose or effect of reasonably
interfering with an individual’s work performance or creating an intimidating,
hostile, or offensive working environment”.
 
      (3)   Examples of the conduct referred in division (C)(2) above, if
unwelcome, may include, but are not limited to: verbal abuse of a sexual
nature; verbal commentaries about an individual’s body; sexually degrading
works used to describe individuals; displays of sexually suggestive objects or
pictures; and using sexually-oriented or degrading gestures or other non-verbal
communications.
      (4)   The town will not condone, permit, nor tolerate sexual harassment
of employees in any manner whatsoever. Persons who engage in such harassment
will be subject to appropriate discipline up to and including termination of
his or her employment.
      (5)   Employees who believe they have been subjected to sexual harassment
should immediately bring it to the attention of their department head, or Town
Council. Similarly, if the employee has any question as to whether certain
conduct is unlawful discrimination or harassment, the employee is encouraged to
speak with either the department hear or Town Council. This is particularly
true when it comes to sexual harassment, where what is offensive to one person
may not be offensive to another. Consequently, it is important for the employee
to let his or her feelings be known.
      (6)   Supervisors or department heads who receive complaints about sexual
harassment or who are made aware of conduct constituting sexual harassment are
required to immediately notify the Town Council.
      (7)   All complaints will be investigated promptly, and the existence and
nature of the employee’s complaint will be disclosed only to the extent
necessary to make a prompt and thorough investigation or as may be necessary to
take appropriate corrective measures. In all cases, the person who initiated
this procedure will be informed of the findings and disposition of the matter
at the conclusion of the investigation. Further, management will ensure that
there is no coercion, retaliation, intimidation, or harassment directed against
any employee who registers a complaint or serves as a witness on behalf of
another employee.
      (8)   The prohibitions against unlawful discrimination and harassment
also may apply to non-employees with whom our employees come into contact in
connection with their employment with us. Consequently, if the employee feels
discriminated against or harassed (sexually or otherwise) by a non-employee,
the employee should use the procedure outlined above.
(Ord. 4, 1998, passed 3-25-1998)
§ 32.06  EMPLOYEE STATUS.
   (A)   Rules.
      (1)   The regularly scheduled work week will be Monday through Friday,
totaling 40 hours per week. Exception: the Town Marshal and Deputies who will
regulate their own schedules with the approval of the Town Council.
      (2)   Operating procedures, functions, and mission will vary from
department to department. Employee qualifications, work plans, and hours of
shifts may vary.
      (3)   In case of overtime for emergency call outs for employees, each
employee will be paid a minimum of one hour; it will be based on time and one-
half. An accumulation of overtime at one and one-half times up to 40 hours of
time off may be added to vacation time, for the utility employees that may earn
overtime. This accumulated time shall be used in the same year earned.
   (B)   Definitions.
      (1)   Full-time employees shall be those employees who are required to
work the prescribed number of hours, or more, per week on a continuing basis.
      (2)   Part-time employees shall be those employees working less than the
prescribed number of hours on a continuing basis.
      (3)   Temporary or seasonal employees shall be those employees scheduled
to work for a limited duration.
      (4)   Probationary employees are those employees who have been employed
as prospective permanent employees who have not yet completed the probation
period established for such employment.
   (C)   Appearance and health.
      (1)   All employees shall attire themselves in a manner that is conducive
to their work and which will not jeopardize the safety of themselves nor other
employees. Furthermore, said attire should not bring embarrassment to the
employee nor employer.
      (2)   A uniform allowance of $225 per full-time utility employee per year
will be allowed. With this uniform allowance, all shirts must have an employee
name and town logo sewn on. To receive this uniform allowance receipts must be
turned in.
      (3)   All employees receiving uniforms or a uniform allowance are
required to wear such uniforms while on duty, unless authorized by the
department head as assigned to special duty.
      (4)   No employee shall report for work if the employee’s personal health
and/or hygiene jeopardizes the health of other employees.
   (D)   Conflict of interest.
      (1)   Employees having financial interest in a company or substantial
investments in a corporation that might benefit from their dealings with the
municipality, shall either divest themselves of such interest or investments or
be dismissed from municipal employment.
      (2)   Failure to report such financial interests to the Town Council
shall be cause for dismissal.
   (E)   Political activity. No employee of the town will use his or her
position and/or time during normal working hours to assist in the campaign of
any political candidate. Political activity by police and firefighters shall be
limited to the restrictions of I.C. 36-8-3-12.
   (F)   Public relations.
      (1)   When dealing with the public personally during telephone
conversations or by correspondence, employees shall do so in a courteous and
professional manner.
      (2)   Excessive complaints of employee discourtesy and/or unprofessional
manner will be investigated and may result in disciplinary action.
   (G)   Generally.
      (1)   Employees of the town are expected to handle their personal
finances, business, and other affairs in such a manner as not to become an
embarrassment to or a burden upon the town.
      (2)   Inaction and inattention to the above may become cause for
investigation.
(Ord. 4, 1998, passed 3-25-1998)
§ 32.07  ALTERATIONS IN EMPLOYMENT STATUS.
   (A)   Demotions. An employee may be demoted to a position of lower class for
which he or she is qualified when:
      (1)   The higher position is abolished, there is a lack of funds, or
another employee returns to work from authorized leave;
      (2)   The employee is not able to perform satisfactorily;
      (3)   An employee voluntarily requests such demotion; and
      (4)   The action is disciplinary.
   (B)   Suspensions.
      (1)   In the interests of good discipline, a department head may
recommend, and the Town Council may approve the suspension, without pay, of a
town employee.
      (2)   An employee who is suspended shall be furnished with a written
statement of the reasons for his or her suspension, and a copy shall be made a
permanent part of his or her employment record. The employee may contest the
suspension.
   (C)   Layoffs.
      (1)   Employees are laid off either because of lack of work or funds or
because of a change in organization of the town’s job force. Separation,
transfer, or demotion due to layoff does not reflect discredit upon an
employee.
      (2)   The procedure for a layoff is as follows.
         (a)   When a need for a layoff arises, the Town Council shall inform
the department head concerned of the number of jobs which shall be vacated in
his or her department.
         (b)   The department head shall recommend to the Town Council the jobs
which he or she thinks should be vacated and shall recommend the employees to
be separated, transferred, or demoted because of layoff.
         (c)   After receiving the recommendations, the Town Council shall
inform the department head of the jobs which are to be vacated, and of the
employees who shall be separated, transferred, or demoted.
   (D)   Layoff plan. These factors as determined by the Town Council shall
govern each departmental
layoff.
      (1)   Temporary employees are to be separated before emergency,
probationary, or permanent employees on each department are separated.
      (2)   Emergency employees are to be separated before probationary or
permanent employees on each department are separated.
      (3)   Probationary employees are to be separated before permanent
employees on each department are separated.
      (4)   If a job of a comparable nature is open, a permanent employee shall
be transferred or demoted rather than separated.
      (5)   Among employees of equal appointment status, ability, and caliber
of past service shall be the primary consideration on selecting employees will
be the last to be transferred, demoted, or separated.
      (6)   If ability and caliber of past service are equal, the employee with
the highest seniority in the department shall be the last to be transferred,
demoted, or separated.
      (7)   SENIORITY means an employee’s length of continuous service with the
town as of his or her last date of hire. If more than one employee has the same
date of hire, then attendance records shall be considered.
      (8)   No new employee may be hired until laid off permanent employees
have been considered for re-employment. Any personnel so laid off shall receive
ten working days’ notice in writing.
   (E)   Voluntary and automatic resignation.
      (1)   An employee should give two weeks’ notice in writing of resignation
to his or her supervisor who shall submit the notice to the department head who
shall submit the notice to the Clerk-Treasurer and the Town Council. A copy
shall be placed in the employee’s personal file.
      (2)   Unexcused failure to return to work at the time specified when a
leave or vacation has been granted shall be considered an automatic
resignation, with the resignation effective the day the employee should have
returned. The employee shall have three days frown scheduled date of return to
report for work and justify his or her absence before automatic resignation
shall take effect, however.
   (F)   Separation.
      (1)   Any employee may be separated from the town’s service for any of,
but not limited to the following causes:
         (a)   Failure to support the welfare of the employing agency;
         (b)   As a result of disciplinary procedures;
         (c)   Lack of work or funds in the employing agency;
         (d)   Resignation;
         (e)   Retirement;
         (f)   Physically unqualified;
         (g)   Failure of a probationary employee to meet the standards
required for continuous employment;
         (h)   Failure to return to work from authorized leave or to report for
work within a three- day work period without a reasonable excuse as determined
by the department head; or
         (i)   Death.
      (2)   The last day that an employee actually worked shall be the
separation date. The department head shall notify the Town Council of the
separation of an employee and the reason for separation, in the event that the
separation is not a result of a proceeding in which the Town Council is
involved and would, therefor, already have been given notice. The department
head shall facilitate the computation of wages and fringe benefits accruing to
the employee.
   (G)   Reinstatement and service credit of separated employees.
      (1)   If it is in the best interest of the town, any separated employee
may be reinstated to fill a vacant job.
      (2)   A former permanent employee who is reinstated within 90 days
following a military leave shall retain all service credit and seniority earned
prior to and during his or her military leave.
      (3)   Any former employee who is reinstated for any reason other than
leave of absence shall be reinstated as a probationary employee and shall lose
all service credit and seniority earned prior to the separation, with the
exception of the time earned with the Public Employees Retirement Fund.
   (H)   Grievance procedures.
      (1)   Any employee who has a grievance shall take it in writing to his or
her department head or supervisor.
      (2)   The department head or supervisor will try to resolve the
grievance. If it cannot be resolved, the department hear or supervisor will
turn the grievance over to the Clerk-Treasurer and the Town Council.
      (3)   The Town Council will set a hearing for such grievance.
      (4)   The Town Council has final decision.
(Ord. 4, 1998, passed 3-25-1998)
§ 32.08  LEAVE.
   (A)   Procedure.
      (1)   Step one. Henceforth, all requests for leave shall state in writing
how and by whom the loss of services will be performed. (Exception: unforeseen
circumstances, illness, and the like.)
      (2)   Step two. Requests shall be submitted by department head to Town
Council for final action.
      (3)   Step three. If granted, details shall be submitted in writing to
Clerk-Treasurer for processing.
   (B)   Sick leaves generally.
      (1)   Each employee will be allowed up to ten days per year for bona fide
sickness or time loss due to injuries not connected with employment, after a
90-day probation period.
      (2)   Employees who resign or are terminated in any way will not be
compensated for accumulated sick time.
      (3)   Sick leave time will not be cumulative and cannot be carried
forward to succeeding year.
   (C)   Extended sick leave.
      (1)   Extended sick leave will apply to full-time employees and be
effective after one year of employment.
      (2)   Upon serious illness with a doctors verification, each employee
will receive two months full pay and one month at one-half pay. After three
months, no compensation will be made by the town.
   (D)   Court and jury leave.
      (1)   Absence from work without loss of pay or benefits for a town
employee officially called to serve on a jury or as a witness in any federal,
state, or local court may be approved by the department head and/or supervisor,
provided a copy of the subpoena and a certificate of service is presented to
the department head and/or supervisor.
      (2)   A claim for court and jury leave must be authorized and approved by
the employees department head and be submitted to the Clerk-Treasurer for
processing. A copy of the subpoena, a certificate of service, and payment
thereof shall be processed with the claim and the difference between the
employee’s normal rate of pay and the jury payment will be paid.
      (3)   Court and jury leave does not apply to the defendant nor plaintiff
of any litigation.
      (4)   It will be the responsibility of the Town Attorney to seek
exemption from duty for an employee if his or her serving jury duty will be
detrimental to the public service because of the loss of services of the
employee.
      (5)   Each department head is responsible for maintaining a permanent
record of absences due to court and jury leave for each employee with a copy
sent to the Clerk-Treasurer to go into the employee’s personnel file.
   (E)   Maternity leave.
      (1)   A full-time employee who becomes pregnant with one year of
continuous service may receive a maternity leave of absence, without pay, of up
to 12 months without loss of seniority.
      (2)   Maternity leave will start only after all vacation leave, sick
leave, or other accumulated leaves have been utilized.
   (F)   Bereavement leave.
      (1)   In the event of death in the family of an employee’s spouse,
parent, children, brother, sister, or other member of household, the employee
shall be granted three working days off with pay to take care of household
adjustments, and to attend funeral services. In the event of death in the
family of an employee’s grandparents, father-in-law, mother-in-law, aunts,
uncles, brother-in-law, or sister-in-law, the employee shall be granted one
working day off with full pay to attend funeral services.
      (2)   A special case may be considered and evaluated if extenuating
circumstances are indicative of extreme or humane need. Details of need for
extension of bereavement leave should be made known (inclusive of estimated
additional time needed beyond the allowed one day) to the department head and
the Council President or his or her designee. Additional bereavement leave may
be granted when such relief is found to be urgent and necessary.
   (G)   Training leave.
      (1)   Employees can obtain training leaves without loss of pay for the
purpose of participating in training that will increase the knowledge or
efficiency of said employees in their positions with the department involved.
      (2)   Department heads should have determined in their planning critical
emphasis areas and select both school and individual accordingly. Thought
should be given to the effect caused by the temporary loss of personnel and its
impact on the overall efficiency and performance of the department.
      (3)   All requests shall be submitted at least two weeks prior to
beginning of leave and shall have the recommendation of the department head and
the approval of the Town Council. Leave shall not exceed three days with pay
unless upon investigation the Town Council determines the merits of such
warrants an extension of time.
      (4)   Departments responsible for the health and safety of the citizens
of the town shall plan vacation, school, or military leave times so that only
one employee will be away from duty during one time period. Requests for
deviation from this policy shall be submitted in writing to the Town Council,
stating reasons and plans for maintaining efficiency and performance level of
the department.
   (H)   Unused leave. Employees who quit or who are terminated in any manner
shall be compensated for unused vacation time.
(Ord. 4, 1998, passed 3-25-1998)
§ 32.09  HOLIDAYS.
   The following days will be considered holidays and no work will be
scheduled: New Year’s Day; Memorial Day; Fourth of July; Labor Day; Veteran’s
Day; Thanksgiving; and Christmas Day.
(Ord. 4, 1998, passed 3-25-1998)
§ 32.10  VACATION.
   (A)   Vacation time for all employees (including Clerk-Treasurer, Police
Department, Superintendent, all operators, and labors) working on a full-time
basis for the town shall be as follows:
      (1)   One week for six consecutive months employment;
      (2)   Two weeks for 12 or more consecutive months employment; or
      (3)   Three weeks for ten years or over with consecutive employment.
   (B)   Employees whose services are terminated will be paid one day for each
month of the year reduced by vacations taken prior to termination. Example: An
employee who qualified for vacation quits March 10 and has taken no vacation
will be paid two days (January and February). An employee who qualified for
vacation quits November 1, and has taken one full week of vacation will be paid
for four days.
   (C)   Vacations will be scheduled at the convenience of the employee so far
as possible. The Superintendent will approve all operators and labors
scheduling.
   (D)   At least three months scheduling should be done by each employee. If
there is a conflict, seniority shall apply.
(Ord. 4, 1998, passed 3-25-1998)
§ 32.11  TOWN PROPERTY.
   (A)   Equipment. All supplies, materials, equipment, and accessories that
are purchased with town funds (in whole or in part) shall always be considered
property of the town.
   (B)   Safety. Safety precautions in the use of all equipment and in all
other actions must be practiced and adhered to at all times. Each employee must
abide by the safety procedures and use of safety equipment instructions
established by his or her respective department head. Failure shall be grounds
for disciplinary action.
   (C)   Purchases. Purchases for the department will be made by the department
head or by one employee only, duly designated in writing to make purchases
within designated limits. All bills shall be submitted to the Clerk-Treasurer
by the department head only.
   (D)   Loans.
      (1)   The lending of tools, materials, or equipment is prohibited except
to adjacent communities for mutual aid by the respective department heads.
      (2)   Since the department head is monetarily responsible for the
aforementioned, the procedures for loans shall be in writing, indication tools
or equipment involved, proposed use, date received, date of possible return,
and signed by the department head and recipient of loan. The transaction will
be completed upon return by written acknowledgment by department head.
      (3)   All tools, materials, and equipment shall be properly marked
indicating the town’s ownership.
   (E)   Maintenance. Any equipment assigned to an operator must be checked for
oil, water, fuel, tires, and the like, by the operator before operating it. If
any equipment or vehicle is not performing correctly, the operator shall notify
the supervisor and shall not move the equipment until it is released by the
supervisor and/or department head.
   (F)   Use of vehicles. Town vehicles shall be used for official business of
the town only and may not be used for private purposes, except where the
employee is on call within the corporation limits. Except for emergency
vehicles, speed limit and motor vehicles statues and ordinances shall be
followed at all times and places. Violation of this division (F) shall
constitute an infraction.
      (1)   All town-owned vehicles and property shall be clearly, neatly, and
visibly marked indicating town and department.
      (2)   Town-owned vehicles shall not be used to transport employees to and
from home.
   (G)   Loitering. Loitering by unauthorized person(s) in or out of any town
property is strictly forbidden.
(Ord. 4, 1998, passed 3-25-1998)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.12  POLICE DEPARTMENT; POINTS OF EMPHASIS.
   (A)   The Police Department is expected to work 90 hours per seven-day
period.
   (B)   Visibility between the hours of 6:00 to 11:00 P.M. during the week.
   (C)   Police cars are to remain in town except for official police business
(such as county or state police requesting assistance; or to Monticello for
court or jail, and the like or for vehicle repairs). The main concern is the
town, if there is any other need to take the car out of town, a request should
be made to the Town Council.
   (D)   Any association memberships will not be considered part of your
working hours. All employees must meet required training hours per year or
loose power or arrest (per I.C. 5-2-1-9).
   (E)   All hours worked will be paid straight time, except approved holidays
will be paid time and one- half.
(Ord. 4, 1998, passed 3-25-1998)
§ 32.13  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in effect and full force after its passage and signing
by the Town Council.
(Ord. 4, 1998, passed 3-25-1998)
APPENDIX A: AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT NOTICE AND GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
In accordance with the requirements of Title II of the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq. (“ADA”), the Town of
Brookston, Indiana, will not discriminate against qualified individuals with
disabilities on the basis of disability in its services, programs, or
activities.
Employment: Town of Brookston, Indiana, does not discriminate on the basis of
disability in its hiring or employment practices and complies with all
regulations promulgated by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
under Title I of the ADA.
Effective Communication: Town of Brookston, Indiana, will generally, upon
request, provide appropriate aids and services leading to effective
communication for qualified persons with disabilities so they can participate
equally in Town of Brookston, Indiana, programs, services, and activities,
including qualified sign language interpreters, documents in Braille, and other
ways of making information and communications accessible to people who have
speech, hearing, or vision impairments.
Modifications to Policies and Procedures: Town of Brookston, Indiana, will make
all reasonable modifications to policies and programs to ensure that people
with disabilities have an equal opportunity to enjoy all of its programs,
services, and activities. For example, individuals with service animals are
welcomed in Town of Brookston, Indiana, offices, even where pets are generally
prohibited.
Anyone who requires an auxiliary aid or service for effective communication, or
a modification of policies or procedures to participate in a program, service,
or activity of the Town of Brookston, Indiana, should contact the office of the
ADA Coordinator, Brookston Utility Superintendent at 765-563-3171, as soon as
possible but no later than one week before the scheduled event.
The ADA does not require the Town of Brookston, Indiana, to take any action
that would fundamentally alter the nature of its programs or services, or
impose an undue financial or administrative burden.
Complaints that a program, service, or activity of the Town of Brookston,
Indiana, is not accessible to persons with disabilities should be directed to
the ADA Coordinator, Brookston Utility Superintendent at 765-563-3171.
Town of Brookston, Indiana, will not place a surcharge on a particular
individual with a disability or any group of individuals with disabilities to
cover the cost of providing auxiliary aids/services or reasonable modifications
of policy, such as retrieving items from locations that are open to the public
but are not accessible to persons who use wheelchairs.
Town of Brookston, Indiana
Grievance Procedure under The Americans with Disabilities Act
This Grievance Procedure is established to meet the requirements of the
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (“ADA”). It may be used by anyone who
wishes to file a complaint alleging discrimination on the basis of disability
in the provision of services, activities, programs, or benefits by the Town of
Brookston, Indiana.
The complaint should be in writing and contain information about the alleged
discrimination such as name, address, phone number of complainant, and
location, date, and description of the problem. Alternative means of filing
complaints, such as personal interviews or a tape recording of the complaint
will be made available for persons with disabilities upon request.
The complaint should be submitted by the grievant and/or his or her designee as
soon as possible but no later than 60 calendar days after the alleged violation
to:
Max Eldridge, Brookston Utility Superintendent
ADA Coordinator
Town of Brookston, Indiana
205 E. Third Street
P.O. Box 238
Brookston, IN 47923
765-563-3171
Within 15 calendar days after receipt of the complaint, ADA Coordinator or his
or her designee will meet with the complainant to discuss the complaint and the
possible resolutions. Within 15 calendar days of the meeting, ADA Coordinator
or his or her designee will respond in writing, and where appropriate, in a
format accessible to the complainant, such as large print, Braille, or audio
tape.
The response will explain the position of the Town of Brookston, Indiana. and
offer options for substantive resolution of the complaint.
If the response by ADA Coordinator or his or her designee does not
satisfactorily resolve the issue, the complainant and/or his or her designee
may appeal the decision within 15 calendar days after receipt of the response
to the Brookston Town Council, c/o the Brookston Clerk-Treasurer, 205 E. Third
Street, P.O. Box 238, Brookston, IN 47923.
Within 15 days after receipt of the appeal, the Brookston Town Council will
meet with the complainant to discuss the complaint and possible resolutions.
Within 15 calendar days after the meeting the Brookston Town Council will
respond in writing, and, where appropriate, in a format accessible to the
complainant, with a final resolution of the complaint.
All written complaints received by ADA Coordinator or his or her designee,
appeals to the Brookston Town Council, and responses from these two offices
will be retained by the Brookston Clerk-Treasurer for at least three (3) years.
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES
      
51.   SEWER
      
52.   GARBAGE
      
53.   CROSS-CONNECTIONS
CHAPTER 50:  UTILITIES
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Customer application and deposit policy for the town
   
50.02   Cost adjustment factors applicable to electric utility rates
   
50.03   Rates and charges for large power consumers
   
50.04   Net energy metering
Uniform Construction and Utility Service Requirements
   
50.15   Objectives
   
50.16   Annexation and utility extension policy
   
50.17   Statement of policy for utility service
   
50.18   Compliance with this chapter and other ordinances
   
50.19   Plan submittal and review procedure
   
50.20   Construction and inspection procedures
   
50.21   Easement requirements
   
50.22   Time limits for construction approval
   
50.23   Change in plans
   
50.24   As-built certifications
   
50.25   Town acceptance of utilities
   
50.26   Submittal, review, and inspection fees
Rate Schedules
   
50.40   Light Department residential schedule
   
50.41   Electric service rates
   
50.42   Waterworks system rates
   
50.43   Wastewater disposal system rates
   
Appendix A: Cost Adjustment Factor
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01  CUSTOMER APPLICATION AND DEPOSIT POLICY FOR THE TOWN.
   (A)   (1)   New or moving customers applying for utility service shall do so
in person at the Clerk-Treasurer’s office, and shall put down a cash deposit
before any utility service will be rendered.
      (2)   When submitting the application for utility service, the applicant
will be asked for proof of identification (valid driver’s license or picture
identification). This is necessary to aid in the collection process, if
necessary, and to eliminate possible falsification of whom is actually living
at the service address. The Clerk-Treasurer will make a copy of the proof
document and attach it to the application form.
      (3)   If the applicant is renting, the property owner shall sign the
landlord certification section of the application. The Clerk-Treasurer will
sign the application which acknowledges receipt of the completed application
and compliance with the policy as stated herein. A copy will then be mailed to
the property owner advising him, her, or them that his, her, or their tenant
has applied for utility service, and that the property owner shall be liable
for any unpaid and delinquent water, sewer, or electric utility service to the
property, and that sewer liens may also be levied upon the property.
      (4)   After reviewing the application for completeness, the Clerk-
Treasurer will determine the deposit requirement, and review computer, and/or
other records to verify that the applicant has no previous history of being
past due and for any previous account balances that may still be due.
      (5)   Upon payment of any required cash deposit, a receipt will be issued
to the applicant.
   (B)   Utility deposits are hereby established as follows.
 
Utility                 Deposit Amount
Electric deposit        $100
Water and sewer deposit $150
 
   (C)   (1)   When a previously terminated account (owner-occupied or renter)
returns to establish a new account after a period of time has elapsed, any
delinquent utility bills owed by said new account applicant, including amounts
previously written off as bad debts, must be reimbursed before a new account
will be established.
      (2)   If an active account (owner-occupied or renter) continually becomes
or remains past due (determined by multiple application of penalty charges
against the account), or service has been disconnected due to nonpayment, a
deposit equal to double the schedule established above may be required for
continuation or reestablishment of service.
   (D)   If an account is disconnected because of nonpayment, the deposit may
be used to pay all existing charges. Upon re-establishing service, a new
deposit is required, the payment of reconnect fees and the payment of any
charges not covered by the deposit shall be paid in full before services will
be restored.
   (E)   Non-sufficient funds check return shall be charged $25.
   (F)   Reconnect fees are in the amount of $50 per utility.
   (G)   Appropriate adjustments may be made to the owner/occupant for billing
errors and/or water leaks. It is the responsibility of the owner/occupant to
notify the Clerk-Treasurer’s office of any such errors and/or leaks. A high
bill due to a water leak of the owner/occupant will be adjusted one time per
calendar year at the request of the owner/occupant.
   (H)   (1)   Cash deposits will be applied to the customer’s final bill after
which the balance, if any, will be refunded. Any balance due after application
of the deposit shall be due and payable on or before the date specified on the
final bill.
      (2)   If a given utility has a deposit balance remaining after the
utility’s charges are satisfied, said balance shall be applied to other utility
charges not so satisfied before any amount of the deposit is refunded. Interest
will not be paid on any part of the deposit.
   (I)   This section shall be effective from and after its passage.
(Ord. 13, 2009, passed 9-9-2009)
§ 50.02  COST ADJUSTMENT FACTORS APPLICABLE TO ELECTRIC UTILITY RATES.
   (A)   The utility is hereby authorized to incorporate into its schedule of
rates and charges a cost adjustment factor in the form similar to that in
Appendix A to this chapter.
   (B)   The utility shall redetermine the cost adjustment factor no less often
than quarterly and submit in the form of an ordinance to this Town Council for
review and approval.
   (C)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage.
(Ord. 2, 2008, passed 2-13-2008)
§ 50.03     RATES AND CHARGES FOR LARGE POWER CONSUMERS.
   (A)   The following rates and charges pertaining to large power customers
(greater than 50kW) are hereby adopted and established for the use of the
service rendered by the Brookston Electric Utility to said large power
customers:
 
Customer Charge (per month) $25.00
Maximum Demand Charge       $4.00 per kW per month
Energy Charge               $0.0730 per kWh per month
 
   (B)   Ordinance No. 11, 2008 shall, in all other respects not inconsistent
herewith, remain in full force and effect including provisions which adopted
rates and charges for residential and commercial customers.
   (C)   The electric utility rates and charges adopted hereby shall become
effective for all bills payable on or after May 1, 2009.
   (D)   This section shall be in full force and effect after its passage.
(Ord. 4, 2009, passed 4-8-2009)
§ 50.04  NET ENERGY METERING.
   (A)   The town encourages interested citizens and businesses to invest in
renewable electric energy generation systems and enter into a net metering
arrangement with the municipal electric utility of the town.
   (B)   Eligible net metering customers include single-phase customers in good
standing that own and operate a renewable generating facility that: (1) has a
nameplate capacity less than or equal to ten kilowatts; (2) is located on the
customer’s premises and is operated by the customer; and (3) is used primarily
to offset all or part of the customer’s own electricity requirements.
   (C)   The Council authorizes the utility to offer net metering to eligible
net metering customers on a first come, first served basis. The utility shall
limit the aggregate amount of net metering facility nameplate capacity from all
eligible net metering customers to one tenth of one percent (0.15%) of the
utility’s most recent peak load.
   (D)   The utility shall measure the difference between the amount of energy
delivered by the utility to the eligible net metering customer and the amount
of energy generated by the eligible net metering customer and delivered to the
utility. If the eligible net metering customer generates more energy than it
consumes in a month, the customer shall receive a bill credit from the utility
for the amount of surplus energy generated. The utility shall not purchase or
wheel power produced by an eligible net metering customer’s facilities.
   (E)   The Net Metering Tariff attached to Ordinance 9-2016, passed June 8,
2016, shall be adopted as the rates, terms and conditions under which the
utility will offer net metering to eligible net metering customers.
   (F)   In accordance with the terms of the attached net metering tariff, the
utility shall enter into an interconnection agreement with the eligible net
metering customer which incorporates technical interconnection requirements and
does not conflict with this section before the net metering facility may be
interconnected with the utility’s system.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to connect or maintain
the connection of a renewable generating facility to the utility’s system
without first executing an interconnection agreement with the utility. Any
person or entity found to be in violation of this section shall be fined not
less than $500, nor more than $2,500 for each such violation, plus costs. In
addition to the foregoing fines and at the utility’s sole discretion, property
where a renewable generating facility is unlawfully connected to the utility’s
system may be disconnected from the utility’s system until an interconnection
agreement is executed between the owner of such property and the utility. Every
day that a violation of this section occurs shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 9-2016, passed 6-8-2016)
UNIFORM CONSTRUCTION AND UTILITY SERVICE REQUIREMENTS
§ 50.15  OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   To guide the future growth and development of the town and to ensure
that public facilities and services are available and will have sufficient
capacity to serve proposed development areas;
   (B)   To establish policy and procedures relating to the annexation of
property to the town and the extension of utilities beyond the corporate limits
of the town;
   (C)   To set forth guidelines and standards for the design, installation,
and inspection of public facilities to serve proposed development areas;
   (D)   To establish that procedures for submittal and review of proposed
development plans including review fees and submittal requirements; and
   (E)   To ensure proposed development for the town is consistent with the
policies and procedures of adjoining jurisdictional areas.
(Ord. 5, 1998, passed 6-10-1998)
§ 50.16  ANNEXATION AND UTILITY EXTENSION POLICY.
   (A)   Where town utilities are extended beyond the current town corporation
limits and prior to rendering water, sewage, or electric utility service to
properties outside the current town corporate limits, the landowner of the
property to be served shall agree to the following:
      (1)   Jointly cooperate with the town to annex the property into the town
corporate limits; or
      (2)   If the property cannot be legally annexed to the town, to enter
into an agreement wherein the landowner and his or her successors in interest
waive their right to object to annexation. The agreement is to be recorded, and
as such will constitute notice to and be binding upon successors in interest to
the real estate described in the agreement.
   (B)   All potential utility customers shall enter into an agreement with the
town (utility service agreement). This agreement describes the terms and
conditions for provision of utility service (water, sanitary, and electric) to
a proposed residential, commercial, or industrial development including any
fees and terms of fee payment.
   (C)   (1)   Extension of water and sanitary sewer lines from the point of
connection to the existing municipal system to and throughout the proposed
development shall be the responsibility of the owner/developer of the
subdivision or addition, and shall be at his or her sole expense.
      (2)   The materials, design, layout, and construction of the proposed
extension of utilities shall be subject to the acceptance and approval of the
Town Board or its authorized representative.
   (D)   In order to facilitate future expansion or development, the town may
require the developer to oversize utility lines or extend utilities through the
proposed development. Costs for oversizing and/or extension beyond the area to
be served by the developer will be the responsibility of the town.
   (E)   Expense and work required for extension of electric utility lines from
the point of connection to and throughout the proposed development shall be
evaluated by the town on a case by case basis with the costs associated
therewith being paid as stipulated by the town.
(Ord. 5, 1998, passed 6-10-1998)
§ 50.17  STATEMENT OF POLICY FOR UTILITY SERVICE.
   This section is prepared as a general statement of policy for connection to
the water, sanitary sewer, and electrical systems of the town. Unusual or
extra-ordinary service conditions may justify additional and/or alternative
requirements.
   (A)   Provisions of sanitary sewer service are conditioned on the acceptance
and usage of the town water and electric systems where such water lines and
electric lines are within reasonable distance as determined by the town.
   (B)   Provisions of water service are conditioned to the acceptance and
usage of the town sanitary sewer and electric systems where such sewer lines
and electric lines are within reasonable distance as determined by the town.
   (C)   Provisions of electric service are conditioned to the acceptance and
usage of the town sanitary sewer and water systems where such sewer lines and
water lines are within reasonable distance as determined by the town.
   (D)   All sanitary sewers and water lines proposed for connection to the
town system shall be constructed of the highest quality state-of-the-art
materials, built with sound construction practices in accordance with the
town’s typical construction guidelines and details, and “10 States Standards”,
all to the acceptability of the Town Council or its authorized representative.
   (E)   Private sanitary sewers and water lines are not generally permitted.
Connection may be allowed for such sewers per direction of the town.
(Ord. 5, 1998, passed 6-10-1998)
§ 50.18  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS CHAPTER AND OTHER ORDINANCES.
   (A)   In addition to the requirements of this chapter, compliance with the
requirements set forth in the zoning, subdivision, and drainage ordinances of
the county; the sewer and water ordinances of the town; and any other
applicable ordinances with respect to submission and approval of preliminary
and final subdivision plats, improvement plans, building and zoning permits,
construction, inspections, appeals and similar matters, and compliance with
applicable state statutes and regulations, shall be required.
   (B)   No sewer or water permits shall be issued for development in the town
or proposed annexation or other service areas (except single-lot, single-family
residences) until the plans for such construction, extension, remodeling,
alteration, or repair have been approved in writing by the Town Council or its
authorized representative. The process for obtaining plan approval is outlined
in §
50.19.
   (C)   No sewer, water, or electric service shall be provided until all
construction is complete and inspected to the satisfaction of the Town Council
or its authorized representative and as-built information is submitted to and
approved by the Town Council or its authorized representative.
   (D)   No utility service, water, sanitary sewer, or electric will be
provided until all technical and monetary matters have been satisfied.
   (E)   Payment of all required plan review fees and utility fees shall be
made to the town prior to the issuance of any utility connection (tap) permits.
   (F)   Notification of the Utility Superintendent is required prior to
initiation of construction activity and/or to connection the system.
(Ord. 5, 1998, passed 6-10-1998)
§ 50.19  PLAN SUBMITTAL AND REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Generally. A developer and/or owner is required to purchase a
development guide which includes: a plan submittal checklist; plan review
checklist; development procedure checklist; all applicable ordinances; typical
construction guidelines and details; inspection checklist; and all other
applicable development requirements and information of the town.
   (B)   Preliminary/conceptual plan submittal.
      (1)   Upon review of the town’s requirements, the developer/owner shall
provide the Town Council or its authorized representative a preliminary/
conceptual plan of the proposed development.
      (2)   Submittal requirements for the preliminary/conceptual plan shall be
as outlined in the development guide.
      (3)   The developer shall pay a plan review fee at the time of a
submittal of preliminary/conceptual plan. Review fees are outlined in §
50.26.
      (4)   The Town Council or its authorized representative shall review the
preliminary/conceptual plan and provide corrective comments, approval, or
denial of the preliminary/conceptual plan. The owner/developer may be required
to attend a meeting with the Town Council to answer questions or provide
additional information concerning the proposed development.
   (C)   Utility service agreement. Following preliminary/conceptual plan
approval, the developer/owner shall enter into a utility service agreement with
the town. This agreement describes the terms and conditions for provision of
utility service (water, sanitary, and electrical).
   (D)   Detailed construction plan submittal.
      (1)   The developer/owner shall provide the Town Council or its
authorized representative a complete set of construction plans signed and
sealed by a professional engineer licensed in the state.
      (2)   The requirements for construction plan preparation and submittal
are as outlined in the development guide.
      (3)   The Town Council or its authorized representative shall review the
detailed construction plans for compliance with the town’s requirements and
conformance with the conceptual plan approval. The developer/owner shall revise
construction plans as required by the Town Council or its authorized
representative.
      (4)   Prior to obtaining final written approval of the detailed
construction plans, the developer/owner shall pay all required review fees as
outlined in §
50.26 and/or utility fees as may be outlined in the utility service agreement.
      (5)   Once all technical and monetary issues are satisfied, the town
shall give written approval of the final detailed construction plans.
      (6)   Plan approval is conditioned upon receiving the County Drainage
Board approval. The town reserves to right to review the drainage and storm
sewer plan and require changes as necessary to fit within the town’s storm
sewer system. It is the intent of the town to coordinate drainage plan review
with the County Engineer and County Surveyor.
(Ord. 5, 1998, passed 6-10-1998)
§ 50.20  CONSTRUCTION AND INSPECTION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Upon receipt of final construction plan approval, the developer/owner
shall schedule a pre-construction conference with the Town Utility
Superintendent. The purpose of the conference is to discuss timetables for
installation of utilities, start dates for IDEM permits, coordination
requirements with any other agencies and utilities, and the like.
   (B)   The contractor shall provide the town with the names and telephone
numbers of contact person(s) and emergency contact person(s) for applicable
phases of construction.
   (C)   The town’s authorized representative shall perform periodic
inspections of the construction site and discuss any concerns with the contact
person or his or her on-site representative.
   (D)   All testing and inspection procedures are to be as outlined in the
typical construction guidelines and details.
   (E)   The contractor shall notify the Town Utility Superintendent for
inspection when each section of watermain is ready for testing. It is to the
contractor’s benefit to have the construction approved prior to paving.
   (F)   After sanitary and storm drainage systems are installed, the
contractor shall notify the Town Utility Superintendent. Inspection of sewers
shall begin within one week after notification of the Utility Superintendent.
However, air and mandrel tests will not be performed before 45 days have
elapsed from the date of completion of backfill of the system (to be verified
by the Utility Superintendent). It is to the contractor’s benefit to notify the
Utility Superintendent of backfill completion and to have the construction
approved prior to paving.
   (G)   Pavement and stormwater drainage facilities shall be inspected in
accordance with the practices and procedures of the County Engineer and County
Surveyor, unless more stringent requirements are established in the town’s
typical construction guidelines and details.
   (H)   The Town Utility Superintendent or his or her authorized
representative shall notify the contractor in writing of any deficiencies
identified during inspection. The contractor shall correct all deficiencies and
shall notify the Utility Superintendent for a subsequent re-inspection of the
work.
   (I)   All fees for inspection shall be borne by the developer/owner.
Inspection fees are outlined in §
50.26.
   (J)   Detailed Construction inspection procedures and checklists are
provided in the development guide.
   (K)   A final inspection shall be performed by the Utility Superintendent or
his or her authorized representative.
(Ord. 5, 1998, passed 6-10-1998)
§ 50.21  EASEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All sanitary sewers and watermains shall be located within easements
outside of the public right- of-way. The easement shall be of adequate size and
location for access, maintenance, and/or replacement of the utility. All
easements shall be dedicated to the town. The town shall approve easement
location and size as part of the plan approval process.
   (B)   All storm drainage easement requirements of the county shall be met.
   (C)   Electric utility shall either be located within the public road right-
of-way or within a dedicated utility easement.
(Ord. 5, 1998, passed 6-10-1998)
§ 50.22  TIME LIMITS FOR CONSTRUCTION APPROVAL.
   (A)   Construction plan approval shall be withdrawn in writing by the town
if construction has not commenced within 365 days of obtaining approval.
   (B)   The town, at its discretion and after the receipt of written request
of the developer/owner, may grant additional extensions of the plan approval in
six month increments. Should the plan approval expire, the developer will be
required to resubmit the construction plans for approval.
(Ord. 5, 1998, passed 6-10-1998)
§ 50.23  CHANGE IN PLANS.
   (A)   The developer/owner shall be required to discuss and submit any plan
changes to the town for their review and approval prior to making any changes
to the approved construction plans.
   (B)   All plan changes shall be reflected on the approved revised plans and
the as built drawings.
(Ord. 5, 1998, passed 6-10-1998)
§ 50.24  AS-BUILT CERTIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The developer/owner shall submit three sets of complete as built plans
to the Utility Superintendent prior to requesting a final inspection.
   (B)   An as-built checklist is provided in the development guide.
   (C)   A certification statement signed by the design engineer shall appear
on the as-built plans stating that the completed work substantially complies
with the final approved plans.
(Ord. 5, 1998, passed 6-10-1998)
§ 50.25  TOWN ACCEPTANCE OF UTILITIES.
   (A)   When all work is completed and as-built plans are approved by the
Utility Superintendent, the developer/owner will be notified that a request can
be made for town acceptance of utilities.
   (B)   The developer/owner submits to the Town Council the following
information:
      (1)   Engineer’s as-built certification that the work was completed
substantially in accordance with the approved plans;
      (2)   Three year letter of credit or maintenance bond for the work in the
amount agreed to by the town; and
      (3)   Request for town acceptance of the completed public improvements.
   (C)   Upon acceptance of the public improvements by the Town Council, the
developer/owner, lot owner, or contractor may apply for sewer and water
permits.
   (D)   The town will not accept utilities until all fees have been paid.
(Ord. 5, 1998, passed 6-10-1998)
§ 50.26  SUBMITTAL, REVIEW, AND INSPECTION FEES.
   The town requires the following fees be paid by the developer/owner.
   (A)   Development guide: $50.
   (B)   Preliminary/conceptual submittal fee is $1,000. This fee will be used
to pay for the review of the submittal. If the preliminary/conceptual plan is
approved by the town and the developer/owner proceeds with the project, the
unused balance of the fee will be returned to the developer/owner. Should
preliminary/conceptual review exceed $1,000, the developer/owner will be
responsible for making up the difference between the $1,000 submitted and the
actual review costs prior to approval of the preliminary/conceptual plan.
   (C)   Final construction plan review fee is $1,000. If the final review fee
is less that $1,000, the unused balance will be returned to the developer/
owner. Should final plan review fees exceed $1,000, the developer/owner will be
responsible for making up the difference between the $1,000 submitted and the
actual review costs prior to the final approval of the construction plans.
   (D)   All cost of inspection shall be the responsibility of the town.
However, any costs for re-inspection due to deficiencies and inadequacies in
the construction will be the responsibility of the owner/developer. These re-
inspection costs will be billed to the owner/developer monthly and shall be due
within 30 days of receipt of the invoice.
(Ord. 5, 1998, passed 6-10-1998)
RATE SCHEDULES
§ 50.40  LIGHT DEPARTMENT RESIDENTIAL SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Ord. 2-1976 shall be amended in that the security light rate schedule
shall be raised to the sum of $7 per month.
   (B)   Ord. 2-1976 shall remain in full force and effect in all other
respects as previously adopted.
   (C)   This amendment shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage and signing by the President of the Town Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 1, 1986, passed 3-24-1986)
§ 50.41  ELECTRIC SERVICE RATES.
   (A)    The rates and charges set forth below are hereby adopted and
established for the use of the service rendered by the Brookston Electric
Utility. Industrial rates are based on 60 minute demand intervals, and all
other rates are based on 15 minute demand intervals.
   (B)   The cost adjustment factor set forth in §
50.02, applicable to the rates and charges for the service rendered by the
Brookston Municipal Electric Utility, shall remain in full force and effect and
shall be supplemental and in addition to the amended rates and charges set
forth below.
   (C)   The electric utility rates and charges herein are effective for
utility customers’ electric consumption commencing September 1, 2019, to be
billed by the utility in October 2019.
   (D)   The following terms and conditions of utility service shall apply to
all utility customers:
      (1)   A business applicant will be required to give satisfactory
assurance by means of a written agreement as to the character, amount, and
duration of the business offered.
      (2)   In general, motors having a rated capacity of ten horsepower or
more must be three-phase. A motor of 20 horsepower or more requires approval by
the utility.
      (3)   Customers may connect incidental lighting to power circuits from
the power meter, provided that the connected load and kilowatt-hour consumption
of the incidental lighting shall not exceed 20% of the active connected power
load and kilowatt-hour consumption. Any transformers or regulating equipment
which may be required for such lighting shall be furnished by the customer.
      (4)   The utility will furnish and maintain at its expense one
transformation and service drop, unless otherwise provided for in the utility’s
rules and regulations, which are incorporated herein by reference. All wiring,
pole lines, wires and other electrical equipment beyond the point where the
service wires of the member, which extend from the weatherhead of the utility
installed by the member, connect with the service wires of the town, is
considered the distribution system of the customer and shall be furnished and
maintained by the customer except that the outdoor meter base and meter that is
600 amps or more shall be furnished and maintained by the utility.
      (5)   Should the electrical energy furnished under this schedule for any
reason be metered on the primary side of the service transformers that the
utility owns, the utility may deduct a percent of the transformer efficiency of
the kilowatt hours so metered before computing the bill.
      (6)   In those cases where the customer is not located where multi-phase
service is available, the town may elect to extend its facilities to make such
services available, in accordance with the utility’s service rules and
regulations.
      (7)   The customer shall be responsible for installing under voltage or
loss of phase relays for the protection of the customer’s equipment.
      (8)   For Commercial - GSD, large power and industrial rate customers,
the utility reserves the right, at its option, to utilize kVA meters, RkVA
meters, and/or other appropriate meters in those metering installations where
the customer’s power factor is believed to be unsatisfactory according to the
utility's standards. If such meters are installed, the billing demand in kW may
be computed from such instruments.
      (9)   Commercial - GSD, large power and industrial rate customers are
expected to maintain unity power factor as nearly as practicable. The utility
reserves the right to measure such power factor at any time. Should such
measurements indicate that the average power factor is less than 90%, the
demand for billing purposes shall be the demand as indicated or recorded by the
demand meter multiplied by 90% and divided by the percent power factor.
Rate Classifications Rate Components Proposed Rate
Rate Classifications     Rate Components            Proposed Rate
                         Customer Charge (per       $12.00
Residential Electric - R month)
                         Energy Charge (per kWh)    $0.09472
                         Customer Charge Single     $20.00
Commercial - GS          Phase (per month)
                         Single Phase Energy Charge $0.09472
                         (per kWh)
                         Customer Charge Three      $30.00
Commercial - GSD         Phase (per month)
(up to 50 kW)            Three Phase Energy Charge  $0.07780
                         (per kWh)
                         Maximum Demand Charge      $4.00 per kW per month
                         Customer Charge (per       $50.00
Large Power              month)
(51 to 250 kW)           Maximum Demand Charge      $8.00 per kW per month
                         Energy Charge              $0.0756 per kWh per month
                         First Year
                         Customer Charge (per       $75.00
                         month)
                         Energy Charge              $0.0695 per kWh per month
                         Demand Rate Charge
                         Non-coincident peak        $5.00 per kW per month
                         Coincident peak (when IMPA $10.50 per kW per month
Industrial Rate          peaks)
(over 250 kW)            Second Year
                         Customer Charge (per       $75.00 (starting 9-1- 2020)
                         month)
                         Energy Charge              $0.0452 per kWh per month
                         Demand Rate Charge
                         Non-coincident peak        $6.00 per kW per month
                         Coincident peak (when IMPA $23.66 per kW per month
                         peaks)
Security Lights          Fixed charge per month     $7.75
 
(Ord. 8, 1987, passed 11-23-1987; Ord. 7-2019, passed 6-12-2019)
§ 50.42  WATERWORKS SYSTEM RATES.
   (A) The following rates and charges for the several classes of users of, or
property to be served by, the Brookston Municipal Water Utility System shall be
as follows.
Metered Rates
Metered Rates
Surcharge on all bills                 $5.25
Per 1,000 gallons per month            Rate (per 1,000 gallons)
First 3,000 gallons                    $7.13
Next 5,000 gallons                     $5.79
Next 8,000 gallons                     $5.13
Next 16,000 gallons                    $5.06
Minimum Charge per Month
                                     Rate (per 1,000 gallons) With surcharge
3/4 inch or less meters 3,000 gallons  $21.39                   $26.64
1 inch meters           4,672 gallons  $31.05                   $36.30
1.5 inch meters         9,370 gallons  $57.33                   $62.58
2 inch meters           14,495 gallons $83.62                   $88.87
3 inch meters           25,050 gallons $137.13                  $142.38
4 inch meters           36,495 gallons $194.99                  $200.24
6 inch meters           66,531 gallons $346.89                  $352.14
Fire Protection Hydrant Rental per Annum
Hydrant
Municipal (per hydrant)                $777.77
Private (per hydrant)                  $777.77
Fire Sprinklers (per annum)
3 inch connection                      $115.03
4 inch connection                      $200.84
6 inch connection                      $452.78
8 inch connection                      $805.15
 
   (B)   (1)   Tap fees. Each user shall pay the cost of installation at the
time of connection with the water utility.
      (2)   Collection or deferred payment charge.
         (a)   All bills shall be due and payable on the first day of the month
following the date of billing.
         (b)   Bills unpaid 17 days of billings shall include a collection
charge of 10% on the first $3 of unpaid billing and 3% on the balance of unpaid
billing in excess of $3.
      (3)   Temporary users.
         (a)   Water furnished to temporary users, such as contractors,
carnivals, and the like, shall be charged on the basis of the above consumption
rates as estimated by the Waterworks Superintendent.
         (b)   This division (B) specifically repeals the Ord. 1-2000, approved
on January 26, 2000, and shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage and signing by the President of the Town Council.
(Ord. 11-2000, passed 12-27-2000; Ord. 2-2001, passed 4-11-2001; Ord. 1-2007,
passed 3-28-2007; Ord. 5-2018, passed 11-14-2018)
§ 50.43  WASTEWATER DISPOSAL SYSTEM RATES.
   (A)    The rates for the several classes of users of, or property to be
served by, the Brookston Municipal Sewage Utility shall be as follows.
 
Metered Rates Per Month                    Sewer Service Charge
                                           Per 1,000 Gallons
First 3,000 gallons per month              $8.81
Next 5,000 gallons per month               $8.55
Next 8,000 gallons per month               $7.57
Next 14,000 gallons per month              $7.14
All over 30,000 gallons per month          $6.93
All users - minimum charge (3,000 gallons) $26.44
 
   (B)   (1)   Tap fees. Each user shall pay $50 at the time of connection with
the wastewater utility.
      (2)   Collection of deferred payment charge. All bills shall be due and
payable on the first day of the month following the date of billing. Bills
remaining unpaid 17 days of billings shall include a collection charge of 10%
on the balance of the unpaid billing.
      (3)   This division (B) shall be in full force and effect from and after
its passage and signing by the President of the Town Council.
   (C)   Storm water user fee. There is hereby established a monthly storm
water user fee for the use of the storm water management services provided by
the town, as follows.
      (1)   The Town Council is authorized and directed to assess each parcel
served by the system a monthly storm water user fee.
      (2)   A monthly storm water user fee shall be uniform for all properties,
which shall be assigned one Equivalent Residential Unit (ERU), without regard
to the area of the parcel.
      (3)   The storm water user fee for one ERU is hereby established for each
parcel at the rate of $2.20 per month.
      (4)   The storm water user fees established under this section are
authorized under the provisions of I.C. 36-9-23 and such fees shall be in all
respects revenues of the town’s sewage utility.
      (5)   The storm water user fees levied pursuant to this section shall be
in effect from the first billing date in November 2016, and shall be shown on
the sewage utility billing statement due and payable on or before the due date
thereon. Any storm water user fee not paid by the due date shall be considered
delinquent and a delinquent charge of 10% of the applicable monthly rate billed
shall be assessed and added to the next utility bill.
      (6)   Delinquent storm water user fees constitute a lien against the
property assessed and may be collected along with applied penalties, recording
fees and service charges in accordance with I.C. 36-9-23-32 and I.C. 36-9-23-
33, and such delinquent fees together with penalties, costs of collection,
legal fees and court costs may be collected by all other available remedies at
law.
      (7)   The storm water user fees established under this section shall be
in all respects revenues of the town's sewage utility, to be used to defray the
costs for either Brookston Storm Water or Sewage Utility improvement projects.
(Ord. 2, 2000, passed 1-26-2000; Ord. 12-2000, passed 12-27-2000; Ord. 3-2001;
passed 4-11-2001; Ord. 10-2008, passed 10-22-2008; Ord. 11-2016, passed 10-3-
2016; Ord. 8-2017, passed 1-10-2018; Ord. 1-2018, passed 6-13-2018; Ord. 6-
2018, passed 11-14-2018)
APPENDIX A: COST OF ADJUSTMENT FACTOR
 
Month of Service          Jan. 15- Feb. Feb 15- Mar. Mar. 15- Apr. Apr. 15- May
Date to Issue Bills       15 3/1/08     15 4/1/08    15 5/1/08     15 6/1/2008
   
Expected purchases from                79.9%        92.2%         99.1%
IMPA                      1,255,048     1,002,815    924.370       916,256
   Energy, kWh         $69,559       $58,067      $52,901       $61.469
   Cost                $5.54         $5.79        $5.72         $6.71
   Average, cents/ kWh                                        
                                                                
Expected retail sales     1,192,296     952,674      878,152       870,443
   Energy, kWh         $60,384       $48,248      $44,174       $44,083
   Expected revenues   5.06          5.06         5.06          5.06
   Average, cents/ kWh                                        
                         $0.55         $1.50        $2            $2.50
Cost adjustment factor,                                          
cents/kWh                 $6,558        $14,290      $17,563       $21,761
                                                                   
New Revenue
*Based on IMPA’s 2008 Rate Study
Assume losses of 5.00%
based on 2007 through August
 
Impact on Residential Customers with Monthly                               
Consumption Of:                                                            
                                                                          
                                                                          
500 kWH                                                                    
   Base bill                                         $31    $31    $31    $31
   Cost adjustment factor                            $2.75  $7.50  $10    412.50
                                                       $33.75 $38.50 $41    $43.50
   Percent increases from                                               
   previous month                                    1.5%   14.1%  6.5%   6.1%
                                                                          
1,000 kWH                                                                  
   Base bill                                         $56    $56    $56    $56
   Cost adjustment factor                            $5.50  $15    $20    $25
                                                       $61.50 $71    $76    $81
   Percent increases from                                               
   previous month                                    1.7%   15.4%  7.0%   6.6%
                                                                          
                                                                          
                                                             83.8%  91.3%  93.0%
Average consumption, kWh                                797    668    610    567
   Base bill                                         $48.55 $39.40 $36.50 $34.35
   Cost adjustment factor                            4.38   10.02  12.20  14.18
                                                       $50.23 $49.42 $48.70 $48.53
   Percent increases from       previous month                    
                                                             -1.6%  -1.5%  -0.4%
 
 
CHAPTER 51:  SEWER
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Use of public sewers
   
51.03   Building sewers and connections
   
51.04   Prohibited discharges
   
51.05   Pretreatment of industrial wastes
   
51.06   Unpolluted discharges
   
51.07   Nonresidential users
   
51.08   Grease and oil discharges
   
51.09   Accidental discharge
   
51.10   Protection from damage
   
51.11   Powers and authority of Inspectors
   
51.12   Violations
   
51.13   Conditions of service
   
51.14   Affirmative defenses to discharge violations
   
51.15   Conflicting ordinances
   
51.16   Disconnection for late payment
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen expressed in mg/l,
utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedures in five days at 20°C.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of a building and conveys it to the building sewer beginning
three feet outside the building wall.
   BUILDING DRAIN-SANITARY. A building drain which conveys sanitary or
industrial sewage only.
   BUILDING DRAIN-STORM. A building drain which conveys stormwater or other
clear water drainage, but no wastewater.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal. (Also called HOUSE CONNECTION.)
   BUILDING SEWER-SANITARY. A building sewer which conveys sanitary or
industrial sewage only.
   BUILDING SEWER-STORM. A building sewer which conveys stormwater or other
clear water drainage, but no sanitary or industrial sewage.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH, and
fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES
permit if the treatment works was designed to treat such pollutants and in fact
does remove such pollutants to a substantial degree. The term “substantial
degree” is not subject to precise definition, but generally contemplates
removals in the order of 80% or greater. Minor incidental removals in the order
of 10% or 30% are not considered substantial. Examples of the additional
pollutants which may be considered compatible include:
      (1)   Chemical oxygen demand;
      (2)   Total organic carbon;
      (3)   Phosphorus and phosphorus compounds;
      (4)   Nitrogen and nitrogen compounds; and
      (5)   Fats, oils, and greases of animal or vegetable origin (except as
prohibited where these materials would interfere with the operation of the
treatment works).
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FECAL COLIFORM. Any of a number of organisms common to the intestinal tract
of man and animals, whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of
pollution.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state, such that will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in a pretreatment facility
approved by the town.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not defined as a compatible
pollutant, including non-biodegradable dissolved solids.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade, or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   INFILTRATION. The water entering a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from the ground, through such means as, but not limited to,
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections, or manhole walls. (INFILTRATION does
not include, and is distinguished from inflow.)
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow without distinguishing the source.
   INFLOW. The water discharge into a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from such sources as, but not limited to, roof leader, cellar, yard
and area drains, foundation drains, unpolluted cooling water discharges, drains
from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross- connections from storm
sewers, and combined sewers, catch basins, stormwaters, surface run-off, street
wash waters, or drainage. (INFLOW does not include, and is distinguishable from
infiltration.)
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the town, through its
Board of Public Works and Safety, to inspect and approve the installation of
building sewers and their connection to the public sewer system.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industry that:
      (1)   Has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work day;
      (2)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow carried by the municipal
system receiving the waste;
      (3)   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under the Clean Water Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq.; or
      (4)   Has a significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on a treatment works or on the quality of
effluent from that treatment works.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surface or
groundwater.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. The same meaning as defined in the Sewage Rate
Ordinance.
   NPDES PERMIT. A permit issued under the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System for discharge of wastewaters to the navigable waters of the
United States pursuant to the Clean Water Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq.
   PH. The reciprocal of the logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams per liter of solution.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group discharging any wastewater to the treatment works.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of industrial sewage from privately-owned
industrial sources prior to introduction into a public treatment works.
   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned by a public authority.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer which is owned and controlled by the public authority
and will consist of the following increments.
      (1)   COLLECTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewaters from individual point source discharges.
      (2)   FORCE MAIN. A pipe in which wastewater is carried under pressure.
      (3)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collector sewers to a treatment facility.
      (4)   PUMPING STATION. A station positioned in the public sewer system at
which wastewater is pumped to a higher level.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. The combination of liquid and water-carried wastes
discharged from toilet and other sanitary plumbing facilities.
      (1)   COMBINED SEWAGE. Wastes including sanitary sewage, industrial
sewage, stormwater, infiltration, and inflow carried to the wastewater
treatment facilities by a combined sewer.
      (2)   INDUSTRIAL SEWAGE. A combination of liquid and water-carried
wastes, discharged from any industrial establishment, and resulting from any
trade or process carried on in that establishment. (This shall include the
wastes from pretreatment facilities and polluted cooling water.)
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carried sanitary and industrial wastes, and to
which storm, surface, and ground water are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. The combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions,
(including polluted cooling water). The three most common types of sewage are
as follows.
   SEWAGE WORKS. The structures, equipment, and processes to collect,
transport, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the effluent
and accumulated residual solids.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. Is mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than ten minutes more than three times the average 24 hours
concentration or flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the
collection system.
   STANDARD METHODS. The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition,
at the time of analysis, of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater prepared and published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution
Control Federation.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer for conveying water, ground water, or unpolluted water
from any source and to which sanitary and/or industrial wastes are not
intentionally admitted.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the Municipal Sewer Works of the Town
of Brookston, the state, or his or her authorized deputy, agent, or
representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, sewage, or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   TOTAL SOLIDS. The sum of suspended and dissolved solids.
   TOXIC AMOUNT. Concentrations of any pollutant or combination of pollutants,
which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause adverse
effects, such as cancer, genetic mutations, and physiological manifestations,
as defined in standards issued pursuant to the Clean Water Act, being 42 U.S.C.
§§ 7401 et seq.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   USER. Any person who contributes, or causes or allows the contribution of
sewage or industrial wastewater into the sewage works.
   VOLATILE ORGANIC MATTER. The material in the sewage solids transformed to
gases or vapors when heated at 550°C for 15 to 20 minutes.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. 10, 1998, passed 9-9-1998)
§ 51.02  USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said town, any human excrement,
garbage, or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any sanitary
sewer or combined sewer, either directly or indirectly, stormwater, surface
water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water,
unpolluted water, or unpolluted industrial process water. The town shall
require the removal of unpolluted wastewater collection or treatment facility
if such removal is cost-effective and in the best interests of all users of
those facilities.
   (C)   Stormwater, surface water, ground water, roof runoff, sub-surface
drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water, or unpolluted industrial process
water may be admitted to storm sewers which have adequate capacity for their
accommodation. No person shall use such sewers, however, without the specific
permission of the town.
   (D)   No new connection shall be made unless there is capacity available to
all downstream sewers, lift stations, force mains, and the sewage treatment
plant, including capacity for BOD and suspended solids.
   (E)   No person shall place, deposit, or permit to be deposited in any
unsanitary manner on public or private property within the jurisdiction of the
town, any wastewater or other polluted waters except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provisions of this chapter and the NPDES
permit.
   (F)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any natural
outlet any wastewater or other polluted waters except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provisions of this chapter and the NPDES
permit.
   (G)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (H)   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the town
and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now
located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the town, is hereby required at
his or her expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to
connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter, within 60 days after date of official
notice to do so, provided that said public sewer is within 300 feet of the
property line.
(Ord. 10, 1998, passed 9-9-1998)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03  BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   (1)   Before a permit may be issued for excavating for plumbing in any
public street or alley, the person applying for such permit shall have executed
unto the town, and deposited with the Clerk- Treasurer a corporate surety in
the sum of $1,000 conditioned that he or she will perform faithfully in all
work with due care and skill, and in accordance with the laws, rules, and
regulations established under the authority or any ordinances of the town
pertaining to plumbing.
      (2)   This bond shall state that the person will indemnify and save
harmless the town, and the owner of the premises against all damages, costs,
expenses, outlays, and claims of every nature and kind arising out of
unskillfulness or negligence on his or her part in connection with plumbing or
excavation for plumbing as prescribed in this chapter. Such bond shall remain
in force for two years; except that, on such expiration, it shall remain in
force as to all penalties, claims, and demands that may have accrued thereunder
prior to such expiration.
   (C)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits: for residential
service and for service to commercial establishments and establishments
producing industrial wastes. In either case, the owner or his or her agent
shall make application on a special form furnished by the said town. The permit
application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the Utility Superintendent.
A permit and inspection fee of $50 for a residential or commercial building
sewer permit and $100 for an industrial building sewer permit shall be paid to
the Clerk-Treasurer at the time application is filed.
   (D)   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
town from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer.
   (E)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court yard, or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
   (F)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the said Inspector, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
   (G)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointly
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the Building and Plumbing Codes or other applicable rules and regulations of
the town.
   (H)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (I)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (J)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Codes or other
applicable rules and regulations of the town. All such connections shall be
made gas-tight and water-tight. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures
and materials must be approved by the Superintendent before installation.
   (K)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the said
Superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
said Superintendent or his or her representative.
   (L)   All excavations for building sewer installation must be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the said town.
(Ord. 10, 1998, passed 9-9-1998)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04  PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naptha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having pH lower than 6.0, or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structure, equipment,
and personnel of the sewage works, or that interfere with any treatment
process; or
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, underground garbage, whole blood, paunch, manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails, paper, dishes, cups, milk containers, and the like, either
whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the
following described substances, materials, or wastes if it appears likely in
the opinion of the Superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers,
sewage treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a
nuisance.
      (2)   In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the
quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of
wastes in the sewage treatment plant, and other pertinent factors.
      (3)   The substances prohibited are:
         (a)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F or
65°C;
         (b)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of (100) mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F or 0.0% to
65°C;
         (c)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The
installation and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of
three-fourths horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the
review and approval of the Superintendent;
         (d)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling
wastes, or concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
         (e)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc,
and similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree than such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Superintendent for such materials;
         (f)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal, or other
public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
         (g)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
         (h)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 10.0;
         (i)   Materials which exert or cause:
            1.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues, or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride, and sodium
sulfate);
            2.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye
wastes, and vegetable tanning solutions);
            3.   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements
in such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; or
            4.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined herein.
         (j)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters;
         (k)   Any substance which may cause the treatment plant effluent or
any other residues, slugs, or scums, to be unsuitable for reclamation and reuse
or to interfere with the reclamation process.
In no cause shall a substance discharged to the system cause the town to be in
noncompliance with sludge use or disposal regulations, or permits issued under
40 C.F.R. parts 257, 403, and 503 or all state and federal requirements
applicable to the sludge use and disposal practices being used by the town;
         (l)   Any sludges, screenings, or other residues from the pretreatment
of industrial wastes; or
         (m)   Any material identified as hazardous waste according to 40
C.F.R. part 261.
   (C)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged, to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or
possess the characteristics enumerated in division (B) above, and which in the
judgment of the Superintendent may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage
works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a
hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the Superintendent may:
      (1)   Require new industries or industries with significant increase in
discharges to submit information on wastewater characteristics and obtain prior
approval for discharges;
      (2)   Reject the wastes in whole or in part for any reason deemed
appropriate by the town;
      (3)   Require pretreatment of such wastes to within the limits of normal
sewage as defined;
      (4)   Require control or flow equalization of such wastes so as to avoid
any “slug” loads or excessive loads that may be harmful to the treatment works;
or
      (5)   Require payment of a surcharge on any excessive flows or loadings
discharged to the treatment works to cover the additional costs of having
capacity for and treating such wastes.
(Ord. 10, 1998, passed 9-9-1998)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05  PRETREATMENT OF INDUSTRIAL WASTES.
   (A)   Pretreatment of industrial wastes from major contributing industries
prior to discharge to the treatment works is required and is subject to the
rules and regulations adopted by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
(USEPA) and published in the Federal Register (40 C.F.R. part 403) and Federal
Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis of Pollutants, published
in the Federal Register (40 C.F.R. part 136), in addition to any more stringent
requirements established by town, and any subsequent state or federal
guidelines and rules and regulations. Users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards are required to comply with applicable standards as set out in 40
C.F.R. Ch. 1, Subch. N, parts 405 through 471 and incorporated herein.
   (B)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plant and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.
   (C)   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
   (D)   (1)   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and
measurement of the wastes.
      (2)   Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely
located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible
at all times. Agents of the town, the State Water Pollution Control Agencies
and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
and testing.
   (E)   (1)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of
water and wastes to which reference is made in this accordance shall be in
accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 C.F.R. part 136, and shall be
determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples taken at
said control manhole, except for application for NPDES permits and report
thereof which shall be conducted in accordance with rules and regulations
adopted by the USEPA published in the Federal Register October 16, 1973, and
any subsequent revisions subject to approval by the town.
      (2)   In the event that no special manhole has been required, the control
manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public
sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be
carried out by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of
constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the existence of hazards to
life, limb, and property. (The particular analysis involved will determine
whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or
whether a grab sample or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD
suspended solids analysis are obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls
whereas pHs are determined from periodic grab samples.)
   (F)   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the town and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste or unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the town for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the
industrial concern, at such rates as are compatible with the rate ordinance.
   (G)   No user shall ever increase the use of process water or in any way
attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with a discharge limitation unless expressly
authorized by an applicable pretreatment standard.
   (H)   Pollutant limitations as set forth by federal and/or state
regulations, requirements, and/or permit are hereby incorporated into this
chapter.
   (I)   The town reserves the right to require and establish more stringent
pollutant limitations for the purpose of protecting the sewage works, natural
resources, or persons and property.
   (J)   (1)   Plans, specifications, and any other pertinent information
relating to pretreatment or control facilities shall be submitted for approval
of the town and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced until
approval in writing is granted.
      (2)   Where such facilities are provided, they shall be maintained
continuously in satisfactory and effective operating order by the owner at his
or her expense and shall be subject to periodic inspection by the town to
determine that such facilities are being operated in conformance with the
applicable federal, state, and local laws and permits. The owner shall maintain
operating records of the influent and effluent to show the performance of the
treatment facilities and for comparison against town monitoring records.
(Ord. 10, 1998, passed 9-9-1998)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06  UNPOLLUTED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   Unpolluted water from air conditioners or cooling or condensing
systems shall be discharged to a storm sewer where it is available, or to a
combined sewer approved by the town. Where a storm sewer is not available,
discharge may be to a natural outlet approved by the town and by the state.
      (2)   Where a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural sewer is not
available, such unpolluted water may be discharged to a sanitary sewer pending
written approval by the town.
   (B)   Industrial cooling water which may be polluted with insoluble oils or
grease or suspended solids shall be pretreated for removal of pollutants, and
the resultant clear water shall be discharged in accordance division (A) above.
(Ord. 10, 1998, passed 9-9-1998)
§ 51.07  NONRESIDENTIAL USERS.
   The town may require users of the treatment works, other than residential
users, to supply pertinent information on wastewater flow characteristics. Such
measurements, tests, and analyses shall be made at the user’s expense. If made
by the town, an appropriate charge may be assessed to the user at the option of
the town.
(Ord. 10, 1998, passed 9-9-1998)
§ 51.08  GREASE AND OIL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors or traps shall be provided when, in
the opinion of the town, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand,
and other harmful ingredients, except that such interceptors or traps will not
be required for private living quarters or dwelling units.
   (B)   All interceptors or traps shall be of a type and capacity approved by
the town and shall be located so as to be readily accessible for cleaning
inspection. They shall be constructed of impervious materials capable of
withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperatures and shall be of
substantial construction, be gas-tight, water-tight, and equipped with easily
removable covers. Where installed, all grease, oil, and sand interceptors or
traps shall be maintained by the owner at his or her expense in continuously
efficient operation at all times.
(Ord. 10, 1998, passed 9-9-1998)
§ 51.09  ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE.
   (A)   In the case of an accidental or other discharge which may cause
potential problems for the town wastewater system, it is the responsibility of
the user to immediately contact and notify the town of the incident. This
notification shall include the location of discharge, type of waste,
concentration, and volume, if known, and corrective actions taken by the user.
   (B)   Within five days following an accidental discharge, the user shall
submit a detailed written report describing the cause(s) of the discharge and
the measures to be taken by the user to prevent similar future occurrences.
Such notification shall not relieve the user of any expense, loss, damage, or
other liability which may be incurred as a result of damage to the system,
natural resources, or any other damage to persons or property; nor shall such
notification relieve the user of any fines, civil penalties, or other liability
which may be imposed by this chapter.
   (C)   Failure to notify the town of potential problem discharges shall be
deemed a separate violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 10, 1998, passed 9-9-1998)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.10  PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the Municipal Sewage Works. Any person violating
this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct.
(Ord. 10, 1998, passed 9-9-1998)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.11  POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   The Superintendent, Inspector, and other duly-authorized employees of
the town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The
Superintendent or his or her representative shall have no authority to inquire
into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic,
paper, or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the
kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
   (B)   While performing necessary work on private properties, the
Superintendent or duly-authorized employees of the town shall observe all
safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company and the
company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the town employees and
the town shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property by
town employees and against liability claims and demands for personal injury or
property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and
sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of
the company to maintain safe conditions as required.
   (C)   The Superintendent and other duly-authorized employees of the town
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the town holds a duly- negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly-negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 10, 1998, passed 9-9-1998)
§ 51.12  VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any user found to be violating this chapter or order issued hereunder,
or any other pretreatment requirement shall be served by the Superintendent
with a written notice of violation. Within ten days of the receipt of this
notice, an explanation of the violation and a plan for the satisfactory
correction and prevention thereof, to include specific requirement actions,
shall be submitted to the Superintendent. Submission of this plan in no way
relieves the user of the liability for any violations occurring before or after
receipt of the notice of violation. Nothing in this section shall limit the
authority of the town to take emergency action without first issuing a notice
of violation.
   (B)   Orders, assurances of voluntary compliance, or other similar documents
establishing an agreement with the user responsible for the noncompliance. Such
orders will include specific action to be taken by the industrial user to
correct the noncompliance within a time period also specified by the order.
Consent orders shall have the same force and effect as administrative orders
and shall be judicially enforceable.
   (C)   (1)   The Superintendent may order any user which causes or
contributes to violation(s) of this chapter, wastewater permits, or orders
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment requirement to appear before the
Superintendent and show cause with a proposed enforcement action, the reasons
for such action, and a request that the user show cause who this proposed
enforcement action should not be taken.
      (2)   The notice of the meeting shall be served personally or by
registered or certified mail return receipt requested) at least ten days prior
to the hearing. Such notice may be served on an authorized representative of
the industrial user. Whether or not the industrial user appears as noticed,
immediate enforcement action may be pursued following the hearing date.
   (D)   (1)   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated or
continues to violate this chapter, permits, or orders issued hereunder, or any
other pretreatment requirement, he or she may issue an order to the user
responsible for the discharge directing that, following a specified time
period, sewer service shall be discontinued unless adequate treatment
facilities, devices, or other related appurtenances are installed and properly
operated.
      (2)   Compliance orders may also contain such other requirements as might
be reasonably necessary and appropriate to address the noncompliance, including
additional self-monitoring and management practices designed to minimize the
amount of pollutants discharged to the sewer. Furthermore, the Superintendent
may continue to require such additional self-monitoring for at least 90 days
after consistent compliance has been achieved, after which time the self-
monitoring conditions in the discharge permits shall control.
   (E)   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated or continues to
violate this chapter, permits or orders issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment requirement, the Superintendent may issue an order to the user
directing it to cease and desist all such violations and directing the user to:
      (1)   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
      (2)   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be
needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation including
halting operations and/or terminating the discharge.
(Ord. 10, 1998, passed 9-9-1998)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.13  CONDITIONS OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The town shall install and maintain at its expense that portion of the
service from the main to the lot or easement line, and the customer shall
install and maintain at his or her expense that portion of the service from
said lot or easement line to his or her premises.
   (B)   The Superintendent may suspend the sewer service user for a period not
to exceed 30 days whenever such suspension is necessary in order to stop an
actual or threatened discharge which reasonably appears to present or cause an
imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons,
interferes with the operation of the municipal wastewater system, or which
presents or may present an endangerment to the environment.
      (1)   Any user notified of a suspension for its service shall immediately
stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a user’s failure to
immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the Superintendent
shall take such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate severance of the
sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the system, its receiving
stream or endangerment to any individuals. The Superintendent shall allow the
user to recommence its discharge when the user has demonstrated to the
satisfaction of the town that the period of endangerment has passed, unless the
termination proceedings are initiated against the user.
      (2)   A user which is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence to the Superintendent prior to the date of any
show cause or termination hearing.
   (C)   Any user which violates the following conditions of this chapter,
wastewater permits, or orders issued hereunder is subject to service
termination:
      (1)   Violation of permit conditions;
      (2)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
      (3)   Failure to report significant changes in operations or wastewater
volume, constituents, and characteristics prior to discharge;
      (4)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the purpose
of inspection, monitoring, or sampling;
      (5)   Misrepresentation in the application as to the property or fixtures
to be serviced by the sanitary sewer system;
      (6)   Nonpayment of bills; or
      (7)   Improper or imperfect service pipes and fixtures or failure to keep
same in suitable state of repair.
   (D)   All bills not paid on or before the past due date shall be termed
delinquent, and subject to discontinuance in accordance with §
51.16.
   (E)   Where the water or sewer service supplied to a customer has been
discontinued for nonpayment of a delinquent bill, the town reserves the right
to request a nominal sum be placed on deposit with the town for the purpose of
establishing or maintaining a customer’s credit. The reconnection will not be
made until after all delinquent bills and other charges, if any, owned by the
customer to the town have been paid.
   (F)   The town shall make all reasonable efforts to eliminate interruption
of service, and when such interruption occurs will endeavor to re-establish
service with the shortest possible delay. Whenever service is interrupted for
purpose of working on the collection system or the treatment equipment, all
customers affected by such interruption shall be notified in advance whenever
it is possible to do so.
   (G)   The town in no event shall be held responsible for claim made against
it by reason of the breaking of any mains or service pipes, or by reason of any
other interruption of the service caused by the breaking of machinery or
stoppage for necessary repairs; and no person shall be entitled to damage nor
have any portion of a payment refunded for any interruption.
   (H)   Special terms and conditions may be made where sewer service is used
by the town or community for public purposes such as public parks, and the
like.
(Ord. 10, 1998, passed 9-9-1998)
§ 51.14  AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upset. An upset shall be an affirmative defense to an enforcement
action brought against a user for violating a pretreatment standard and
requirement if the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The user can identify the cause of the upset;
      (2)   The facility was operating in a prudent and workmanlike manner at
the time of the upset and was in compliance with applicable O&M procedures;
      (3)   The user submits, within 24 hours of becoming aware of the upset, a
description of the discharge and its causes, the period of noncompliance (if
not corrected, then the time the noncompliance is anticipated to end), and the
steps being taken to reduce, eliminate, and prevent recurrence of the
noncompliance;
      (4)   If this report is given orally, the user must also submit a written
report containing such information within five days unless waived by the
Superintendent; or
      (5)   UPSET shall mean an exceptional incident in which there is
unintentional and temporary noncompliance with categorical pretreatment
standards and requirements because of factors beyond the reasonable control of
the industrial user. Noncompliance caused by operational error, improperly
designed pretreatment facilities, inadequate treatment facilities, lack of
preventive maintenance, or careless or improper operation does not constitute
an UPSET.
   (B)   Bypass. The intentional diversion of wastestreams from any portion of
an individual user’s treatment facility shall be an affirmative defense to an
enforcement action brought against the industrial user if the user can
demonstrate that such a bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life,
personal injury, or severe property damage. In order to be eligible for the
affirmative defense, the industrial user must demonstrate that there was no
feasible alternative to the bypass and submit notice of the bypass as required
by 40 C.F.R. § 403.17.
(Ord. 10, 1998, passed 9-9-1998)
§ 51.15  CONFLICTING ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of this chapter shall be deemed as additional requirements to
any applicable state and/or federal requirements. In the case of conflicting
requirements, the most restrictive shall apply.
(Ord. 10, 1998, passed 9-9-1998)
§ 51.16  DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills.  The town's form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill; and
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the town
official in charge of utility billing.  This official shall be authorized to
order that the customer's service not be discontinued and shall have the
authority to make a final determination of the customer's complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered.  In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (C)   When it becomes necessary for the town to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on charge in
the sum of $50 per utility.
§ 51.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other section of this chapter, any user which is
found to have violated any provision of this chapter, permits, and orders
issued hereunder or any other pretreatment requirement shall be fined in an
amount not to exceed $500. Such fines shall be assessed on a per violation, per
day basis. In the case of monthly or other long-term average discharge limits,
fines shall be assessed for each business day during the period of violation.
   (B)   Assessments may be added to the user’s next scheduled sewer service
charge and the Superintendent shall have such other collection remedies as may
be available for other service charges and fees.
   (C)   Unpaid charges, fines, and penalties shall, after 30 calendar days, be
assessed an additional penalty of 20% of the unpaid balance, and interest shall
accrue thereafter at a rate of 7% per month. Furthermore, these unpaid charges,
fines, and penalties, together with interest therefrom shall constitute a lien
against the individual user’s property.
   (D)   Industrial users desiring to dispute such fines must file a written
request for the Superintendent to reconsider the fine along with full payment
of the fine amount within ten days of being notified of the fine. Where the
Superintendent believes a request has merit, he or she shall convene a hearing
on the matter within 15 days after receiving the request from the industrial
user. In the event the user’s appeal is successful, the payment, together with
any interest accruing thereto, shall be returned to the industrial user. The
town may add the costs of preparing administrative enforcement actions, such as
notices and orders to assess the fine.
   (E)   A user that exceeds pollutant limitations as set forth by the town
shall receive an initial warning. A notice of violation as defined herein shall
constitute a warning. A second exceedance of the same pollutant limitation
shall result in a second warning. Any subsequent exceedance of the same
pollutant limitation shall result in the assessment fines as described herein.
Warnings above shall begin following a period of one year in which there have
been no violations.
   (F)   Any user violating any provisions of this chapter shall become liable
to the town for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned by the town by reason
of such violation.
(Ord. 10, 1998, passed 9-9-1998)
CHAPTER 52:  GARBAGE
Section
   
52.01   Prohibitions generally
   
52.02   Receptacles provided
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01  PROHIBITIONS GENERALLY.
   No person shall throw or deposit refuse or litter of any kind upon any
street, alley, sidewalk, or any other public place, or upon any privately-owned
lot within the town, whether owned by that person or not.
(Ord. 7, 1994, passed 11-22-1994)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.02  RECEPTACLES PROVIDED.
   (A)   (1)   Any person who permits refuse or litter to be collected for
disposal within the town, whether by private contract or municipally provided,
shall provide and maintain adequate receptacles for collection of such refuse
or litter in such a manner that any and all of such refuse or litter will be
prevented from being carried or deposited by animals or the elements upon
streets, alley, sidewalks, or other public places, or upon any private
property.
      (2)   No person shall deposit such refuse or litter outside his or her
home to be collected for disposal within the town for longer than 24 hours in
advance of such collection.
   (B)   (1)   Every owner or agent of the owner of every multiple dwelling or
mobile home park shall provide and at all times maintain trash receptacles in
sufficient number to contain the accumulation of refuse and litter deposited
for collection by the residents of such multiple dwelling or mobile home park
in the manner required by division (A) above.
      (2)   Further, every owner or agent of the owner of every trailer court,
or multiple dwelling occupied by three or more families, shall completely
enclose from public view all such trash receptacles required by this chapter.
(Ord. 7, 1994, passed 11-22-1994)
§ 52.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be subject to a
civil penalty of $25 for a first violation thereof, and $50 for any second or
subsequent violation of this chapter committed within one year of any prior
violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 7, 1994, passed 11-22-1994)
CHAPTER 53:  CROSS-CONNECTIONS
Section
   
53.01   Cross-connections defined
   
53.02   Cross-connections generally
   
53.03   Superintendent inspections
   
53.04   Examination of property
   
53.05   Discontinuation of water
   
53.06   Cross-connection emergencies
   
53.07   Toxic or hazardous liquids
   
53.08   Testing of backflow preventers
   
53.09   Chapter supplementary to the State Uniform Plumbing Code
   
53.10   Effective date
§ 53.01  CROSS-CONNECTIONS DEFINED.
   A CROSS-CONNECTION shall be defined as any physical connection or
arrangement between two otherwise separate systems, one of which contains
potable water from the town water system, and the other, water from a private
source, water of unknown or questionable safety, or steam, gases, or chemicals,
whereby there may be a flow from one system to the other, the direction of flow
depending on the pressure differential between the two systems.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 2-3-1991)
§ 53.02  CROSS-CONNECTIONS GENERALLY.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall establish or permit to be
established or maintain or permit to be maintained any cross-connection.
   (B)   No interconnection shall be established whereby potable water from a
private, auxiliary, or emergency water supply other than the regular public
water supply of the town may enter the supply or distribution system of said
municipality, unless such private, auxiliary, or emergency water supply and the
method of connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by the
Town Municipal Water Utility and by the State Department of Environmental
Management in accordance with 327 I.A.C. 8-10.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 2-3-1991)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.03  SUPERINTENDENT INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the Superintendent of the Town Water Utility to
cause inspections to be made of all properties served by the public water
system where cross-connections with the public water system is deemed possible.
The frequency of inspections and reinspections based on potential health
hazards involved shall be as established by said Superintendent.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 2-3-1991)
§ 53.04  EXAMINATION OF PROPERTY.
   The representative of the town or its agent shall have the right to request
entry at any reasonable time to examine any property served by a connection to
the public water system of the town for cross- connections. On request, the
owner, lessee, or occupant of any property so served shall furnish to the
inspection agency any pertinent information regarding the piping system or
systems on such property. The refusal of access or refusal of requested
pertinent information shall be deemed evidence of the presence of cross-
connections.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 2-3-1991)
§ 53.05  DISCONTINUATION OF WATER.
   (A)   The Town Municipal Water Utility is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue water service to any property wherein any connection in violation
of this chapter exists, and to take such other precautionary measures deemed
necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water system.
   (B)   Water service shall be discontinued only after reasonable notice is
served on the owner, lessee, or occupants of the property or premises where a
violation is found or suspected to exist. Water service to such property shall
not be restored until the cross-connection(s) has been eliminated in compliance
with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 2-3-1991)
§ 53.06  CROSS-CONNECTION EMERGENCIES.
   If it is deemed by the Town Municipal Water Utility that a cross-connection
or an emergency endangers public health, safety, or welfare and requires
immediate action, and a written finding to that effect is filed with the Town
Clerk-Treasurer and delivered to the consumer’s premises, service may be
immediately discontinued. The consumer shall have an opportunity for a hearing
before the Town Council within ten days of such emergency discontinuance.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 2-3-1991)
§ 53.07  TOXIC OR HAZARDOUS LIQUIDS.
   All consumers using toxic or hazardous liquids, all hospitals, mortuaries,
wastewater treatment plants, laboratories, and all other hazardous users
install and maintain a reduced-pressure principle backflow preventer in the
main water line serving each building on the premises. The backflow preventer
must be installed in an easily accessible location not subject to flooding or
freezing.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 2-3-1991)
§ 53.08  TESTING OF BACKFLOW PREVENTERS.
   All such reduced-pressure principle backflow preventers so installed shall
thereafter be tested by an inspector licensed to do so by the state for
compliance with this chapter at least one time per year each year after such
installation, or as often as may be required by state law. Said inspector shall
thereafter report his or her findings in writing to the Superintendent of the
Town Water Utility within ten days after such testing.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 2-3-1991)
§ 53.09  CHAPTER SUPPLEMENTARY TO THE STATE UNIFORM PLUMBING CODE.
   This chapter does not supersede the State Uniform Plumbing Code, being 675
I.A.C. §§ 16-1.4.1 et seq. or any ordinance of the town, but is supplementary
to them.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 2-3-1991)
§ 53.10  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall become effective 90 days after its
adoption.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 2-3-1991)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70:  TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Use of engine compression brakes prohibited
§ 70.01  USE OF ENGINE COMPRESSION BRAKES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Engine compression brakes (“jake brakes”) may not be used at any time
on any street, including state roads, within or entering the town by any truck
or any other vehicle.
   (B)   Any person operating a truck or any other vehicle in violation of this
section shall be subject to a fine in the sum of $100.
   (C)   This section shall be in full force and effect upon its passage.
(Ord. 6-2014, passed 11-12-2014)
CHAPTER 71:  PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Prohibitions against parking adjacent to a public street
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01  PROHIBITIONS AGAINST PARKING ADJACENT TO A PUBLIC STREET.
   (A)   No person or entity shall operate or park, or permit the operation or
parking, of any car, truck, motorcycle, camper, bus, snowmobile, watercraft,
tractor, recreational vehicle, motor home, trailer of any kind, or motorized
vehicle of any kind in any yard adjacent to a public street (other than public
alleys) of a residential area and other than on a driveway which has direct
access to a street through a curb cut approved by the town.
   (B)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage and adoption as provided by law.
(Ord. 3, 2009, passed 6-10-2009)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99  PENALTY.
   Any person or entity violating §
71.01 shall be subject to a fine of $50. Each day that any violation of §
71.01 remains, following citation for such violation, shall constitute a
separate violation of §
71.01.
(Ord. 3, 2009, passed 6-10-2009)
CHAPTER 72:  RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Golf Carts
   
72.01   Definitions
   
72.02   Permitted operation of golf carts
   
72.03   Age and driver’s license required
   
72.04   Registration and permit period
   
72.05   Requirement of financial responsibility
   
72.06   Slow-moving vehicle emblem and lights; time of operation and nighttime
restrictions
   
72.07   Place of operation
   
72.08   Occupants
   
72.09   Towing prohibited
   
72.10   Traffic laws
   
72.11   Effective date
 
   
72.99   Penalty
GOLF CARTS
§ 72.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. This term shall have the meaning expressed in I.C.
9-25-4-1 et seq., or as amended in the future.
   GOLF CART. A four-wheeled motor vehicle originally and specifically designed
to transport one or more individuals and golf clubs for the purpose of playing
a game of golf on a golf course.
   OPERATE. To exercise any control over the function or movement of a golf
cart.
   STATE HIGHWAY. Any street or road under the control of and maintained by the
State of Indiana and shall include, but not be limited to, State Roads 43 and
18.
   TOWN STREET. The entire width of every way publicly maintained when any part
of the way is open to the use of the public for the purposes of vehicular
traffic within the corporate limits of the town. The term includes, but is not
limited to, STREETS, ALLEYS and ROADS.
(Ord. 2, 2011, passed 5-11-2011; Ord. 3-2020, passed 5-27-2020)
§ 72.02  PERMITTED OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS.
    The operation of a golf cart upon any town street is permitted only as
specifically authorized by this subchapter. Any person who operates a golf cart
in violation of the regulations set forth in this subchapter shall be subject
to penalty as set forth herein.
(Ord. 2, 2011, passed 5-11-2011; Ord. 3-2020, passed 5-27-2020)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03  AGE AND DRIVER’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
    The operator of a golf cart on a town street must have a valid Indiana
driver’s license and must have the license in his or her possession at all
times while operating a golf cart.
(Ord. 2, 2011, passed 5-11-2011; Ord. 3-2020, passed 5-27-2020)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04  REGISTRATION AND PERMIT PERIOD.
   (A)    Any golf cart to be operated on a town street shall be first
registered by the Town Marshal. Such permit shall be issued on an annual basis
and will be valid from January 1 until December 31 of each registration year.
   (B)   Each registrant shall provide the vehicle identification number and
proof of financial responsibility as required herein with respect to each golf
cart to be registered and shall pay an annual registration fee in such sum as
determined by the Town Council for each golf cart to be registered. All such
fees collected shall be deposited into the town’s Law Enforcement Continuing
Education Fund.
   (C)   The registration certificate issued by the town shall be maintained on
the golf cart in an easily visible location at all times that it is in
operation. The town may issue a single use or temporary permit as may be
determined by the Town Council, subject to any restrictions on the time and
area of operation as may be determined by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2, 2011, passed 5-11-2011; Ord. 3-2020, passed 5-27-2020)
§ 72.05  REQUIREMENT OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
    No person may operate a golf cart on any town street unless financial
responsibility is in effect with respect to the golf cart as provided under
I.C. 9-25-4-4, or as may be amended in the future.
(Ord. 2, 2011, passed 5-11-2011; Ord. 3-2020, passed 5-27-2020)   Penalty, see
§
72.99
§ 72.06  SLOW-MOVING VEHICLE EMBLEM AND LIGHTS; TIME OF OPERATION AND NIGHTTIME
RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)    A golf cart operated on a town street shall at all times display a
slow moving vehicle emblem mounted as near as is practicable to the center and
at an approximate height of not less than three and not more than five feet
from level ground or pavement surface, which emblem shall be mounted so as to
be entirely visible from the rear, day or night.
   (B)   Such emblem and mounting thereof must meet the specifications
established by rules adopted by the Indiana Criminal Justice Institute. In lieu
of a slow moving vehicle emblem, an orange flag or pennant attached to a pole
affixed to the golf cart so that the flag or pennant is at least seven feet
above the surface of the street may be used, the size of which to be determined
by the Town Marshal as a condition of registration and operation.
   (C)   No golf cart shall be operated on a town street between one-half hour
after sunset and one-half  hour before sunrise unless the golf cart is equipped
with two headlamps, two tail lamps, front and rear turn lamps, and rear brake
lamps, all of which must be visible from a distance of not less than 500 feet.
(Ord. 2, 2011, passed 5-11-2011; Ord. 3-2020, passed 5-27-2020)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.07  PLACE OF OPERATION.
   No golf cart shall be operated on or at the following:
   (A)    Any state highway or portion thereof, except to cross a state highway
by traveling on a town street perpendicular to the state highway at a location
where the town street intersects with the state highway.
   (B)   Any sidewalk, trail, pedestrian bridge, or path, not specifically
designated for use by a motor vehicle.
(Ord. 2, 2011, passed 5-11-2011; Ord. 3-2020, passed 5-27-2020)   Penalty, see
§
72.99
§ 72.08  OCCUPANTS.
    The number of occupants of a golf cart shall be limited to a maximum of six
persons, or less as permitted by the available manufactured seating capacity
for such golf cart. The operator and occupants must be properly seated with no
part of the body of the operator or any occupant extended outside the perimeter
of the golf cart while the golf cart is in operation; provided however, that
the operator shall use proper hand signals when required.
(Ord. 2, 2011, passed 5-11-2011; Ord. 3-2020, passed 5-27-2020)   Penalty, see
§
72.99
§ 72.09  TOWING PROHIBITED.
    No golf cart shall be used to tow any type of trailer or other vehicle of
any type.
(Ord. 2, 2011, passed 5-11-2011; Ord. 3-2020, passed 5-27-2020)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.10  TRAFFIC LAWS.
    The operator of a golf cart on a town street shall comply with all traffic
laws and rules adopted by the state and all ordinances of the town.
(Ord. 2, 2011, passed 5-11-2011; Ord. 3-2020, passed 5-27-2020)
§ 72.11  EFFECTIVE DATE.
    This subchapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage.
(Ord. 2, 2011, passed 5-11-2011; Ord. 3-2020, passed 5-27-2020)
§ 72.99  PENALTY.
   (A)    Violation of any provision of this subchapter may result in a fine of
$25.
   (B)   Each day of violating this subchapter shall be construed as a separate
violation. All fines collected pursuant to this subchapter shall be deposited
in the General Fund of the town.
   (C)   Any unsafe operation, multiple violations, failure to maintain
financial responsibility or failure to pay any fine, all as provided by this
subchapter, may result in the revocation of a golf cart registration (without
refund of registration fees) and permission to operate a golf cart within the
town.
(Ord. 2, 2011, passed 5-11-2011; Ord. 3-2020, passed 5-27-2020)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90:  ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Animal Warden
   
90.03   Impoundment
   
90.04   Care of impounded animals
   
90.05   Disposition of impounded animals
   
90.06   Abandonment
   
90.07   Disturbing the peace
   
90.08   Restriction on the number of cats and dogs in a single residence
   
90.09   Effective date
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED ANIMAL. An animal whose owner has voluntarily relinquished
possession of it with the intention of terminating his or her ownership, but
without vesting possession in any other person.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any animal shelter established or designated by the Town
Council to keep, care for, or legally dispose of impounded animals as provided
for this section.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner while not under the control of the
owner or other person by leash, cord, chain, or other device of actual physical
restraint or under the control of and accompanying the owner or other person
who has the ability to control the animal by voice command. A dog, which has
been trained to work, and is working shall not be considered to be AT LARGE.
   LICENSED DOG. Any dog on which a tax has been assessed and paid and for
which a license tag has been issued as required by state law.
   NON-IMMUNIZED ANIMAL. Any animal to be immunized against rabies, and which
has not been so immunized.
(Ord. 9, 1992, passed 10-14-1992)
§ 90.02  ANIMAL WARDEN.
   The Town Council may appoint an Animal Warden who, in addition to the Town
Marshal and Deputy Marshal, shall have full authority to enforce and carry out
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 9, 1992, passed 10-14-1992)
§ 90.03  IMPOUNDMENT.
   Any animal may be captured and impounded by any peace officer or the Animal
Warden if such animal:
   (A)   Is found running at large within the town;
   (B)   Is a menace to persons or to other animals;
   (C)   Is suffering or reasonably suspected to be suffering from an
infectious or contagious disease, or is injured;
   (D)   In the case of a dog, is not wearing a collar with a license tag as
required by law;
   (E)   Is kept in an unsanitary manner thereby causing odors which are
annoying and disturbing to persons in the neighborhood;
   (F)   Is treated by the owner in a cruel and inhumane manner;
   (G)   Is found to be an abandoned animal;
   (H)   Is required by court order to be captured and impounded; or
   (I)   Is otherwise in violation of this section or other applicable law.
(Ord. 9, 1992, passed 10-14-1992)
§ 90.04  CARE OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   All animals impounded pursuant to this chapter shall be given proper care,
food, and medicine until disposed of or released as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 9, 1992, passed 10-14-1992)
§ 90.05  DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   (A)   (1)   If the person owning, keeping, or harboring an animal which has
been impounded, notifies the shelter keeper within three days from when
impounded of his or her claim to such animal, the shelter keeper shall permit
such persons to redeem the animal by paying a shelter fee plus a maintenance
fee for each day or fraction thereof during which the animal was impounded;
also, in the case of dogs, by paying to the Township Assessor any license fee
due for the current year; if such impounded animal has received medical or
surgical attention, the person redeeming such animal shall also pay the cost
thereof to the Town Clerk-Treasurer who will authorize release to owner by the
shelter keeper.
      (2)   Such shelter fees and maintenance fees shall be as established from
time to time by the Town Council.
   (B)   Any animal, except for licensed dogs, may be redeemed by anyone upon
paying to the Town Clerk-Treasurer all accrued fees any time after the three-
day period as also set forth in division (A) above.
   (C)   Licensed dogs shall not be redeemed by other than the owner prior to
the expiration of three days. The owner shall be liable for the shelter fee and
maintenance fee set forth in this chapter; provided, however, that wherever the
shelter keeper can reasonably determine the owner of an animal, he or she shall
notify such owner, in writing, that he or she has three days to redeem said
animal by paying the accrued shelter and maintenance fees and tax, if any, by
depositing such notice in the U.S. mail, postage prepaid, addressed to such
owner at his or her last known address, certified with return receipt
requested.
   (D)   An animal which appears to be suffering from rabies, mange, or other
infectious diseases shall not be released, but shall be forthwith destroyed, if
it has not bitten anyone. If a dog is suspected of having rabies, or has bitten
a person and has not been immunized for rabies, such dog shall be immediately
confined by a leash or chain on the owner’s premises and shall thereafter be
impounded by the town at the expense of the owner for a period of 15 days for
observation. Every owner or other person, upon ascertaining or suspecting a dog
is rabid, shall immediately notify Town Marshal who shall either remove the dog
for observation or summarily destroy it.
   (E)   Where the shelter keeper is a licensed veterinarian and determines
that any impounded animal requires medical and/or surgical or dental treatment
he or she may provide such treatment immediately, and the prior consent of the
owner of said animal to said treatment shall not be required.
   (F)   Except for a licensed dog, any animal which is not redeemed may be
destroyed by the shelter keeper any time after the three-day period set forth
above.
   (G)   Licensed dogs which are not redeemed by their owners may be destroyed
by the shelter keeper any time after the three-day period set forth above, or
upon expiration of the three-day notice to the owner, whichever is later.
   (H)   The shelter keeper may also give any impounded animal away, rather
than destroying it, if a suitable home can be found for the animal.
   (I)   Where the shelter keeper is a licensed veterinarian and determines
that an impounded animal is incurably ill or injured, or is suffering unduly,
he or she may destroy the animal immediately, and the prior consent of the
owner of said animal shall not be required.
(Ord. 9, 1992, passed 10-14-1992)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06  ABANDONMENT.
   No person shall abandon any animal on any public place, including the right-
of-way of any public highway, or upon the property of another within the town.
(Ord. 9, 1992, passed 10-14-1992)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07  DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, harbor, or shelter any animal
to suffer or permit such animal to bark, howl, or otherwise interfere with or
disturb the peace, quiet, dignity, and tranquility of any home or neighborhood.
(Ord. 9, 1992, passed 10-14-1992)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08  RESTRICTION ON THE NUMBER OF CATS AND DOGS IN A SINGLE RESIDENCE.
   (A)   No more than three dogs or three cats (except in the case of
littermates less than six months of age) shall be kept, harbored, raised, or
possessed at any single residence, location, or premises within the town except
where such keeping, harboring, raising, or possessing is incidental to the
operation of a licensed animal hospital, or a kennel properly licensed by the
Township Trustee. The keeping, harboring, raising, or possessing of more than
said number of such dogs or cats, except where same is incidental to the animal
hospital or kennel, is declared a nuisance and dangerous to the public health,
safety, and welfare. In addition to the penalties provided for this section,
any person violating this section may be ordered to abate the nuisance.
   (B)   This section shall be effective from and after its passage.
(Ord. 3-2003, passed 2-26-2003)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   Sections
90.01 through
90.07 shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage and
publication as required by law.
(Ord. 9, 1992, passed 10-14-1992)
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §§
90.01 through
90.07 for the first time, shall be given a written warning thereof by the
Animal Warden or other law enforcement officers of the town. Any subsequent
violation of §§
90.01 through
90.07, of any kind, shall constitute an infraction and subject such person to a
fine of $25, in addition to all other fees and costs imposed by §§
90.01 through
90.07.
   (C)   Any person violating §
90.08 shall be subject to a fine of $25 for each day such violation occurs or
is permitted to occur. In addition to the foregoing penalty, any person
violating §
90.08 shall also pay all expenses including shelter, food, boarding, and
veterinary expenses as may be required to enforce §
90.08.
(Ord. 9, 1992, passed 10-14-1992; Ord. 3-2003, passed 2-26-2003)
CHAPTER 91:  STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Sidewalk Repair
   
91.01   Sidewalk Repair Program
   
91.02   Sidewalk evaluation
   
91.03   Repair or replacement
   
91.04   Cost of repair
Operation of Skateboards on Public Sidewalks
   
91.15   Definition
   
91.16   Prohibitions
   
91.17   Effective date
Occupation of Public Rights-of-Way
   
91.30   General provisions
   
91.31   New installations
   
91.32   Permit fees
   
91.33   Bond
   
91.34   Restoration of surface
   
91.35   Time limit
   
91.36   Supervision
 
   
91.99   Penalty
SIDEWALK REPAIR
§ 91.01  SIDEWALK REPAIR PROGRAM.
   There is hereby created a Town Sidewalk Repair Program (“Program”) to be
administered by the town as hereinafter set forth.
(Ord. 10, 2000, passed 10-25-2000)
§ 91.02  SIDEWALK EVALUATION.
   The Town Council shall prepare and maintain a record of all existing
sidewalks within the town which shall include location, approximate length, and
condition. Such record shall be prepared with the assistance of the Town Street
Superintendent (“Superintendent”), and shall be updated and revised yearly.
(Ord. 10, 2000, passed 10-25-2000)
§ 91.03  REPAIR OR REPLACEMENT.
   The Council shall yearly determine those sidewalks in need of repair or
replacement after having taken into consideration:
   (A)   Said sidewalk record;
   (B)   Location and public use of the sidewalk with first priority given to
residential neighborhoods;
   (C)   The town’s available resources to fund the Program;
   (D)   The recommendation of the Superintendent; and
   (E)   Any other information considered pertinent by the Council.
(Ord. 10, 2000, passed 10-25-2000)
§ 91.04  COST OF REPAIR.
   (A)   The town shall pay for the cost of all such repair from the annual
budgeted appropriation for sidewalk repair.
   (B)   In the event any resident within the town wishes to replace any
sidewalk adjacent to said owner’s property, such owner may be reimbursed for a
portion of the costs of such sidewalk replacement if:
      (1)   The repair meets all specifications required in advance by the
Superintendent and otherwise complies with all town ordinances; and
      (2)   The Town Council determines in advance that sufficient funds exist
for such reimbursement. Such reimbursement shall be on a uniform per running-
foot basis as determined in advance by the Board.
(Ord. 10, 2000, passed 10-25-2000)
OPERATION OF SKATEBOARDS ON PUBLIC SIDEWALKS
§ 91.15  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. Public sidewalks adjacent to the entrance or exit of an
operating business within the town.
(Ord. 2-2006, passed 8-23-2006)
§ 91.16  PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall operate any skateboard or similar mode of
transportation on the public sidewalks in the business district.
   (B)   No person shall operate any skateboard or similar mode of
transportation on any business property or lot without the permission of the
property owner.
(Ord. 2-2006, passed 8-23-2006)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.17  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage.
(Ord. 2-2006, passed 8-23-2006)
OCCUPATION OF PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
§ 91.30  GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to occupy areas along, under, upon, and across streets,
highways, or other public property within the town, without having first fully
complied with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 8-2018, passed 11-9-2018)
§ 91.31  NEW INSTALLATIONS.
   No person or entity, including a public or private utility, may install or
maintain any cable, wire, conduits, or other attachments or equipment of any
kind over, on, or under any street, highway, or other public property within
the town, unless and until a permit for such installation shall have first been
obtained from the town. Applications for such permits shall be made in writing
to the Town Clerk-Treasurer, and shall state the name of the applicant, the
location, nature, size and purpose of the proposed installation. Each such
application shall be accompanied by plans and specifications showing the exact
location involved, exact dimensions, depth of installation, exact distance from
the main portion of any traveled highway, sidewalk, or other right-of-way, the
method of installation contemplated, and the nature of the proposed equipment.
Each such application shall be referred to the Town Street Superintendent or
other person designated by the Town Council, to determine whether the work
contemplated complies with the ordinances of the town and whether it would
involve or cause damage to town property. No such permit shall be issued unless
it appears that no such damage will ensue. If such permit is granted, an as-
built set of plans to scale shall be furnished by the applicant to the Town.
The Town Council or its authorized designee shall be authorized to grant
permission to any public utility to install any such cable, wire, conduits, or
other equipment within a public right-of-way on an emergency basis, as
determined by the Town Council, conditioned upon such public utility thereafter
complying with the provisions of this subchapter, including submission of plans
and specifications and payment of permit fees as required herein. All
installations shall be in compliance with the National Electric Safety Code.
(Ord. 8-2018, passed 11-9-2018)
§ 91.32  PERMIT FEES.
   There shall be a permit fee paid to the town for each permit as follows:
   (A)   Road excavations/cuts: $25 per lineal foot with a $500 minimum fee,
per street, per cut, other than under division (H) below;
   (B)   Borings under streets: $3 per lineal foot with $100 minimum per bore;
   (C)   Trenching/excavating adjacent to roadway but within right-of-way: $1
per lineal foot with $100 minimum;
   (D)   Sidewalk and alley cuts: $1 per lineal foot with $100 minimum;
   (E)   Borings within right-of-way but adjacent to roadway: $1 per lineal
foot with $100 minimum;
   (F)   Pole lines: $75 per pole or minimum of $500 with three adjacent poles
or more;
   (G)   Drops or service wires: No permit or fee required for service wires
from structure to residence, unless road excavation or bore is required;
   (H)   Temporary construction or access roads: To be determined by Town
Street Superintendent, based on dimensions, duration of use, additional costs
from the town.
(Ord. 8-2018, passed 11-9-2018)
§ 91.33  BOND.
   No permit shall be issued unless the applicant has also filed with the Town
Clerk-Treasurer a bond with a lawful corporate surety or an indemnity insurance
policy, in the sum to be determined by the Town Council based upon the size and
scope of a project, but not less than $25,000 conditioned to indemnify and hold
the town harmless against any and all claims or injury or damage to persons or
property resulting from the performance of work contemplated or any act done
pursuant thereto, or against any loss or damage to town utilities or other
property, and against liability resulting from the maintenance of any such
cable, wire, conduit or other attachments or equipment so installed. Such bond
shall be a continuing blanket bond for a period of one year computed from the
time the work is completed.
(Ord. 8-2018, passed 11-9-2018)
§ 91.34  RESTORATION OF SURFACE.
   Any applicants granted a permit shall replace the portion of any area
excavated in its original condition, and backfill any trench or opening by
thoroughly tamping the backfilling in layers acceptable to the Town Street
Superintendent, and to maintain the surface which has been disturbed in a
smooth and uniform condition for a period of one year after the work is
completed. All underground cables, wires, conduits, or other attachments or
equipment shall be buried no less than 12 inches, unless prior written
permission is granted by the Town Street Superintendent. All applicants granted
such permit shall also comply with all other ordinances of the town.
(Ord. 8-2018, passed 11-9-2018)
§ 91.35  TIME LIMIT.
   Each permit to install equipment granted under the provisions of this
subchapter shall expire within six months from the time of issuance and no such
permit shall authorize any work to be done after such time, unless expressly
granted by the Town Council.
(Ord. 8-2018, passed 11-9-2018)
§ 91.36  SUPERVISION.
   The Town Street Superintendent, or other person designated by the Town
Council, may supervise any construction or installation work performed subject
to the provisions of this subchapter and may make such inspections as may be
necessary to insure compliance with the ordinances of the town in connection
therewith.
(Ord. 8-2018, passed 11-9-2018)
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §
91.15 through
91.17 shall be subject to such skateboard or similar device being confiscated
by the Town Police Department or other persons designated by the Town Council.
The Town Police Department in lieu of a $20 civil penalty shall hold such
skateboard. A second or subsequent offense shall be a fine of $100.
(Ord. 2-2006, passed 8-23-2006)
CHAPTER 92:  NUISANCES
Section
Public Nuisance and Abatement
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Specific conditions constituting a nuisance
   
92.03   Creation or maintenance of nuisance prohibited
   
92.04   Enforcement
   
92.05   Lien on property
   
92.06   Appeal
   
92.07   Supplemental effect
   
92.08   Effective date
Abandoned Vehicles
   
92.20   Liability for abandoned vehicles; fees
   
92.21   Means of disposition of abandoned vehicle
   
92.22   Effective date
 
   
92.99   Penalty
PUBLIC NUISANCE AND ABATEMENT
§ 92.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUISANCE. The doing of an act, or the omitting to perform a duty, or the
suffering or permitting any condition to be or to exist, which act, omission,
condition, or thing which either:
      (1)   Is injurious to health;
      (2)   Indecent;
      (3)   Offensive to the senses; or
      (4)   Obstruction to the free use of the property, so as essentially to
interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life and property.
   RANK VEGETATION. Includes any grasses or plants (other than trees or
normally recognized ornamental bushes, flowers, or other ornamental plants)
growing to a height of eight inches or higher above the ground, but does not
include agricultural crops, such as hay and pasture.
   WEEDS. Includes poison ivy, giant ragweed, common ragweed, sandbur, burdock,
musk thistle, Canadian thistle, bull thistle, multiflora rose, jimsonweed,
buckhorn, pokeweed, wild onion, milkweed, hemp dogbane, garlic mustard, quack
grass, horse weed, foxtail, prickly lettuce, cocklebur, waterhemp, pigweed,
velvetleaf, curly dock, or other weeds of like kind, but does not include
agricultural crops, such as hay and pasture.
(Ord. 11, passed - -2012)
§ 92.02  SPECIFIC CONDITIONS CONSTITUTING A NUISANCE.
   The maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving, or permitting to be or
remain on any public or private property of the following items, conditions, or
actions are hereby declared to be and constitute a nuisance; however, this
enumeration shall not be deemed or construed to be conclusive, limiting, or
restrictive upon the definition of a nuisance contained in §
92.01:
   (A)   Weeds and other rank vegetation, including, but not limited to, grass
and weeds, living or dead. The failure by any property owner or occupant to cut
said grass, and/or weeds, living or dead, on such property shall be evidence
that said property owner/occupant is maintaining a nuisance;
   (B)   Accumulation of rubbish, trash, refuse, junk, or other abandoned
materials including metals, lumber, appliances, or other things, or the dumping
or placing of the same upon the property of another without the property
owner’s consent;
   (C)   Any condition which provides harborage for rats, mice, snakes, or
other vermin;
   (D)   Any building, mobile home, or other structure which is in such a
dilapidated condition that it is unfit for human habitation, or kept in such an
unsanitary condition that it is a menace to the health of the people residing
in the vicinity thereof, or presents a more than ordinarily dangerous fire
hazard in the vicinity where it is located;
   (E)   All disagreeable or obnoxious odors and stenches, as well as the
conditions, substances, or other causes which give rise to the omission or
generation of such odors and stenches;
   (F)   The carcasses of animals or foul not disposed of within a reasonable
time after death;
   (G)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream, lake, canal, or
body of water by sewage, dead animals, industrial waste, or other substances;
   (H)   Any building, structure, or other place or location where any activity
or condition exists which is in violation of local, state, or federal law,
ordinance, or regulation, is conducted, performed, maintained, or permitted,
including violation of §
153.01;
   (I)   Any accumulation of stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot
or piece of ground;
   (J)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas, soot, or cinders, in unreasonable
quantities;
   (K)   The obstruction of any public street, road, or sidewalk, or dedicated
easement or right-of-way;
   (L)   Open pits, cisterns, cellars, wells, excavations, sewers, or vaults
situated in any open or insufficiently fenced area;
   (M)   The alternation of the flow of stormwater to the detriment of
surrounding property; or
   (N)   Any abandoned vehicle as defined by I.C. 9-13-2-1, or any vehicle
which does not carry the current state registered license place.
(Ord. 11, passed - -2012)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03  CREATION OR MAINTENANCE OF NUISANCE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, prevent, maintain, or allow
the creation or maintenance of a nuisance.
(Ord. 11, passed - -2012)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04  ENFORCEMENT.
   Whenever a nuisance is found to exist within the town, the Town Police
Department, the County Environmental Officer, or other persons designated by
the Town Council, may proceed to enforce compliance with this subchapter as
follows:
   (A)   By giving written notice to at least one owner of record of the
property upon which such nuisance exists or upon the person causing or
maintaining the nuisance, containing the following:
      (1)   An order to abate the nuisance within a time certain which time
shall be reasonable under the circumstances;
      (2)   The location of the nuisance;
      (3)   A description of what constitutes the nuisance;
      (4)   A statement of the acts necessary to abate the nuisance; or
      (5)   A statement that if the nuisance is not abated as directed within
the prescribed time, the town may enter upon the property, abate such nuisance
and assess the costs thereof against the person or property, including
administrative costs, costs of sending notice, and removal costs.
   (B)   Notices to be given as provided herein by certified mail return
receipt requested, or by delivery to the person to whom the notice must be
given personally, at the last address of the property owner as indicated in the
records of the County Auditor.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-10.1-3(d), if an initial notice of the violation
of this subchapter pertains to weeds or rank vegetation, and was provided as
set forth in division (B) above, a continuous abatement notice may be posted at
the property at the time of abatement instead of by certified mail or personal
service, and this continuous abatement notice shall serve as notice to the
property owner that each subsequent violation during the same year for which
the initial notice of the violation was provided may be abated by the town, or
its contractors.
(Ord. 11, passed - -2012)
§ 92.05  LIEN ON PROPERTY.
   Any and all costs incurred by the town in the abatement of a nuisance under
the provisions of this subchapter shall constitute a lien against the property
upon which such nuisance existed and shall be certified by the Town Clerk-
Treasurer to the County Auditor who shall cause such costs to be placed upon
the tax duplicate of the owner of such property and such costs may then be
collected from the owner as other real estate taxes are collected.
(Ord. 11, passed - -2012)
§ 92.06  APPEAL.
   Any property owner may appeal an order to abate to the Town Council by
giving a written request for an appeal hearing within five days of the order.
(Ord. 11, passed - -2012)
§ 92.07  SUPPLEMENTAL EFFECT.
   The provisions of this subchapter are hereby declared to be supplemental to
all other provisions of the ordinances of the town, state, and federal law, and
all other legal remedies available at law or in equity.
(Ord. 11, passed - -2012)
§ 92.08  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage.
(Ord. 11, passed - -2012)
ABANDONED VEHICLES
§ 92.20  LIABILITY FOR ABANDONED VEHICLES; FEES.
   (A)   The owner of an abandoned vehicle disposed of by the town pursuant to
I.C. 9-22-1 et seq., shall be liable to the town for all costs incidental to
the removal, storage, and the disposal of any such vehicle or the parts
thereof, including but not limited to the following charges:
      (1)   Thirty-five dollars for any towing;
      (2)   Seven dollars per day for any storage; or
      (3)   All other fees or charges made by the State Bureau of Motor
Vehicles for the disposition of any such vehicle or parts.
   (B)   Further, that all such fees shall be deposited into the Abandoned
Vehicle Fund previously established by the town.
(Ord. 2, 1995, passed 4-12-1995)
§ 92.21  MEANS OF DISPOSITION OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   The means of disposition of any abandoned vehicles under I.C. 9-22-1 et
seq., by the town, shall be determined by the Town Council which are
incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 2, 1995, passed 4-12-1995)
§ 92.22  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its
adoption by the Town Council and published as required by law.
(Ord. 2, 1995, passed 4-12-1995)
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
92.01 through
92.08 shall also be subject to the following penalties.
         (a)   First offense. Fine of $50.
         (b)   Second offense. Fine $200.
         (c)   Third or subsequent offense. Fine of $500.
      (2)   Each day that any nuisance remains following the deadline given in
the notice constitutes a separate violation.
      (3)   All fines are assessed in addition to any costs incurred by the
town pursuant to §
92.05.
(Ord. 11, passed - -2012)
CHAPTER 93:  FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
93.01   Policy statement
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Unlawful practice
   
93.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
93.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
93.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage service
   
93.07   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
   
93.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
93.09   Exemptions
   
93.10   Administrative enforcement of ordinance
   
93.11   Effective date
§ 93.01  POLICY STATEMENT.
    It shall be the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, the federal Housing and
Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2014-3, passed 5-28-2014; Ord. 2015-5, passed 9-9-2015)
§ 93.02  DEFINITIONS.
    For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-2)
   COMMISSION. The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9-1-4 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
93.04 through
93.08 or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS.
      (1)   One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18 years
being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of such
individual or the written permission of such parent or other person;
      (2)   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
familial status shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual (I.C. 22-9.5-2-9), with the status of
such family being further defined in this section under FAMILIAL STATUS.
Pursuant to 24 CFR Part 5.403 and 24 CFR Part 574.3, the definition of FAMILY
is revised to include families regardless of the actual or perceived sexual
orientation, gender identity, or marital status of their members.
   HANDICAP.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990;
         (e)   Any other impairment defined in 910 I.A.C. 2-3.
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or
addictions to a controlled substance as defined in Section 802 of Title 21 of
the United States Code (910 I.A.C. 2-3-2(14)); nor does the term HANDICAP
include an individual solely because that individual is a transvestite (910
I.A.C. 2-3-2(14)).
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under Title 11 of the United States Code, receivers, and
fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   RENT. To lease, to sublease, to let or otherwise to grant for a
consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 2014-3, passed 5-28-2014; Ord. 2015-5, passed 9-9-2015)
§ 93.03  UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
    Subject to the provisions of division (B) of this section, §
93.09 and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or
rental of housing set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and §
93.04 of this Code shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) below and I.C. 22-
9.5-3;
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
93.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   (a)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period;
         (b)   The private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor
have owned or reserved on his or her behalf, title to or any right to all or a
portion of the proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-
family houses at any one time;
         (c)   The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
            1.   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental
facilities or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesman, or any
person in the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or
agent of any such broker, agent or salesman, or person; and
            2.   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
93.04(C), but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended
for occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 2014-3, passed 5-28-2014; Ord. 2015-5, passed 9-9-2015)
§ 93.04  DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
    As made applicable by §
93.03 and except as exempted by §
93.03(B) and §
93.09, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin;
   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, or an
intention to make any such preference, limitation or discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available;
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status or national origin;
   (F)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
      (1)   That buyer or renter;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (G)   (1)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
         (a)   That person; or
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (2)   For purposes of this division (G), DISCRIMINATION includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may, where it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification
on the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling;
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
            1.   The public-use and common-use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
            2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
            3.   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               a.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               b.   Light, switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
               c.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
      (3)   (a)   Compliance with the appropriate requirement Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 and of the American National Standard for Buildings
and Facilities providing accessibility an usability for physically handicapped
people (commonly cited as ANSI A117.1) suffices to satisfy the requirements of
division (G)(2)(c)3.c. above.
         (b)   Nothing in this division (G)(3) requires that a dwelling be made
available to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to
the health of safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in
substantial physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 2014-3, passed 5-28-2014; Ord. 2015-5, passed 9-9-2015)
§ 93.05  DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)    It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial status.
(Ord. 2014-3, passed 5-28-2014; Ord. 2015-5, passed 9-9-2015)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.06  DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICE.
    It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’
organization or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national
origin.
(Ord. 2014-3, passed 5-28-2014; Ord. 2015-5, passed 9-9-2015)   Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.07  INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
    It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
93.03 through
93.06.
(Ord. 2014-3, passed 5-28-2014; Ord. 2015-5, passed 9-9-2015)   Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.08  PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
    Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin and because he or she is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization, or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A)
above;
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in
any of the activities, services, organizations or facilities described in
division (A) above, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly
opposing any denial of the opportunity to participate, shall be fined according
to local, state and federal law, and if bodily injury results shall be fined
not more than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both, and if
death results shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for
life.
(Ord. 2014-3, passed 5-28-2014; Ord. 2015-5, passed 9-9-2015)
§ 93.09  EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)    Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) of this section.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the State Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly persons (as defined in the state or federal program) or;
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 2014-3, passed 5-28-2014; Ord. 2015-5, passed 9-9-2015)
§ 93.10  ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)    The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) below shall be vested in the chief elected official of the
town.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the town, because
of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the provisions of this
chapter by complainants to the Indiana Civil Rights Commission for
administrative enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the chief
elected official of the town shall refer all said complaints to the Commission
as provided for under division (A) to said Commission for purposes of
investigation, resolution and appropriate relief as provided for under I.C. 22-
9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the town shall administer
their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the chief elected official and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The chief elected official of the town, or the chief elected
official’s designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any
aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 2014-3, passed 5-28-2014; Ord. 2015-5, passed 9-9-2015)
§ 93.11  EFFECTIVE DATE.
    This chapter shall be effective upon passage and any necessary publication.
(Ord. 2014-3, passed 5-28-2014)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
CHAPTER 110:  PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
Section
   
110.01   Definition
   
110.02   Permit required
   
110.03   Permit applications
   
110.04   Clerk-Treasurer approval of license application
   
110.05   Revocation of license
   
110.06   Exemptions
   
110.07   Effective date
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the municipality and
who, in the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure,
vehicle, or any place within the municipality.
   PEDDLER.
      (1)   Any person who travels from place to place by any means carrying
goods for sale, or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Any person who, without traveling from place to place, sells, or
offers goods for sale from any public place within the municipality. A person
who is a PEDDLER is not an itinerant merchant.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking,
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who SOLICITOR is not a
peddler.
(Ord. 6, 1992, passed 7-8-1992)
§ 110.02  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a permit before engaging in such activity within the municipality.
   (B)   Before any permit shall be issued under the provisions of this
chapter, the applicant therefor shall pay a fee, based upon the duration he or
she desires to engage in business in the town, as follows.
 
Per day          $5
Per week         $10
Per month        $25
Per three months $50
Per six months   $75
Per 12 months    $100
 
   (C)   No permit issued under this chapter shall be transferrable.
   (D)   All permits issued under this chapter shall expire at dusk on the last
day of the permit term.
(Ord. 6, 1992, passed 7-8-1992)
§ 110.03  PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   All applicants for permits required by this chapter shall file a
written, sworn application with the Clerk-Treasurer. This application shall be
signed by the applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership,
or by the president if a corporation. Applications should be made on forms
available in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   The application shall state:
         (a)   The name and address of the applicant;
         (b)   1.   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the municipality;
            2.   The local address of such individual;
            3.   The permanent address of such individual; and
            4.   The capacity in which such individuals will act.
         (c)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose
the business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of
incorporation;
         (d)   The time period of periods during which it is proposed to carry
on applicant’s business, usually from 9:00 a.m. until dusk;
         (e)   1.   The nature, character, and quality of goods or services to
be offered for sale or delivered;
            2.   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold
by sample as well as from stock; and
            3.   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or
grown, and where such goods are at the time of application.
         (f)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the
business; and
         (g)    Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identitied in
division (A)(2)(b)1. above, or the person identified in division (A)(2)(c)
above has been convicted of any felony and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   All applications for peddler or solicitor permits shall state, in
addition to statements required by division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its license number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants who propose to handle or sell foodstuffs shall comply
with the county food marketing and service ordinances, Ord. HDI-74 and 75(A),
or as later amended, and shall provide proof of such compliance to the Clerk-
Treasurer at the time of application.
(Ord. 6, 1992, passed 7-8-1992)
§ 110.04  CLERK-TREASURER APPROVAL OF LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall approve the application unless the
conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a substantial threat to the
public health, safety, morals, or general welfare.
      (2)   In particular, tangible evidence that the applicant:
         (a)   Has been convicted of a felony or crime of moral turpitude;
         (b)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
         (c)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like;
         (d)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts;
         (e)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts; or
         (f)    Has an unsatisfactory moral character, will constitute valid
reasons for disapproval of an application.
   (B)   Peddlers, solicitors, or itinerant merchants shall exhibit their
license at the request of any citizen.
(Ord. 6, 1992, passed 7-8-1992)
§ 110.05  REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the
Clerk-Treasurer for any of the following reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter or other county ordinance;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, and general
welfare of the public.
(Ord. 6, 1992, passed 7-8-1992)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06  EXEMPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to organizations which are operated exclusively
for religious, charitable, or educational purposes, or to not-for-profit civic
or fraternal organizations.
(Ord. 6, 1992, passed 7-8-1992)
§ 110.07 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage
and signing by the President of the Town Council.
(Ord. 6, 1992, passed 7-8-1992)
§ 110.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$500. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day that a violation
occurs or continues.
(Ord. 6, 1992, passed 7-8-1992)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
[Reserved]
TITLE V: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDINGS
      
151.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
152.   FLOOD
      
153.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150:  BUILDINGS
Section
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.01   Adoption of state law
   
150.02   Definitions
   
150.03   Building Inspector position; duties
   
150.04   Hearing authority
   
150.05   Unsafe Building Fund
   
150.06   Violations
Numbering of Lots, Buildings, and Structures
   
150.20   Numbering generally
   
150.21   Town Clerk-Treasurer’s documentation
   
150.22   Enforcement of subchapter
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.01  ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted by the state through I.C. 36-7-9-3,
the town hereby adopts the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9, which are hereby
established as the “Brookston Unsafe Building Code”.
   (B)   (1)   I.C. 36-7-9-1 through 6-7-9-28, as it may be amended from time
to time, is hereby incorporated by reference in the Town Unsafe Building Code.
All proceedings within the town for the inspection, repair, and removal of
unsafe buildings shall be governed by said law and the provisions of this
subchapter.
      (2)   In the event the provisions of this subchapter conflict with the
provisions of I.C. 36-7-9, then the provisions of the state statute shall
control.
(Ord. 4, 1994, passed 8-10-1994)
§ 150.02  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (B)   The definitions set forth in I.C. 36-7-9-2 and I.C. 36-7-9-4 are
incorporated by reference herein in their entirety, including the definition of
“substantial property interest” therein; and for purposes of this subchapter,
the following additional definitions shall apply.
      DILAPIDATED. No longer adequate for the purpose or use for which it was
originally intended.
      PUBLIC NUISANCE. Includes:
         (a)   Any physical condition, use, or occupancy of any premises or its
appurtenances considered an attractive nuisance to children, including, but not
limited to, abandoned wells, shafts, basements, excavations, and unsafe fences
or structures; or for which the required precautions against trespassers have
not been provided;
         (b)   Any premises from which the plumbing, heating, electrical, and
facilities required by law have been removed, or from which utilities have been
disconnected, destroyed, removed, or rendered ineffective;
         (c)   Any structure or building that is in a state of dilapidation,
deterioration, or decay; abandoned; in danger of collapse or failure; and/or
dangerous to anyone on or near the premises;
         (d)   Any structure where the paint has been severely removed by time,
or where the paint is checked or bleeding; or
         (e)   Any structure which violates state law.
      UNSAFE BUILDING. In addition to the definition thereof contained in I.C.
36-7-9-4, UNSAFE BUILDING means any building or structure which has any or all
of the conditions or defects hereinafter described, provided that these
conditions or defects exist to the extent that life, health, property, or
safety of the public or its occupants are endangered:
         (a)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway, or other means of exit is
not of sufficient width or size or is not so arranged as to provide safe and
adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
         (b)   Whenever the walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway,
or other means of exit is so warped, worn, loose, torn, or otherwise unsafe as
to not provide safe and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
         (c)    Whenever the stress in any materials, member, or portion
thereof, due to all dead and live loads, is more than one and one-half times
the working stress or stresses allowed for new buildings of similar structure,
purpose, or location;
         (d)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire,
earthquake, wind, flood, or by any other cause, to an extent that the
structural strength or stability thereof is materially less than it was before
that catastrophe, and is less than the minimum requirements for new buildings
of similar structure, purpose, or location;
         (e)   Whenever any portion, member, or appurtenance thereof is likely
to fail, to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and thereby injure
persons or damage property;
         (f)   Whenever any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance,
or ornamentation on the exterior thereof, is not of sufficient strength or
stability or is not so anchored, attached, or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting a wind pressure of one-half of that specified for new
buildings of similar structure, purpose, or location without exceeding the
working stresses permitted for such buildings;
         (g)   Whenever any portion thereof has wracked, warped, buckled, or
settled to such an extent that walls or other structural portions have
materially less resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case
of similar new construction;
         (h)   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion thereof,
because of dilapidation, deterioration, or decay; faulty construction; the
removal, movement, or instability of any portion of the ground necessary for
the purpose of supporting the building; the deterioration, decay, or inadequacy
of its foundation; or any other cause, is likely to partially or completely
collapse;
         (i)   Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure, or any
portion thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being
used;
         (j)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members
list, lean, or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the
center of gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third of the base;
         (k)   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundation,
shows 33% or more damage or deterioration of its supporting member or members,
or 50% damage or deterioration of its nonsupporting members, enclosing or
outside walls, or coverings;
         (l)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire,
wind, earthquake, or flood, or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated so as
to become an attractive nuisance to children, or freely accessible to persons
for the purpose of committing unlawful acts;
         (m)   Whenever any building or structure has been constructed, exists,
or is maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition
applicable to the building or structure provided by the building regulations of
this town, or of any law or ordinance of this state or city relating to the
condition, location, or structure of buildings;
         (n)   Whenever any building or structure which, whether or not erected
in accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances has in any nonsupporting
part, member, or portion less than 50%, or in any supporting part, member, or
portion less than 66% of the strength, fire-resisting qualities or
characteristics, or weather-resisting qualities or characteristics required by
law in the case of a newly-constructed building of like area, height, and
occupancy in the same location;
         (o)   Whenever a building or structure, used or intended to be used
for dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangement, inadequate light, air, or
sanitation facilities, or otherwise, is determined by the County Health Officer
to be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation, or in such a condition that is
likely to cause sickness or disease;
         (p)   Whenever any building or structure, because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, or lack of
sufficient fire-resistive construction is determined by the Chief of the City
Fire Inspection Bureau to be a fire hazard; or
         (q)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a
site after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure, or
whenever any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six
months, so as to constitute that building or portion thereof an attractive
nuisance or hazard to the public.
(Ord. 4, 1994, passed 8-10-1994)
§ 150.03  BUILDING INSPECTOR POSITION; DUTIES.
   (A)   There is hereby created for the town the position of Building
Inspector who shall be appointed by the Town Council and who shall serve in
this capacity until the official either resigns or the Town Council removes the
official from the position, with or without cause.
   (B)   Whenever the Building Inspector or his or her designee for the town
shall find within the municipal limits any unsafe buildings as described
herein, said official shall have the power to order and compel compliance with
this subchapter pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9. The Building
Inspector shall have the power to compel all occupants of any such building or
structure and all other persons to vacate and remain out of such unsafe
buildings and structures pending compliance with this subchapter and state law,
by posting in all instances, upon such building, structure, or appurtenance
thereof, or at or near its principal entrance, a sign in large letters stating,
in substance.
 
“ THIS BUILDING OR STRUCTURE IS IN AN UNSAFE CONDITION AND MUST NOT BE USED OR
ENTERED BY ANYONE, WITHOUT THE WRITTEN PERMISSION OF THE BUILDING INSPECTOR OF
THE TOWN OF BROOKSTON, INDIANA”.
 
   (C)   The Building Inspector or his or her designee shall, and is hereby
empowered to issue all orders in writing to owners and occupants of buildings
and structures that are unsafe within the meaning of this subchapter directing
such action as may be necessary to bring said building or structure within
compliance of this subchapter and state law; provided, however, that prior to
the issuance of any such orders, the Building Inspector or his or her designee
shall prepare a written report to be distributed to the Town Council, which
report shall state the location of such unsafe building or structure, the
owner, and/or occupants thereof, the general nature of repairs, alterations, or
other reconstruction that may be necessary to bring said building or structure
within compliance of this subchapter and the action that is about to be taken
by the Building Inspector or his or her designee. All papers and reports as
required herein shall constitute the record in each case and must be preserved
in a file kept in the office of the Building Inspector or his or her designee.
   (D)   In the event that the Building Inspector or his or her designee finds
any building, structure, or appurtenance thereto is an unsafe building as
described herein, and that no remedy for compliance is feasible, then and in
that event, the Building Inspector or his or her designee shall have the
authority to condemn the building or structure in order that the same be
wrecked and removed pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9.
(Ord. 4, 1994, passed 8-10-1994)
§ 150.04  HEARING AUTHORITY.
   The Town Council shall be the hearing authority which shall conduct all
administrative hearings required under I.C. 36-7-9.
(Ord. 4, 1994, passed 8-10-1994)
§ 150.05  UNSAFE BUILDING FUND.
   An Unsafe Building Fund is hereby established in the operating budget of the
town in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-14.
(Ord. 4, 1994, passed 8-10-1994)
§ 150.06  VIOLATIONS.
   Any person shall, in any and each such instance, be deemed guilty of a Class
C infraction, pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9-28(4), for each day any such person
shall:
   (A)   Prevent or attempt to prevent the posting of any notice;
   (B)   Remove or deface any notice posted upon any building or structure or
appurtenance thereto, as provided for in this subchapter, without written
permission of or when acting for the Building Inspector or his or her designee;
   (C)   Remain in, use, or enter any building or structure in violation of an
order thereon, as provided in this subchapter;
   (D)   Willfully refuse to comply with, or shall willfully interfere with or
delay the carrying out of any order finally effective and authorized by this
subchapter and I.C. 36-7-9;
   (E)   Willfully obstructs, delays, damages, injures, or interferes with any
persons engaged or property used in performing any work or duty under or
authorized by this subchapter and state law, or under and pursuant to any other
pertinent ordinances or laws; or
   (F)   Violate any other provisions of this subchapter or I.C. 36-7-9.
(Ord. 4, 1994, passed 8-10-1994)
NUMBERING OF LOTS, BUILDINGS, AND STRUCTURES
§ 150.20  NUMBERING GENERALLY.
   All houses, buildings, and structures in the town shall be numbered in
accordance with the following plan.
   (A)   The number shall reflect the official address recognized by the town
and the 9-1-1 emergency system.
   (B)   It shall be the obligation of the owner of the property to place
numbers on the house, building or structure, which numbers shall be a minimum
of three inches high and shall contrast with the background on which they are
placed.
   (C)   If the building or structure is a residence and is more than 75 feet
from the roadway, then the numbers shall be attached to a fixture near the
street.
   (D)   Residential numbers may be attached to a rural mailbox post provided
the mailbox post is on the same side of the roadway and only one mailbox is
present.
   (E)   If the building or structure is a business, the number must be affixed
in a clearly visible location on the front of the building.
   (F)   Each unit of a multi-family dwelling shall be addressed separately.
(Ord. 93-3, passed 8-25-1993)
§ 150.21  TOWN CLERK-TREASURER’S DOCUMENTATION.
   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall keep a chart or log showing the proper street
number of every house, building, or structure in the town.
(Ord. 93-3, passed 8-25-1993)
§ 150.22  ENFORCEMENT OF SUBCHAPTER.
   Enforcement of this subchapter may be accomplished by the town in any manner
authorized by law, including the bringing of the town of an action to enjoin or
otherwise abate any existing violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 93-3, passed 8-25-1993)
CHAPTER 151:  SUBDIVISIONS
Section
   
151.01   Information map
   
151.02   Storm drainage
   
151.03   Streets
   
151.04   Electrical
   
151.05   Water
   
151.06   Sanitary sewers
   
151.07   Extension of utilities
   
151.08   Conditional approval
   
151.09   Opposition to annexation prohibited
   
151.10   Effective date
§ 151.01  INFORMATION MAP.
   (A)   The owner of the subdivision or addition shall provide the town a
detailed location map of the proposed development as prepared by a registered
engineer certified to practice in the state.
   (B)   Said map shall include among other features:
      (1)   The name of the owner of the subdivision or addition, name, and
state registration number of the engineer who prepared the design, layout, and/
or subsequent map of the proposed development, date of preparation;
      (2)   The exact location and size of the proposed subdivision or addition
including legal description and relationship to existing town boundaries;
      (3)   Direction orientation including north arrow;
      (4)   Scale of drawing by graphical representation, as well as by written
statement. The recommended scale for this map is one inch equals 50 feet;
      (5)   The lot area and dimensions of each lot line for each and every lot
in the proposed development. Dimensions and names shall also be provided for
each and every street;
      (6)   Provisions for utility easements, not less than ten feet in overall
width for each property lot, for any and all lots within proposed subdivision
or addition;
      (7)   The location of any and all proposed utilities to be provided
within the subdivision or addition;
      (8)   Notation of significant topographic features including contour
lines (shown lightly) on two- foot intervals. All elevations and contours shall
be referenced to at least two well defined established points (bench marks)
within the town and to two similar points within the subdivision or addition;
and
      (9)   Provide upon completion an as-built drawing, showing all approved
changes made by the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 2, 1989, passed 4-10-1989)
§ 151.02  STORM DRAINAGE.
   The owner of the subdivision or addition shall provide in the design and
layout of the development for the runoff of surface waters and the disposal of
storm drainage in such a manner as to prohibit the creation of unsatisfactory
drainage conditions. In no case may these waters or the flow from roof and
footing drains be discharged to the town sanitary sewer system. Catch basins
shall be located every 300 feet or less.
(Ord. 2, 1989, passed 4-10-1989)
§ 151.03  STREETS.
   (A)   The owner of the subdivision or addition shall plot and construct, at
his or her own expense, each of the streets set out in the information map
noted in §
151.03, preceding said streets shall have a minimum dedicated right-of-way of
58 feet. The traveled portion thereto shall not be less than 40 feet wide and
shall be centered within the right-of-way where possible. A minimum crown of
nine inches shall be provided on the traveled portion to facilitate drainage.
   (B)   Specifications for the construction and asphalt paving of the traveled
portion are as follows:
      (1)   Prepare road bed to proper grade and alignment (be sure all organic
matter and soft spots are removed);
      (2)   Place eight inches of #53 crushed stone type 0 aggregate for the
roadway base. This material shall be placed in two- to four-inch lifts.
Compaction shall follow each lift;
      (3)   Place a prime coat of cut back asphalt MC-70 on roadway prior to
paving;
      (4)   Place a two-inch HAC (hot asphaltic concrete), No. 9 binder course;
and
      (5)   Place a one-inch HAC (hot asphaltic concrete), Type B surface
course.
   (C)   All workmanship, equipment, and materials shall comply with the
applicable portions of §§ 300, 400, and 900 of the 1969 Standard Specifications
of the State Highway Commission. In no case shall any asphalt paving be placed
on the roadway when the surface is wet (as from rain) or when the atmospheric
temperature is below 50°F.
   (D)   The owner of the subdivision or addition will, at the time of street
development, provide at his or her expense curbgutters and sidewalks on both
sides of the street. The final design and construction of these facilities
shall be subject to the acceptance and approval of the Town Board or its
authorized representative.
   (E)   The curbgutters shall be constructed of concrete with a typical
vertical rise of eight inches. Sidewalks shall be a minimum of 48 inches wide
with a nominal thickness of four inches. They shall be constructed of
reinforced concrete utilizing 6-6 8/8 WWF reinforcing steel, minimum, placed on
a four- inch course of compacted granular material.
(Ord. 2, 1989, passed 4-10-1989)
§ 151.04  ELECTRICAL.
   (A)   For above-ground service. The town shall furnish and install at no
cost to the owner all necessary electrical equipment including service supply
lines, poles, transformers, and the like within the subdivision or addition
from the initial distribution point to the mast or weatherhead of any dwelling
when needed. These facilities shall terminate at the weatherhead. The required
electric meter and base shall also be furnished by the town. Each consumer will
be required to pay a property meter deposit to the town.
   (B)   For below-ground service. The town shall furnish and install all
necessary electrical equipment, and the like. as with the case for above-ground
service. The owner, however, will be required to pay the additional costs for
materials and installation incurred with the provision of underground service.
(Ord. 2, 1989, passed 4-10-1989)
§ 151.05  WATER.
   (A)   (1)   The owner of the subdivision shall furnish and install, at his
or her own expense, all watermains and appurtenances within the development.
These watermains shall be constructed of cast iron and/or plastic pipe,
utilizing mechanical joints. The minimum diameter shall be four inches.
      (2)   These mains shall be located in all cases within the dedicated
street right-of-way or within the utility easements noted previously. The
materials, design, layout, and construction of the proposed water distribution
system shall be subject to the acceptance and approval of the Town Board or its
authorized representative.
      (3)   The system shall, where possible, be arranged to provide loop type
service throughout the development. All watermains shall be installed at a
minimum depth of four feet in order to prevent freezing.
   (B)   (1)   All service lines and appurtenances from the watermain to the
meter receptacles located at the lot line shall likewise be provided by the
owner of subdivision or addition, at his or her own expense. These service
lines shall be a minimum of three-quarters of an inch diameter K type copper.
Separate service lines shall be required for each and every lot within the
development.
      (2)   Construction of the service lines shall be completed at one time in
conjunction with the installation of the watermains.
   (C)   At the meter receptacle, the owner shall also provide at his or her
own expense the meter couplings, stop valve, meter box, and cover. The town
shall furnish the water meter for each lot service as the same become
necessary.
   (D)   At the specified location for fire hydrants, the owner shall provide,
at his or her own expense, a connection fee, watermain stub, gate valve, riser
box, and fire hydrant.
   (E)   Upon completion and approval of water distribution system, the town
shall accept said facilities as town property and furnish all repairs
thereinafter.
   (F)   In this event, the town shall not charge the property owner or his or
her successors in title for water taps, but will charge the property owners the
normal meter deposit in effect at the time of installation of the meters.
(Ord. 2, 1989, passed 4-10-1989)
§ 151.06  SANITARY SEWERS.
   (A)   The owner of the subdivision or addition shall furnish and install, at
his or her own expense, a sanitary sewer system to provide for the collection
of sanitary wastewater from each and every lot within the development.
   (B)   This system shall include provisions for separate house connections
and house laterals, from the sewer main to the lot line, for any and all lots
within the development. Said lot service lines shall be constructed in
conjunction with the main sanitary sewers.
   (C)   The design, layout, materials, and construction of the sanitary sewer
system shall be subject o the acceptance and approval of the Town Board or its
authorized representative. Specific requirements for the sanitary sewer system
include, among other things, the following.
      (1)   The sewer pipes shall conform to the specification set forth in
ASTM C700-71T extra strength vitrified clay pipe, or schedule 40 rigid plastic
with minimum of six-inch sand cover, per latest amendment.
      (2)   Joints shall conform to ASTM C425-71 per latest amendment for
compression type joints.
      (3)   Installation procedures shall conform to ASTM C-12 per latest
amendment.
      (4)   Design practices shall conform to the Recommended Standards for
Sewage Works adopted by the Great Lakes-Upper Mississippi River Board of State
Sanitary Engineers, more commonly known as the “10 States Standards”.
      (5)   Minimum size for subdivision or municipal sanitary sewer lines
shall be eight inches in diameter. House connections and house laterals may not
be less than six inches in diameter.
      (6)   Sanitary sewer gradients shall not be less than the following
minimum for each diameter noted.
 
6 inches  0.62%
8 inches  0.40%
10 inches 0.28%
12 inches 0.22%
15 inches 0.15%
18 inches 0.12%
 
      (7)   Manholes shall be provided along the sewer line at intervals not to
exceed 400 feet and at every change in alignment. Said manholes shall be
constructed from the pre-cast concrete type sections with sealed joints. The
diameter shall not be less than 48 inches. The top section of the manhole shall
have an eccentrically oriented entrance opening at least 24 inches in diameter.
      (8)   No sanitary sewer shall be installed with less than 36 inches of
cover.
   (D)   In no case shall surface waters, storm drainage, catch basin, roof, or
footing drains be permitted to discharge into the sanitary sewer system.
   (E)   Upon completion and approval of the sanitary sewer system, the town
shall accept said facilities as town property and furnish all maintenance and
repairs thereinafter.
(Ord. 2, 1989, passed 4-10-1989)
§ 151.07  EXTENSION OF UTILITIES.
   (A)   Extension of utility supply lines (electric, water, and sanitary
sewer) from the point of connection into the existing municipal system to and
throughout the proposed development, whether within or outside of the town
corporation limits, shall be the responsibility of the owner of the subdivision
or addition, at his or her own expense. The materials, design, layout, and
construction of the proposed extension of utilities shall be subject to the
acceptance and approval of the Town Board or its authorized representative.
   (B)   In order to facilitate further expansion or development, if the town
wishes any one or all of these utility lines to be extended to and through the
proposed development at a diameter in excess of the minimum subdivision and
addition standards required or as herein previously set forth, then the town
shall be responsible for the additional material and installation costs
encountered.
(Ord. 2, 1989, passed 4-10-1989)
§ 151.08  CONDITIONAL APPROVAL.
   All of the foregoing is conditional upon approval by the Town Board of
Trustees acting as a body or through its authorized representative.
(Ord. 2, 1989, passed 4-10-1989)
§ 151.09  OPPOSITION TO ANNEXATION PROHIBITED.
   Recipients of said municipal utilities and services shall further agree not
to oppose annexation of the proposed subdivision or addition, to the town.
(Ord. 2, 1989, passed 4-10-1989)
§ 151.10  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter supersedes any prior ordinances or resolutions of the Town
Board, dated April 10, 1972 and January 13, 1975 and shall apply to any
developer signing a contract.
(Ord. 2, 1989, passed 4-10-1989)
CHAPTER 152:  FLOOD
Section
   
152.01   Adoption of county ordinance
§ 152.01  ADOPTION OF COUNTY ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The town does hereby indicate its intention to participate (or
maintain participation) in the National Flood Insurance Program.
   (B)   The town does hereby adopt by reference is hereby adopted and
incorporated as part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at
length herein, and the provisions of Ord. 9 (county ordinance number) and does
designate the County Plan Commission as its planning and zoning agency.
   (C)   The Town Hall (or appropriate agency) shall maintain a copy of this
section, together with Ord. 9 (county ordinance number) in the manner town
ordinances are kept and available for public inspection.
(Ord. 9, passed 11-13-2013)
CHAPTER 153:  ZONING
Section
   
153.01   County zoning adopted by reference
§ 153.01  COUNTY ORDINANCE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The county zoning ordinance is hereby adopted and incorporated as part of
this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 5, 2011, passed - -; Ord. 6, 2000, passed 2-23-2000; Ord. 5, 2010, passed
7-28-2010; Ord. 7-2010, passed 12-8-2010, Ord. 1, 2011, passed 4-27-2011; Ord.
03-2011, passed 5-25-2011; Ord. 4, 2011, passed 8-10-2011; Ord. 6, 2011, passed
8-10-2011; Ord. 4, 2013, passed 4-10-2013; Ord. 8, passed 11-13-2013; Ord. 1,
2015, passed 2-11-2015)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
      
II.   FRANCHISES
      
III.   VACATIONS
      
IV.   ANNEXATIONS
TABLE I:  CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
                       Agreement with Demeter, Inc. and United Feeds where
2, 1985  8-26-1985   funds are to be exclusively used for the costs of
                       repairing, resurfacing, and maintaining Wood and South
                       Streets
                       Authorizing Brookston Municipal Utilities to enter into
2, 1997  5-28-1997   a wholesale power supply agreement with the Cinergy
                       Companies
                       Authorizing the execution of a supplemental contract
5, 2002  11-27-2002  between the State Municipal Power Agency and the town
                       and a power sales contract by and between the town and
                       the State Municipal Agency
 
TABLE II:  FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
3, 1985  11-11-1985  Granting a franchise to Vista Cable, Inc.
 
TABLE III:  VACATIONS
 
Ord. No.   Date   Description
           Passed
4, 1989  3-27-  Vacating portions of Fifth, Sixth, and Seventh Streets in the town
           1989
                  Vacating portions of alleys lying between lot number eight in Ball’s
4, 1992  4-8-   Addition and lot number nine in Ball’s Second Addition, and lying between
           1992   lot number seven in Ball’s Addition and lot number ten in Ball’s Second
                  Addition
1-2004  1-28-  Vacating a portion of Walnut Street in the town
           2004
 
TABLE IV:  ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No.   Date   Description
           Passed
3, 2008  11-12- Annexing certain territory known as “northwest area” to the corporate limits to
           2008   the town
4, 2008  11-12- Annexing certain territory known as “northwest area” to the corporate limits to
           2008   the town
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cites Code Section
I.C. Cites                 Code Section
1-1-1-5                    10.04
1-1-1-7                    10.12
1-1-1-8                    10.06
1-1-4-5                    10.05
1-1-5-1                    10.11
1-1-6-1                    10.08
5-2-1-9                    32.12
5-3-1                      31.31
5-11-10                    31.05
5-14-3-1 et seq.           10.15
5-22                       31.01,
                           31.35
6-3.6-9-17                 31.17
9-13-2-1                   92.02
9-22-1 et seq.             92.20,
                           92.21
9-25-4-1 et seq.           72.01
9-25-4-4                   72.05
22-9-1-4 et seq.           93.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.           93.01
22-9.5-2-2                 93.02
22-9.5-2-3                 93.02
22-9.5-2-4                 93.02
22-9.5-2-8                 93.02
22-9.5-2-9                 93.02
22-9.5-2-11                93.02
22-9.5-2-13                93.02
22-9.5-3                   93.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.           93.09
22-9.5-4-8                 93.10
22-9.5-5                   93.02
22-9.5-5-1                 93.03
22-9.5-6                   93.02,
                           93.10
36-1-3-8(a)(10)            10.99
36-1-5-4                   32.04
36-1-20.2                  32.04
36-1-21                    32.04
36-4-6-11                  32.04
36-5-2-2                   10.15
36-5-2-9.4                 32.04
36-5-4-12                  31.02
                           150.01,
36-7-9                     150.03,
                           150.04,
                           150.06
36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28 150.01
36-7-9-2                   150.02
36-7-9-3                   150.01
36-7-9-4                   150.02
36-7-9-14                  150.05
36-7-9-28(4)               150.06
36-7-10.1-3(d)             92.04
36-7-14                    30.02
36-8-3-12                  32.06
36-9-23                    50.43
36-9-23-32                 50.43
36-9-23-33                 50.43
                           
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
5, 2011  - -         153.01
9, 2012  - -         32.04
2, 1985  8-26-1985   TSO Table I
3, 1985  11-11-1985  TSO Table II
1, 1986  3-24-1986   50.40
8, 1987  11-23-1987  50.41
4, 1989  3-27-1989   TSO Table III
2, 1989  4-10-1989   151.01—
                     151.10
1-1991   2-3-1991    53.01—
                     53.09
6A, 1991 12-30-1991  31.15
4, 1992  4-8-1992    TSO Table III
                     110.01—
6, 1992  7-8-1992    110.07,
                     110.99
                     90.01—
9, 1992  10-14-1992  90.07,
                     90.99,
                     90.99
93-3     8-25-1993   150.20—
                     150.22
4, 1994  8-10-1994   150.01—
                     150.06
                     52.01,
7, 1994  11-22-1994  52.02,
                     52.99
2, 1995  4-12-1995   92.20—
                     92.22
1, 1996  6-12-1996   31.02
2, 1997  5-28-1997   TSO Table I
4, 1998  3-25-1998   32.01—
                     32.13
5, 1998  6-10-1998   50.15—
                     50.26
9, 1998  6-24-1998   31.01
9-1998   8-12-1998   31.30—
                     31.40
                     51.01—
10, 1998 9-9-1998    51.15,
                     51.99
2, 2000  1-26-2000   50.43
6, 2000  2-23-2000   153.01
10, 2000 10-25-2000  91.01—
                     91.04
11-2000  12-27-2000  50.42
2-2001   4-11-2001   50.42
3-2001   4-11-2001   50.43
2, 2002  7-10-2002   31.16
5, 2002  11-27-2002  TSO Table I
3-2003   2-26-2003   90.08,
                     90.99
1-2004   1-28-2004   TSO Table III
3, 2005  3-9-2005    31.04
                     91.15—
2-2006   8-23-2006   91.17,
                     91.99
4, 2006  10-11-2006  30.01
1-2007   3-28-2007   50.42
2, 2008  2-13-2008   50.02
6, 2008  8-13-2008   31.03
10-2008  10-22-2008  50.43
3, 2008  11-12-2008  TSO Table IV
4, 2008  11-12-2008  TSO Table IV
3, 2009  6-10-2009   71.01,
                     71.99
4, 2009  4-8-2009    50.03
13, 2009 9-9-2009    50.01
5, 2010  7-28-2010   153.01
7-2010   12-8-2010   153.01
1, 2011  4-27-2011   153.01
                     72.01—
2, 2011  5-11-2011   72.11,
                     72.99
03-2011  5-25-2011   153.01
4, 2011  8-10-2011   153.01
6, 2011  8-10-2011   153.01
11       - -2012     92.01—
                     92.08
14, 2012 12-12-2012  32.02
4, 2013  4-10-2013   153.01
8        11-13-2013  153.01
9        11-13-2013  152.01
2014-3   5-28-2014   93.01—
                     93.11
6-2014   11-12-2014  70.01
1, 2015  2-11-2015   153.01
2015-5   9-9-2015    93.01—
                     93.10
1, 2016  2-10-2016   31.05
6-2016   4-13-2016   31.06
8-2016   5-11-2016   31.17
9-2016   6-8-2016    50.04
10-2016  9-14-2016   31.07
11-2016  10-3-2016   50.43
2017-4   9-13-2017   30.02
7-2017   10-11-2017  31.03
8-2017   1-10-2018   50.43
1-2018   6-13-2018   50.43
5-2018   11-14-2018  50.42
6-2018   11-14-2018  50.43
                     91.30—
8-2018   11-9-2018   91.36,
                     91.99
7-2019   6-12-2019   50.41
                     72.01—
3-2020   5-27-2020   72.11,
                     72.99
                    
 
