BROWNSTOWN, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2022 S-3 Supplement Contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2022-4, passed 8-15-2022
State legislation current through 2022 A.L.S. #3
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE 2018-3
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OE ORDINANCES FOR THE TOWN OF BROWNSTOWN,
INDIANA CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE
POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES
   WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the political
subdivision are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in
form and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of
its affairs; and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Indiana empower and
authorize the Town Council of the Town of Brownstown to revise, amend, restate,
codify and compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not
heretofore adopted or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one
ordinance in book form; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this:
   NOW, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF BROWNSTOWN, INDIANA:
   Section 1.   The general ordinances of the Town of Brownstown as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the Town of Brownstown,
Indiana."
   Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist
of the following Titles:
            TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
            TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
            TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
            TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
            TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
            TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
            TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
            TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Section 3.   This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after
its passage.
   Adopted by the Town Council this 1st day of October, 2018.
    \s\ Sally Lawson
   Sally C. Lawson, President
    \s\ Gary Drake
   Gary Drake, Member
    \s\ Mark Reynolds
   Mark Reynolds, Member
    \s\ Sharon Koch, Member
   Sharon Koch, Member
    \s\ Gregory Goshorn
   Gregory Goshorn, member
ATTEST:
     \s\ David Willey
    David Willey, Clerk-Treasurer
PASSED FIRST READING: September 4, 2018 by vote of 3 to 0, 1 absent
PASSED SECOND READING: September 17, 2018 by vote of 4 to 0
PASSED THIRD READING: October 1, 2018 by vote of 4 to 0
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes,
titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“Brownstown Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified
ordinances”, or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or subsection.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters, or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning,
application, or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town Council.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council.
      COUNTY. Jackson County, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads, and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver, and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      TOWN. The Town of Brownstown, Indiana.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing, or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter, or section are severable as provided in division (B) above
does not affect the operation of division (B) with respect to that chapter,
subchapter, or section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority, or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties, or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority, or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers, and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a Saturday, Sunday, or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture, or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture, or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the city published in 2011 and subsequently amended, the previous
code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(2011 Code, §
     ).”
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500. A separate offense shall
be deemed committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   (1)   The Town Clerk/Treasurer is hereby designated as the Town
Violations Clerk for the purposes of this division (B).
      (2)   (a)   The Violations Clerk may accept written appearances, waivers
of trial, admissions of ordinance violations and payment of civil penalties for
ordinance violations.
         (b)   Civil penalties paid to the Violations Clerk shall be receipted
and accounted for by the Violations Clerk under procedures provided for by the
State Board of Accounts.
         (c)   All money collected by the Violations Clerk as civil penalties
for ordinance violations shall be accounted for and paid to the town, as
provided by law.
      (3)   Any person who has been charged with violation of any ordinance of
the town, which provides a penalty for such violation, may, in lieu of being
charged with such ordinance violation in a court, pay a civil penalty to the
Violations Clerk in the sum of $20, provided the party performs the following
within ten days of the date of being accused, in writing, of an ordinance
violation:
         (a)   Waives, in writing, the right to a trial;
         (b)   Enters, in writing, an admission of the violation of the
ordinance as alleged; and
         (c)   Pays the Violations Clerk the sum of $20 as a civil penalty for
the violation as admitted.
      (4)   If a person charged with a violation of any ordinance of the town
wants to exercise the right to trial, the person shall appear before the
Violations Clerk and enter a written denial of the violation with the
Violations Clerk.
      (5)   (a)   If a person denies in writing an ordinance violation, fails
to satisfy a civil penalty assessed by the Violations Clerk after having
entered an admission of violation, or fails to deny or admit the violation, the
Violations Clerk shall report this fact to the official of the town having the
responsibility to prosecute ordinance violation cases for the town.
         (b)   Proceeding in court against the person charged with such
violation shall then be initiated for the alleged ordinance violation.
(Ord. 91-3m, passed 12-3-91; Ord. 2021-6, passed 11-1-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
      
31.   REVENUE AND FINANCE
      
32.   TOWN COUNCIL
      
33.   ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
      
34.   RESERVE POLICE OFFICERS
CHAPTER 30: TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
30.01   Department of Economic Development
   
30.02   Department of Parks and Recreation
§ 30.01 DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Department of Economic Development for the
town, which shall be under the control and management of a Commission to be
known as the Development Commission.
   (B)   The Commissioners of the Development Commission shall be appointed in
accordance with the Municipal Economic Development Act.
   (C)   The Development Commission is hereby empowered to carry out the
provisions of this section in accordance with the Municipal Economic
Development Act.
   (D)   The Development Commission is hereby empowered to perform all duties
and exercise all powers set forth in the Municipal Economic Development Act.
(2011 Code, § 30.01) (Ord. 1976-2, passed 6-22-1976)
§ 30.02 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established as a part of the governmental
organization of the town a single Department of Parks and Recreation to be
composed of a Board of Parks and Recreation to be known and legally designated
as the “Park and Recreation Board”, and shall have a superintendent and other
personnel as may be authorized by law, and the Department and Board shall have
all the powers, duties, and responsibilities of these type of boards and
departments under I.C. 36-10-3-1 et seq. and I.C. 36-10-3-10.
   (B)   The Park and Recreation Board shall consist of four members to be
selected by the Town Council, as hereinafter provided, not more than two of
whom shall be members of the same political party, and one ex officio member,
who shall be appointed by the Board of Trustees of the Town Central School
Corporation. The ex officio member shall have all the rights and privileges
authorized by I.C. 36-10-3-1 et seq. The term of the members initially
appointed shall be four years. All terms shall expire on the first Monday in
January, but an appointee shall continue in office until his or her successor
is appointed.
   (C)   The Department of Parks and Recreation and the Park and Recreation
Board shall each have, and each is hereby expressly vested with, all the
powers, duties, responsibilities, and privileges of the departments and boards
as outlined in I.C. 36-10-3-1 et seq., as now in force or as may hereafter be
amended.
(2011 Code, § 30.02) (Ord. 239, passed 12-3-1973; Ord. 1976-3, passed 8-9-1976)
Cross-reference:
   Park Cumulative Capital Fund, see §
31.18 
   Pool Cumulative Capital Fund, see §
31.19
CHAPTER 31: REVENUE AND FINANCE
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Claim payments in advance of Council allowance
Funds and Accounts
   
31.15   Cumulative Capital Development Fund
   
31.16   Accident Report Account
   
31.17   Vehicle Inspection Fund
   
31.18   Park Cumulative Capital Fund
   
31.19   Pool Cumulative Capital Fund
   
31.20   Rainy Day Fund
   
31.21   Riverboat Wagering Tax Revenue Fund
   
31.22   Local Law Enforcement Continuing Education Fund (LLECE Fund) handgun
license application fees
   
31.23   Ordinance Violations Penalty Fund
   
31.24   Police Department fees
   
31.25   Cumulative Capital Development Fund
   
31.26   ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund
Cross-reference:
   Reserve Police Officer Fund, see §
34.02
   Trash Fund, see §
52.03
   Unsafe Building Fund, see §
97.05
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 CLAIM PAYMENTS IN ADVANCE OF COUNCIL ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer, with the prior written approval of the Town
Council or board having jurisdiction over the allowance of claims, may make
claim payments in advance of Council or board allowance for the following type
of expenses:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from:
         (a)   The United States government; and/or
         (b)   An agency or a political subdivision of the United States
government.
      (2)   License fees or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   Federal grant programs if:
         (a)   Advance funding is not prohibited; and
         (b)   The contracting party provides sufficient security for the
amount advanced.
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance agreements or service agreements;
      (8)   Lease agreements or rental agreements;
      (9)   Principal and interest payments on bonds;
      (10)   Payroll;
      (11)   State, federal, or county taxes;
      (12)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances;
and/or
      (13)   Expenses described in an ordinance.
   (B)   Each payment under this section must be supported by a fully itemized
invoice or bill and certification by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   The Town Council or the board having jurisdiction over the allowance
of the claim shall review and allow the claim at the Council’s or board’s next
regular or special meeting following the preapproved payment of the expense.
(2011 Code, § 31.01) (Ord. 1995-5, passed 12-18-1995)
FUNDS AND ACCOUNTS
§ 31.15 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Cumulative Capital Development Fund.
   (B)   An ad valorem property tax levy will be imposed, and the revenues from
the levy will be retained in the Fund.
   (C)   The funds accumulated in the Cumulative Capital Development Fund will
be used for the purchase, construction, or renovation, and for any of the
following purposes as described in I.C. 36-9-16-3, as now or hereafter amended:
      (1)   To acquire land or rights-of-way to be used for public ways or
sidewalks;
      (2)   To construct and maintain public ways or sidewalks;
      (3)   To acquire land or rights-of-way for the construction of sanitary
or storm sewers, or both;
      (4)   To construct and maintain sanitary or storm sewers, or both;
      (5)   To acquire, by purchase or lease, or to pay all or part of the
purchase price of a utility;
      (6)   To purchase or lease land, buildings, or rights-of-way for the use
of any utility that is acquired or operated by the unit;
      (7)   To purchase or acquire land, with or without buildings, for park or
recreation purposes;
      (8)   To purchase, lease, or pay all or part of the purchase price of
motor vehicles for the use of the Police Department, including ambulances;
      (9)   To retire, in whole or in part, any general obligation bonds of the
unit that were issued for the purpose of acquiring or constructing improvements
or properties that would qualify for the use of cumulative capital improvement
funds;
      (10)   To purchase or lease equipment and other non-consumable personal
property needed by the municipality for any public transportation use;
      (11)   In a county or consolidated city, to purchase or lease equipment
to be used to illuminate a public way or sidewalk; and
      (12)   The Fund may be used for any of the following purposes:
         (a)   To purchase, lease, upgrade, maintain, or repair one or more of
the following:
            1.   Computer hardware;
            2.   Computer software;
            3.   Wiring and computer networks; and
            4.   Communication access systems used to connect with the computer
networks or electronic gateways.
         (b)   To pay for the services of full-time or part-time computer
maintenance employees.
   (D)   Notwithstanding division (C) above, funds accumulated in the
Cumulative Capital Development Fund may be spent for purposes other than the
purposes stated in division (C) above, if the purpose is to protect the public
health, welfare, or safety in an emergency situation which demands immediate
action. Money may be spent under the authority of this section only after the
Town Council President issues a declaration that the public health, welfare, or
safety is in immediate danger that requires the expenditure of money in the
Fund.
(2011 Code, § 31.15) (Ord. 1985-2, passed 7-2-1985)
§ 31.16 ACCIDENT REPORT ACCOUNT.
   (A)   In accordance with I.C. 9-26-2-3, as presently in force or as
hereinafter amended, the Town Marshal shall furnish a copy of any accident
report he or she has made when a request is received from a person authorized
to receive the information, and he or she shall charge the requesting party a
fee of $5 for each duplicate copy.
   (B)   All of the accident report fees collected by the Town Marshal shall be
immediately remitted to the Clerk-Treasurer, and he or she shall deposit the
funds in a separate account called the Accident Report Account, as required by
law. All fees deposited in this account may be expended, at the discretion of
the Town Marshal, for any department purpose reasonably related to the keeping
of accident reports and records, or the prevention of street and highway
accidents, upon the submission by the Town Marshal of a claim to the Clerk-
Treasurer for the expenditure of the funds, and it shall be paid and allowed
upon approval of the Town Council in the usual manner of the town and according
to law.
(2011 Code, § 31.16) (Ord. 1986-7, passed 12-16-1986)
§ 31.17 VEHICLE INSPECTION FUND.
   (A)   A fee of $5 is hereby established for the inspection of a motor
vehicle, semitrailer, or recreational vehicle conducted by any law enforcement
officer of the town, as required by I.C. 9-17-2-12(c).
   (B)   The vehicle inspection fee herein authorized shall be collected by the
law enforcement officer making the inspection, or by the Clerk-Treasurer. In
the event a law enforcement officer collects the fee, he or she shall, as soon
as practical, remit the fee to the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   All vehicle inspection fees shall be deposited in a special fund
called the Vehicle Inspection Fund, and shall remain in the Fund until
appropriated by the Town Council.
(2011 Code, § 31.17) (Ord. 1988-5, passed 7-11-1988)
§ 31.18 PARK CUMULATIVE CAPITAL FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established a non-reverting capital fund
for the use and benefit of the Park and Recreation Board to be known as the
Park Cumulative Capital Fund.
   (B)   The Fund shall be used by the Park and Recreation Board for acquiring
land, making specific capital improvements, maintaining and repairing of
specific capital improvements, or any other purpose which may be authorized by
law.
   (C)   Funds for the Park Cumulative Capital Fund may be received by
donations from any party, gifts from any party, bequests from any party, fund
raising activities carried out by or under the authority of the Park and
Recreation Board, or by appropriations which may, from year to year or time to
time, be placed in the budget of the Department of Parks and Recreation by the
Town Council.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall establish and maintain the Fund, shall
receive and disburse all monies into and from the Fund, and shall be
responsible for accounting therefor.
   (E)   Expenditure of funds from the Park Cumulative Capital Fund shall be
made without the necessity of an appropriation by the Town Council or by an
appropriation by the Park and Recreation Board. The Clerk-Treasurer shall make
disbursements from the Fund as authorized, in writing, by the Park and
Recreation Board.
   (F)   Notwithstanding the provisions herein, money held in the Fund may be
spent for purposes other than those purposes contained herein, if the purpose
of the expenditure is to protect the public health, welfare, or safety in an
emergency situation, as may be determined by the Park and Recreation Board.
(2011 Code, § 31.18) (Ord. 1989-4, passed 12-27-1989)
Cross-reference:
   Department of Parks and Recreation, see §
30.02
§ 31.19 POOL CUMULATIVE CAPITAL FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established a non-reverting capital fund
for the use and benefit of the Park and Recreation Board to be known as the
Pool Cumulative Capital Fund.
   (B)   The Fund shall be used solely by the Park and Recreation Board
exclusively for repair, renovation, or replacement of the pool facilities.
   (C)   Funds for the Pool Cumulative Capital Fund may be received by
donations from any party, gifts from any party, bequests from any party, fund
raising activities carried out by or under the authority of the Park and
Recreation Board, or by appropriations which may, from year to year or time to
time, be placed in the budget of the Department of Parks and Recreation by the
Town Council.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall establish and maintain the Fund, receive and
disburse all monies into and from the Fund, and be responsible for accounting
therefor.
   (E)   Expenditure of funds from the Pool Cumulative Capital Fund shall be
made without the necessity of an appropriation by the Town Council or by an
appropriation by the Park and Recreation Board. The Clerk-Treasurer shall make
disbursements from the Fund as authorized, in writing, by the Park Board.
   (F)   Not withstanding the provisions herein, money held in the Fund may be
spent for purposes other than those purposes contained herein, if the purpose
of the expenditure is to protect the public health, welfare, or safety in an
emergency situation, as may be determined by the Park and Recreation Board.
   (G)   Any funds heretofore delivered to the Clerk-Treasurer by parties for
the purpose of providing funding for pool facility repair, renovation, or
replacement shall be deposited in and become a part of the Fund.
(2011 Code, § 31.19) (Ord. 1989-5, passed 12-27-1989)
Cross-reference:
   Department of Parks and Recreation, see §
30.02
§ 31.20 RAINY DAY FUND.
   (A)   Creation of Rainy Day Fund. There is hereby established a “Rainy Day
Fund” to receive transfers of unused and unencumbered funds raised by a general
or special tax levy on taxable property within the town whenever the purpose of
such tax levy has been fulfilled and an unused and unencumbered balance
remains.
   (B)   Purposes of funds. The funds on deposit in the Fund may be used for
the operation of the town and its various departments, when the town does not
have sufficient levies or funds to pay such costs, including, but not limited
to salaries and wages, costs of services, supplies, equipment, capital
improvements, repairs, and similar expenditures.
   (C)   Transfers to funds. On or before December 31 of each year, the Council
shall determine the amount, if any, of any unused and unencumbered funds
available to be transferred to the Fund, which transfer may not exceed more
than 10% of the town’s total budget for that fiscal year.
   (D)   Appropriations. The Council or the town may authorize the expenditure
of funds from the Fund by appropriations made in the same manner as other funds
are appropriated that receive tax moneys, upon making a finding that the
proposed use of the funds is consistent with the intent of the Fund.
(2011 Code, § 31.20) (Ord. 2001-10, passed 11-19-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Rainy day funds, see I.C. 36-1-8-5.1
§ 31.21 RIVERBOAT WAGERING TAX REVENUE FUND.
   (A)   There shall be a Riverboat Wagering Fund, established for the deposit
of monies received as a share of the town’s part of the tax revenue.
   (B)   Pursuant to law, the riverboat wagering tax revenue sharing of the
town shall be administered in accordance with law and be used for only those
purposes specified by law.
(2011 Code, § 31.22) (Ord. 2004-7, passed 9-20-2004)
§ 31.22 LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT CONTINUING EDUCATION FUND (LLECE FUND) HANDGUN
LICENSE APPLICATION FEES.
   (A)   There shall be an application fee charged by the town for a handgun
license, either limited or unlimited, for licenses that expire four years from
the date of issuance. There shall also be an application fee charged by the
town for a handgun license, either limited or unlimited, for licenses that have
no expiration date (lifetime handgun license).
   (B)   There is hereby established a special fund for the receipt of handgun
license application fees, such to be called the “Local Law Enforcement
Continuing Education Fund” (LLECE Fund) monies in which shall be used for the
purposes of continuing education for the Police Department.
   (C)   Upon receipt of an application for a handgun license that expires four
years from the date of issuance, a $10 application fee shall be immediately
collected and allocated to and deposited in the Fund. If the handgun license is
denied, $5 of the $10 application fee shall be refunded to the applicant. If
the handgun license is granted, the $10 application fee shall remain in the
Fund.
   (D)   Upon receipt of an application for handgun license that has no
expiration date and the applicant has a current valid state handgun license, a
$40 application fee shall be immediately collected and allocated to and
deposited in the Fund. If the handgun license is denied, $30 of the application
fee shall be refunded to the applicant. If the handgun license is granted, the
$40 application fee shall remain in the Fund.
   (E)   Upon receipt of an application for a handgun license that has no
expiration date and the applicant does not have current valid state handgun
license, a $50 application fee shall be immediately collected and allocated to
and deposited in the Fund. If the handgun license is denied, $30 of the
application fee shall be refunded to the applicant. If the handgun license is
granted, the $50 application fee shall remain in the Fund.
(2011 Code, § 31.23) (Ord. 2006-06, passed 11-6-2006)
§ 31.23 ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS PENALTY FUND.
   (A)   There shall be an Ordinance Violations Penalty Fund established for
the deposit of penalties collected by the town.
   (B)   This Fund shall be created for the maintenance and disbursement of
amounts received for police and town equipment and capital expenditures.
   (C)   All amounts previously paid to the town for this purpose shall be
accounted for in the Fund.
(2011 Code, § 31.24) (Ord. 2007-05, passed 6-4-2007)
§ 31.24 POLICE DEPARTMENT FEES.
   (A)   The fee for a copy of a general report is $5.
   (B)   The fee for certain non-photostatic copies such as a digital photo
printed by a printer is $1 per image.
   (C)   The fee for an audio or video digital recording on disc is $5.
(2011 Code, § 31.25) (Ord. 2008-3, passed 5-19-2008)
§ 31.25 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   There shall be a Cumulative Capital Development Fund established for
all uses set out in I.C. 36-9-15.5.
   (B)   The Council adheres to the provisions of I.C. 36-9-15.5. The proposed
Fund will not exceed:
      (1)   Five cents per $100 of assessed valuation beginning with taxes
payable in 2012;
      (2)   Five cents per $100 of assessed valuation payable in 2013; and
      (3)   Five cents per $100 of assessed valuation payable in 2014 and
thereafter continuing until reduced or rescinded.
   (C)   The Fund is subject to the approval of the Department of Local
Government Finance.
(2011 Code, § 31.26) (Ord. 2011-9, passed 5-2-2011)
§ 31.26 ARP CORONAVIRUS LOCAL FISCAL RECOVERY FUND.
   (A)   Fund established. There is hereby established a fund to be known as
the ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund, fund number being 176.
   (B)   Sources of funding. The source of funding includes monies allocated to
the town from the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 and distributed to the town
in 2021 through 2024.
   (C)   Uses of funding. The town shall only appropriate and use the funds to
cover costs incurred by the town by December 31, 2024 for the following:
      (1)   To respond to the public health emergency with respect to the
Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) or its negative economic impacts, including
assistance to households, small businesses, and nonprofits, or aid to impacted
industries such as tourism, travel, and hospitality;
      (2)   To respond to workers performing essential work during the COVID-19
public health emergency by providing premium pay to eligible workers of the
town that are performing such essential work, or by providing grants to
eligible employers that have eligible workers who perform essential work;
      (3)   For the provision of government services to the extent to the
reduction in revenue of the town due to the COVID-19 public health emergency
relative to revenues collected in the most recent full fiscal year of the town
prior to the emergency that being 2019; or
      (4)   To make necessary investments in water, sanitary and storm sewer,
or broadband infrastructure.
   (D)   The Town Council shall adopt a plan which provides details for the use
of funds.
   (E)   This section may be amended from time to time if additional guidance
is received from any federal or state agency.
   (F)   The ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund shall exist until
terminated by ordinance of the Town Council. Monies from this fund may not be
transferred to another fund of the town.
(Ord. 2021-2, passed 7-6-2021)
CHAPTER 32: TOWN COUNCIL
Section
   
32.01   Electoral districts and elections
§ 32.01 ELECTORAL DISTRICTS AND ELECTIONS.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby finds and determines that I.C. 36-5-2-4.1
provides that the legislative body may by ordinance divide the town into
districts or wards to conduct elections to town offices; and further provides
that the division shall be made in 2002, and every ten years after, and when
required to assign annexed territory to a legislative district.
   (B)   The Town Council further finds and determines that I.C. 36-5-2-
5 provides that the legislative body has one member for each district
established under I.C. 36-5-2-4.1; and further provides that the legislative
body may provide by ordinance that its members are to be elected at large by
the voters of the whole town.
   (C)   The Town Council further finds and determines that in order to comply
with the foregoing statute, it is necessary and beneficial to establish and
redraw the boundary lines for the respective districts within the town.
   (D)   Pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-5-2-4.1, the town is divided
into five districts or wards; such districts shall be bounded and described as
follows.
      (1)   District 1. District 1 consists of that area encompassed by the
district map and denominated as Ward I.
      (2)   District 2. District 2 consists of that area encompassed by the
district map and denominated as Ward II.
       (3)   District 3. District 3 consists of that area encompassed by the
district map and denominated as Ward III.
      (4)   District 4. District 4 consists of that area encompassed by the
district map and denominated as Ward IV.
      (5)   District 5. District 5 consists of that area encompassed by the
district map and denominated as Ward V.
   (E)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-5-2-5, the members of the Council are to be
elected at large by the voters of the whole town.
   (F)   The district line map is incorporated herein by reference.
(2011 Code, § 32.01) (Ord. 2002-1, passed 11-4-2002; Ord. 2012-1, passed 11-7-
2012)
CHAPTER 33: ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
33.01   Establishment of Bureau; duties, rights and responsibilities
   
33.02   Violations Clerk appointed as Administrator
   
33.03   Schedule of penalties
   
33.04   Payment of civil penalties
   
33.05   Failure to satisfy civil penalty; prosecution
   
33.06   Separate and/or additional violations
   
33.07   Receipt of civil penalties prior to passage of provisions
   
33.08   Enforcement of scheduled code sections; greater civil penalties
Cross-reference:
   Ordinance Violations Penalty Fund, see §
31.23
§ 33.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF BUREAU; DUTIES, RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   There is created and established the Ordinance Violations Bureau, which
Bureau is granted all the duties, rights, and responsibilities as provided by
state law.
(2011 Code, § 33.01) (Ord. 2003-06, passed 10-6-2003)
§ 33.02 VIOLATIONS CLERK APPOINTED AS ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town is hereby appointed Violations Clerk to be
the Administrator of the Bureau.
(2011 Code, § 33.02) (Ord. 2003-06, passed 10-6-2003)
§ 33.03 SCHEDULE OF PENALTIES.
   The following ordinance violations are subject to admission of violation
before the Violations Clerk and the amount of the civil penalties to be
assessed.
Violation Penalty
Violation                                 Penalty
Abandoned/junk vehicles                   $75 if paid within 7 days, $100
Chapter 92                                thereafter
Obstructions of streets and ways          $25 if paid within 7 days, $100
Chapter 91                                thereafter
Park regulations                          $75 if paid within 7 days, $100
Chapter 93                                thereafter
Parking restriction and parking schedules
Chapters                                  $25 if paid within 7 days
72 and
75
Preferential street, stop streets, one-
way streets and alleys, and u-turns       $75 if paid within 7 days
Chapter 74
Sign violations                           Up to $50 per day
Chapter 153
Speed regulations and speed limits
Chapters                                  $75 if paid within 7 days
71 and
74
Yielding to pedestrians                   $75 if paid within 7 days
Chapter 71
 
(2011 Code, § 33.03) (Ord. 2003-06, passed 10-6-2003; Ord. 2004-03, passed 5-3-
2004; Ord. 2007-06, passed 6-4-2007)
§ 33.04 PAYMENT OF CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (A)   The Violations Clerk shall receive, receipt, and account for the
payment of the civil penalties under procedures provided for by the State Board
of Accounts.
   (B)   The payment of civil penalties designated under this schedule may be
made in person, by mail, or to those individuals and/or places designated by
the Violations Clerk.
(2011 Code, § 33.04) (Ord. 2003-06, passed 10-6-2003)
§ 33.05 FAILURE TO SATISFY CIVIL PENALTY; PROSECUTION.
   (A)   Trial for violations. A person who receives a citation for a violation
may elect to stand trial for the violation by indicating on the citation his or
her intent to stand trial and returning a copy of the citation to the
Violations Clerk. The returned copy of the citation shall serve as notice of
the person’s intent to stand trial, and the issuance of additional citations
and additional monetary fines as prescribed in this chapter shall be stayed
upon receipt of the notice. The notice shall be given at least five days before
the date that payment of the citation is due as set forth below. On receipt of
the notice of intention to stand trial, a lawsuit may be commenced by the town
or an appropriate enforcement official as provided by applicable law to enforce
the terms and provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   If a person who receives a citation fails to do the following, the
town or designated enforcement official may file a lawsuit as provided by
applicable law to enforce the terms and provisions of this chapter:
      (1)   Pay the assessed fine within 45 days after the issuance of a
citation;
      (2)   File a petition as prescribed above; or
      (3)   Give notice of his or her intention to stand trial as prescribed
above.
   (C)   Seeking a civil penalty as authorized in this chapter does not
preclude the designated enforcement entity from seeking alternative and
additional relief from the court in the same action or from seeking injunctive
relief or any other remedy in a separate action for the enforcement of this
chapter adopted or action taken under state law.
   (D)   In the event that a violation of this chapter is determined to exist
by a court of competent jurisdiction, the owner shall be liable to the town for
the town’s reasonable attorney fees and court costs.
(2011 Code, § 33.05) (Ord. 2003-06, passed 10-6-2003)
§ 33.06 SEPARATE AND/OR ADDITIONAL VIOLATIONS.
   With respect to any of the violations listed in the schedule set forth in §
33.03, each 24-hour period shall constitute a separate violation, except for
parking violations which may be considered a separate and additional violation
for each and every hour such violation occurs, unless otherwise specified in
the town code.
(2011 Code, § 33.06) (Ord. 2003-06, passed 10-6-2003)
§ 33.07 RECEIPT OF CIVIL PENALTIES PRIOR TO PASSAGE OF PROVISIONS.
   The receipt of civil penalties prior to the passage of this chapter is
hereby approved and ratified.
(2011 Code, § 33.07) (Ord. 2003-06, passed 10-6-2003)
§ 33.08 ENFORCEMENT OF SCHEDULED CODE SECTIONS; GREATER CIVIL PENALTIES.
   Nothing in the establishment of the Ordinance Violations Bureau nor in this
chapter shall be construed to prohibit the town’s designated officers and
employees from enforcing the code sections and in seeking the greater civil
penalties which may be provided for by the penalty provision of the applicable
town code sections.
(2011 Code, § 33.08) (Ord. 2003-06, passed 10-6-2003)
CHAPTER 34: RESERVE POLICE OFFICERS
Section
   
34.01   Reserve officers
   
34.02   Reserve Police Officer Fund
§ 34.01 RESERVE OFFICERS.
   (A)   As authorized by the provisions of I.C. 36-8-3-20, police reserve
officers may be appointed in the same manner and by the same authority that
appoints the regular members of the Police Department.
   (B)   The name of the police reserve shall be the “Brownstown Police
Reserve”.
   (C)   The number of the police reserve officers shall be fixed by the Town
Council.
   (D)   Police reserve members may not be members of the regular Police
Department but have all the same powers as regular members, except as limited
by the rules, regulations, and directives of the Police Department and the Town
Council. Such limitations may be imposed collectively or individually. The Town
Marshal, subject to the approval of the Town Council, may adopt whatever rules,
regulations, and directives from time to time as deemed appropriate to govern
the activities of police reserve officers, and may limit the authority of each
such police reserve officer as deemed appropriate, including the limitations of
the geographical area in which such police powers may be exercised.
   (E)   To the extent that money is appropriated for a purpose listed in this
section, police reserve officers may receive any of the following:
      (1)   A uniform allowance;
      (2)   Compensation for time lost from other employment because of court
appearances at the rate of 150% of federal minimum wage; and
      (3)   Insurance for life, accident, and sickness coverage.
   (F)   Police reserve officers are not eligible to participate in any pension
program provided for regular members of the Department.
   (G)   A police reserve officer may not be appointed until he or she has
completed the training and probationary period specified by rules of the
Department.
      (1)   The Town Marshal, subject to the approval of the Town Council,
shall fix the prerequisites of training, education, and experience for police
reserve officers, subject to certain minimum requirements prescribed herein.
      (2)   Applicants must:
         (a)   Be 21 years of age or over;
         (b)   Never have been convicted of a felony, or a misdemeanor;
         (c)   Be of good moral character;
         (d)   Have sufficient training to insure the proper performance of
their authorized duties; and
         (e)   Set out in writing their personal acknowledgment that as a
reserve officer they serve at the express pleasure of the Town Marshal and the
Town Council, and that the individual’s commission as a reserve officer may be
revoked by the Town Marshal and the Town Council for any reason or for no given
reason at all at any given time.
   (H)   A police reserve officer may not do any of the following unless the
police reserve officer successfully completes a pre-basic course under I.C. 5-
2-1-9(f):
      (1)   Make an arrest;
      (2)   Conduct a search or a seizure of a person or property; or
      (3)   Carry a firearm.
   (I)   The payment of the costs of the pre-basic course shall be the sole
responsibility of the police reserve officer.
   (J)   A police reserve officer may be covered by the medical treatment and
burial expense provisions of I.C. 22-3-6 and I.C. 22-3-7. If compensability of
an injury is an issue, then administrative procedures of I.C. 22-3-6 and I.C.
22-3-7 shall be used to determine the issue.
(2011 Code, § 34.01) (Ord. 2007-3, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 34.02 RESERVE POLICE OFFICER FUND.
   (A)   A “Reserve Police Officer Fund” is hereby created into which may be
paid all grant monies received by the police reserve, any and all gifts and
donations, and all other monies, regardless of the source, which may be paid to
the reserve police officers.
   (B)   Withdrawals from the Fund shall be only as approved by the Town
Council. The records for such fund shall be kept by the Clerk-Treasurer.
(2011 Code, § 34.02) (Ord. 2007-3, passed 5-7-2007)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   REFUSE
      
51.   SEWERS
      
52.   RESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE
CHAPTER 50: REFUSE
Section
   
50.01   Short title
   
50.02   Purpose
   
50.03   Definitions
   
50.04   Removal of unsanitary waste required
   
50.05   Inspection; notice of noncompliance
   
50.06   Recovery of costs
   
Appendix A: Notice of Noncompliance
§ 50.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the “Clean and Sanitary Premises”
chapter of the town.
(2011 Code, § 50.01) (Ord. 1991-4, passed 5-20-1991)
§ 50.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to require the removal of garbage, rubbish,
and waste material from all public and private premises within the town, and to
provide for the establishment and enforcement of rules and regulations
regarding the removal of those items.
(2011 Code, § 50.02) (Ord. 1991-4, passed 5-20-1991)
§ 50.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.
      (1)   A vehicle from which there has been removed the engine,
transmission, or differential, or that is otherwise partially dismantled or
inoperable.
      (2)   A vehicle that is six or more model years old and mechanically
inoperable.
   CLERK-TREASURER. The duly elected and acting clerk-treasurer of the town, or
its duly appointed and acting deputy.
   GARBAGE. Putrescible animal solid or semisolid waste, or putrescible
vegetable solid or semisolid waste resulting from the processing, handling,
preparing, cooking, serving, or consuming of food or food materials.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, municipal
corporation, city, school city, town, school town, school district, school
corporation, county, any consolidated unit of government, political
subdivision, state agency, or any other legal entity.
   PREMISES. Any building, residence, structure, vacant lot, or tract of land.
   PUTRESCIBLE WASTE. Any substance which is subject to organic decomposition.
   RUBBISH. All non-putrescible combustible or noncombustible solid waste
including, but not necessarily limited to, the following: ashes, cans, metal,
glass, plastic, crockery, dirt, paper, cardboard, wood, leaves, grass, yard
clippings, inoperable appliances such as washers, dryers, refrigerators,
toilets, sinks, tubs, and showers, construction debris, bedding, and broken or
torn articles of personal property of no appreciable value, but not including
abandoned vehicles.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SOLID WASTE. All putrescible and non-putrescible solid and semi-solid waste
including garbage, rubbish, dead animals, offal, solid commercial waste, solid
industrial waste, and solid institutional waste, but does not include abandoned
vehicles.
   VEHICLE. An automobile, motorcycle, truck, trailer, semitrailer, tractor,
bus, school bus, recreational vehicle, or motorized bicycle.
(2011 Code, § 50.03) (Ord. 1991-4, passed 5-20-1991)
§ 50.04 REMOVAL OF UNSANITARY WASTE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is the duty of all persons owning any premises within the town to
maintain the premises in a reasonably clean, orderly, and sanitary condition.
   (B)   No person shall store, place, or dispose of, on, or in any premises
within the town for a period of time longer than seven continuous days any
garbage, rubbish, or solid waste that is unclean, unsightly, unsanitary, a fire
hazard, offensive to the senses of the users of any public way in the town, or
offensive to the senses of persons occupying neighboring premises within the
town.
(2011 Code, § 50.04) (Ord. 1991-4, passed 5-20-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.05 INSPECTION; NOTICE OF NONCOMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The Superintendent of the Street Department, any law enforcement
officer of the town, or any member of the Town Council may make a reasonable
inspection of any public or private premises within the town to determine if
the owner of the premises is in compliance with the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   If, after the inspection, it is determined by the inspecting party
that the premises does not comply with the requirements of this chapter, a
written report of the inspection and noncompliance shall be immediately
submitted to the Town Council by the inspecting party. The Council, upon
receiving the written report, shall issue a written notice of noncompliance to
the owner and all persons having a substantial interest in the premises. The
notice of noncompliance shall state the manner in which the premises does not
comply with the requirements of this chapter, and shall state that the unclean
or unsanitary condition must be corrected within ten days of the date the
notice is served. Service of the notice may be made by personally delivering a
copy of the notice to the premises and delivering the same to the occupant
thereof, by posting the notice upon the entryway to the premises if the
occupant of the premises cannot be located or refuses to accept delivery of the
notice, or by sending a copy of the notice by registered or certified mail or
other public means by which a written acknowledgment of the receipt may be
requested and obtained from the addressee. The address of the owner upon the
real estate records maintained for the premises by the County Treasurer shall
be the address utilized for mailing notice to the owners.
(2011 Code, § 50.05) (Ord. 1991-4, passed 5-20-1991)
§ 50.06 RECOVERY OF COSTS.
   (A)   In the event the owner of the premises fails to correct the unclean or
unsanitary condition of the premises as specified in the notice within the time
required by this chapter, the town may proceed to correct the condition and
shall keep an account of all costs incurred in correction of the unclean or
unsanitary condition. The Clerk-Treasurer shall make a certified statement of
all costs incurred by the town involved in correcting the unclean or unsanitary
condition, and shall cause the certified statement to be issued immediately to
the owner of the premises in the same manner as provided for issuance of the
notice of noncompliance by this chapter. The owner shall pay the amount of all
costs incurred by the town, as noted on the certified statement, to the Clerk-
Treasurer within 30 days from the date the certified statement is served upon
the owner.
   (B)   All costs by the town for the removal and disposal of the garbage,
rubbish, or solid waste, as provided in this chapter, shall be and the same is
hereby declared a lien in favor of the town upon and against the premises from
which the garbage, rubbish, or solid waste is removed. All costs, together with
any penalty applicable thereto, as provided by this chapter, shall be collected
in any manner provided herein. The lien herein created is superior to, and
takes precedence over, all other liens except for the lien for taxes. In the
event the full amount due the town is not paid to the Clerk-Treasurer by the
owner of the premises within 30 days after receipt of the certified statement
of expenses for the removal and disposal of the garbage, rubbish, or solid
waste as provided herein, the costs shall thereupon become and are hereby
declared to be delinquent. A penalty of 25% of the cost shall thereupon attach
to the cost and be included in the lien, as herein provided, and shall be
collectable in addition to the cost of the removal and disposal. In the event a
delinquency occurs for nonpayment of the costs of the removal and disposal, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall record in the office of the County Recorder a notice of
lien, setting forth the name or names of the owner of the premises upon which
the costs have become delinquent, the description of the premises as shown by
the records of the County Auditor, and the amount of the delinquent costs and
the penalty thereon. The lien shall attach to the premises described in the
notice of lien from the time of the recording of the notice of lien.
   (C)   If the costs incurred by the town for the removal and disposal of the
garbage, rubbish, or solid waste are not paid to the town as herein provided
and become delinquent, the amount due the town for the removal and disposal,
the penalty thereon, and all costs of collection thereof, including a
reasonable attorney’s fee, may be recovered by the town in a civil action
brought in the name of the town against the owner of the premises responsible
for the payment thereof.
      (1)   If the costs incurred by the town for the removal and disposal of
the garbage, rubbish, or solid waste are not paid to the town as herein
provided and become delinquent, the town, as an additional or alternative
remedy, may foreclose the lien created by this chapter as a means of collecting
the amount due the town, including the penalty thereon. In the event an action
is brought to foreclose the lien as herein created, the town is entitled to
recover the amount due the town for the removal and disposal, any penalty
thereon and all costs of the foreclosure of the lien, including a reasonable
attorney’s fee. The court shall order that the sale of the premises be made
without relief from valuation or appraisement laws.
      (2)   In the event the costs incurred by the town for the removal and
disposal of the garbage, rubbish, or solid waste are not paid to the town as
herein provided and become delinquent, the town, as a further additional or
alternative remedy, may authorize the Clerk-Treasurer to certify to the County
Auditor a true copy of the notice of lien, the amount of delinquent costs and
any penalty thereon which shall then be charged to the premises on the tax
duplicate of the property affected by the removal, and shall be collected in a
manner that taxes are collected by law.
      (3)   Upon collection of the costs and penalty thereon, the County
Auditor or any other appropriate official shall pay to the Clerk-Treasurer the
total amount of the costs so collected, together with one-half of the penalty
thereon, and retain for the use and benefit of the county, the remaining one-
half of the penalty as a fee for the collection.
   (D)   In addition to the enforcement remedies provided by this chapter, the
town may enforce the provisions of this chapter by all other legal remedies,
including, but not limited to, the use of a mandatory injunction to require
abatement of all unclean or unsanitary conditions within the town by the owner
of the effected premises. In all injunctive actions brought by the town to
enforce the provisions of this chapter, the town is entitled to recover all
costs of the litigation, including a reasonable attorney’s fee.
(2011 Code, § 50.06) (Ord. 1991-4, passed 5-20-1991)
APPENDIX A: NOTICE OF NONCOMPLIANCE
Dear                                                              
   Section 50.04 of the code of ordinances reads:
   (A)   It is the duty of all persons owning any premises within the town to
maintain the premises in a reasonably clean, orderly, and sanitary condition.
   (B)   No persons shall store, place, or dispose of, on, or in any premises
within the town for a period of time longer than seven continuous days any
garbage, rubbish, or solid waste that is unclean, unsightly, unsanitary, a fire
hazard, offensive to the senses of the users of any public way in the town, or
offensive to the senses of persons occupying neighboring premises within the
town.
   You are hereby notified of your noncompliance with this section. Inspection
has revealed that your property located at
______________________________________
violates the chapter by
                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                              
   This unclean or unsanitary condition must be corrected within ten days of
the date you receive this notice. In the event you have not corrected this
situation, the town may take action to remedy the situation as explained in §§
50.05 and
50.06 of the code of ordinances, which includes the collection of attorney’s
fees.
   For your convenience and to ensure that there is no mistake concerning your
rights and obligations, a copy of the chapter in question is attached.
   Please correct this situation immediately.
                                          Sincerely,
                                                                                               
(2011 Code, Ch. 50, Appendix) (Ord. 1991-4, passed 5-20-1991)
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Definitions
   
51.002   General restrictions
   
51.003   Private sewage disposal systems
   
51.004   Building sewer connections
   
51.005   Grinder pump requirements
   
51.006   Tampering with or destruction of sewage works prohibited
   
51.007   Prohibition of harmful wastes
   
51.008   Construction and design standards
Discharge Restrictions and Industrial User Requirements
   
51.020   Prohibited discharges
   
51.021   More stringent state pretreatment limits
   
51.022   Pretreatment facilities
   
51.023   Additional pretreatment measures
   
51.024   Accidental discharge/slug control plans
   
51.025   Hauled wastewater
   
51.026   Determination of wastewater strength for rate purposes
   
51.027   Reporting of planned changes in facility conditions
   
51.028   Reporting of unusual discharges
   
51.029   Reporting of violation of permit limitations
   
51.030   Sample type
   
51.031   Recordkeeping
Wastewater Discharge Permits
   
51.045   Permit required
   
51.046   Permit application
   
51.047   Application signatories and certification
   
51.048   Permit decisions
   
51.049   Duration of permit
   
51.050   Contents of permit
   
51.051   Modification of permit
   
51.052   Transfer of permit
   
51.053   Revocation of permit
   
51.054   Renewal of permit
Rates and Charges
   
51.065   Definitions
   
51.066   Determination of rates and charges
   
51.067   Discharge into the sewage works of water not supplied by the water
utility
   
51.068   Rates and charges for governmental agencies or entities
   
51.069   Connection charges
   
51.070   Rate surcharge for stronger-than-normal domestic sewage
   
51.071   Billing provisions
   
51.072   Amendment of rates
Administration and Enforcement
   
51.085   Administrative rules
   
51.086   Inspection of user premises
   
51.087   Notice of violation
   
51.088   Consent orders
   
51.089   Emergency suspensions
   
51.090   Injunctive relief
   
51.091   Remedies nonexclusive
 
   
51.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMMONIA or NH3-N. Ammonia measured as nitrogen.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD. Often referred to as total BOD, the
quantity of oxygen, expressed in mg/1, utilized in the biochemical oxidation of
organic matter under standard laboratory procedures without nitrification
inhibition in five days at 20°C.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of a building and conveys it to the building sewer at a point
five feet, more or less, outside the building wall.
   BUILDING DRAIN, SANITARY. A building drain which conveys sanitary or
industrial sewage only.
   BUILDING DRAIN, STORM. A building drain which conveys stormwater or other
clearwater drainage, but not sanitary or industrial sewage.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal. Also called HOUSE CONNECTION.
   BUILDING SEWER, SANITARY. A building sewer which conveys sanitary or
industrial sewage only.
   BUILDING SEWER, STORM. A building sewer which conveys stormwater or other
clearwater drainage, but not sanitary or industrial sewage.
   CARBONACEOUS BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or CBOD. The quantity of oxygen,
expressed in mg/1, utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter
under standard laboratory procedures with nitrification inhibition in five days
at 20°C.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. The standards for pretreatment of
industrial wastewaters established by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
for specific categories of industrial users and which are codified at 40 C.F.R.
parts 405 through 471.
   COMBINED SEWER.  A sewer intended to receive sanitary sewage and industrial
sewage, as well as stormwater, surface drainage water, or other unpolluted
water from any source.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Carbonaceous biochemical oxygen demand, biochemical
oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH, E. coli, and fecal coliform bacteria, plus
additional pollutants identified in the town’s NPDES permit if the municipal
wastewater treatment plant was designed to treat the pollutants, and in fact
does remove the pollutants to a substantial degree. The term SUBSTANTIAL DEGREE
is not subject to precise definition, but generally contemplates removals in
the order of 80% or greater. Minor incidental removals in the order of 10% to
30% are not considered substantial. Examples of additional pollutants which may
be considered compatible include:
      (1)   Ammonia;
      (2)   Chemical oxygen demand;
      (3)   Phosphorus and phosphorus compounds;
      (4)   Total organic carbon; and
      (5)   Fats, oils, and greases of animal or vegetable origin, except as
prohibited under this chapter.
   DISCHARGE. The discharge or introduction of wastewater from a nonresidential
building or structure into the sewage works.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any permanent structure which people inhabit on a regular or
seasonal basis.
   E. COLI. E. coliform bacteria, which is commonly found in the intestinal
tract of man and mammals, and whose presence in sewage is an indicator of
pollution from human excrement.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for a specific use of land owned by
others.
   EDU (EQUIVALENT DWELLING UNIT).  A measure where one unit is equivalent to
the wastewater effluent from one home, which is defined as 310 gdp/unit (gallon
per day per unit) per State Department of Environmental Management, 327 I.A.C.
3-6-11.
   FECAL COLIFORM. Any of a number of organisms common to the intestinal tract
of man and animals, whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of
pollution.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat, or grease that will separate by gravity from
wastewater so as to be susceptible to treatment and removal in a pretreatment
facility approved by the town.
   GARBAGE.  Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation,
cooking, and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of
produce.
   GRINDER PUMP. A pump designed to accept sewage from a dwelling or
combination of dwellings or other user or structure, that grinds the solids
into a properly shredded size and pump the resulting effluent by means of
pressure into the public sewer system.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not defined as a compatible
pollutant, including non-biodegradable dissolved solids.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. A user who causes a discharge of industrial sewage to the
sewage works.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid and liquid-carried wastes from any commercial,
industrial, manufacturing process or operation, as distinct from sanitary
wastes.
   INFILTRATION.  The water entering the public sewers and the building drains
and sewers connecting to the public sewers from soils surrounding the sewers,
through means such as, but not limited to, pipe joints, connections, defective
pipes, or manhole floors or walls. INFILTRATION does not include and is
distinguished from inflow.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow without distinguishing the source.
   INFLOW. Water, including but not limited to stormwater and surface water
drainage, entering the public sewers and the building drains and sewers
connecting to the public sewers from sources such as, but not limited to, roof
leaders, cellars, yard and area drains, foundation drains, unpolluted cooling
water discharges, drains from springs and swampy areas, leaky manhole covers,
cross connections from storm sewers, and combined sewers, catch basins, and
stormwater inlets. INFLOW does not include and is distinguished from
infiltration.
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the town, through its
Council, to inspect and approve the installation of building sewers and their
connection to the public sewer system.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharge from other sources, both:
      (1)   Inhibits or disrupts the municipal wastewater treatment facility,
its treatment processes or operations, or its sludge processes, use, or
disposal; and
      (2)   Causes a violation of the town’s NPDES permit, including an
increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation, or of the prevention of
sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with any of the following statutory
provisions and regulations or permits issued thereunder, or any more stringent
state or local regulations: § 405 of the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. § 1345; the
Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA), 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq. (including Title II,
more commonly referred to as the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA),
and including state regulations contained in any state sludge management plan
prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the SWDA); the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. §§
7401 et seq.; and the Toxic Substances Control Act, §§ 15 U.S.C. 2601 et seq.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MUNICIPAL WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or WWTP. The portion of the sewage
works which is designed to provide treatment of sewage.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet or conduit, including storm sewers, into a
watercourse, pond, lake, or other body of surface or ground water.
   NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling which does not come into
direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product, or
finished product.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH SEWAGE. Wastewater or sewage having an average
daily concentration of not more than the following:
      (1)   Carbonaceous biochemical oxygen demand of 200 mg/1;
      (2)   Total suspended solids of 200 mg/1;
      (3)   Ammonia, as nitrogen of 20 mg/1; and/or
      (4)   Phosphorus of five mg/1.
   NPDES PERMIT. A permit issued under the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System for discharge of wastewaters to the waters of the state
pursuant to § 402 of the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. § 1342, or comparable
authority of the state.
   PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits the municipal wastewater treatment
plant into waters of the state in quantities or concentrations which, alone or
in conjunction with a discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of
a violation of any requirement of the town’s NPDES permit, including an
increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation.
   PERSON. An individual, a partnership, a firm, a company, a corporation, a
limited liability company, an unincorporated association, a trust, an estate, a
political subdivision, or any other legal entity.
   pH. The reciprocal of the logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams per liter of solution.
   PHOSPHORUS or P. The chemical element phosphorus.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of industrial wastes prior to introduction into
a public sewer.
   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned by the town.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. Garbage that has been shredded to such a degree
that all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally
prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer which is owned and controlled by the town and includes
one or more of the following components.
      (1)   COLLECTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewaters from individual point source discharges.
      (2)   FORCE MAIN. A sewer in which wastewater is transported under
pressure.
      (3)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collector sewers to the wastewater treatment facility.
      (4)   PUMPING STATION or LIFT STATION. A facility positioned in the
public sewer system at which wastewater is pumped to a higher elevation.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sanitary and industrial sewage, and to
which storm, surface, and ground water are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. The combination of liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, including polluted
cooling water. The three most common types of sewage are as follows.
      (1)   COMBINED SEWAGE. Wastes including sanitary sewage, industrial
sewage, stormwater, infiltration, and inflow carried to the wastewater
treatment facilities by a combined sewer.
      (2)   INDUSTRIAL SEWAGE. A combination of liquid and water-carried wastes
discharged from any industrial establishment, and resulting from any trade or
process carried on in that establishment. This term includes, but is not
limited to, the wastes from pretreatment facilities and polluted cooling water.
      (3)   SANITARY SEWAGE. The combination of liquid and water-carried wastes
discharged from toilet and other sanitary plumbing facilities.
   SEWAGE WORKS. The structures, equipment, and processes owned and used by the
town to collect, transport, and treat domestic and industrial sewage and
dispose of the effluent and accumulated residual solids.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. An industrial user that:
      (1)   Is subject to one or more categorical pretreatment standards;
      (2)   Has an average flow of 25,000 gallons per work day or more of
process wastewater, excluding sanitary sewage and non-contact cooling water;
      (3)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow carried by the municipal
system receiving the waste;
      (4)   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under § 307(a) of the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a); or
      (5)   Has a significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on a treatment works or on the quality of
effluent from that treatment works.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which, in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds, for any period of duration
longer than ten minutes, more than three times the average 24-hour
concentration, or flows occurring during normal operation and which may
adversely affect the sewage works.
   STANDARD METHODS. The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition,
at the time of analysis, of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water
Wastewater prepared and published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution
Control Federation.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer for conveying stormwater, surface water drainage,
ground water, or unpolluted water from any source and to which sanitary and/or
industrial sewage are not intentionally admitted.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the municipal sewage works of the town
or his or her authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
   SURCHARGE. An extra charge for sewerage service assessed upon users whose
sewage is of a nature that imposes upon the sewage works a burden greater than
that covered by the basic service charge or fee.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total weight of solids per unit liquid volume that
either float on the surface of or are in suspension in water, sewage, or other
liquids, and which are removable by laboratory filtering under standard
laboratory procedure.
   TOTAL SOLIDS. The sum of suspended and dissolved solids.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
equality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   USER. Any person who causes a discharge of sanitary or industrial sewage to
the sewage works.
   VOLATILE ORGANIC MATTER. The material in the sewage solids transformed to
gases or vapors when heated at 55°C for 15 to 20 minutes.
   WASTEWATER. Liquid and water-carried industrial wastes and sanitary sewage
from residences, commercial buildings, industrial facilities and institutions,
whether treated or untreated.
   WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT. A permit issued by the Superintendent under
this chapter to a user for discharge or introduction of wastewater into the
public sewers of the town.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the conveyance of water
either continuously or intermittently.
(2011 Code, § 51.01) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 7-3-2000; Ord. 2001-3, passed 6-4-
2001; Ord. 2001-4, passed 6-18-2001; Ord. 2008-1, passed 2-4-2008)
§ 51.002 GENERAL RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited on public or private property within the town, or in any area under
the jurisdiction of the town, any human or animal excrement, garbage, or other
objectionable waste in a manner that is unsanitary or otherwise contrary to the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any sanitary
sewer, either directly or indirectly, stormwater, surface water, ground water,
roof run-off, swimming pool drainage, subsurface drainage, non-contact cooling
water, unpolluted water, or unpolluted industrial process water. The town shall
require the removal of any of these waters from any public sanitary sewer.
   (C)   Stormwater, surface water, ground water, roof run-off, subsurface
drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water, or unpolluted industrial process
water may be admitted to storm sewers which have adequate capacity for their
accommodation. No person shall use any of these sewers, however, without the
specific permission of the town.
   (D)   No new connection shall be made to any sanitary or storm sewer unless
there is hydraulic capacity available in all downstream sewers, lift stations,
force mains, and the municipal wastewater treatment plant, as well as adequate
treatment capability at the wastewater treatment plant for compatible
pollutants. Express approval for any new connection shall be obtained in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   No person shall place, deposit, or permit to be discharged into any
public sanitary or combined sewer any sanitary or industrial sewage or any
other wastewater or wastes except in accordance with provisions of this chapter
and the NPDES permit.
   (F)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any natural
outlet within the jurisdiction of the town any wastewater or other polluted
waters, except with the approval of the Superintendent and in accordance with
provisions of this chapter and the requirements of federal and state law.
   (G)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (H)   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes situated within the town
and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now
located a public sanitary sewer or combined sewer of the town is hereby
required at his or her expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein,
and to connect the facilities directly with the proper public sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 60 days after date of
official notice to do so, provided that the public sewer is within 300 feet of
the property line. As a condition of connection to a public sewer, the owner(s)
shall grant an easement to the town providing right of access to the building
sewer for the purpose of repair and inspection.
(2011 Code, § 51.02) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 7-3-2000) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.003 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer or combined sewer is not available under
the provisions of §
51.002(H), a private sewage disposal system may be constructed and operated for
treatment and disposal of sanitary waste if in compliance with the rules and
requirements of the State Board of Health.
   (B)   At the time that a public sanitary sewer becomes available to a
property served by a private sewage disposal system, as provided under this
section, the owner of the property shall make a direct connection from any
residential building or commercial or industrial facility with sanitary wastes
to the public sewer within 60 days after the date of official notice to do so,
provided that the public sewer is within 300 feet of the property line. Any
septic tanks, cesspools, and similar private sewage disposal facilities shall
be promptly abandoned and filled with suitable material in accordance with
requirements of the State Board of Health.
   (C)   The owner of any private sewage disposal facilities shall operate and
maintain the facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the
town.
(2011 Code, § 51.03) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 7-3-2000) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.004 BUILDING SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Wastewater Utility
Superintendent or the Superintendent's designee. Permits concerning building
sewer connections, which form is approved by the Wastewater Utility
Superintendent, shall be first submitted to the Clerk-Treasurer of the town who
shall collect a $35 fee at the time of the application submission.
   (B)   (1)   There shall be two general classes of building sewer permits for
connection to the sewage works via a public sewer:
         (a)   A permit for domestic, residential buildings or structures,
including two subclasses established in §
51.069; and
         (b)   A permit for a building or structure other than a domestic
building or structure, including all commercial and industrial facilities.
      (2)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the town for permission to construct
a building sewer and make connection to the town’s public sewers. The permit
application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the inspector.
   (C)   A connection charge for connecting a building sewer to the town’s
public sewers, as specified in §
51.069, shall be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer at the time the application is
filed.
   (D)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
a building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
town from any loss or damage to the town that may directly or indirectly be
caused by or result from the installation of the building sewer.
   (E)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for:
      (1)   Each single-family dwelling unit and/or EDU;
      (2)   Each dwelling unit and/or EDU located in a single-story, multi-
family dwelling unit; or
      (3)   Each multi-story, multi-family structure, irrespective of the
number of dwelling units or EDUs contained therein.
   (F)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the inspector, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
   (G)   The size, slope, alignment, and materials of construction of a
building sewer, the methods to be used in excavating the pipe trench, in
placing, jointing, and testing of the sewer pipe and in backfilling the trench,
and the methods and materials to be used in connecting the building sewer to
the public sewer shall all conform to the requirements of the Building and
Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the town. In the
absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the materials and
procedures described in appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and S.P.C.F.
Manual of Practice No. FD-9 shall be complied with. All connections of building
sewers to the public sewers shall be made gas-tight and water-tight in
accordance with these codes, rules and specifications. Any deviation from the
prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the Superintendent
before installation.
   (H)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by the building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (I)   No persons shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface run-off or
ground water to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected,
directly or indirectly, to a public sanitary sewer.
   (J)   The applicant for a building sewer permit shall notify the inspector
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection and testing shall be made under the supervision of the
inspector or his or her representative. The applicant shall provide access to
all structures and areas of structures to the inspector for the purpose of
establishing compliance with §
51.004(H).
   (K)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
(2011 Code, § 51.04) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 7-3-2000; Ord. 2008-1, passed 2-4-
2008; Ord. 2019-1, passed 5-20-2019) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.005 GRINDER PUMP REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   To the maximum extent possible, all sewer lateral construction shall
be of the gravity type. However, when serving basement plumbing or on an
otherwise case-by-case basis, individual grinder pumps may be allowed by the
town. In all cases, the installation shall be subject to approval of the town.
Before a permit will be issued, the property owner shall provide a detailed
sketch of the location of the grinder pump and lines leading to the service
connection. The property owner shall sign an operate, maintain, and repair
easement, and agree to construct the on-site portion according to town
requirements. All costs and expenses incident to the installation and
connection of the building sewer or grinder pump station, where applicable,
shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the town from any loss
or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of
the building sewer. The grinder pump details and manufacturer’s specifications
shall be submitted to the Town Engineer for review and approval prior to
installation.
   (B)   Subject to the foregoing, pertaining to prior approval, property
owners who otherwise wish to construct and install the street-to-structure
segment, including the grinder pump, by themselves or through their own private
contractor, shall be subject to the following additional permits and charges:
      (1)   Completion of an application, which shall include the following:
         (a)   Engineering details of construction;
         (b)   Site drawing showing location;
         (c)   Agreement to comply with town construction specifications; and
         (d)   Agreement for operation, maintenance, and replacement of a low
pressure grinder pump system, also referred to as the sanitary sewer agreement.
      (2)   Sanitary sewer application fee;
      (3)   Inspection fee;
      (4)   Surety bond, or other satisfactory method of guaranteeing
compliance and performance, to be submitted prior to issuance of the permit in
the amount which equals the Engineer’s estimate of construction costs, until
final inspection of the connection to the public sewer; and
      (5)   The following permits and charges:
         (a)   Construction inspection fee;
         (b)   Street cut permit; and
         (c)   Connection charge for the service line.
   (C)   In addition, the contractor shall furnish the town with a copy of all
test data recorded during the installation check.
   (D)   Each property owner connecting a pressure/grinder system to the public
sewer system shall be responsible for construction, installation, and perpetual
maintenance of the pressure/grinder system and any building sewer, as well as
all electrical and plumbing connections for the segment, including connections
to the grinder pump. No work shall proceed until a permit therefor has been
obtained from the town and until the applicable permit fees have been paid and
other requirements have been met.
   (E)   Owners of properties to be connected to the public sewer system shall
have the sole responsibility of constructing the street-to-use portion
themselves, including the grinder pump. All construction and connections shall
comply with this chapter, and all other applicable ordinances, statutes, and
laws.
   (F)   Unless the specific duties of the town and the property owner are
specified in a written agreement pertaining to a specific project, the
following shall control.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of each property owner to maintain, clean, and
repair the building sewer lines at his or her own expense as necessary to keep
such lines free and clear of obstructions and in good working order.
      (2)   The property owner, and not the town, shall maintain, clean, and
repair, as necessary and at the user’s expense, the sewer lines and the grinder
pumps.
      (3)   In the case of a bona fide dispute as to whether needed
maintenance, cleaning, or repair of a portion of sewer line is the
responsibility of the property owner or the town under the provisions of this
section, it shall be the duty of the property owner to establish that the
obstruction, disrepair, or defect has occurred in that portion of the line for
which the town is responsible. If the property owner fails to establish
responsibility, it shall be the property owner’s responsibility to perform the
necessary maintenance as provided in this chapter. If the town’s responsibility
is established, the town shall perform the necessary maintenance and shall
reimburse the property owner for reasonable expenses incurred in locating the
defect in the line or in otherwise establishing the town’s responsibility. As
heretofore stated, the property owner shall be responsible under this chapter
for the maintenance and repair of the building sewer lines and specifically the
grinder pumps. The town is responsible for the maintenance and cleaning of the
municipal sewer line out of the grinder pump but not for any repair, major or
otherwise, of the grinder pump and has no responsibility of any kind for the
building sewer lines.
   (G)   Any property owner who shall violate the provisions of this section
shall be liable to the town for civil damages incurred in correcting the
defect. If any property owner fails to maintain a building sewer line or any
aspect of the grinder pump system as required by this chapter, then, in
addition to the other penalties prescribed, the sewer may be declared a public
nuisance by the town or the County Health Department, and the defect may be
corrected by either governmental agency. Any costs so incurred shall be
assessed against the property and become a lien on the property if not timely
paid.
(2011 Code, § 51.05) (Ord. 2001-4, passed 6-18-2001) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.006 TAMPERING WITH OR DESTRUCTION OF SEWAGE WORKS PROHIBITED.
   Any person who recklessly, knowingly, intentionally, maliciously, willfully,
or negligently breaks, damages, uncovers, defaces, or tampers with any
structure, appurtenance, or equipment which is a part of the sewage works
without the consent of the town commits a violation of this chapter and is
subject to immediate prosecution for the violation.
(2011 Code, § 51.06) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 7-3-2000) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.007 PROHIBITION OF HARMFUL WASTES.
   The town is hereby authorized to prohibit dumping of wastes into the town’s
sewage works, which, in its discretion, are deemed harmful to the operation of
the sewage works or to require methods affecting pretreatment of the wastes to
reduce the characteristics of the waste satisfactorily to the town.
(2011 Code, § 51.07) (Ord. 2000-2, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.008 CONSTRUCTION AND DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   The sanitary sewer design and construction standards for the town,
dated April 2000 (as amended by Ord. 2009-09, passed 12-21-2009) and consisting
of 12 sections and an Appendix “A”, are hereby adopted as the minimum criteria
for design and workmanship relating to the installation of all facilities as
part of sanitary sewers constructed in the town or connected to the existing
sewage works of the town. All facilities to be installed as part of sanitary
sewers constructed in the town or connected to the existing sewage works of the
town shall be designed and constructed in accordance with the sanitary sewer
design and construction standards hereby adopted, as well as all applicable
state and federal laws and regulations. The sanitary sewer design and
construction standards, dated April 2000, as amended from time to time, are
hereby made a part of this chapter and incorporated herein by reference, and
shall have the same force and effect as if set forth herein verbatim.
   (B)   Two copies of the herein described sanitary sewer design and
construction standards, and any amendments thereto as may hereafter be adopted,
shall be maintained on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer for public
inspection.
   (C)   Copies of the current edition of the sanitary sewer design and
construction standards will be available for sale at the price of $50 per copy
at the office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (D)   Each application for a sewer construction permit and application to
contract with the town to construct sanitary sewers within the limits of the
town, together with the design plans and details required by the herein
described sanitary sewer design and construction standards, shall be submitted
by the town to the town’s consulting engineer, who shall review the same to
assure compliance with the town’s sanitary sewer design and construction
standards. Each applicant for a permit will reimburse the town for the fees the
town is charged by the town’s consulting engineer to review the application,
and the plans and details which accompany the application. There is hereby
imposed a non-refundable initial processing fee of $250 for each application
for a permit submitted to the town. Payment of the initial processing fee shall
accompany each application submitted to the town. The applicant shall reimburse
the town for all consulting engineer’s fees in excess of $250 incurred by the
town in connection with the review of any individual application for a sewer
construction permit. The town shall not issue any sewer construction permit or
execute any agreement for sewer construction in connection with any application
therefor until all processing fees imposed by this section have been paid by
the applicant.
(2011 Code, § 51.08) (Ord. 2000-10, passed 9-18-2000; Ord. 2001-5, passed 8-20-
2001; Ord. 2009-09, passed 12-21-2009)
DISCHARGE RESTRICTIONS AND INDUSTRIAL USER REQUIREMENTS
§ 51.020 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   The prohibitions of this section apply to all users of the sewage
works whether or not they are subject to categorical pretreatment standards or
any other federal, state, or local pretreatment standards or requirements.
   (B)   No person shall discharge any substance in sufficient quantity, (flow
or concentration) either singly or by interaction with other substances, which
may cause the wastewater treatment plant’s (WWTP) effluent, biosolids, or any
other product of the WWTP such as residues, sludges, or scums, to be unsuitable
for disposal, reclamation, and reuse; or to interfere with the wastewater
system or injure or interfere with the treatment process; or to cause to pass
through and/or interfere with treatment and disposal processes; or to interfere
with the use of or disposal of treatment plant sludge; or to constitute a
hazard to humans or animals; or to create a toxic effect in the receiving water
of the sewer system; or to exceed the limitation set forth in the National
Pretreatment Standards; or to exceed a local limit established by the WWTP
Superintendent. In no case shall a substance discharged to the wastewater
utility cause the wastewater utility to be in noncompliance with its NPDES
permit, its land application permit, the United States Environmental Protection
Agency, the Indiana Department of Environmental Management, the Solid Waste
Disposal Act, the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, or any local
regulations.
   (C)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged into the sewage
works any of the following pollutants, substances, wastes, or wastewaters:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other substance or
pollutant which creates a fire or explosion hazard in the sewage works;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 6.0 or higher than 9.0,
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the sewage works;
      (3)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure, or any other solid or viscous
substance in amounts which are likely to cause obstruction to the flow in
sewers or other interference with the proper operation of the sewage works;
      (4)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
      (5)   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than 150°F, or 65°C, or
which will inhibit biological activity in the municipal wastewater treatment
facility resulting in interference, but in no case any wastewater which causes
the temperature of sewage at the point of entry into the municipal wastewater
treatment plant to exceed 104°F, or 40°C;
      (6)   Any pollutants, substances, wastes, or wastewaters which contain or
cause toxic, noxious, or malodorous gases, vapors, or fumes that are sufficient
to create a public nuisance or hazard to life, or to prevent entry into the
sewage works for maintenance or repair;
      (7)   Sludges, screenings, or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes;
      (8)   Detergents, surface-active agents, or other substances which are
likely to cause excessive foaming in the municipal wastewater treatment
facility; and/or
      (9)   Wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes, except in
compliance with applicable federal or state regulations.
   (D)   Unless specific approval is given by the Superintendent, no person
shall discharge or cause to be discharged into the sewage works any of the
following pollutants, substances, wastes or wastewaters:
      (1)   Fats, oils, or greases in concentrations greater than 100 mg/1;
      (2)   Medical wastes;
      (3)   Trucked or hauled pollutants, wastes, or wastewaters;
      (4)   The following pollutants apply to all existing and proposed future
users of the wastewater utility. The hereinafter specified pollutants represent
a minimum itemization of pollutants to be tested by the wastewater utility
which will then be billed to the user. More pollutants may be tested if, in the
judgment of the Utility Superintendent, it is necessary to do so in order to
protect the WWTP processes, its biosolids quality, and/or its effluent quality.
As tens of thousands of various pollutants exist, the hereinafter specified
pollutants do not represent an exhaustive list of all substances that are or
may be tested and restricted by the wastewater utility. Each user will be
issued limits on a case-by-case basis.
Arsenic
BOD5
Cadium
Chloride
Chromium, Hexavalent
Chromium, Total
COD
Copper
Cyanide
E.coli
Flow
FOG
Lead
Mercury
Molybdenum
Nickel
Nitrogen, Ammonia
Nitrogen, Nitrate (as N)
Nitrogen, Nitrite (as N)
Nitrogen, Total
Nitrogen, Total Kjeldahl
PCB
pH
Phosphorous, Total
Potassium
Selenium
Silver
Total Toxic Organics
TSS
Zinc
 
   (E)   The town may terminate or cause to be terminated wastewater service to
any person or industrial user if a violation of this chapter is found to exist
or if a discharge of wastewater causes or threatens to cause a condition of
contamination, pollution, or nuisance as defined in this chapter or the
regulations of the United States Environmental Protection Agency or the Indiana
Department of Environmental Management. The offender shall immediately, upon
notification by the Wastewater Utility Superintendent, cease all discharges
until the violation is corrected.
   (F)   Any discharge containing any organic chemical from the following list
in any amount whatsoever.
Prohibited Pollutants for Discharge
Prohibited Pollutants for Discharge
Toxic Organics: Ethers 
Bis (2-chloroethoxy) methane
Ether, 2-chloroethyl vinyl
Ether, 4-bromophenyl phenyl
Ether, 4-chlorophenyl phenyl
Ether, bis (2-chloroethyl)
Ether, bis (2-chloroisopropyl)
Toxic Organics: Phthalates
Phthalate, bis (2-ethylhexyl); DEHP
Phthalate, butyl benzyl; BBP
Phthalate, di-n-octyl; DOP
Phthalate, di-n-butyl; DBP
Phthalate, diethyl; DEP
Phthalate, dimethyl; DMP
Toxic Organics: Nitrogen Compounds
Acrylonitrile
Benzidine
Benzidine, 3,3'-dichloro-
Hydrazine, 1,2-diphenyl-
Nitrosamine, di-n-propyl
Nitrosamine, dimethyl-
Nitrosamine, diphenyl-
Toxic Organics: Phenols
m-Cresol, p-chloro-
o-Cresol, 4,6-dinitro-; DNOC
Phenol
Phenol, 2-chloro
Phenol, 2-nitro-
Phenol, 2,4-dichloro-; 2,4-DCP
Phenol, 2,4-dimethyl-
Phenol, 2,4-dinitro-; 2,4-DNP
Phenol, 2,4,6-trichloro-
Phenol, 4-nitro-
Phenol, pentachloro-; PCP
Toxic Organics: Aromatics
Benzene
Benzene, 1,2-dichloro-
Benzene, 1,2,4-trichloro-
Benzene, 1,3-dichloro-
Benzene, 1,4-dichloro-
Benzene, chloro-
Benzene, ethyl-
Benzene, hexachloro-; HCB
Benzene, nitro-
Toluene
Toluene, 2,4-dinitro-; DNT
Toluene, 2,6-dinitro-
Toxic Organics: Polynuclear Aromatic Hydrocarbons (Pahs)
2-Chloronaphthalene
Acenaphthene
Acenaphthylene
Anthracene
Benzo (a) anthracene
Benzo (a) pyrene; B(a)P
Benzo (b) fluoranthene; B(b)F
Benzo (ghi) perylene
Benzo (k) fluoranthene; B(k)F
Chrysene
Dibenzo (a,h) anthracene; DBA
Fluoranthene
Fluorene
Ideno (1,2,3-cd) pyrene; IP
Naphthalene
Phenanthrene
Pyrene
Toxic Organics: PCB’s
PCB-1016; Aroclor 1016
PCB-1221, Aroclor 1221
PCB-1232; Aroclor 1232
PCB-1242; Aroclor 1242
PCB-1248; Aroclor 1248
PCB-1254; Aroclor 1254
PCB-1260; Aroclor 1260
Toxic Organics: Halogenated Aliphatic Hydrocarbons
Butadiene, hexachloro-; HCBD
Cyclopentadiene, hexachloro-; HCCPD
Ethane, 1,1-dichloro-
Ethane, 1,1,1-trichloro-
Ethane, 1,1,2-trichloro
Ethane, 1,1,2,2-tetrachloro-
Ethane, 1,2-dichloro-
Ethane, chloro-
Ethane, hexachloro-
Ethylene, 1,1-dichloro-; 1,1-DCE
Ethylene, 1,2-trans-dichloro-
Ethylene, chloro-; Vinyl Chloride
Ethylene, tetrachloro-; Perchloroethylene
Ethylene, trichloro-; TCE
Methane, bromo-; methyl bromide
Methane, chloro-; methyl chloride
Methane, chlorodibromom-
Methane, dichloro-; Methylene chloride
Methane, dichlorobromo-
Methane, tetrachloro-; Carbon tetrachloride
Methane, tribromo-; bromoform
Methane, trichloro-; chloroform
Propane, 1,2-dichloro-
Propane, 1,3-dichloro-
Toxic Organics: Pesticides
4,4'-DDD; p,p’-DDD; p,p’-TDE
4,4'-DDE
4,4'-DDT; p,p’-DDT
Aldrin; HHDN
alpha-BHC
alpha-Endosulfan
beta-BHC
beta-Endosulfan
Chlordane
delta-BHC; Lindane
Diedrin; HEOD
Endosulfan sulfate
Endrin
Endrin aldhyde
gamma-BHC
Heptachlor
Heptachlor epoxide
Hexachlorocyclohexanes
Toxaphene
Toxic Organics: Oxygenated Compounds
Acrolein
Toxic Organics: Miscellaneous
2,3,7,8-tetracliloridebenzo-p-dioxin; TCDD; dioxin
Isophorone
 
(2011 Code, § 51.20) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 7-3-2000; Ord. 2009-03, passed 10-19-
2009) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.021 MORE STRINGENT STATE PRETREATMENT LIMITS.
   Notwithstanding the limits set in §
51.020(D) on certain discharges to the town’s sewage works, if more stringent
limitations for any discharge are set by an industrial pretreatment permit
issued to the prospective discharger by the State Department of Environmental
Management, then the discharger shall comply with the more stringent
limitations as if they had been imposed in §
51.020(D), and the Superintendent may impose more stringent limitations in any
permit issued by the town to the discharger under this chapter.
(2011 Code, § 51.21) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 7-3-2000)
§ 51.022 PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   (A)   Users shall provide wastewater treatment as necessary to comply with
all applicable limits on discharge of industrial sewage to the sewage works
under this chapter. Compliance with the discharge limits shall be achieved at
the time a user commences discharge to the sewage works.
   (B)   Any pretreatment facilities necessary for compliance shall be
provided, operated, and maintained at the user’s expense.
(2011 Code, § 51.22) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 7-3-2000) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.023 ADDITIONAL PRETREATMENT MEASURES.
   (A)   Whenever deemed necessary, the Superintendent may require a user to
restrict its discharge of industrial sewage during peak flow periods, designate
that certain wastewater be discharged only to specific sewers, relocate and/or
consolidate points of discharge, or separate sanitary sewage wastestreams from
industrial sewage wastestreams, and may impose any other conditions as may be
necessary to protect the municipal wastewater treatment plant and determine the
user’s compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The Superintendent may require any person discharging sewage into the
sewage works to install and maintain, on that person’s property and at that
person’s expense, a suitable storage and flow-control facility to ensure
equalization of flow.
   (C)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease, oil, or sand, in excessive amounts, except
that the interceptors shall not be required for single-family or dwelling
units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
Superintendent, and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection.
   (D)   Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious
materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature.
They shall be of substantial construction, water-tight, and equipped with
easily removable covers which when bolted in place shall be air-tight and
water-tight.
   (E)   Where required and installed, all grease, oil, and sand interceptors
shall be maintained by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously
efficient operation at all times.
   (F)   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole together with any necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and
measurement of the wastes. The control manhole shall be designed to provide
ready and safe accessibility, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans
approved by the Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at
his or her expense, and shall be maintained so as to be safe and accessible at
all times. The inspector and other authorized representatives of the town shall
be permitted to enter all properties for the purpose of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, and testing.
(2011 Code, § 51.23) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 7-3-2000; Ord. 2008-1, passed 2-4-
2008) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.024 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE/SLUG CONTROL PLANS.
   (A)   At least once every two years, the Superintendent shall evaluate
whether each significant industrial user needs an accidental discharge/slug
control plan.
   (B)   The Superintendent may require any user to develop, submit for
approval, and implement an accidental discharge/slug control plan.
Alternatively, the Superintendent may develop this plan for any user. An
accidental discharge/slug control plan shall address, at a minimum, the
following:
      (1)   Description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges;
      (2)   Description of stored chemicals;
      (3)   Procedures for immediately notifying the Superintendent of any
accidental or slug discharge; and
      (4)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. The procedures should address, but are not limited to, inspection
and maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading
and unloading operations, control of plant site run-off, worker training,
building of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic
organic pollutants, including but not limited to solvents, and/or measures and
equipment for emergency response.
(2011 Code, § 51.24) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 7-3-2000)
§ 51.025 HAULED WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Septic tank waste may be introduced into the sewage works only at
locations designated by the Superintendent, and at times as are established by
the Superintendent. The waste shall not violate §
51.020 or any other applicable requirements established by the town. The
Superintendent may require septic tank waste haulers to obtain wastewater
discharge permits.
   (B)   The Superintendent shall require haulers of industrial waste to obtain
wastewater discharge permits. The Superintendent may require generators of
hauled industrial waste to obtain wastewater discharge permits. The
Superintendent also may prohibit the disposal of hauled industrial waste,
depending upon the characteristics and variability of the waste, its projected
impact on the municipal wastewater treatment plant, and compliance with the
town’s NPDES permit, and other relevant factors. The discharge of hauled
industrial waste is subject to all other requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Permitted industrial waste haulers may discharge loads only at
locations designated by the Superintendent. No load of waste may be discharged
without prior consent of the Superintendent. The Superintendent may collect
samples of each hauled load to ensure compliance with applicable standards. The
Superintendent may require the industrial waste hauler to provide a waste
analysis of any load prior to discharge.
   (D)   Industrial waste haulers must provide a waste-tracking form for every
load. This form shall include, at a minimum, the name and address of the
industrial waste hauler, permit number, truck identification, names and
addresses of sources of waste, and volume and characteristics of waste. The
form shall identify the type of industry, known or suspected waste
constituents, and whether any wastes are RCRA hazardous wastes.
(2011 Code, § 51.25) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 7-3-2000) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.026 DETERMINATION OF WASTEWATER STRENGTH FOR RATE PURPOSES.
   (A)   The strength of wastewaters discharged by a user to the sewage works
shall be determined, for periodic establishment of charges provided for in §§
51.065 through
51.071 from samples taken at the user’s established sampling location at any
time, and of a duration and in a manner as the town may elect, or at any
alternative sampling location mutually agreed upon between the user and the
town. Appropriate charges for sampling and analysis may be assessed to the user
at the option of the town. The results of routine sampling and analysis by the
user may also be used for determination of charges after verification by the
town.
   (B)   The discharge of sanitary wastewaters to the sewage works at levels
more than 10% above normal domestic waste strength for any of the parameters of
carbonaceous biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, ammonia, or
phosphorus may become subject to surcharge to rates otherwise applicable under
the §§
51.065 through
51.071 as a result of rate studies to be performed by the town under §§
51.065 through
51.071.
   (C)   The discharge of industrial wastes to the sewage works with any
pollutant at a concentration above those specified in §
51.020(D), if permitted by the Superintendent, may become subject to surcharge
to rates otherwise applicable under §§
51.065 through
51.071 as a result of rate studies to be performed by the town under §§
51.065 through
51.071.
(2011 Code, § 51.26) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 7-3-2000)
§ 51.027 REPORTING OF PLANNED CHANGES IN FACILITY CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Each industrial user, whether or not the user has been required to
obtain a wastewater discharge permit, must notify the Superintendent of any
planned changes to the user’s operations or system which might significantly
alter the nature, quality, or volume of its wastewater at least 90 days before
the change.
   (B)   The Superintendent may require the user to submit any information as
may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the
submission of a wastewater discharge permit application under §
51.046.
   (C)   The Superintendent may issue a wastewater discharge permit under §
51.048, or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit under §
51.051 in response to the changed conditions that are anticipated by the user.
   (D)   Planned, significant changes which are subject to this section
include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Expansion or addition of wastewater generating production lines or
processes;
      (2)   Projected increases of 20% or greater in monthly flow over the
previous year’s highest monthly flow, or annual average flow over the previous
year’s annual average flow; and/or
      (3)   The discharge of any previously unreported pollutants.
(2011 Code, § 51.27) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 7-3-2000) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.028 REPORTING OF UNUSUAL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a nonroutine, episodic nature, a
nonroutine batch discharge, or a slug load that may have potential to cause an
upset or otherwise interfere with operations of the municipal wastewater
treatment plant, the user shall immediately notify the Superintendent of the
incident. This notification shall include the location of the discharge, type
of waste, concentration and volume, if known, and corrective actions taken by
the user.
   (B)   Within five days following the discharge, the user shall, unless
waived by the Superintendent, submit a detailed written report describing the
causes of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent
similar future occurrences. The notification shall not relieve the user of any
expense, loss, damage, or other liability which may be incurred as a result of
damage to the municipal wastewater treatment plant, natural resources, or any
other damage to person or property, nor shall the notification relieve the user
of any fines, penalties, or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to
this chapter.
   (C)   A notice shall be continuously posted on the user’s bulletin board,
procedure manuals, and any other appropriate places advising employees whom to
call in the event of a discharge described in division (A) above. Employers
shall ensure that all employees who may have cause to be aware of the
occurrence of problematic discharges are advised of the emergency notification
procedure.
(2011 Code, § 51.28) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 7-3-2000) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.029 REPORTING OF VIOLATION OF PERMIT LIMITATIONS.
   If sampling performed by a user indicates a violation of discharge
limitations that is not subject to the reporting obligations of §
51.028, the user must notify the Superintendent within five days of becoming
aware of the violation. Unless waived by the Superintendent, the user shall
also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the results of the repeat
analysis to the Superintendent within 30 days after becoming aware of the
violation.
(2011 Code, § 51.29) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 7-3-2000) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.030 SAMPLE TYPE.
   (A)   This section applies to any wastewater sampling required for a
wastewater discharge permit application, periodic monitoring under a wastewater
discharge permit, or other purposes specified under this chapter.
   (B)   Except as indicated in division (C) below, the user must collect
wastewater samples using flow proportional composite collection techniques. In
the event flow proportional sampling is infeasible, the Superintendent may
authorize the use of time proportional sampling or a minimum of four grab
samples where the user demonstrates that this will provide a representative
sample of the effluent being discharged. In addition, grab samples may be
required to show compliance with instantaneous discharge limits.
   (C)   Samples for oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide, as well as other
pollutants which may be identified by the Superintendent, must be obtained
using grab collection techniques.
(2011 Code, § 51.30) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 7-3-2000) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.031 RECORDKEEPING.
   (A)   Users subject to the reporting requirements of this chapter shall
retain and make available for inspection and conveying all records of
information obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this
chapter, and any additional records of information obtained pursuant to
monitoring activities undertaken by the user independent of the requirements.
Records shall include the date, exact place, method, time of sampling, the name
of the person(s) taking the samples, the dates analyses were performed, who
performed the analyses, the analytical techniques or methods used, and the
results of the analyses.
   (B)   These records shall remain available for a period of at least three
years. This period shall be automatically extended for the duration of any
litigation concerning the user and the town, or where the user has been
specifically notified of a longer retention period by the Superintendent.
(2011 Code, § 51.31) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 7-3-2000) Penalty, see §
51.999
WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS
§ 51.045 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No significant industrial user shall discharge wastewater into the
sewage works without first submitting an application for a wastewater discharge
permit, in accordance with §
51.046, and receiving either a permit from the Superintendent authorizing the
discharge, or notification from the Superintendent that a permit will not be
required for the discharge.
   (B)   The Superintendent may require users other than significant industrial
users to apply for and obtain wastewater discharge permits as deemed necessary
to carry out the purposes of this chapter.
   (C)   An application for a wastewater discharge permit must be filed at
least 90 days prior to the date upon which any discharge will begin or
recommence.
   (D)   Any violation by a user of the terms and conditions of a wastewater
discharge permit issued for the user’s discharge of wastewater shall be deemed
to be a violation of this chapter and shall subject the permittee to the
enforcement provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   Obtaining a wastewater discharge permit does not relieve a permittee
of its obligation to comply with all federal and state pretreatment standards
or requirements, or with any other requirements of federal, state, and local
law.
(2011 Code, § 51.45) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 7-3-2000) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.046 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   All users required to submit a wastewater discharge permit application
shall provide the following information:
      (1)   Description of activities, facilities, and plant processes on the
premises, including a list of all raw materials and chemicals used or stored at
the facility which are, or could accidentally or intentionally be discharged to
the sewage works;
      (2)   Number and type of employees, hours of operation, and proposed or
actual hours of operation;
      (3)   Description of each product, the process or processes used in its
manufacture, and the maximum and typical rates of production;
      (4)   Type and average and maximum amount of raw materials processed per
day;
      (5)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans, and details
to show all sewers, floor drains, and appurtenances by size, location, and
elevation, and all points of discharge;
      (6)   The average and maximum daily flow projected to be discharged to
the sewage works;
      (7)   Results of sampling and analysis of the wastewater proposed to be
discharged to the sewage works, which identifies the nature and concentration,
and mass, if requested, of pollutants specifically regulated under this chapter
and any others known or suspected by the applicant to be present in the
wastewater which could have a significant impact on the municipal wastewater
treatment plant or receiving water quality. The samples shall be representative
of daily operations and shall be analyzed according to applicable laboratory
methods under 40 C.F.R. part 136 or Standard Methods if no analytical method is
prescribed in 40 C.F.R. part 136. At minimum, instantaneous values shall be
provided. The Superintendent may request additional data, including sufficient
data to project representative daily maximum and monthly average values;
      (8)   Time and duration of discharges; and
      (9)   Any other information as may be deemed necessary by the
Superintendent to evaluate the wastewater discharge permit application.
   (B)   Incomplete or inaccurate applications will not be processed and will
be returned to the user for revision.
(2011 Code, § 51.46) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 7-3-2000)
§ 51.047 APPLICATION SIGNATORIES AND CERTIFICATION.
   All wastewater discharge permit applications and user reports must be signed
by an authorized representative of the user and contain the following
certification statement:
“I certify under penalty of law, that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system,
or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the
information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true,
accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for
submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and
imprisonment for knowing violations.”
(2011 Code, § 51.47) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 7-3-2000)
§ 51.048 PERMIT DECISIONS.
   The Superintendent will promptly evaluate the data furnished by the user and
may require additional information if the submitted application is incomplete
or if the additional information is reasonably deemed necessary for evaluation
of the impact of the discharge upon the operation of the municipal wastewater
treatment plant or the receiving waters. Within 60 days of receipt of a
complete wastewater discharge permit application, the Superintendent will
determine whether or not to issue a wastewater discharge permit, or to provide
notice that a permit will not be required for the discharge. The Superintendent
may deny any application for a wastewater discharge permit for cause, including
reasons that would form a basis for permit revocation, or where the wastewater
would be expected to have adverse impacts on the municipal wastewater treatment
plant or its operations.
(2011 Code, § 51.48) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 7-3-2000)
§ 51.049 DURATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   A wastewater discharge permit shall be issued for a specified time
period, not to exceed five years from the effective date of the permit. A
permit may be issued for a period less than five years, at the discretion of
the Superintendent.
   (B)   Each wastewater discharge permit will state a specific date upon which
it will expire.
(2011 Code, § 51.49) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 7-3-2000)
§ 51.050 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   (A)   A wastewater discharge permit shall include any conditions as are
deemed reasonably necessary by the Superintendent to prevent pass through or
interference, protect the quality of the water body receiving the treatment
plant’s effluent, protect worker health and safety, facilitate sludge
management and disposal, and protect against damage to the sewage works.
   (B)   Wastewater discharge permits must contain:
      (1)   A statement of the date on which the permit expires;
      (2)   A statement that the wastewater discharge permit is nontransferable
without prior notification to the town in accordance with §
51.052;
      (3)   Discharge limits consistent with the provisions of this chapter and
any other applicable pretreatment standards;
      (4)   Requirements for self-monitoring, sampling, reporting,
notification, and recordkeeping. The permit shall specify pollutants to be
monitored, sampling location, sampling frequency, and sample type based on
federal, state, and local law; and
      (5)   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for
violation of the permit and any other requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Any of the following terms and conditions may be included by the
Superintendent, in his or her discretion, in a wastewater discharge permit:
      (1)   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, time of
discharge, and/or requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
      (2)   Requirements for the development and implementation of spill
control plans or other measures, including management practices, for prevention
of accidental, unanticipated, or nonrountine discharges;
      (3)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management and treatment of the wastewater discharged to the municipal
wastewater treatment plant;
      (4)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment;
      (5)   A statement that compliance with the wastewater discharge permit
does not relieve the permittee of responsibility for compliance with all
applicable federal and state pretreatment standards, including those which
become effective during the term of the wastewater discharge permit; and
      (6)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Superintendent to
ensure compliance with this chapter.
(2011 Code, § 51.50) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 7-3-2000)
§ 51.051 MODIFICATION OF PERMIT.
   The Superintendent may modify a wastewater discharge permit for good cause,
including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
   (A)   To incorporate any new or revised requirement, restriction, or
standard established under this chapter that is applicable to the permittee and
its facility;
   (B)   To address significant alterations or additions to the user’s
operation, processes, or wastewater volume or character since the issuance of
the wastewater discharge permit;
   (C)   A change in the municipal wastewater treatment plant that requires
either a temporary or permanent reduction or elimination of the authorized
discharge;
   (D)   Reliable information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a
threat to the structural or operational integrity of the municipal wastewater
treatment plant, to the safety of town personnel, or to the quality of
receiving waters;
   (E)   Violation of any terms or conditions of the wastewater discharge
permit;
   (F)   Misrepresentations or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts in
the wastewater discharge permit application or in any required reporting;
   (G)   To correct typographical or other errors in the wastewater discharge
permit; or
   (H)   To reflect a transfer of the facility ownership or operation to a new
owner or operator.
(2011 Code, § 51.51) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 7-3-2000)
§ 51.052 TRANSFER OF PERMIT.
   (A)   A wastewater discharge permit may be transferred to a new owner or
operator only if the permittee gives at least 30 days’ advance notice to the
Superintendent and the Superintendent approves transfer of the wastewater
discharge permit.
   (B)   The notice to the Superintendent must include a written certification
by the new owner or operator which:
      (1)   States that the new owner and/or operator intends to continue the
facility’s operations and processes without significant change;
      (2)   Identifies the specific date on which the transfer is to occur; and
      (3)   Acknowledges full responsibility for complying with the existing
wastewater discharge permit.
   (C)   Failure to provide advance notice of a transfer of facility ownership
or operational responsibility as required by this section renders the
wastewater discharge permit void as of the date of transfer.
(2011 Code, § 51.52) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 7-3-2000)
§ 51.053 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Superintendent may revoke a wastewater discharge permit for good cause,
including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
   (A)   Failure to provide notification to the Superintendent prior to
institution of planned changes in facility conditions in accordance with §
51.027;
   (B)   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts in
the wastewater discharge permit application;
   (C)   Falsifying self-monitoring reports;
   (D)   Tampering with monitoring equipment;
   (E)   Refusing to allow the Superintendent timely access to the facility
premises and records;
   (F)   Violation of discharge limitations or any other terms of the
wastewater discharge permit;
   (G)   Failure to pay sewer use fees or charges;
   (H)   Failure to complete a wastewater survey or the wastewater discharge
permit application when required to do so under this chapter;
   (I)   Failure to provide advance notice of the transfer of ownership of a
permitted facility; or
   (J)   Violation of any other applicable requirement of this chapter.
(2011 Code, § 51.53) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 7-3-2000)
§ 51.054 RENEWAL OF PERMIT.
   A user with an expiring wastewater discharge permit shall apply for renewal
of the permit by submitting a complete permit application with current
information, in accordance with §
51.046, a minimum of 90 days prior to the expiration of the user’s existing
wastewater discharge permit.
(2011 Code, § 51.54) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 7-3-2000)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.065 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. The charge levied on the users of the sewage works to
meet principal and interest on revenue bonds, service charges and other town
indebtedness incurred by reason of construction, repair, remodeling, upgrading,
operating, and maintaining the sewage works.
   DOMESTIC USER. Any user of the sewage works whose lot, parcel of real
estate, or building is used primarily as a residence for one or more persons,
including all dwelling units.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Liquid wastes resulting from any commercial,
manufacturing, or industrial operation or process.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   REPLACEMENT CHARGE. The expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or pertinences which are necessary during the service life of the
sewage works to maintain the capacity and performance for which the works were
designed and constructed. Operation and maintenance includes a REPLACEMENT.
   SEWAGE. The combination of liquid- and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions, including wastes
from water closets, toilets, urinals, lavatories, sinks, bathtubs, showers,
household laundries, basement floor drains, garage floor drains, bars, soda
fountains, and stable floor drains.
   SEWAGE WORKS. The structures, equipment, and processes required to collect,
transport, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the effluent
and accumulated residual solids for the town.
   SEWER SERVICE CHARGE. The aggregate of user and debt service charges.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   TOWN. The Town of Brownstown, in Jackson County, Indiana, acting by and
through its Town Council.
   USER SERVICE CHARGE. The charge levied on users of the sewage works for the
cost of operation and maintenance including replacement.
(2011 Code, § 51.65) (Ord. 2000-2, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 51.066 DETERMINATION OF RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   For the use and service rendered by the sewage works, rates and
charges shall be collected from the owners of each and every lot, parcel of
real estate, building, or dwelling unit that is connected with or required to
be connected with the sewage works, or otherwise discharges sanitary sewage,
industrial wastes, water, or other liquids, either directly or indirectly, into
the sewage works. The rates and charges shall include charges for use of the
treatment facilities and charges for the use of the collection facilities of
the sewage works. The rates and charges shall be determined and payable as
hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Except as herein otherwise provided, sewage rates and charges shall be
determined on a monthly basis as follows.
      (1)   The rates and charges for treatment facilities shall be based upon
the quantity of water delivered in, on, or to the lot, parcel of real estate,
building, or dwelling unit subject to the rates and charges established in this
chapter as the same are measured by the water meter or meters of the water
utility providing all the water on or to a lot, parcel of real estate,
building, or dwelling unit located inside the town at a charge of $10.11 for
each 1,000 gallons or any part thereof so delivered; and a lot, parcel of real
estate, building, or dwelling unit located outside the town at a charge of
$15.16 for each 1,000 gallons or any part thereof so delivered.
      (2)   The rates and charges for use of the sewer collection facilities by
any lot, parcel of real estate, or building located inside of the town which
contains only one dwelling unit or only one commercial, manufacturing, or
industrial operation or process which is or which is required to be connected
with the sewage works are based upon the size of the water meter or meters
installed and used to deliver water in, on, or to the lot, parcel of real
estate, or building in accordance with the following table:
      (1)   The rates and charges for treatment facilities shall be based upon
the quantity of water delivered in, on, or to the lot, parcel of real estate,
building, or dwelling unit subject to the rates and charges established in this
chapter as the same are measured by the water meter or meters of the water
utility providing all the water on or to a lot, parcel of real estate,
building, or dwelling unit located inside the town at a charge of $10.11 for
each 1,000 gallons or any part thereof so delivered; and a lot, parcel of real
estate, building, or dwelling unit located outside the town at a charge of
$15.16 for each 1,000 gallons or any part thereof so delivered.
      (2)   The rates and charges for use of the sewer collection facilities by
any lot, parcel of real estate, or building located inside of the town which
contains only one dwelling unit or only one commercial, manufacturing, or
industrial operation or process which is or which is required to be connected
with the sewage works are based upon the size of the water meter or meters
installed and used to deliver water in, on, or to the lot, parcel of real
estate, or building in accordance with the following table:
 
Size of Meter Cost Per Month Per Meter
Size of Meter Cost Per Month Per Meter
5/8-inch      $40.70
3/4-inch      $40.70
1-inch        $90.08
1-1/4-inch    $139.49
1-1/2-inch    $198.71
2-inch        $337.10
3-inch        $765.01
4-inch        $1,324.81
6-inch        $3,003.85
 
      (3)   The rates and charges for use of the sewer collection facilities by
any lot, parcel of real estate, or building located inside the town which is or
which is required to be connected with the sewage works and which contains
therein more than one dwelling unit or more than one commercial, manufacturing,
or industrial operation or process shall be $86.21 per month for each dwelling
unit or each commercial, manufacturing, or industrial operation or process
contained therein.
      (4)   The rates and charges for use of the sewer collection facilities by
any lot, parcel of real estate, or building located outside of the town which
contains only one dwelling unit or only one commercial, manufacturing, or
industrial operation or process which is or which is required to be connected
with the sewage works are based upon the size of the water meter or meters
installed and used to deliver water in, on, or to the lot, parcel of real
estate, or building in accordance with the following table:
Size of Meter Cost Per Month Per Meter
Size of Meter Cost Per Month Per Meter
5/8-inch      $61.04
3/4-inch      $61.04
1-inch        $135.15
1-1/4-inch    $209.25
1-1/2-inch    $298.10
2-inch        $505.63
3-inch        $1,147.50
4-inch        $1,987.21
6-inch        $4,505.75
 
      (5)   The rates and charges for use of the sewer collection facilities by
any lot, parcel of real estate, or building located outside of the town which
is or which is required to be connected with the sewage works and which
contains therein more than one dwelling unit or more than one commercial,
manufacturing, or industrial operation or process shall be $129.32 per month
for each dwelling unit or each commercial, manufacturing, or industrial
operation or process contained therein.
(2011 Code, § 51.66) (Ord. 2000-2, passed 6-19-2000; Ord. 2016-1, passed 8-15-
2016; Ord. 2022-4, passed 8-15-2022)
§ 51.067 DISCHARGE INTO THE SEWAGE WORKS OF WATER NOT SUPPLIED BY THE WATER
UTILITY.
   (A)   The quantity of water delivered in, on, or to the lot, parcel of real
estate, building, or dwelling unit and discharged into the sewage works
obtained from sources other than a water utility that serves the lot, parcel of
real estate, or building, shall be determined by the town in a manner as the
town shall reasonably elect, and the sewer service charge shall be determined
and billed at the rates as provided herein.
   (B)   In the event any lot, parcel of real estate, or building occupied by
domestic users in either single or multiple dwelling units, which is or which
is required to be connected with the sewage works or discharges sewage into the
sewage works, either directly or indirectly, does not receive all of its water
supplied by a water utility serving the lot, parcel of real estate, or
building, and all the water delivered thereon is not measured by a water meter
or is measured by a water meter that is not acceptable to the town, then the
amount of the water delivered to the lot, parcel of real estate, or building
shall be otherwise measured or determined by the town. The town may, in making
this determination, require the owner or other interested party at his or her
own risk and expense to install and maintain meters, weirs, volumetric
measuring devices, or any other adequate method of measurement accepted by the
town for the determination of quantity of sewage which is or should be
discharged into the sewage works.
   (C)   If the town does not require installation of measuring devices, then
the sewer service rate and charge, including the rates and charges for sewer
collection facilities and sewer treatment facilities, shall be $57.59 per month
for each dwelling unit upon the lot, parcel of real estate, or building located
inside the town; and $86.34 per month for each dwelling unit upon the lot,
parcel of real estate, or building located outside the town.
   (D)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate, or building, other than one
occupied and used by domestic users, which is or which is required to be
connected with the sewage works or discharges sewage into the sewage works
either directly or indirectly, does not receive all of its water supplied by a
water utility serving the lot, parcel of real estate, or building, and all
water delivered thereto is not measured by a water meter or is measured by a
water meter that is not acceptable to the town, the owner of the lot, parcel of
real estate, or building, or any other interested party shall, at his or her
own risk and expense, install and maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring
devices, or any other adequate method of measurement accepted by the town for
the determination of the quantity of sewage which is or which should be
discharged into the sewage works.
   (E)   In the event any lot, parcel of real estate, or building occupied and
used other than by a domestic user which is or which is required to be
connected with the sewage works or discharges sewage or other liquids into the
sewage works, either directly or indirectly, and water is delivered to the
premises in excess of 20,000 gallons per month, and it can be illustrated to
the town that a portion of the water delivered to the premises as measured by a
water meter or meters does not and cannot enter into the sewage works, then the
town may permit the owner thereof or any other interested party, at his or her
own risk and expense, to install and maintain meters, weirs, volumetric
measuring devices, or any other adequate method of measurement accepted by the
town for determination of the quantity of sewage which is or which should be
discharged into the sewage works.
(2011 Code, § 51.67) (Ord. 2000-2, passed 6-19-2000; Ord. 2016-1, passed 8-15-
2016)
§ 51.068 RATES AND CHARGES FOR GOVERNMENTAL AGENCIES OR ENTITIES.
   For sewer services rendered to the town, or any other governmental agency or
entity, the agency or entity shall be subject to the same rates and charges
hereinabove provided, or to charges and rates established in harmony therewith.
(2011 Code, § 51.68) (Ord. 2000-2, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 51.069 CONNECTION CHARGES.
   (A)   At no time will a dwelling unit be classified as less than one EDU.
For making connections to the sewage works, the owner of any lot, parcel of
real estate, or building being connected to the sewage works shall pay the
following connection charges:
      (1)   Residential sewer connection.
         (a)   Single family.
            1.   Inside town limits: $1,200.
            2.   Outside town limits: $1,800.
         (b)   Multi family.
            1.   Per EDU inside town limits: $1,200.
            2.   Per EDU outside town limits: $1,800.
      (2)   Commercial/industrial sewer connection.
 
Connection size Inside town limits Outside town limits
6-inch          $4,800             $7,200
8-inch          $8,400             $12,600
10-inch         $15,600            $23,400
12-inch         $26,400            $39,600
 
   (B)   In addition to the connection charges listed in division (A), the
owner of any lot, parcel of real estate or building being connected to the
sewage works or any public sewer or appurtenance needing relocated or altered
shall pay for any engineering or similar fees that the town incurs to evaluate
the proposed connection as it relates to feasibility, capacity, design, review
or inspection costs.
(2011 Code, § 51.69) (Ord. 2000-2, passed 6-19-2000; Ord. 2008-01, passed 2-4-
2008; Ord. 2019-2, passed 5-20-2019)
§ 51.070 RATE SURCHARGE FOR STRONGER-THAN-NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges may be justly and equitably
adjusted to the service rendered to users, the town shall base its charges not
only on the volume but also on the strength and character of the stronger-than-
normal domestic sewage and waste that it is required to treat and dispose of.
The strength of wastewaters discharged by a user to the sewage works shall be
determined from samples taken at the user’s established sampling location at
any time and of a duration and in a manner as the town may elect, or, at any
alternative sampling location mutually agreed upon between the user and the
town. Appropriate charges for sampling and analysis may be assessed to the user
at the option of the town. The results of routine sampling and analysis by the
user may also be used for determination of charges after verification by the
town.
   (B)   Normal sewage domestic waste strength should not exceed a biochemical
oxygen demand of 200 milligrams per liter of fluid or suspended solids of 200
milligrams per liter of fluid, or phosphorus of five milligrams per liter of
fluid. Additional charges for treating stronger-than-normal domestic waste
shall be made on the following basis.
      (1)   There shall be an additional charge of $0.35 per pound of suspended
solids for suspended solids received in excess of 200 milligrams per liter of
fluid.
      (2)   There shall be an additional charge of $0.25 per pound of
biochemical oxygen demand for BOD received in excess of 200 milligrams per
liter of fluid.
      (3)   There shall be an additional charge of $2.83 per pound of
phosphorus received in excess of five milligrams per liter of fluid.
(2011 Code, § 51.70) (Ord. 2001-3, passed 6-4-2001)
§ 51.071 BILLING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Sewer service charges may be billed to the tenant or tenants occupying
the lot, parcel of real estate, building, or dwelling unit served unless
otherwise requested in writing by the owner, but the billing shall in no way
relieve the owner thereof from the liability therefor in the event payment is
not made as herein required.
   (B)   The owners of lots, parcels of real estate, or buildings served by the
sewage works which are occupied by a tenant or tenants shall have the right to
examine the collection records of the town for the purpose of determining
whether bills have been paid by the tenant or tenants, provided that the
examination shall be made at the office at which the records are kept and
during the hours that the office is open for business.
   (C)   All rates and charges not paid when due are delinquent and a penalty
of 10% of the rates or charges shall thereupon attach thereto. The rates and
charges shall be paid on or before 20 days after the date of the mailing of the
bill therefor.
(2011 Code, § 51.71) (Ord. 2000-2, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 51.072 AMENDMENT OF RATES.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges for sewage service may remain fair
and equitable and be in proportion to the cost of providing services to the
various users or user classes, the town may cause a study to be made within a
reasonable period. The study shall include, but not be limited to, an analysis
of the costs associated with the treatment of excessive strength effluents from
industrial users, volume and delivery flow rate characteristics attributed to
the various users or user classes, the financial position of the sewage works,
and the adequacy of its revenue to provide reasonable funds for operation and
maintenance, replacements, debt service requirements, and capital improvements
of the waste treatment systems.
   (B)   Thereafter, on an recurring basis, within a reasonable period of time
following the town’s normal accounting period, the town shall cause a similar
study to be made for the purpose of reviewing the fairness and equity of the
rates and charges for sewage services on a continuing basis. The studies shall
be conducted by officers and/or employees of the town, by a firm of certified
public accountants or a firm of consulting engineers that has experience in
this type of study, or by a combination of officers, employees, certified
public accountants, or consulting engineers as the town shall determine to be
best under the circumstances.
(2011 Code, § 51.72) (Ord. 2000-2, passed 6-19-2000; Ord. 2001-3, passed 6-4-
2001)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 51.085 ADMINISTRATIVE RULES.
   The town shall make and enforce any rules and regulations that are
consistent with this chapter, and that are deemed necessary for the safe,
economical, and efficient use and management of the sewage works, for the
construction and use of public and private sewers and sewer drains, private
disposal systems, and the installation and connection of building sewers to the
sewage works, and for the discharge of waters and wastes into the sewage works.
(2011 Code, § 51.85) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 7-3-2000)
§ 51.086 INSPECTION OF USER PREMISES.
   (A)   The Superintendent shall have the right to enter the premises of any
user to determine whether the user is complying with all requirements of this
chapter and any wastewater discharge permit. Users shall allow the
Superintendent ready access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of
inspection, sampling, records examination and copying, and the performance of
any additional duties.
      (1)   Where a user has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation
of suitable identification, the Superintendent will be permitted to enter
without delay for the purposes of performing specific responsibilities.
      (2)   The Superintendent shall have the right to set up on the user’s
property, or require installation of any devices as are necessary to conduct
sampling and/or metering of the user’s operations.
      (3)   The Superintendent may require the user to install monitoring
equipment as necessary. The facility’s sampling and monitoring equipment shall
be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the user
at its own expense. All devices used to measure wastewater flow and quality
shall be calibrated annually to ensure their accuracy.
      (4)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
user at the written or verbal request of the Superintendent and shall not be
replaced. The costs of clearing the access shall be born by the user.
      (5)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the Superintendent access to the
user’s premises shall be a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the
town shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by
the company, and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
town employees, except as either may be caused by negligence or failure of the
company to maintain safe conditions.
   (C)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the town
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the town holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purpose of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the easement
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(2011 Code, § 51.86) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 7-3-2000) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.087 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit, or an
order issued hereunder, the Superintendent may serve upon that user a written
notice of violation. Within 20 days of the receipt of the notice, an
explanation of the violation and a plan for the satisfactory correction and
prevention thereof, to include specific required actions, shall be submitted by
the user to the Superintendent.
   (B)   Submission of this plan in no way relieves the user of liability for
any violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice of violation.
Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the Superintendent to take
any action, including emergency actions or any other enforcement action,
without first issuing a notice of violation.
(2011 Code, § 51.87) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 7-3-2000) Penalty see, §
51.999
§ 51.088 CONSENT ORDERS.
   The Superintendent may enter, on behalf of the town, into consent orders or
other similar documents establishing an agreement with any user responsible for
alleged noncompliance. The documents will include specific action to be taken
by the user to correct the noncompliance within a time period specified by the
agreement.
(2011 Code, § 51.88) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 7-3-2000)
§ 51.089 EMERGENCY SUSPENSIONS.
   (A)   The Superintendent may immediately suspend a user’s authority to
discharge, after informal notice to the user, whenever the suspension is
necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge which reasonably appears to
present or cause an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or
welfare of persons. The Superintendent may also immediately suspend a user’s
authority to discharge, after notice and opportunity to respond, that threatens
to interfere with the operation of the sewages works, or which presents, or may
present, a substantial endangerment to the environment.
      (1)   Any user notified of a suspension of its authority to discharge
shall immediately stop or eliminate its discharge of wastewater to the sewage
works. Unless waived by the user, a hearing shall be conducted before the
Superintendent within five working days after the request to determine whether
cause exists, in fact, for the suspension of the user’s authority to discharge.
The user may recommence its discharge if the preponderance of the evidence
shows that cause does not exist for the suspension. If cause for suspension is
shown to exist, the user may be authorized to recommence its discharge when the
user has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Superintendent that the period
of endangerment has passed.
      (2)   In the event of a user’s failure to immediately comply voluntarily
with the suspension order, the Superintendent may take any steps as deemed
necessary, including the filing of a petition for a temporary restraining order
and/or a temporary or permanent injunction against the user, to prevent or
minimize damage to the sewage works, its receiving stream, or endangerment to
any individuals.
      (3)   A user that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting an imminent or substantial endangerment shall submit a detailed
written statement describing the causes of the harmful discharge and the
measures taken, or to be taken, to prevent any future occurrence, to the
Superintendent no later than five days after the hearing described in division
(A)(1) above.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as requiring a hearing
prior to any emergency suspension under this section.
(2011 Code, § 51.89) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 7-3-2000) Penalty see, §
51.999
§ 51.090 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   (A)   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit, or an
order issued hereunder, the Superintendent may petition a court of competent
jurisdiction, on behalf of the town, under I.C. 36-1-6-4, for the issuance of a
temporary or permanent injunction, as appropriate, which restrains the alleged
violation or compels the specific performance of the wastewater discharge
permit, order, or other requirement imposed by this chapter on activities of
the user.
   (B)   The Superintendent may also initiate any other action for any
available legal and/or equitable relief, including imposition of civil
penalties or a requirement for the user to conduct environmental remediation. A
petition for injunctive relief shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite
for, taking any other action against a user.
(2011 Code, § 51.90) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 7-3-2000) Penalty see, §
51.999
§ 51.091 REMEDIES NONEXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies provided for in §§
51.089,
51.090, and
51.999 are not mutually exclusive. The town, acting through the Superintendent,
may take any, all, or any combination of these actions against a user for
violation of this chapter or a wastewater discharge permit issued hereunder.
(2011 Code, § 51.91) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 7-3-2000) Penalty see, §
51.999
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   A user who has violated or continues to violate any provisions of this
chapter, a wastewater discharge permit, or an order issued hereunder shall be
liable to the town for a penalty of $2,500 per day per violation for a first
violation and $7,500 per day per violation for subsequent violations. A new and
separate violation shall be deemed to exist for each day on which a vocative
act or condition continue. If a monthly or other long-term average discharge
limit is exceeded, the town shall allege a violation and seek penalties for
each day during the averaging period for the exceedance.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A), any person who
violates §
51.002(B) shall be liable to the town for a civil penalty as follows:
      (1)   For an initial violation, the following penalties apply:
         (a)   No civil penalty if the person complies with §
51.002(B) within 14 days after receipt of notice of noncompliance from the
town;
         (b)   A civil penalty of $500 if the person complies with §
51.002(B) within 30 days after receipt of notice of noncompliance from the
town; or
         (c)   A civil penalty of $1,500 if the person has not complied within
30 days after receipt of notice of noncompliance from the town.
      (2)   For any subsequent violation by a person of §
51.002(B), the penalties shall be:
         (a)   A civil penalty of $750 if the person complies with §
51.002(B) within 30 days after receipt of notice of noncompliance from the
town; or
         (b)   A civil penalty of $1,500 if the person has not complied within
30 days after receipt of notice of noncompliance from the town.
   (C)   Unpaid charges, fines, and penalties shall, after 45 calendar days, be
assessed an additional penalty of 10% of the unpaid balance, and interest shall
accrue thereafter at a rate of 1½ % per month. A lien against the user’s
property will be sought for unpaid charges, fines, and penalties.
   (D)   The civil penalties prescribed in divisions (B)(1) or (B)(2) above may
be collected in an action brought by the town under I.C. 36-1-6-3 to enforce
this chapter. The Superintendent may initiate an action on behalf of the town
with respect to any alleged violation under the authority of this section. In
this action, the town may seek to recover court costs and, where provided by
law, reasonable attorneys’ fees and other expenses associated with the
enforcement action.
   (E)   In determining the amount of civil liability, the court shall take
into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the
extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the
violation, any economic benefit gained through the user’s violation, corrective
actions by the user, the compliance history of the user, and any other factor
as justice may require.
   (F)   Filing an action for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
   (G)   Any person or industrial user violating any provisions of this chapter
shall become liable to the town for any and all expenses, losses, fines,
penalties, or damages incurred by the town.
(2011 Code, § 51.99) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 7-3-2000; Ord. 2009-03, passed 10-19-
2009)
CHAPTER 52: RESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE
Section
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Fees
   
52.03   Trash Fund
   
52.04   Refuse storage and containers
   
52.05   Set-out time for refuse and recycling containers
   
52.06   Enforcing authority
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AEROBIC. Living or occurring only in the presence of oxygen.
   BULKY WASTE and/or LARGE ITEMS. A large appliance, piece of furniture, or
waste material from a residential source other than Freon waste items,
construction debris, or hazardous waste, with a weight or volume greater than
that allowed for containers.
   COMPOST PILE. A storage area for a mass of organic waste decaying through an
aerobic degradation process under controlled conditions, with the intention of
using the resulting product as a soil conditioner. Materials in a COMPOST PILE
include soil, paper products, yard waste, nondairy and nonmeat food products,
and/or nonmeat-eating animal waste. A COMPOST PILE is kept in an orderly
condition to control for odors and to prevent the blowing of debris. A COMPOST
PILE cannot be a potential transmission agent of disease or be maintained in
such a way which will attract vectors, rats, or other vermin.
   CURB SIDE RECYCLING. Bi-weekly pick-up of discarded material as specified by
the town including, but not limited to, newspapers, aluminum, glass, steel, and
plastic containers which can be separated from municipal solid waste for the
purpose of recycling, but not including material generated from and commonly
reused within an original manufacturing process.
   FREON WASTE ITEM. An appliance or other waste item of a type which
originally contained Freon or any other nonflammable gaseous or liquid
fluorinated hydrocarbons used as a refrigerant, disposal of which is
specifically regulated by the United States Environmental Protection Agency
(USEPA).
   GARBAGE. Putrescible animal or vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, serving, or consumption of food including food
containers.
   GARBAGE CAN LINER. Refuse bag designed to be placed in a refuse container or
refuse storage container.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Waste designated as hazardous by the USEPA and/or the
Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM).
   OCCUPANT. Any individual living, sleeping, cooking, or eating in, or having
possession of a dwelling unit.
   OWNER. Any one or more of the following:
      (1)   The owner or owners in fee simple of a parcel of real estate
including the life tenant or life tenants if any; or
      (2)   The record owner or owners as reflected by the County Recorder’s
office;
      (3)   The purchaser or purchasers of such real estate under a contract
for conditional sale thereof;
      (4)   The person or persons in control of the property as the personal
representative, trustee, receiver, or guardian of the OWNER.
   RECYCLABLES. Items that are intended to be recycled.
   RECYCLE. Process by which materials otherwise destined for disposal are
collected, reprocessed, and remanufactured.
   RECYCLING CONTAINER. A container holding recyclables.
   REFUSE. Discarded waste materials in a solid or semi-solid state consisting
of garbage, rubbish, or a combination thereof.
   REFUSE BAGS (also known as TRASH BAGS and/or GARBAGE BAGS). Plastic sacks
designed for refuse with sufficient wall strength to maintain physical
integrity when lifted by top; securely tied at the top for collection, with a
capacity not to exceed 33 gallons and a loaded weight not to exceed 35 pounds.
   REFUSE CONTAINER. A water-tight container constructed of metal or other
durable material impervious to rodents and other animals with a tight-fitting
lid.
   REFUSE STORAGE CONTAINER. A water-tight container or tote (not larger than
96-gallon capacity), constructed of metal or other durable material impervious
to rodents with a tight-fitting lid.
   REGULAR COLLECTION. The town’s designated day for refuse and recycling
collection.
   RESIDENTIAL MUNICIPAL WASTE. Residential garbage, rubbish, and refuse as
above defined and shall be interpreted to be consistent with that definition as
set out in state law with the restriction that wastes from all industrial,
office, commercial, and institutional establishments are specifically excluded
hereunder.
   RESIDENTIAL UNIT and/or RESIDENTIAL DWELLING UNIT. A single-family dwelling
unit or a single-family dwelling unit of a structure containing no more than
four family living units located on a single parcel of land. The definition
also includes a group of rooms located within a building or mobile home and
forming a single inhabitable unit with facilities which are used or are
intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating. This definition
also includes complexes containing four or fewer separate or contiguous single-
family dwelling units. Each unit of a multiple unit arrangement heretofore
described shall be considered a RESIDENTIAL UNIT.
   RUBBISH. Non-putrescible solid waste consisting of combustible and non-
combustible materials not including bulky waste, large items, yard and garden
waste, hazardous wastes, infectious waste or tires.
   YARD WASTE. Leaves, grass clippings, weeds, brush, and other organic garden
debris.
(2011 Code, § 52.01) (Ord. 2008-2, passed 5-19-2008)
§ 52.02 FEES.
   (A)   Upon the implementation of the service, the town shall assess a fee on
a per month basis for the service of weekly collection and disposal of
residential municipal waste, and bi-weekly collection of recyclable materials,
rendered by the town.
   (B)   The monthly residential unit fee shall be $12.35 per month, effective
July 3, 2008.
   (C)   Such service and fee shall be rendered only to residential units as
above defined, within the confines of the corporate limits of the town. The
monthly fee shall be billed to each residential unit and collected in
conjunction with other utility services provided by the town. When the utility
account covers a building containing greater than one residential unit, said
account shall reflect a separate monthly fee for each residential unit.
   (D)   The fee charged hereunder shall take priority over all other charges
for utility services provided by the town. Partial payments shall first be
applied to satisfy this service fee. Regardless of how payment may be
designated, partial payment of a combined solid waste collection, recycling,
and sewer bill shall be applied first to the solid waste and recycling bill and
last to the sewer bill. Delinquent accounts shall be handled consistent with
other utility accounts.
   (E)   Assessment of this charge may be appealed by any owner of a multi-
family dwelling or operator of a complex of residential units. The appeal shall
be through a petition to appeal residential municipal waste user fee to the
Town Council along with verifiable documentation showing that said user’s
residential unit is currently served by an approved refuse collection and
disposal service other than that provided by the town. The Town Council’s
decision shall be final and appealable. No dispute or appeal of said fee shall
be a valid reason for non-payment until or unless said charge is deleted from
the user’s utility account by the town. In such case, any overpayment made
hereunder shall be applied as a credit to said user’s utility account to
satisfy charges for sewer usage.
   (F)   Proper disposal of Freon waste items shall be the responsibility of
the owner thereof.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave or permit to remain
outside of any dwelling, building, or other structure, or within any unoccupied
or abandoned building, dwelling, or other structure under his or her control,
any abandoned, unattended, or discarded Freon waste item for a period of
greater than seven consecutive days.
      (2)   Failure to properly dispose of a Freon waste item within a seven-
day period shall constitute a nuisance under this section punishable by a fine.
   (G)   (1)   The Town Council shall have the responsibility and authority to
adopt rules and regulations governing the implementation of this residential
municipal waste collection and disposal program which shall include the
authority to appoint an agent for the collection of the charges due hereunder.
      (2)   The Town Council shall have the authority to hire and/or contract
for such collection and disposal services as provided by law.
   (H)   The fee and residential municipal waste collection and disposal
program established hereunder shall be reviewed at least annually. Said rate
system shall be adjusted as necessary to provide sufficient funds to pay any
and all contract fees for collection, hauling and/or disposal of such
residential municipal waste and all costs incidental to the program, but shall
also strive to equitably assess charges in a manner conducive to voluntary
recycling.
(2011 Code, § 52.02) (Ord. 2008-02, passed 5-19-2008)
§ 52.03 TRASH FUND.
   The revenues collected by the town from the monthly user fees and any
reimbursement for clean-up costs shall be deposited in a separate, non-
reverting, perpetual fund called Trash Fund. This Fund shall be established for
the purpose of accounting and paying for the costs of collecting, disposing,
and recycling of solid waste. When necessary, the Town Council may approve
additional operating transfers into this Fund.
(2011 Code, § 52.03) (Ord. 2008-02, passed 5-19-2008)
§ 52.04 REFUSE STORAGE AND CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Other than any containers or totes provided by a contractor of the
town, all refuse storage containers sufficient to meet the needs of the
occupant of the dwelling unit shall be provided by the owner of the property.
   (B)   All refuse (except a compost pile), refuse bags, or garbage can liners
must be stored in refuse storage containers from the time of collection through
noon the day prior to the following week’s regular collection day.
   (C)   The occupant of the property shall bear the primary responsibility for
all aspects of compliance. Enforcing authorities shall first cite the occupant
(when property can reasonably be assumed to be occupied) for violations other
than the provision of proper refuse storage containers.
   (D)   In recognition that tenants sometimes move out of properties without
giving due and proper notice to property owners, special attention shall be
given to such situations when issuing citations. Any violations, except with
regard to the provision of refuse storage containers, shall first cite the
occupant as the party with primary responsibility. If the property appears to
be vacant with a recent tenant move-out, the property owner shall be given
seven days to comply with any and all violations. After the property is vacant
for seven days, the property owner will be deemed to be the party with primary
responsibility for compliance.
   (E)   Between days of regular collection (or pre-arranged collection) for
solid waste items, the owner, tenant, lessee occupant, or agent of any
property, commercial or residential, shall provide a place to store refuse
(including bulky waste) and recyclables which shall be sheltered from street
view, if possible, given lot size and configuration. Compost piles shall be
located on the property so as not to be visible from the street whenever
possible. Refuse storage containers, compost piles, bulky waste, and
recyclables must not impede pedestrian or vehicular traffic along sidewalks,
alleys, streets, and/or other public rights-of-way. If refuse collection is in
the alley, refuse storage containers may stay at the alley as long as they do
not impede pedestrian or vehicular traffic along the alley and/or public right-
of-way.
(2011 Code, § 52.04) (Ord. 2008-02, passed 5-19-2008) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.05 SET-OUT TIME FOR REFUSE AND RECYCLING CONTAINERS.
   All residential garbage and curbside recycling collections will be made
between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. on the designated collection day.
Refuse containers, refuse bags, garbage can liners, and recycling containers
shall be set out at the refuse collection site, curbside or alley, on the
designated collection day before 5:00 a.m. and no earlier than noon of the day
preceding the regular collection day. The refuse containers, refuse bags,
garbage can liners, and recycling containers shall be removed from the refuse
collection site no later than noon on the day after the regular collection (or
pre-arranged collection). The owner, tenant, lessee occupant, or agent of any
property shall promptly clean up and remove any scattered solid waste, rejected
items, and recyclable material from the property before noon on the day after
the scheduled date of regular collection. Missed collections that are a result
of the contractor’s negligence will be an exception to having solid waste
materials removed from the refuse collection site no later than noon the day
after the regular collection day.
(2011 Code, § 52.05) (Ord. 2008-02, passed 5-19-2008) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.06 ENFORCING AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The authority for enforcing this chapter will be with the Police
Department.
   (B)   Other than contractor supplied containers, the property owner shall be
responsible for providing sufficient refuse storage containers for the disposal
of refuse. If refuse storage containers are absent, inadequate, or not rodent-
proof, enforcing authorities shall cite the property owner with a violation.
(2011 Code, § 52.06) (Ord. 2008-02, passed 5-19-2008) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A user who has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of
this chapter or an order issued hereunder shall be liable to the town for a
civil penalty of not more than $2,500 per violation. A new and separate
violation shall be deemed to exist for each day on which a volatile act or
condition continues.
   (B)   In lieu of the foregoing provision, any police officer who observes
the violation of any provision of this chapter may issue a citation to the
owner advising that such person may, within seven days from the date of such
citation, pay to the Clerk-Treasurer (the Violations Clerk), as a fine for and
in full satisfaction of such violation, the sum of $75. Upon the failure of the
owner to make such payment within the seven-day period, the original fine shall
increase from $75 to $100. If this enhanced fine is not paid in full through
the Clerk-Treasurer (the Violations Clerk), on or before the date and time set
forth on the citation, the owner who has been issued said citation shall also
be subject to the general penalties provided for violations of the provisions
of this chapter.
   (C)   The Violations Clerk shall receive, receipt, and account for the
payment of the civil penalties under procedures provided for by the State Board
of Accounts.
   (D)   A person who receives a citation for a violation may elect to stand
trial for the violation by indicating on the citation his or her intent to
stand trial and returning a copy of the citation to the Clerk-Treasurer (the
Violations Clerk). The returned copy of the citation shall serve as notice of
the person’s intent to stand trial, and the issuance of additional citations
and additional monetary fines as prescribed this chapter shall be stayed upon
receipt of the notice. The notice shall be given at least five days before the
date that payment of the citation is due as set forth below. On receipt of the
notice of intention to stand trial, a lawsuit may be commenced by the town or
appropriate enforcement official as provided by applicable law to enforce the
terms and provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   If a person who receives a citation fails to do the following, the
town or designated enforcement official may file a lawsuit as provided by
applicable law enforce the terms and provisions of this chapter:
      (1)   Pay the assessed fine within 45 days after the issuance of a
citation;
      (2)   File a petition as previously prescribed; or
      (3)   Give notice of his or her intention to stand trial as previously
prescribed.
   (F)   Seeking a civil penalty as authorized in this section does not
preclude the designated enforcement entity from seeking alternative and
additional relief from the court in the same action, or from seeking injunctive
relief or any other remedy in a separate action for the enforcement of this
chapter adopted or action taken under state law.
   (G)   In the event that a violation of this chapter is determined to exist
by a court of competent jurisdiction, the owner shall be liable to the town for
the town’s reasonable attorney fees and court costs.
(2011 Code, § 52.07) (Ord. 2008-2, passed 5-19-2008)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Compliance with officers regulating traffic required
   
70.03   Transportation by animals
   
70.04   Notice of violation
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Skateboards, roller skates, and similar devices, see
Chapter 99
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEYS. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained, dedicated, and designated as an ALLEY on the recorded plats of the
town when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of
vehicular travel, and every way or place in private ownership and used for
vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied permission
from the owner, but not by other persons.
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   The part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
street measured from the curbs, or in the absence of curbs from the edges of
the traversable roadway; and
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   FOUR-WAY STOP INTERSECTION. An intersection at each entrance to which the
driver of a vehicle shall stop in obedience to a stop sign.
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways
of two streets which join one another at, or approximately at, right angles, or
the area within which vehicles traveling upon different streets joining at any
other angle may come in conflict.
   PARK. The standing or leaving of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, upon
any street or alley for a period of time greater than is reasonably necessary
for the loading or unloading of persons or materials.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PERSONS. Every natural person, firm, co-partnership, association, or
corporation.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to
make arrests for violation of traffic regulations.
   PREFERENTIAL STREET. Every street or portion thereof at the entrances to
which vehicular traffic from intersecting streets is required to stop before
entering or crossing and to yield the right-of-way to vehicular traffic on the
PREFERENTIAL STREET in obedience to a stop sign.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the street.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street improved, designated, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb lines or the lateral
lines of a roadway and the adjacent property lines, and intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STREETS. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained, dedicated, and designated as a STREET on the recorded plats of the
town when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of
vehicular travel.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, and other
conveyances, either singly or together, while using any street or alley for
purposes of travel.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a street or alley, except devices moved by
pedestrians.
(2011 Code, § 70.01) (Ord. 215, passed 7-13-1959; Ord. 2000-5, passed 6-19-
2000)
§ 70.02 COMPLIANCE WITH OFFICERS REGULATING TRAFFIC REQUIRED.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any police officer invested by law or ordinance with authority to
direct, control, or regulate traffic.
(2011 Code, § 70.02) (Ord. 215, passed 7-13-1959) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 TRANSPORTATION BY ANIMALS.
   Every person riding an animal or driving any animal that is drawing a
vehicle upon a street shall be subject to the provisions of this Traffic Code
applicable to the driver of a vehicle.
(2011 Code, § 70.03) (Ord. 215, passed 7-13-1959)
§ 70.04 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   It shall be the duty of the police officers of the town to attach to every
vehicle parked in violation of any of the provisions of this Traffic Code a
notice that the vehicle has been illegally parked and instructing the operator
to report to the office of the Clerk-Treasurer in regard to the violation. It
shall also be the duty of a police officer, upon the observance of violation of
any of the other provisions of this Traffic Code, to give the driver of the
vehicle a notice that he or she has violated the Code, and to instruct the
violator to report to the office of the Clerk-Treasurer in regard to the
violation. The person may, within two days of the time when the notice was
attached to the vehicle or delivered or given to him or her in person, pay as
the penalty for and in full satisfaction of the violation, the sum of $25.
Payment shall be made to the Clerk-Treasurer or be attached to the notice and
mailed to the Clerk-Treasurer. The failure of the operator or owner to make the
payment within two days shall render the operator or owner subject to the
penalties described in §
70.99 for the violation of the provisions of this Traffic Code.
(2011 Code, § 70.99) (Ord. 215, passed 7-13-1959)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this Traffic Code for which another
penalty is not provided shall, upon a finding that the person has violated the
provision of this Traffic Code, be fined in an amount not to exceed $100.
(2011 Code, § 70.99) (Ord. 2000-5, passed 6-19-2000)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Speed regulations
   
71.02   Yielding to pedestrians in crosswalks required
   
71.03   Pedestrian crosswalk
§ 71.01 SPEED REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle on a street or alley at a speed
greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions and having regard
to the actual and potential hazards then existing. In every event, speed shall
be so restricted as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person,
vehicle, or other conveyance on, near, or entering the street, in compliance
with legal requirements and with the duty of all persons to use due care.
   (B)   Where no special hazards exist, the following speeds shall be lawful:
      (1)   Fifteen mph in any school zone or alley;
      (2)   Twenty mph in any business zone; and
      (3)   Thirty mph in any residential zone.
   (C)   School zones are in effect from August 25 of each year until June 15
of the following year.
   (D)   No person shall operate a vehicle in the specified zones and alleys at
a speed greater than that above stated.
   (E)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any highway, street, or alley
located in the town in excess of the maximum statutory speed limit specified in
state law, or as altered by the town or by the State Department of
Transportation.
(2011 Code, § 71.01) (Ord. 215, passed 7-13-1959; Ord. 2007-08, passed 8-6-
2007) Penalty, see §
70.99 
Cross-reference:
   Speed limits for specific designated streets, see
Chapter 74, Schedule I
§ 71.02 YIELDING TO PEDESTRIANS IN CROSSWALKS REQUIRED.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to a pedestrian
crossing the roadway within a crosswalk when the pedestrian is upon the half of
the roadway upon which the vehicle is traveling, or when the pedestrian is
approaching so closely from the opposite half of the roadway as to be in
danger.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and
walk or run into the path of a vehicle which is so close that it is impossible
for the driver to yield.
(2011 Code, § 71.02) (Ord. 215, passed 7-13-1959) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.03 PEDESTRIAN CROSSWALK.
   There is hereby established a pedestrian crosswalk on Bridge Street
approximately 75 feet southwest of the intersection of Bridge Street and Clark
Street. No pedestrian shall cross Bridge Street at that location except by
using the crosswalk. The Street Department shall place and maintain appropriate
traffic markings and signage at that location.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 6-1-2015)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   Parking restrictions
§ 72.01 PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle, except when necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic or to avoid conflict with the law or the
direction of a police officer or traffic-control device, in any of the
following spaces:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (7)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to a stop sign or traffic-control
signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (8)   In an alley, except briefly for loading or unloading purposes;
      (9)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (10)   Within 20 feet of the driveway or entrance to any fire station,
and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of the entrance when properly signposted;
      (11)   Along side or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (12)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street; and/or
      (13)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not owned by the person into any
prohibited area or away from a curb to a distance that is unlawful.
   (C)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a street in
violation of any of the provisions of this Traffic Code, the officer is hereby
authorized to move the vehicle or to require the driver or other person in
charge of the vehicle to move the same to a position off the paved, improved or
main traveled part of the street.
   (D)   Whenever any police officer finds an unattended vehicle standing upon
a street in violation of any of the provisions of this Traffic Code, the
officer is hereby authorized to provide for the removal of the vehicle to a
garage or other place of safety, and the driver, owner or other person in
charge of the vehicle reclaiming the vehicle shall pay the towing and storage
charges.
(2011 Code, § 72.01) (Ord. 215, passed 7-13-1959) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 73: OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
Section
   
73.01   Definitions
   
73.02   Use and operation of off-road vehicles on town streets and alleyways
   
73.03   Headlights, taillights, brakes, pennant, and rear view mirror
   
73.04   Number of occupants
   
73.05   Restricted hours of operation
   
73.06   Duties in event of accident
   
73.07   Registration requirements
   
73.08   Liability insurance
   
73.09   Possession of registration and certificate of insurance
   
73.10   Disturbance of roadway
   
73.11   Emergencies
   
73.12   Impoundment of off-road vehicle
   
73.13   Enforcement
   
73.14   Other laws and regulations; statutory restrictions on use
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OFF-ROAD VEHICLE. An all-terrain vehicle as that term is defined in I.C. 14-
8-2-5.7 (except that all-terrain vehicles designed for travel on three non-
highway or off-highway tires shall be excluded from this definition for the
purposes of this chapter) and a recreational off-road vehicle as that term is
defined in I.C. 14-8-2-233.5. The term OFF-ROAD VEHICLE for the purposes of
this chapter does not mean a multi-wheel drive or low pressure tire vehicle; an
amphibious vehicle; a ground effect air cushion vehicle; a farm vehicle; a
vehicle used for military or law enforcement purposes; a construction, mining,
or industrial related vehicle; a snowmobile; a registered aircraft; a golf cart
vehicle; any other vehicle properly registered by the State Bureau of Motor
Vehicles; and any water craft that is registered under the state statutes.
   OPERATOR. An operator of an off-road vehicle must be at least 18 years of
age and possess a valid motor vehicle driver’s license as is also required by
I.C. 14-16-1-20(C).
   ORV STREETS. All town streets inside of the town limits, except restricted
streets.
   RESTRICTED STREETS.
      (1)   State Highways 50, 135, and 250, except as provided in division (3)
(c) below.
      (2)   Any street or highway posted by order of the town or its designee
for non-use by off-road vehicles.
      (3)   Any of the following:
         (a)   On sidewalks;
         (b)   On the County Pathway/Trail;
         (c)   On State Highways 50, 135, and 250, except to cross said State
Highways 50, 135, and 250, at intersections in a path 90 degrees to the state
highway.
            1.   The operator shall bring the off-road vehicle to a complete
stop before proceeding across a state highway and shall yield the right-of-way
to all traffic.
            2.   However, off-road vehicles may be operated on State Highways
50, 135, and 250, in connection with and during the course of such special
events as may be from time to time determined and so designated by the Town
Council.
         (d)   On the following streets during times that school buses are
visibly operating on the street or on the premises of Brownstown Central High
School, Brownstown Middle School, and Brownstown Elementary School:
            1.   Bridge Street;
            2.   Walnut Street; and
            3.   Base Road south of Commerce Street.
         (e)   On any surface, whether paved or unpaved, of property belonging
to the Brownstown Community School Corporation;
         (f)   On any unpaved surfaces of public property; and
         (g)   On any private property without permission of the owner.
(Ord. 2017-1, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 73.02 USE AND OPERATION OF OFF-ROAD VEHICLES ON TOWN STREETS AND ALLEYWAYS.
   (A)   Operators of off-road vehicles may use ORV streets, as those terms are
defined in §
73.01, subject to the terms and conditions of this chapter.
   (B)   Off-road vehicles may not be operated on restricted roads.
   (C)   All-terrain vehicles designed for travel on three non-highway or off-
highway tires shall not be allowed to operate on the town streets and highways.
(Ord. 2017-1, passed 3-6-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03 HEADLIGHTS, TAILLIGHTS, BRAKES, PENNANT, AND REAR VIEW MIRROR.
   (A)   The off-road vehicle must meet the standards of headlights,
taillights, and brakes required under I.C. 14-16-1-21. The off-road vehicle
shall be equipped with a functional rear view mirror at all times when the
vehicle is being operated.
   (B)   In addition, the off-road vehicle operated on a town street pursuant
to this chapter must have either:
      (1)   An orange pennant or flag at least 12 inches to one foot, eight
inches long, affixed to a staff or pole measuring at least four feet but not
more than ten feet in height (the pole or staff height shall be measured from
the top of the seat);
      (2)   A slow moving vehicle emblem meeting the requirements of I.C. 9-21-
9-2; or
      (3)   An installed and operating turn signal kit so as to be visible to
both oncoming and following traffic.
(Ord. 2017-1, passed 3-6-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 NUMBER OF OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   No off-road vehicle shall be occupied by more persons than for which
the vehicle was designed.
   (B)   Each occupant shall have and use a separate seat.
   (C)   No part of the body of the operator or an occupant shall extend
outside the perimeter of the off-road vehicle while in operation.
(Ord. 2017-1, passed 3-6-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.05 RESTRICTED HOURS OF OPERATION.
   An off-road vehicle may not be operated on any town street between 11:00
p.m. and 6:00 a.m. (local time).
(Ord. 2017-1, passed 3-6-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.06 DUTIES IN EVENT OF ACCIDENT.
   Nothing in this chapter modifies, alters, or changes the duties under I.C.
14-16-1-24 placed on the operator of an off-road vehicle in the event of an
accident.
(Ord. 2017-1, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 73.07 REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS.
   Off-road vehicles must be registered under I.C. 14-16-1-24, as amended.
Additionally, the owner or lessee of an off-road vehicle as defined in this
chapter must register the off-road vehicle annually with the Police Department
on or before May 1. An annual registration fee of $25 shall be paid to the
Clerk-Treasurer who, after inspection by the Police Department verifying the
off-road vehicle as insured and equipped as required by §§
73.03 and
73.08 of this chapter, shall issue a certificate of registration (“permit”) and
a numerical tag which shall be prominently attached to and displayed on a rear
panel of the off-road vehicle that is plainly visible to approaching traffic.
The permit must be in the off-road vehicle or in the possession of the person
operating the off-road vehicle at all times such off-road vehicle is in
operation on the streets of the town.
(Ord. 2017-1, passed 3-6-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.08 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   An operator of an off-road vehicle on a town street shall have liability
insurance specifically for such off-road vehicle operation on town streets in
accordance with the minimum insurance required for the operation of other motor
vehicles on public highways, in the minimum amount of $25,000 per person/
$50,000 per accident. In addition, proof of insurance must be provided to the
town when registering the off-road vehicle under the provision of §
73.07 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-1, passed 3-6-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.09 POSSESSION OF REGISTRATION AND CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE.
   Any operator of an off-road vehicle shall carry on his or her person any
registration required under I.C. 14-16-1 and the certificate of insurance
required by §
73.08 of this chapter for the off-road vehicle being operated.
(Ord. 2017-1, passed 3-6-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.10 DISTURBANCE OF ROADWAY.
   No person shall operate an off-road vehicle on town streets in such a manner
which causes damage to the street or disturbs the surface of the roadway. Any
violation of this section, in addition to such penalties set forth in §
73.99, shall be responsible for all costs of repair of such damage or
disturbance.
(Ord. 2017-1, passed 3-6-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.11 EMERGENCIES.
   Any town, county, or state law enforcement officer may prohibit operation of
an off-road vehicle on a town street or roadway during emergencies.
(Ord. 2017-1, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 73.12 IMPOUNDMENT OF OFF-ROAD VEHICLE.
   (A)   Any off-road vehicle operated on the streets in the town by an
unlicensed operator or without the equipment required by this chapter shall be
impounded by the enforcing officer. Said off-road vehicle shall be held until
retrieved by the owner and a properly licensed operator. If the off-road
vehicle is improperly equipped as required by this chapter or state law for
operation on the streets of the town, then it shall only be released to be
hauled away upon a properly licensed vehicle capable of safely hauling the
same.
   (B)   The off-road vehicle shall not be released from impoundment until:
      (1)   It is properly registered as by law required;
      (2)   The actual charge for the towing of the vehicle to the place of
impoundment is paid; and
      (3)   Storage fees as currently charged by the authorized operator of a
motor vehicle impound lot are paid, provided that the total storage charges may
not exceed the sum of $1,500.
   (C)   The town shall not be responsible for any loss or damage sustained by
any off-road vehicle so impounded or stored hereunder. Off-road vehicles not
reclaimed within 30 days from the date of impoundment shall be deemed abandoned
and shall be sold as surplus property.
(Ord. 2017-1, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 73.13 ENFORCEMENT.
   All law enforcement officers in the town shall have the power and it shall
be their duty to enforce the provisions of this chapter unless otherwise
prevented by state statutes regarding the enforcement of state laws.
(Ord. 2017-1, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 73.14 OTHER LAWS AND REGULATIONS; STATUTORY RESTRICTIONS ON USE.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter modifies, alters, or changes the requirements
of the operation of vehicles on public roadways in the state, and all operators
of off-road vehicles must obey and follow all rules and regulations applicable
to the operation of vehicles on roadways in the state.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter modifies, alters, or changes the restrictions
on operation established under I.C. 14-16-1-23.
(Ord. 2017-1, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a violation and upon conviction, shall be fined pursuant to the
following schedule:
      (1)   First offense in a one-year period: $50; and
      (2)   Second offense in a one-year period: $100.
   (B)   Each day that a violation occurs constitutes a separate offense.
   (C)   The certificate of registration for any off-road vehicle issued under
the provisions of §
73.07 of this chapter shall be revoked upon the commission of a second
violation of this chapter within any one-year period.
   (D)   In the event it is necessary to file suit to enforce the provisions of
this chapter, the town is entitled to recover attorney fees and related court
costs from the violator.
   (E)   All penalties assessed for violation of this chapter shall be
deposited into the General Fund of the town and be made available for
appropriation to the operating budget of the Police Department.
(Ord. 2017-1, passed 3-6-2017)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
      
II.   Preferential streets
      
III.   Stop streets
      
IV.   One-way streets and alleys
      
V.   U-turns
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for drivers of vehicles to exceed the following
designated speeds on the following designated streets or parts of streets.
Street Location Speed Limit Special Provisions Ord. No. Date Passed
Street          Location         Speed Limit Special       Ord. No. Date Passed
                                             Provisions
                From a point 150
                feet east of the
                east line of the
                property of
Bloomington     Brownstown                                 215;     7-13-1959;
Road            Consolidated     20 mph      School zone   2007-9   10-1-2007
                Schools to a
                point 150 feet
                west of the east
                line of Stout
                Street south
                From the west
                line of High                               215;     7-13-1959;
Bridge Street   Street to the    20 mph      School zone   2007-9   10-1-2007
                east line of Elm
                Street
                Between a point
                247 feet east of
                the intersection
                of the south
                line of Bridge
                Street and the
                east line of
Bridge Street   Clark Street and 20 mph                    1989-1   6-5-1989
                100 feet west of
                the intersection
                of the south
                line of Bridge
                Street and the
                west line of
                Clark Street
                From Main Street
Commerce Street west to Poplar   20 mph      Business zone 215      7-13-1959
                Street
                From Sugar
Cross Street    Street west to   20 mph      Business zone 215      7-13-1959
                Poplar Street
                From Oak Street
Ewing Street    south to Walnut  20 mph      Business zone 215      7-13-1959
                Street
                Between the
                south right-of-
                way line of
Jackson Street  State Highway 50 20 mph                    1989-1   6-5-1989
                and the south
                corporation line
                of the town
                From Bridge
Main Street     Street to 150    20 mph      Business zone 215      7-13-1959
                feet south of
                Commerce Street
                Between Stout
Spring Street   Street and Clark 20 mph                    1989-1   6-5-1989
                Street
                From 150 east of
Spring Street   Ewing Street     20 mph      Business zone 215      7-13-1959
                west to the west
                corporate limits
                From the
                intersection of
                Stout Street and                           215;     7-13-1959;
Stout Street    Bloomington Road 20 mph      School zone   2007-9   10-1-2007
                to the south
                line of Spring
                Street
                From Spring
Sugar Street    Street south to  20 mph      Business zone 215      7-13-1959
                Cross Street
                From a point 150
                feet north of
                the north line                             215;     7-13-1959;
Sycamore Street of Bridge Street 20 mph      School zone   2007-9   10-1-2007
                to the north
                line of Spring
                Street
                Between Elm
Walnut Street   Street and Stout 20 mph                    1989-1   6-5-1989
                Street
                From the west
                line of Elm                                215;     7-13-1959;
Walnut Street   Street to the    20 mph      School zone   2007-9   10-1-2007
                east line of
                Clark Street
                From Sugar
Walnut Street   Street west to   20 mph      Business zone 215      7-13-1959
                Poplar Street
 
(2011 Code, Ch. 73, Sch. I) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. PREFERENTIAL STREETS.
   The following streets and portions of streets are designated as and declared
to be preferential streets, except as otherwise herein noted.
Street Exceptions Special Provisions Ord. No. Date Passed
Street          Exceptions      Special         Ord. No.        Date Passed
                                Provisions
                Except as it
Bloomington     intersects with
Road            Depot,                         2000-5          6-19-2000
                Commerce, and
                Walnut Streets
                                The
                Except as it    intersections
                intersects with with Elm
                Main Street,    Street, Poplar
                and except as   Street, and
Bridge Street   it intersects   Main Street are 2000-5          6-19-2000
                with Elm        hereby
                Street, Poplar  designated to
                Street, and     be four-way
                Sugar Street    stop
                                intersections
                Except as it
Commerce Street intersects with                2000-5          6-19-2000
                Main Street
                Except as it
                intersects with
Depot Street    Commerce Street                2000-5          6-19-2000
                and Spring
                Street
                Except as it
                intersects with
Ewing Street    Commerce Street                2000-5          6-19-2000
                and Spring
                Street
                Except as it    The
                intersects with intersections
                Commerce        with Vallonia
                Street, and     Road, Steinkamp
                except as it    Street, and     2000-5;         6-19-2000;
Main Street     intersects with Cummings Street 2013-1;         2-18-2013;
                Vallonia Road,  are hereby      2016-2          11-7-2016
                Steinkamp       designated to
                Street, and     be four-way
                Cummings        stop
                                intersections
                Except as it    The
                intersects with intersections
                Commerce        with Miller
                Street, and     Street and
Poplar Street   except as it    Vallonia Road   2000-5          6-19-2000
to Cross Street intersects with are hereby
                Miller Street   designated to
                and Vallonia    be four-way
                Road            stop
                                intersections
                Except as it    The
                intersects with intersections
                Main Street,    with Stout
                Sugar Street,   Street and
                and Water       Ewing Street
Spring Street   Street, and     are hereby      2000-5          6-19-2000
                except as it    designated to
                intersects with be four-way
                Stout Street    stop
                and Ewing       intersections
                Street
                                The
                Except as it    intersections
                intersects with with Walnut
                Commerce        Street and
Sugar Street    Street, Walnut  Cross Street    2000-5; 2018-5  6-19-2000; 12-
                Street, Bridge  are hereby                      3-2018
                Street, Main    designated to
                Street, and     be four-way
                Cross Street    stop
                                intersections
                Except as it    The
                intersects with intersections
                Depot Street,   with Elm Street
                Ewing Street,   and Stout
                Main Street,    Street are      2000-5; 2016-5; 6-19-2000; 12-
Walnut Street   and Sugar       hereby          2018-5          19-2016;12-3-
                Street, and     designated to                   2018
                except as it    be four-way
                intersects with stop
                Elm Street and  intersections
                Stout Street
 
(2011 Code, Ch. 73, Sch. II) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III. STOP STREETS.
   (A)   The following streets shall be stop streets at the following
intersections.
   (B)   After having made the stops required by this schedule, the driver of a
vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles which have entered the
intersection from the following described preferential street or which are
approaching so closely on the preferential street so as to constitute an
immediate hazard, but the driver, having so yielded, may proceed, and the
drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection on the preferential
street shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle so approaching into or
across the preferential street.
Street Location
Street                        Location
Asher Street                  At Miller Street
Ashland Street                At Poplar Cove Court
Autumn Court                  At Poplar Cove Court
Beech Drive                   At First Street
Benton Street                 At Bloomington Road
Bloomington Road (east bound) At the intersection with Frances Street and Elm
                              Street
Bloomington Road (west bound) At the intersection with Frances Street and Elm
                              Street
Bridge Street                 At Main Street
Circle Drive                  At First Street
Commerce Street               At Main Street
Cross Street                  At Asher Street
Cross Street                  At Benton Street
Cross Street                  At Clark Street
Cross Street                  At Francis Street
Cross Street                  At Jackson Street
Cross Street                  At Stout Street
Depot Street                  At Commerce Street
Depot Street                  At Spring Street
Ewing Street                  At Commerce Street
Ewing Street                  At Spring Street
First Street                  At Beech Drive
High Street                   At Cross Street
High Street                   At Tanner Street
Highview Avenue               At Elm Street
Highview Avenue               At High Street
Indiana Street                At Poplar Street
Jackson Street                At Walnut Street
Jodi Drive                    At Kelly Drive
Main Street                   At Commerce Street
McMahan Street                At Cross Street
McMahan Street                At Tanner Street
Miller Street                 At Francis Street
Oak Street                    At Bridge Street
Oak Street                    At Front Street
Poplar Cove Court             At Ashland Street
Poplar Street                 At Commerce Street
Poplar Street                 At Summit Street
Short Street                  At Francis Street
Spring Street                 At Main Street
Spring Street                 At Sugar Street
Spring Street                 At Water Street
Stillwell Street              At Branch Street
Sugar Street                  At Bridge Street
Sugar Street                  At Commerce Street
Sugar Street                  At Walnut Street
Summit Street                 At High Street
Sunset Street                 At First Street
Sunset Street                 At Second Street
Sycamore Street               At Highview Avenue
Tanner Street                 At Asher Street
Tanner Street                 At Benton Street
Tanner Street                 At Francis Street
Tanner Street                 At Jackson Street
Valley Drive                  At First Street
Valley Drive                  At Second Street
Walnut Street                 At Depot Street
Walnut Street                 At Ewing Street
Walnut Street                 At Jackson Street
Walnut Street                 At Main Street
Water Street                  At Cross Street
Water Street                  At Tanner Street
 
(2011 Code, Ch. 73, Sch. III) (Ord. 2000-5, passed 6-19-2000; Ord. 2004-05,
passed 5-3-2004; Ord. 2005-03, passed 6-6-2005; Ord. 2009-02, passed 2-2-2009;
Ord. 2013-1, passed 2-18-2013; Ord. 2021-6, passed 11-1-2021) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE IV. ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   For purposes of traffic and movement of vehicles, the following
streets and alleys or sections thereof are hereby designated and declared to be
one-way streets and alleys.
   (B)   Vehicles using the below designated one-way streets and alleys shall
proceed through the streets and alleys only in the direction specified herein,
and movement in the opposite direction is prohibited.
 
Street       Location                            Direction Ord. No. Date Passed
Water Street From Cross Street north to Walnut   North     1983-1   3-21-1983
             Street
Water Street From Spring Street north to the     North     1983-1   3-21-1983
             terminus of Water Street
             The alley running generally east to
            west parallel to and between Bridge East      1983-2   12-19-1983
             Street and Indiana Street from Main
             Street to Sugar Street
             The alley running north and south
             parallel to Sugar Street from the
            terminus of Water Street north to   North     1983-1   3-21-1983
             Bridge Street, which is also known
             as Venus Road
             The alley running east and west
            between and parallel to Cross       West      215      7-13-1959
             Street and Walnut Street from Main
             Street west to Poplar Street
 
(2011 Code, Ch. 73, Sch. IV) (Ord. 2007-09, passed 10-1-2007) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE V. U-TURNS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not make a u-turn in a street except at an
intersection, and u-turns shall not be made at the following intersections.
Location                                              Ord. No. Date Passed
The intersection of Commerce Street and Ewing Street  215      7-13-1959
The intersection of Commerce Street and Main Street   215      7-13-1959
The intersection of Commerce Street and Poplar Street 215      7-13-1959
The intersection of Main Street and Cross Street      215      7-13-1959
The intersection of Main Street and Spring Street     215      7-13-1959
The intersection of Main Street and Walnut Street     215      7-13-1959
The intersection of Spring Street and Ewing Street    215      7-13-1959
The intersection of Walnut Street and Poplar Street   215      7-13-1959
 
(2011 Code, Ch. 73, Sch. V) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   No parking zones
      
II.   Limited parking and loading zones
      
III.   One-hour parking zones
SCHEDULE I. NO PARKING ZONES.
   (A)   For purposes of traffic and parking regulations, the following
sections of streets are hereby designated and declared to be no parking zones.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked in the following designated no parking
zones at any time.
Street Location Special Provisions Side
Street             Location                      Special Provisions     Side
Bloomington Road   From Stout Street to Commerce                        North
                   Street
Bloomington Road   From Walnut Street to Stout                          North
                   Street
Bloomington Road   From Walnut Street to Stout                          South
                   Street
Poplar Street      From Walnut Street a distance Except for police and  West
                   of 150 feet south             official town vehicles
Spring Street west From Oak Street a distance of                        North
                   386 feet west
Walnut Street      Between Main Street and Asher                        South
                   Street
                   From North Clark Street to
West Bridge Street North Bolles Street, for two                         Both
                   blocks
 
(2011 Code, Ch. 74, Sch. I) (Ord. 1980-2, passed 6-2-1980; Ord. 2004-04, passed
5-3-2004; Ord. 2022-1, passed 7-18-2022) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. LIMITED PARKING AND LOADING ZONES.
   (A)   For purposes of traffic and parking regulations, the following
sections of streets are hereby designated and declared to be limited parking
and loading zones.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked in the following designated limited parking
or loading zones for longer than 15 minutes. However, this schedule shall
control the parking in areas and zones designated therein only between the
hours of 5:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., on all days except Sundays and legal
holidays, and on proclamation of the Town Council. On Fridays, the designated
hours shall be 8:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. When this schedule is not controlling
parking as in this division provided, vehicles may be parked in these zones for
an  unlimited length of time.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be parked on the west side of Elm Street between the
intersection of Bridge Street and Highview Drive alongside the high school
football stadium between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. Monday through
Friday when school is in session. There is hereby established a pedestrian
walkway on that section of Elm Street during the days and hours specified. The
Street Department shall place and maintain appropriate traffic markings and
signage at that location.
 
Street             Location                          Side  Ord. No. Date Passed
                   A space beginning 20 feet south
Poplar Street      of the south right-of-way line of West  1980-3   10-6-1980
                   Walnut Street and continuing
                   southerly 60 feet
                   A space beginning 40 feet east of
                   the east right-of-way line of an
Walnut Street west alley running north and south and South 1980-2   6-2-1980
                   parallel to Main Street and
                   Poplar Street and continuing
                   easterly 40 feet
 
   (D)   There shall be no overnight parking permitted in the parking lot of
the Brownstown Park pool.
(2011 Code, Ch. 74, Sch. II) (Ord. 215, passed 7-13-1959; Am. Ord. 2018-2,
passed 8-6-2018; Ord. 2022-1, passed 7-18-2022) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III. ONE-HOUR PARKING ZONES.
   (A)   For purposes of parking and traffic regulations, the following
sections of streets are hereby designated and declared to be one-hour parking
zones, except where otherwise herein designated as limited parking and loading
zones.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked in the following designated one-hour
parking zones for longer than one hour. However, this schedule shall control
the parking in areas and zones designated therein only between the hours of 5:
00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., on all days except Sundays and legal holidays, and on
proclamation of the Town Council. On Fridays, the designated hours shall be 8:
00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. When this schedule is not controlling parking as in this
division provided, vehicles may be parked in these zones for an unlimited
length of time.
Street Location Side Ord. No. Date Passed
Street             Location                         Side  Ord. No. Date Passed
Cross Street east  From Main Street to Sugar Street South 215      7-13-1959
                   From Main Street to the alley
Cross Street west  between Main Street and Poplar   Both  215      7-13-1959
                   Street
Ewing Street south To the south line of Branch      Both  215      7-13-1959
                   Street
Main Street        Between Bridge Street and Tanner Both  215      7-13-1959
                   Street
Spring Street      From Ewing Street west to Depot  Both  215      7-13-1959
                   Street
Spring Street      From Ewing Street east to        South 215      7-13-1959
                   Browning Street
Walnut Street      Between Main Street and Sugar    North 215      7-13-1959
                   Street
Walnut Street      Between Main Street and Poplar   Both  215      7-13-1959
                   Street
 
(2011 Code, Ch. 74, Sch. III) Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   WEED CONTROL
      
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
92.   JUNK MOTOR VEHICLES
      
93.   PARK REGULATIONS
      
94.   ANIMALS
      
95.   CURFEW FOR MINORS
      
96.   LOITERING
      
97.   UNSAFE BUILDING LAW
      
98.   ABATEMENT OF VACANT AND ABANDONED STRUCTURES
      
99.   SKATEBOARDS, ROLLER SKATES, AND SIMILAR DEVICES
      
100.   UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS
CHAPTER 90: WEED CONTROL
Section
   
90.01   Short title
   
90.02   Jurisdiction
   
90.03   Definitions
   
90.04   Owners responsible for trimming, removal, and the like
   
90.05   Filing complaint
   
90.06   Notice of violations
   
90.07   Appeals
   
90.08   Abatement by town
   
90.09   Liability
§ 90.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be cited as the “Weed Control” chapter.
(2011 Code, § 90.01)
§ 90.02 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The jurisdiction of this chapter shall be the corporate limits of the
town, as presently defined or as may be modified from time to time by
annexation or town ordinance.
   (B)   This chapter shall be in addition to any state statute or town
ordinance presently in effect, subsequently added, amended, or repealed.
(2011 Code, § 90.02)
§ 90.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DESTRUCTION ORDER. The notice served by the town executives, or Town Council
in cases of appeal, on the property owner of the ordinance violation.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The person occupying the property, the holder of legal
title, or a person having control over the property of another, such as a
right-of-way, easement, license, or lease.
 
   WEEDS, GRASSES, and RANK VEGETATION.
 
      (1)   Canada thistle, thistles, johnson grass, sorghum, alum (i.e.,
allium), bur cucumber, and shattercane.
      (2)   RANK VEGETATION is the uncontrolled, uncultivated growth of annuals
and perennial plants.
 
      (3)   WEEDS do not include shrubs, trees, cultivated plants, or crops.
 
   (B)   In no event shall cultivated plants or crops include plants which have
been defined by state statute or administrative rule as being noxious or
detrimental plants.
   (C)   The Indiana Cooperative Extension Service shall be the referenced
technical authority for the town executives with respect to the definition of
exempt matters, shrubs, trees, cultivated plants, and crops.
(2011 Code, § 90.03)
§ 90.04 OWNERS RESPONSIBLE FOR TRIMMING, REMOVAL, AND THE LIKE.
   All property owners within the corporate limits of the town shall be
required, and be financially responsible for, the removal, cutting, or disposal
and elimination of weeds, grasses, and rank vegetation or other uncontrolled
plant growth on their property, which at the time of notice, is in excess of
ten inches in average height, and in no event exceeds 15 inches in maximum
height on at least 20% of the surface area of the property.
(2011 Code, § 90.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.05 FILING COMPLAINT.
   Any person, including the town, who believes there is property located
within the corporate limits of the town which has growing plant matter in
violation of this chapter, shall make a written complaint signed, dated, and
filed with the Clerk-Treasurer. If the town makes the complaint, an employee,
officer, or Council member of the town shall file the complaint in all respects
as set out above.
(2011 Code, § 90.05)
§ 90.06 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upon receiving notice of the probable existence of weeds in violation
of this chapter, a person designated by the town executives shall make an
inspection and prepare a written report to the executives regarding the
condition. The executive of the town, upon concluding that there is a probable
belief that this chapter has been violated, shall forward written notification
in the form of a “destruction order” to the property owner and/or the person
occupying the property as that information is contained within the records of
the Clerk-Treasurer or any other town agency. Such notice shall be served in
writing by certified mail. The notice shall provide that within seven calendar
days after the receipt of the notice that the designated violation shall be
removed by the property owner and/or person occupying the property.
   (B)   (1)   All notices are to be in writing and all filings are to be with
the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   Certified mailing to the Clerk-Treasurer or others is deemed filed
on the date of posting to the United States Postal Service.
(2011 Code, § 90.06)
§ 90.07 APPEALS.
   (A)   The property owner may appeal by filing written notice of objections
with the executive within 48 hours of the notice, excluding weekends and
holidays, if the property owner contests the finding of the executives. It is
the property owner’s responsibility to demonstrate that the matter in question
is shrubs, trees, cultivated plants, or crops or is not otherwise in violation
of this chapter, and should not be subject to destruction under the chapter.
   (B)   An appeal by the property owner shall be brought before the Town
Council and shall be decided by a majority vote of the Town Council members in
attendance and such being at a regularly scheduled or special meeting of the
Town Council.
(2011 Code, § 90.07)
§ 90.08 ABATEMENT BY TOWN.
   In the event that the property owner shall fail to comply with the
destruction order within seven calendar days and has not filed a notice within
48 hours to the Clerk-Treasurer of an intent to appeal, the town executives may
employ the services of town employees or outside contractors and remove the
weeds to conform to this chapter by all lawful means.
(2011 Code, § 90.08)
§ 90.09 LIABILITY.
   (A)   The property owner is liable for all costs of removal, cutting, or
destruction of weeds as defined by this chapter.
   (B)   The property owner is responsible for all collection costs associated
with weed destruction, including, but not limited to, court costs, attorney’s
fees, and interest on any unpaid amounts incurred by the town. If the town uses
municipal employees, it shall set and assign an appropriate per hour rate for
employees, equipment, supplies, and chemicals which may be used.
   (C)   All sums payable by the property owner are to be paid to the Clerk-
Treasurer and to be deposited in a general fund, as compensation for expenses
and costs incurred by the town.
(2011 Code, § 90.09)
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations
   
91.01   Permit requirements for excavations
   
91.02   Bond required
   
91.03   Noncompliance
   
91.04   Forms; posting of bonds required
   
91.05   Exemptions
   
91.06   Restrictions
Obstructions
   
91.20   Obstruction of streets and ways
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Street construction, see
Chapter 154
   Use of skateboards, roller skates, and similar devices on public streets and
sidewalks, see §§
99.03 and
99.05
EXCAVATIONS
§ 91.01 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS FOR EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to cut, dig,
or excavate under or in any part of any right-of-way, street, or alley, within
the corporate limits of the town (except for the purpose of making
installations therein under contract with the town), without first filing with
the Clerk-Treasurer a written application for a permit to make and repair the
cut or excavation.
      (1)    The application must be filed at least three days in advance of
the time of beginning the work to be done under the permit, except that when an
emergency exists, the applicant may secure the permit in less than the three
days by stating in his or her application the exact emergency.
      (2)   All permits shall be submitted to and be approved by the Street
Superintendent prior to being filed with the Clerk-Treasurer. The application
shall particularly describe the exact location, kind, dimension by feet and
inches, the type of road surface to be cut or excavated, the nature of the
opening to be made, and the exact purpose of the proposed work.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation applying for and receiving a permit
shall be subject to the following terms and conditions.
      (1)   All applicants must pay a $10 permit and inspection fee at the time
the permit is issued.
      (2)   All applicants, upon proper application and issuance of a permit,
shall make all repairs with their own forces at their own expense.
      (3)   Repairs are to be made within three days.
      (4)   Repairs in paved surfaces shall be back-filled with #8 or #9 stone
to within eight inches of the existing surface. The remaining is to be eight
inches of 4,000 PSI concrete. The repair will be one foot beyond the vertical
side of excavation and be a square or rectangle.
      (5)   Repairs in an unimproved street, alley or right-of-way shall be
back-filled with #8 or #9 stone to existing grade.
      (6)   All excavated material will be removed from the excavation site by
the contractor and disposed of at his or her expense.
      (7)   No additional charge will be made for conduits pushed under the
surface.
      (8)   All applicants agree as a part of the work to:
         (a)   Erect and maintain all necessary barricades, detour signs,
warning signals, and lights by night required to direct traffic safely over or
around the place where the work is being done so long as the work in any way
interferes with traffic, in accordance with the State Manual on Uniform Traffic
Control Devices;
         (b)   Take all responsibility for any injury or damage resulting to
persons or property because of the work;
         (c)   Display conspicuously at the site of the street opening the name
and address of the person, firm, or corporation to whom the permit has been
issued so long as the hole is open or barricades are in place, and to give
notice to the Street Superintendent prior to, but on the same day and each day
that excavations are being opened in the rights-of-way.
   (C)   Any and all work performed within the street or alley right-of-way in
connection with excavations, such as forcing pipe under pavement, trenches
between the curb and sidewalk, or excavating trenches outside the paved
macadam, or in the oiled or graveled surfaces of a street or alley, are covered
by this subchapter and shall require a permit.
(2011 Code, § 91.01) (Ord. 1984-1, passed 4-17-1984; Ord. 84-1, passed 8-18-
1997) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 BOND REQUIRED.
   (A)   As a part of the written application, the applicant shall have on file
in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer an approved undertaking and surety bond as
follows.
      (1)   Any cut, dig, or excavation which will be or is 60 feet or less in
length, as measured from one end of the opening to the other, shall require an
undertaking and surety bond in the amount of $2,000 wherein the applicant
agrees as follows:
         (a)   To pay reasonable repair charges should he or she fail to do so
for any reason; and
         (b)   To guarantee the repairs were done in accordance with this
chapter for a period of one year.
      (2)   Any cut, dig, or excavation which will be or is more than 60 feet
in length, as measured from one end of the opening to the other, shall require
an undertaking and surety bond in an amount reasonably calculated to cover the
repairs and be approved by the Town Council. The bond shall cover a two-year
period and shall guarantee the repairs to perform satisfactorily for a period
of one year, and shall be and shall remain in effect for a period of one year
after the date of the last repairs.
   (B)   In lieu of the bond required in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) above, any
person, firm, or corporation, upon application to and approval by the Town
Council, may post and keep in effect a performance bond in an amount of not
less than $2,000, but equal to the estimated cost of repairs to be made by the
person, firm, or corporation for the calendar year beginning at the time of the
application. The performance bond shall cover a two-year period and shall
guarantee the repairs to perform satisfactorily for a period of one year, and
shall be and shall remain in effect for a period of one year after date of last
repairs. Upon approval of the application, the Council shall issue to the
applicant a written permit to make street repairs for a period not to exceed 12
calendar months. This permit shall not exempt the permittee from any of the
requirements of this subchapter except the bond required in this section.
   (C)   The Street Superintendent may waive the requirement of filing the
appropriate bond with the application for a permit upon determining that an
emergency exists. This waiver shall not relieve the applicant from the
responsibility of filing the appropriate bond as soon as reasonably possible
after issuance of a permit on an emergency basis.
(2011 Code, § 91.02) (Ord. 1984-1, passed 4-17-1984; Ord. 84-1, passed 8-18-
1997)
§ 91.03 NONCOMPLIANCE.
   One copy of each permit shall be issued to the applicant, one copy issued to
the Street Superintendent, and one copy filed in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
It shall be the specific duty of the Street Superintendent to stop any work
which is being performed when it does not comply with the terms of this
subchapter and report the noncompliance to the Town Council.
(2011 Code, § 91.03) (Ord. 1984-1, passed 4-17-1984; Ord. 84-1, passed 8-18-
1997)
§ 91.04 FORMS; POSTING OF BONDS REQUIRED.
   It shall be the duty of the Clerk-Treasurer to have printed any forms and
instructions as are required for the administration of this chapter. It shall
be the duty of the Clerk-Treasurer to require all persons, firms, or
corporations making application for a permit under the terms of this subchapter
to post and keep current the bonds required hereby.
(2011 Code, § 91.04) (Ord. 1984-1, passed 4-17-1984; Ord. 84-1, passed 8-18-
1997)
§ 91.05 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to the employees of the
town when prosecuting any work by order of or under the direction of the Town
Council.
(2011 Code, § 91.05) (Ord. 1984-1, passed 4-17-1984; Ord. 84-1, passed 8-18-
1997)
§ 91.06 RESTRICTIONS.
   The approval of a permit to cut into a street or alley does not authorize
entry into a public sewer or drain, or prejudice the town’s right to require
the removal or relocation of structures, wires, pipes, or appurtenances
installed in connection with the permit.
(2011 Code, § 91.06) (Ord. 1984-1, passed 4-17-1984; Ord. 84-1, passed 8-18-
1997)
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 91.20 OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS AND WAYS.
   (A)   Jurisdiction and definitions.
      (1)   The jurisdiction of this subchapter shall be the corporate limits
of the town, as presently defined or as may be modified by annexation or town
ordinance.
      (2)   For the purpose of this subchapter, PUBLIC WAY OBSTRUCTION means
any object which in any way obstructs the free passage of pedestrians,
wheelchairs, or vehicles on the streets, alleys, sidewalks, or roadways.
   (B)   Violation.
      (1)   The streets, alleys, sidewalks, bridges, and public places of the
town shall be maintained open at all times for travel by vehicles and
pedestrians and for all other proper public uses and purposes. No part thereof,
or any spaces above or below such public ways, except as otherwise authorized
by statute, this section, or code of ordinances, or by any other town
ordinance, shall be used for any private purpose or business. Except as may be
so authorized, no use shall be permitted which affects the orderly appearance
thereof, or obstructs or hinders public travel there over, contrary to the
public safety and welfare.
      (2)   No person shall install, use, attach, or maintain any public way
obstruction which projects onto, into or over any part of the roadway of any
public street.
      (3)   No person shall install, use, attach, or maintain any public way
obstruction which in whole or in part rests upon, in, or over any public
sidewalk, when such installation, use, or maintenance endangers the safety of
persons or property, or when such site or location is used for public utility
purposes, public transportation purposes, or other governmental use, or when
such public way obstruction unreasonably interferes with or impedes the flow of
pedestrian or vehicular traffic, including any legally parked or stopped
vehicle, the ingress into or egress from any residence or place of business, or
the use of poles, posts, traffic signs or signals, hydrants, mailboxes, or
other objects permitted at or near said location.
      (4)   No person or persons shall obstruct the flow of traffic or create a
traffic hazard on public rights-of-way, alleyways, streets, or sidewalks within
the corporate limits of the town by the placement of a portable or stationary
basketball backboard or other recreational equipment.
         (a)   A portable or stationary basketball backboard must not be placed
within six feet of public rights-of-way, alleyways, streets, or sidewalks.
         (b)   Portable basketball goals shall neither be set up in any street
or on adjacent property nor set up or used in such a way as to unreasonably
block pedestrian traffic (including foot traffic, wheelchairs, strollers,
bicycles, scooters, and wagons) on any sidewalk in the adjacent property.
      (5)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the
impairment is or consists of:
         (a)   A traffic-control device, sign, street light, public trash
receptacle, bicycle rack, or other structure or object lawfully placed on a
sidewalk by or on behalf of the state or the town or county;
         (b)   A sign or display while in use as part of a lawfully conducted
demonstration or rally, provided that the object does not obstruct pedestrian
traffic, and further provided that it is used and displayed only during the
period of time that the demonstration or rally is attended and ongoing and the
attendees remove the sign or display at the conclusion of the demonstration or
rally;
         (c)   Landscaping placed on a sidewalk in compliance with applicable
law;
         (d)   An item placed as part of a lawful street closure or street
fair;
         (e)   A newspaper vending apparatus placed as authorized under this
section;
         (f)   Poles, distribution boxes, and related structures of utilities;
and
         (g)   Postal deposit and delivery boxes.
(2011 Code, § 91.10) (Ord. 2005-02, passed 5-2-2005) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   A judgment of violation of the provisions of §
91.20 entered against a person shall subject the person to a penalty of not
less than $100 and not more than $2,500. Each day shall constitute a separate
violation. Any police officer who observes the violation of §
91.20 shall issue to the individual a citation and advise that such person may,
within seven days from the date of such notice, pay to the Clerk-Treasurer (the
Violations Clerk), as a fine for and in full satisfaction of such violation,
the sum of $25. Upon failure of the individual to make such payment within the
seven-day period, the original fine shall increase from $25 to $100. If this
enhanced fine is not paid in full through the Violations Clerk on or before the
date and time set forth on the citation, the individual who has been issued
said citation shall be subject to the general penalties provided for violations
of §
91.20. All fines received for violations of §
91.20 shall be deposited into the town’s General Fund pursuant to applicable
law.
      (2)   A person who receives a citation for a violation may elect to stand
trial for the violation by indicating on the citation his or her intent to
stand trial, and returning a copy of the citation to the Violations Clerk. The
returned copy of the citation shall serve as notice of the person’s intent to
stand trial, and the issuance of additional citations and additional monetary
fines as prescribed by this chapter shall be stayed upon receipt of the notice.
The notice shall be given at least five days before the date that payment of
the citation is due as set forth below. On receipt of the notice of intention
to stand trial, a lawsuit may be commenced by the town or appropriate
enforcement official as provided by applicable law to enforce the terms and
provisions of this section.
      (3)   The town or designated enforcement official may file a lawsuit as
provided by applicable law to enforce the terms and provisions of §
91.20, if a person who receives a citation fails to do any of the following:
         (a)   Pay the assessed fine within 45 days after the issuance of a
citation;
         (b)   File a petition as prescribed above; or
         (c)   Give notice of his or her intention to stand trial as prescribed
above.
      (4)   Seeking a civil penalty as authorized in this division (B) does not
preclude the designated enforcement entity from seeking alternative and
additional relief from the court in the same action, or from seeking injunctive
relief or any other remedy in a separate action for the enforcement of §
91.20 adopted or action taken under state law.
      (5)   In the event that a violation of §
91.20 is determined to exist by a court of competent jurisdiction, the owner
shall be liable to the town for the town’s reasonable attorney fees, and court
costs.
(2011 Code, § 91.10) (Ord. 2005-02, passed 5-2-2005)
CHAPTER 92: JUNK MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
92.01   Short title
   
92.02   Jurisdiction
   
92.03   Definitions
   
92.04   Junk and junk cars declared nuisances
   
92.05   Storage prohibited
   
92.06   Exempt vehicles
   
92.07   Towing and storage charges of abandoned vehicles
   
92.08   Payment of civil penalties through Ordinance Violations Bureau
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be cited as the “Junk and Junk Motor Vehicles” chapter.
(2011 Code, § 92.01) (Ord. 2003-04, passed 9-1-2003)
§ 92.02 JURISDICTION.
   The jurisdiction of this chapter shall be the corporate limits of the town,
as presently defined or as may be modified by annexation or town ordinance.
(2011 Code, § 92.02) (Ord. 2003-04, passed 9-1-2003)
§ 92.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNK. Wrecked, abandoned, or dismantled automobiles or motor vehicles or
parts thereof.
   JUNK CAR. Any motor vehicle which does not bear a currently valid license
plate and is not kept in a garage or building.
(2011 Code, § 92.04)
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. A thing, act, occupation, condition, or use of property
which shall continue for such length of time as to:
      (1)   Substantially annoy, injure, or endanger the comfort, health,
repose, or safety of the public; or
      (2)   In any way render the public insecure in life or in the use of
property;
      (3)   Greatly offend the public morals or decency;
      (4)   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct, or tend to
obstruct, or render dangerous for passage any street, alley, highway, navigable
body of water, or other public way; or
      (5)   Is injurious to health, or is indecent, or offensive to the senses,
or an obstruction to the full use of property, so as essentially to interfere
with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property.
(2011 Code, § 92.03)
(Ord. 2003-04, passed 9-1-2003)
§ 92.04 JUNK AND JUNK CARS DECLARED NUISANCES.
   Because of the danger of health by vermin and insects, and because of the
danger of the safety of children attracted by junk or junk cars, abandoned and
junked motor vehicles are declared to be nuisances except in lawfully operated
junk yards.
(2011 Code, § 92.05) (Ord. 2003-04, passed 9-1-2003)
§ 92.05 STORAGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to store or to allow to remain in the
open, upon public or private property, within the town, any disassembled and/or
non-operative and unlicensed, or junked, wrecked, or abandoned motor vehicle
for a period of five days or more on public property, or a period of 15 days or
more on private property unless it is in connection with an automobile sale or
repair business.
(2011 Code, § 92.06) (Ord. 2003-04, passed 9-1-2003) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 EXEMPT VEHICLES.
   This chapter does not apply to:
   (A)   A vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or constructed
for operation on privately owned raceways;
   (B)   A vehicle stored as the property of a member of the armed forces of
the United States who is on active duty assignment;
   (C)   A vehicle located on a vehicle sale lot or at a commercial vehicle
servicing facility;
   (D)   A vehicle located upon property licensed or zoned as an automobile
scrap yard; or
   (E)   A vehicle registered and licensed under I.C. 9-18-12, as an antique
vehicle.
(2011 Code, § 92.07) (Ord. 2003-04, passed 9-1-2003)
§ 92.07 TOWING AND STORAGE CHARGES OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   An owner or lienholder who claims a vehicle impounded and declared abandoned
by the Police Department, shall be charged a towing fee and a per day storage
fee. The storage fee shall be allowed to accumulate for a maximum period of 60
days.
(2011 Code, § 92.08(A)) (Ord. 2003-04, passed 9-1-2003)
§ 92.08 PAYMENT OF CIVIL PENALTIES THROUGH ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   (A)   Citation. In lieu of the provisions of §§
92.07 and
92.99, any police officer who observes the violation of any provision of this
chapter shall attach to the offending vehicle a citation to the owner or
operator thereof that such vehicle has been parked in violation of same and
advising that such person may, within seven days from the date of such
citation, pay to the Clerk-Treasurer (the Violations Clerk), as a fine for and
in full satisfaction of such violation, the sum of $75. Upon the failure of the
owner or operator to make such payment within the seven-day period, the
original fine shall increase from $75 to $100. If this enhanced fine is not
paid in full through the Violations Clerk, on or before the date and time set
forth on the citation, the owner or operator who has been issued said citation
shall also be subject to the general penalties provided for violations of the
provisions of this chapter. Nothing contained in this division (A) shall limit
the town’s right to also tow and impound any vehicle found to be parked in
violation of this chapter, with the costs of such towing and impoundment to be
paid by the vehicle owner in addition to the payment of any fine assessed
hereunder, under the penalty provision set forth herein.
   (B)   Payment of civil penalties.
      (1)   The Violations Clerk shall receive, receipt, and account for the
payment of the civil penalties under procedures provided for by the State Board
of Accounts.
      (2)   The payment of civil penalties designated under this division (B)
may be made in person, by mail, or to those individuals and/or places
designated by the Violations Clerk. All fines received by the Violations Clerk
for violations of this chapter shall be deposited into the town’s General Fund
pursuant to applicable law.
   (C)   Failure to satisfy civil penalty, prosecution. A person who receives a
citation for a violation may elect to stand trial for the violation by
indicating on the citation his or her intent to stand trial, and returning a
copy of the citation to the Violations Clerk. The returned copy of the citation
shall serve as notice of the person’s intent to stand trial, and the issuance
of additional citations and additional monetary fines as prescribed this
chapter shall be stayed upon receipt of the notice. The notice shall be given
at least five days before the date that payment of the citation is due as set
forth below. On receipt of the notice of intention to stand trial, a lawsuit
may be commenced by the town or appropriate enforcement official as provided by
applicable law to enforce the terms and provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Enforcement by lawsuit. The town or designated enforcement official
may file a lawsuit as provided by applicable law to enforce the terms and
provisions of this chapter, if a person who receives a citation fails to do any
of the following:
      (1)   Pay the assessed fine within 45 days after the issuance of a
citation;
      (2)   File a petition as prescribed above; or
      (3)   Give notice of his or her intention to stand trial as prescribed
above.
   (E)   Alternative and additional relief. Seeking a civil penalty as
authorized in this section does not preclude the designated enforcement entity
from seeking alternative and additional relief from the court in the same
action, or from seeking injunctive relief or any other remedy in a separate
action for the enforcement of this chapter adopted or action taken under state
law.
   (F)   Attorney fees and court costs. In the event that a violation of this
chapter is determined to exist by a court of competent jurisdiction, the owner
shall be liable to the town for the town’s reasonable attorney fees and court
costs.
(2011 Code, § 92.09) (Ord. 2003-04, passed 9-1-2003)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   The general fine for the violation of any provision of this chapter shall
not exceed the sum of $2,500 per violation, each day constituting a separate
violation. In addition to the fine assessed pursuant to this section, a vehicle
violating any provision of this chapter may be towed and impounded at the
owner’s expense, such towing and impoundment costs to be paid in full prior to
the release of said vehicle.
(2011 Code, § 92.08(B)) (Ord. 2003-04, passed 9-1-2003)
CHAPTER 93: PARK REGULATIONS
Section
   
93.01   Short title
   
93.02   Jurisdiction
   
93.03   Definitions
   
93.04   Enforcement of laws
   
93.05   Prohibitions relating to alcohol
   
93.06   Fire regulations
   
93.07   Regulations pertaining to animals
   
93.08   Prohibitions relating to vegetation and natural material
   
93.09   Prohibited activities
   
93.10   Certain types of vehicles prohibited; traffic regulations
   
93.11   Weapons and explosives
   
93.12   Obedience to law enforcement officers, park rules and regulations
required
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Department of Parks and Recreation, see §
30.02
   Use of skateboards prohibited in park, see §
99.02
§ 93.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be cited as the “Town Park Regulations”.
(2011 Code, § 93.01) (Ord. 2003-05, passed 9-1-2003)
§ 93.02 JURISDICTION.
   The jurisdiction of this chapter shall be the corporate limits of the town,
as presently defined or as may be modified by annexation or town ordinance. The
provisions of this chapter shall be applicable to all parks owned by the town,
unless the context of the regulation clearly applies to a particular park. The
words “the park” as used in this chapter shall have the same meaning as “any
town park.”
(2011 Code, § 93.02) (Ord. 2003-05, passed 9-1-2003; Ord. 2017-4, passed 6-19-
2017)
§ 93.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. As defined in I.C. 7.1-1-3-5.
   CONTAINER. An alcoholic beverage container as defined in I.C. 7.1-1-3-13 and
includes such containers from which the contents have been removed.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicle as defined in I.C. 9-13-2-105(a).
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A recreational vehicle as defined in I.C. 9-13-2-150
that is registered and licensed as a recreational vehicle.
(2011 Code, § 93.03) (Ord. 2003-05, passed 9-1-2003)
§ 93.04 ENFORCEMENT OF LAWS.
   All applicable state, federal, and local laws, including but not limited to,
laws governing vandalism, nuisance, litter, animal/pet control, alcohol and
drugs, will be enforced. The provisions contained in this chapter are provided
to supplement the laws and ensure a safe and nurturing experience while
visiting the town park.
(2011 Code, § 93.04) (Ord. 2003-05, passed 9-1-2003)
§ 93.05 PROHIBITIONS RELATING TO ALCOHOL.
   (A)   Containers of alcohol or beverages containing alcohol are strictly
prohibited in the town park. It shall also be unlawful to possess or consume
any alcoholic beverages within the town park or within any designated public
parking area immediately adjacent to the boundary of the park in the town.
(2011 Code, § 93.05)
   (B)   Signs giving notice of this prohibition of alcoholic beverages shall
be posted, giving notice of such regulation at all locations deemed appropriate
by the Town Marshal.
(2011 Code, § 93.14)
(Ord. 2003-05, passed 9-1-2003) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 FIRE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   A person may kindle, build, stoke, light, maintain, or use a fire
within any park, provided that
the fire:
      (1)   Is contained in a fireplace or pedestal grill provided by the town
or other non-combustible container with sides and a bottom provided by park
users. Any fire must be constructed of safe, appropriate, ordinary, natural,
and untreated materials. Any fire outside of a building must be a minimum of
six feet away from any building, facility, or combustible vegetation and
continuously monitored and cared for from kindling to complete extinguishment
by a competent person; or
      (2)   Is in strict compliance with a specific permit issued by the town
(such as a campfire, prairie burn, or bonfire for a specific group event).
(2011 Code, § 93.06)
   (B)   It is strictly prohibited for any person to toss, drop, throw away,
deposit, or otherwise discard ashes, coals, used matches, or smoking materials
upon the ground, in waters, or in trash containers within any park. All such
matter shall be contained in a fireplace or other appropriate container
designated for the deposit of such.
(2011 Code, § 93.07)
(Ord. 2003-05, passed 9-1-2003) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   It is strictly prohibited for any person within the park to kill,
wound, hunt, trap, shoot, throw rocks or missiles at, chase, molest, provoke,
or remove any feral mammal, reptile, amphibian, or bird, or to remove the young
of any such mammal or the eggs or young of any such reptile, amphibian, or
bird, or to knowingly buy, receive, have in his or her possession, sell, or
give away any such mammal, reptile, amphibian, bird, or egg so killed or taken
within the park. This does not prohibit the harvesting for personal use of
appropriate amounts of fish by fishing methods which are continuously attended
and monitored and do not exceed the state regulated amounts.
   (B)   It is strictly prohibited for any person to bring into or possess
within the park a pet or other domesticated animal, unless the pet or other
domesticated animal is either:
      (1)   Continuously restrained by a firmly held or attached non-
retractable leash that is of sufficient length, but not longer than six feet;
or
      (2)   Secured in a fully enclosed confinement container.
   (C)   It is strictly prohibited for any person within any park to fail to
pick up and properly dispose of the waste of their pet either in an appropriate
litter container in the park or elsewhere. Pet owners must have and use a
container or device for the holding of their pet’s waste while they are in the
park.
(2011 Code, § 93.08) (Ord. 2003-05, passed 9-1-2003) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.08 PROHIBITIONS RELATING TO VEGETATION AND NATURAL MATERIAL.
   (A)   It is strictly prohibited for any person to harvest, collect, dig up,
cut, trim, break, set fire to, disturb, or otherwise damage any vegetation or
tree within any park.
   (B)   It is strictly prohibited for any person knowingly to plant, deposit,
cultivate, or place within any park any vegetation or seed thereof, except in
accord with a specific permit issued by the town.
   (C)   It is strictly prohibited for any person to displace, excavate, carry
away, otherwise remove or modify the arrangement of any soil, sand, gravel,
stone, rock, asphalt, or other ground surface material within any park, except
in accord with a specific permit issued by the town.
(2011 Code, § 93.09) (Ord. 2003-05, passed 9-1-2003) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.09 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   It is strictly prohibited for any person within the park to advertise
or promote publicly any commercial product, except in accord with a specific
permit issued by the town.
   (B)   It is strictly prohibited for any person within the park to photograph
for promotion or sale any commercial product or commercial event, except in
accord with a specific permit issued by the town.
   (C)   It is strictly prohibited for any person within the park to engage in
hang gliding, rappelling from towers, or any use of the trees, towers, or other
structures for technical climbing activities or the placement of swings, tires,
and the like.
   (D)   It is strictly prohibited for any person within the park to pitch or
maintain a tent or other improvised shelter for the purpose of overnight
camping, except in accord with a permit issued by the town.
   (E)   It is strictly prohibited for any person within the park to swim in
the pond within the park.
   (F)   It is strictly prohibited for any person within the park to use or
erect such equipment as booths, air-filled devices, and tethered items such as
hot-air balloons, except in accord with a specific permit issued by the town.
   (G)   It is strictly prohibited for any person within the park to erect any
sign, poster, or banner, except in accord with a specific permit issued by the
town.
   (H)   It is strictly prohibited for any person within the area known as
Heritage Park to ride or operate any bicycle, skateboard, roller skates
(including inline skates or roller blades) or scooter.
(2011 Code, § 93.10) (Ord. 2003-05, passed 9-1-2003; Ord. 2017-4, passed 6-19-
2017) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.10 CERTAIN TYPES OF VEHICLES PROHIBITED; TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be strictly prohibited for any person within the park to
operate a snowmobile, ORV (off-road vehicle), ATV (all terrain vehicle),
minibike, moped, motorized scooter, or motorcycle off-road or ride a horse off-
road except in those areas specifically designed and/or designated for such
use.
   (B)   It is strictly prohibited for any person within the park to operate
any vehicle within a park boundary at a speed in excess of 20 mph. No person
shall cause or permit any vehicle under his or her control to obstruct traffic
or access to gates or to enter or leave the park except at established
entrances or exists. All vehicles shall be operated on roadways specifically
designated for vehicular traffic.
(2011 Code, § 93.11) (Ord. 2003-05, passed 9-1-2003) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.11 WEAPONS AND EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   Firearms, missile propelling devices, ammunition, fireworks, bombs or
other explosive devices, knives, paintball equipment, or any other object that
can reasonably be considered a weapon, are strictly prohibited in the park for
any reason.
   (B)   This prohibition does not prohibit the possession/use of the following
items in the following situations:
      (1)   Kitchen utensils customarily used for food preparation or dining
used by or under the supervision of adults;
      (2)   Knives, hatchets, or axes on wood, kindling, or other material
brought into the park by scouts or other groups under adult supervision; or
      (3)   Firearms in any park by a law enforcement officer or federal
enforcement officer as those terms are defined in state law.
(2011 Code, § 93.12) (Ord. 2003-05, passed 9-1-2003) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.12 OBEDIENCE TO LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS, PARK RULES AND REGULATIONS
REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is strictly prohibited for any person within the park to disobey an
order or interfere with the duty of a law enforcement officer or any park
employee once he or she has identified himself or herself.
   (B)   It is strictly prohibited for any person within the park to disobey or
disregard the rules, notices, prohibitions, instructions, or directions posted
on any park sign. This includes, but is not limited to, the rules and
regulations for playground areas or recreation areas.
   (C)   The above rules and prohibitions, including the provisions of §
93.11, do not apply to law enforcement or park employees in the performance of
their official duties and may be amended from time to time.
   (D)   Permit information is available at the town hall.
(2011 Code, § 93.12) (Ord. 2003-05, passed 9-1-2003) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   A judgment of violation of the provisions of this chapter
entered against a person shall subject the person to a penalty of not less than
$100 and not more than $2,500. Each day shall constitute a separate violation.
Any police officer who observes the violation of this chapter shall issue to
the individual a citation and advise that such person may, within seven days
from the date of such notice, pay to the Clerk-Treasurer (the Violations
Clerk), as a fine for and in full satisfaction of such violation, the sum of
$75. Upon failure of the individual to make such payment within the seven-day
period, the original fine shall increase from $75 to $100. If this enhanced
fine is not paid in full through the Violations Clerk on or before the date and
time set forth on the citation, the individual who has been issued said
citation shall be subject to the general penalties provided for violations of
this chapter. All fines received for violations of this chapter shall be
deposited into the town’s General Fund pursuant to applicable law.
      (2)   If suit is filed, fines judgment may be entered in the amount of
not less than $100 nor more than $2,500. Each day shall constitute a separate
violation.
   (B)   A person who receives a citation for a violation may elect to stand
trial for the violation by indicating on the citation his or her intent to
stand trial and returning a copy of the citation to the Violations Clerk. The
returned copy of the citation shall serve as notice of the person’s intent to
stand trial, and the issuance of additional citations and additional monetary
fines as prescribed in this chapter shall be stayed upon receipt of the notice.
The notice shall be given at least five days before the date that payment of
the citation is due as set forth below. On receipt of the notice of intention
to stand trial, a lawsuit may be commenced by the town or appropriate
enforcement official as provided by applicable law to enforce the terms and
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   The town or designated enforcement official may file a lawsuit as
provided by applicable law to enforce the terms and provisions of this chapter
if a person who receives a citation fails to:
      (1)   Pay the assessed fine within 45 days after the issuance of a
citation;
      (2)   File a petition as prescribed above; or
      (3)   Give notice of his or her intention to stand trial as prescribed
above.
   (D)   Seeking a civil penalty as authorized in this section does not
preclude the designated enforcement entity from seeking alternative and
additional relief from the court in the same action, or from seeking injunctive
relief or any other remedy in a separate action for the enforcement of this
chapter or action taken under state law.
   (E)   In the event that a violation of this chapter is determined to exist
by a court of competent jurisdiction, the owner shall be liable to the town for
the town’s reasonable attorney fees, and court costs.
(2011 Code, § 93.13) (Ord. 2003-05, passed 9-1-2003; Ord. 2017-4, passed 6-19-
2017)
CHAPTER 94: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Short title
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Disposition of funds
   
94.04   Animal shelter; adoption fees
Regulation of and Care for Animals
   
94.15   Certain types of animals prohibited
   
94.16   Restraint of animals; vicious animals
   
94.17   Animals not to become nuisance
   
94.18   Animal care
   
94.19   Keeping wild animals; exceptions
   
94.20   Reptiles
Permits
   
94.35   Kennel permits
   
94.36   Commercial animal establishment permits
 
   
94.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Animals regulated in town park, see §
93.07
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be cited as the “Animals” chapter.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-2-2015)
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED ANIMAL. Any animal whose owner/guardian has knowingly,
intentionally, or recklessly left it unattended, without proper food, water, or
shelter, for 24 hours or more.
   ALTERED ANIMAL. Any animal which has been spayed or neutered.
   ANIMAL. Any live, nonhuman vertebrate creature, domestic or wild.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. All law enforcement officers employed by the town,
and a separate non-law enforcement employee of the town.
   ANIMAL EXHIBITION - PERMANENT. Any spectacle, display, act, or event other
than circuses, in which animals perform or are displayed, with the exception of
education programs presented by persons or organizations with proper state and
federal education permits, as required, and which are perpetual in nature and
in a stationary location.
   ANIMAL EXHIBITION - TRANSIENT. Any spectacle, display, act, or event other
than circuses, in which animals perform or are displayed, with the exception of
education programs presented by persons or organizations with proper state and
federal education permits, as required, and which are traveling shows of a
temporary duration.
   AT LARGE ANIMAL. A stray animal or any animal whose owner/guardian
knowingly, intentionally, or recklessly allows the animal to stray beyond
premises owned, lawfully occupied, or controlled by the owner/guardian unless
under restraint. This definition does not apply to dogs engaged in lawful
hunting accompanied by the owner/guardian or custodian.
   AUCTION. Any place or facility where domestic livestock are regularly
bought, sold, or traded, except for those facilities otherwise defined in this
chapter.
   CIRCUS. A commercial variety show featuring animal acts for public
entertainment.
   COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any major and/or minor pet shop, non-
municipal animal shelter/sanctuary, auction, riding school or stable,
zoological park, circus, or animal exhibition.
   DOMESTIC LIVESTOCK. Any animal, other than a domestic pet, that is a member
of one of the following species: bison; elk; poultry; cattle; donkey; horse;
goat; llama; mule; ostrich; pig; or sheep.
   DOMESTIC PET. Any animal that is a member of one of the following species:
dog (Canis familiaris); cat (Felis cattus or Felis domesticus); rabbit
(Oryctolagus cuniculus); mouse (Mus musculus); rat (Rattus rattus); reptile
(Reptilis); guinea pig (Cavis porcellus); chinchilla (Chinchilla laniger);
hamster (Mesocricetus auratus); gerbil (Gerbillus gerbillus); or ferret
(Mustela putorius furo).
   EXOTIC ANIMAL. An animal belonging to a species that is not native to the
United States, or an animal that is a hybrid or cross between a domestic animal
and an animal that is not native to the United States.
   GENERAL KENNEL. Any person engaged in owning or harboring more than four
dogs and cats over the age of six months, any one of which is unaltered; or
engaged in the business of boarding, training for a fee, and/or grooming
animals.
   HARBORING. The actions of any person that permit any animal habitually to
remain or lodge or to be fed within his or her home, store, enclosure, yard, or
place of business or any premises on which such person resides or controls. An
animal shall be presumed HARBORED if it is fed or sheltered for three
consecutive days.
   NONCOMMERCIAL KENNEL. Any person engaged in owning or harboring more than
four altered dogs; more than six altered cats; or more than a total of ten
altered dogs and cats combined.
   NON-TOWN ANIMAL SHELTER/SANCTUARY. Any facility operated by a person or
organization other than the town for the purpose of harboring and/or re-homing
animals.
   OWNER/GUARDIAN. A person owning or harboring one or more animals for a
period of longer than 21 days.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, joint stock company, syndicate,
partnership, or corporation.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any animal which, when unprovoked, on two separate occasions within
the prior 36-month period, engages in any behavior that requires a defensive
action by any person to prevent bodily injury when the person and the animal
are off of property owned, lawfully occupied or controlled by the owner/
guardian or keeper of the animal;
      (2)   Any animal which, when unprovoked, bites a person causing an injury
that is not a “severe injury” as defined below; or
      (3)   Any animal which, when unprovoked and off of property owned,
lawfully occupied, or controlled by the owner/guardian or keeper of the animal,
on two separate occasions within the prior 36-month period, has bitten or
otherwise caused injury to a domestic animal that is not a “severe injury” as
defined below.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any animal or animals that:
      (1)   Molest passersby or passing vehicles;
      (2)   Attack other animals;
      (3)   Damage public property or private property;
      (4)   Bark, whine, or howl in an excessive or continuous fashion;
      (5)   Defecate on public or private property, other than the owner/
guardian’s/harborer’s property, unless the waste is immediately removed and
disposed of in a sanitary manner by the animal’s owner/guardian/harborer; or
      (6)   Otherwise interferes with the free use and comfortable enjoyment of
life or property.
   RESTRAINT. The securing of an animal by a leash or lead or confining it
within the real property limits of property owned, lawfully occupied or
controlled by its owner/guardian.
   SERVICE DOG. Any dog engaged in working or training to work for the
assistance of hearing or sight impaired, or physically handicapped or disabled
persons.
   SEVERE INJURY. Any physical injury to a human being or domestic pet or
domestic livestock that results in multiple bites, broken bones, muscle tears,
or disfiguring lacerations or requires multiple sutures or corrective or
cosmetic surgery.
   STRAY. Any animal that does not appear, upon reasonable inquiry, to have an
owner/guardian.
   TETHER. Attaching a domestic pet to a stationary object or pulley run by
means of a chain, rope, tether, cable, or similar restraint. TETHER does not
include the use of a leash to walk a domestic pet.
   TOWN ANIMAL SHELTER. Any facility operated by the town agency, or its
authorized agents for the purpose of impounding or caring for animals held
under the authority of this chapter or state law.
   VETERINARY HOSPITAL. Any establishment maintained and operated by a
veterinarian for surgery, diagnosis, and treatment of diseases and injuries of
animals.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any animal which, when unprovoked, in an aggressive manner,
inflicts severe injury on or kills a human being or domestic pet; or
      (2)   Any animal previously determined to be and currently listed as a
potentially dangerous animal which, after its owner/guardian or keeper has been
notified of this determination, continues the potentially dangerous behavior as
defined herein or is maintained in violation of §
94.16.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any animal not a domestic animal, with the exception of small,
nonpoisonous aquatic or amphibious animals and birds of the order
Psittaciformes, canaries, and finches.
   WILDLIFE REHABILITATOR. Any person or persons that acquire the necessary
state and federal permits to allow the rehabilitation of wildlife in their
homes, on their property, or in a professional facility, with the intent of
releasing such animals according to state and federal guidelines.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-2-2015)
§ 94.03 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   All fees or moneys shall be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer, or agents
designated by the Town Council. Money so paid shall be transmitted to the
Clerk-Treasurer and shall be used in carrying out the provisions of this
chapter and all other legal purposes.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-2-2015)
§ 94.04 ANIMAL SHELTER; ADOPTION FEES.
   (A)   Animal shelter. The physical facility known as the town animal shelter
shall be under the control of the Town Council. The Town Council shall retain
all powers and duties conferred by this chapter for the detailed supervision of
matters relating to animal control. It is the intent of this chapter that the
Town Council be the body to formulate, adopt, and implement policies,
principles, and standards for humane treatment and control of all animals in
the town.
   (B)   Adoption fees.
      (1)   The fee to adopt any animal shall be as listed in this section. The
adoption fee must be paid prior to the animal being taken to his or her new
home.
Animal Adoption Fees
Animal Adoption Fees
   Domestic Animals
Dogs and cats under five years of age $75
Dogs and cats over five years of age  $55
Goats, pigs, horses, and the like     $20
Rabbits and ferrets                   $45
   Birds
Parakeets/finches                     $10
Lovebirds/cockatiels                  $20
   Reptiles
Reptiles                              $20
   Small Animals
Guinea pigs                           $5
Mice                                  $2
Rats                                  $2
Hamster/gerbils                       $2
 
      (2)   In order to help more companion animals find suitable homes, the
Clerk-Treasurer has the discretion to lower the adoption fees under the
following circumstances:
         (a)   Adoptions of animals which have incurred extraordinary expenses
while under the shelter’s care;
         (b)   Adoptions of hard-to-adopt animals or of foster animals by
foster parents;
         (c)   Adoptions by breed rescue organizations or transfers to humane
associations; or
         (d)   Adoptions through special promotions or when the kennel is full.
      (3)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall inform the Town Council of any such
adjustments at its next scheduled meeting.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-2-2015)
REGULATION OF AND CARE FOR ANIMALS
§ 94.15 CERTAIN TYPES OF ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep within the town domestic
livestock or fowl, including but not limited to, equidae, cattle, swine, sheep,
goats, llamas, chickens, geese, ducks, turkeys, and peacocks.
   (B)   As used this section, the word KEEP shall mean the raising, tending,
feeding, and/or harboring of a live animal in such a way as to imply ownership
or custody of the animal.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to retail locations, zoological parks,
bona fide circuses, or carnivals.
   (D)   Any person owning an animal described in division (A) above at the
time of the enactment of this section shall be permitted to keep the animal
provided that the owner registers the animal in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office
within 60 days after the enactment of this section. No fee shall be charged for
this registration. A copy of the registration shall be kept by the owner as
evidence of the lawful possession of the animal. This permit is valid only for
the originally permitted animal.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-2-2015) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.16 RESTRAINT OF ANIMALS; VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   General requirements. All animals except cats which have been neutered
or spayed and are wearing identification or are ear tipped in the case of feral
cats shall be kept under restraint. However, altered cats not kept under
restraint at all times are still subject to public nuisance laws hereinafter
cited.
   (B)   Animals in heat. Every female animal in heat shall be confined in a
building or secure enclosure in such a manner that the animal cannot come into
contact with a male animal of the same species except for planned breeding.
   (C)   Vicious animals.
      (1)   If an animal control officer or any law enforcement officer has
investigated and determined that there exists probable cause to believe that an
animal is potentially dangerous or vicious, and the ownership of said animal
can be ascertained, the animal control officer shall request a hearing by the
Town Council for the purpose of determining whether or not the animal in
question should be declared potentially dangerous or vicious.
         (a)   Whenever possible, any complaint received from a member of the
public which serves as evidentiary basis for finding probable cause shall be
sworn to and verified by the complainant and shall be provided to the Town
Council.
         (b)   The hearing will be held at the next regularly scheduled meeting
of the Town Council and shall be open to the public.
         (c)   The owner/guardian of the animal shall be served with notice of
the hearing and a copy of any complaints received by certified mail or in
person.
         (d)   The animal control officer shall notify the owner/guardian of
the animal of the date and time of such hearing, at which time he or she may
present evidence as to why the animal should not be declared potentially
dangerous or vicious:
            1.   Such evidence may include eyewitness testimony of the
incident; or
            2.   Evidence that the action of the animal and the damage
sustained by the person or other animal could have reasonably been expected to
occur given the circumstances of the event. Such circumstances may include, but
are not limited to: willful trespass upon the owner/guardian’s property;
teasing, tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the animal; and/or attempted abuse
or assault upon the owner/guardian.
         (e)   The Town Council may consider all relevant evidence, including
incident reports, affidavits of witnesses, and whether the incident reasonably
indicates whether not the animal in question is potentially dangerous and/or
vicious in ordinary circumstances where the average person could not reasonably
be expected to foresee and take measures to prevent injury.
         (f)   The Town Council may decide all issues for or against the owner/
guardian of the animal even if the owner/guardian of the animal fails to appear
at the hearing.
         (g)   After the hearing, the owner/guardian of the animal shall be
notified in writing of the determination by certified mail or in person.
            1.   If a determination is made that the animal is potentially
dangerous or vicious, the owner/guardian shall comply with this section’s
requirements for restraint in accordance with a time schedule established by
the Town Council but in no case more than 30 days after the date of the
determination.
            2.   An animal determined to be vicious may be destroyed by the
Police Department when it is found by the Town Council that the release of the
animal would create a significant threat to the public health, safety, and
welfare.
            3.   If it is determined that an animal found to be vicious shall
not be destroyed, the Town Council may impose reasonable conditions upon the
ownership of the animal that protect the public health, safety, and welfare.
            4.   Decisions of the Town Council are final.
      (2)   If upon investigation it is determined by the animal control
officer or law enforcement officer that probable cause exists to believe the
animal in question poses an immediate threat to public safety, then the animal
control officer or law enforcement officer may seize and impound the animal
pending the hearing to be held pursuant to this section. The owner/guardian of
the animal shall be liable to the town for the costs and expenses of keeping
the animal, if the animal is later declared potentially dangerous or vicious.
      (3)   A potentially dangerous animal, while on the owner/guardian’s
property, shall, at all times, be kept indoors, or in a secured enclosure from
which the animal cannot escape, and into which children cannot trespass. A
potentially dangerous animal may be off the owner/guardian’s premises only if
it is restrained by a substantial leash of appropriate length, and if it is
under the control of an adult.
      (4)   An animal that has been declared vicious may not be kept on a
porch, patio, or in any part of a house or structure that would allow the
animal to exit such building on its own volition except to a secured enclosure.
When outside, all vicious animals must be confined in a secure enclosure,
except when necessary to obtain veterinary care.
         (a)   All such enclosures must be adequately lighted and ventilated
and kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
         (b)   The enclosure shall have secure sides and a secure top and
bottom to prevent the animal from escaping over, under, or through the
structure.
         (c)   The enclosure shall be kept locked at all times to prevent
unintentional opening.
         (d)   The enclosure shall include suitable shelter and protection from
the elements, and shall provide adequate exercise room, light, ventilation, and
sanitation.
         (e)   The enclosure shall be approved by the Police Department prior
to its usage for confinement.
         (f)   Whenever necessity requires a vicious animal to be outside of
the enclosure, the animal shall be securely muzzled and restrained by a leash
not exceeding three feet in length, with handgrip, and shall be under the
direct control and supervision of the owner/guardian of the animal.
      (5)   The owner/guardian of a potentially dangerous or vicious animal
shall display clearly visible warning signs on all entry points to the premises
on which the animal is maintained warning that a potentially dangerous or
vicious animal is being harbored on such property. In addition, at least one
sign shall be posted on the enclosure in which the animal is maintained. Signs
must inform both children and adults of the presence of a potentially dangerous
or vicious animal on the property.
      (6)   Any animal classified as potentially dangerous or vicious shall not
be used for breeding and shall be altered by a licensed veterinarian within 30
days of such classification unless:
         (a)   A licensed veterinarian certifies in writing that the animal is
incapable of reproduction; or
         (b)   A licensed veterinarian certifies in writing that altering the
animal would be injurious to the animal’s health, provided, however, that if
the health condition of the animal is of a temporary nature, then the animal
shall be altered immediately after the health condition has been corrected.
      (7)   If the animal in question dies, or is sold or transferred, the
owner/guardian shall notify the Clerk-Treasurer of the changed condition and
new location of the animal in writing within two working days.
      (8)   An owner/guardian may submit one request for reconsideration per
year to the Town Council to have the designation of potentially dangerous or
vicious removed from his or her animal.
         (a)   The application must be in writing.
         (b)   The application must be given to the Clerk-Treasurer.
         (c)   The application shall include detailed information about how the
change in circumstances or measures taken by the owner/guardian, such as
training of the animal, have mitigated the risk to public safety.
         (d)   The Town Council may hear evidence, both pro and con, as to
whether and why the designation should or should not be removed.
         (e)   The Town Council may make a decision to remove or not to remove
such designation.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-2-2015)
§ 94.17 ANIMALS NOT TO BECOME NUISANCE.
   No owner/guardian shall fail to exercise due care and control of his or her
animals to prevent them from becoming a public nuisance.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-2-2015) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.18 ANIMAL CARE.
   (A)   Giving animals as prizes.
      (1)   No person shall give away any live animal, fish, reptile, or bird
as a prize for, or as an inducement to, enter any contract, game, or other
competition, or as an inducement to enter a place of amusement; or offer such
vertebrate as an incentive to enter into any business agreement in which the
offer was for the purpose of attracting trade.
      (2)   No person shall auction any live animal except domestic livestock.
   (B)   Poisoning animals. No person shall expose any known poisonous
substance, whether mixed with food or not, so that it shall be likely to be
eaten by any animal; provided, that it shall not be unlawful for a person to
expose on his or her own property common rat or mouse poison, unmixed or mixed
only with vegetable substances.
   (C)   Cruelty, abuse, and neglect of animals. No person shall torture, beat,
mutilate, or neglect an animal resulting in serious injury or death to the
animal.
   (D)   General animal care.
      (1)   Every owner/guardian of an animal within the town shall see that
his or her animal:
         (a)   Is kept in a clean, sanitary, and healthy manner and is not
confined so as to be forced to stand, sit, or lie in its own excrement;
         (b)   Has proper and adequate food, water, shelter, and protection
from the weather;
         (c)   If diseased or injured, receives care as necessary to prevent
suffering and, if diseased, is segregated from other animals so as to prevent
the transmittal of the disease to other animals.
      (2)   Any domestic pet or feral cat that is owned or harbored and
habitually kept outside or repeatedly left outside unattended by an adult
person for such periods of time as may cause suffering or endanger the health
or well-being of the animal shall be provided with a structurally sound,
moisture-proof and windproof shelter large enough to keep the animal reasonably
clean and dry and provide adequate protection from the cold and heat. Shelter
must be placed in a dry area free of debris, feces, and standing water.
      (3)   If multiple animals are present in one location, each animal must
have access to shelter and the owner/guardian must meet all standards for each
animal as detailed in this section.
      (4)   The shelter must have bedding to provide insulation and protection
against cold and dampness and promote the retention of body heat.
      (5)   Appropriate medical care and grooming of animals must be provided.
      (6)   No chain or tether shall weigh more than one-eighth of the animal’s
body weight.
      (7)   Any chain or tether shall be at least ten feet in length and have
swivels on both ends.
      (8)   Any chain or tether must be attached to a properly fitting buckle-
type collar or harness worn by the animal. Choke collars and pinch collars are
prohibited for purposes of tethering an animal to a stationary object or cable
run. A person may not wrap a chain or tether around an animal’s neck.
A chain or tether used to restrain an animal must, by design and placement, be
unlikely to become entangled.
      (9)   It shall be unlawful for the owner/guardian of any animal to keep
or maintain the animal on a tether for a period of more than ten continuous
hours and no more than 12 hours in any 24-hour period, or for any duration
under conditions which threaten the health, or well-being of the animal.
      (10)   A muzzle may not be worn continuously as a means for controlling
barking.
      (11)   A person may not restrain an animal in a manner that does not
allow the animal to have access to necessary shelter, water, and food.
      (12)   A person may not restrain an animal in a manner that allows the
animal to move outside property owned, lawfully occupied, or controlled by the
person.
      (13)   Any person who owns or harbors any intact female dog or cat shall,
during the period that such animal is in heat or in estrus, keep such dog or
cat in a secured area that prevents a male dog or cat from having access to
such female except for controlled breeding permitted by the owner/guardian of
the female. Additionally, the female dog or cat shall not be chained or
tethered in a manner that prevents her from defending herself or from avoiding
a mate.
      (14)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or confine or allow
any animal to be confined in such a manner that it must remain in a motor
vehicle, trailer, or pet carrier under such conditions for such periods of time
as may cause suffering or endanger the health or well-being of the animal due
to extreme temperatures or lack of food or water.
      (15)   No person shall intentionally or unintentionally cause or allow
the breeding of more than one litter per female cat or dog in a 12-month
period.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-2-2015) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.19 KEEPING WILD ANIMALS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Keeping wild animals. No person shall keep or permit to be kept on his
or her premises any wild animal for any purpose, except as provided in this
section. This section shall not be construed to apply to zoological parks,
circuses, animal exhibitions, research laboratories, licensed wildlife
rehabilitators, or licensed educators.
   (B)   Exceptions. Any person owning a wild animal prior to the enactment of
this chapter shall be permitted to continue ownership of the animal; provided,
that he or she registers the animal with the Town Council within six weeks
after enactment of this chapter. A copy of this registration must be kept by
the owner/guardian for as long as the person owns the animal as evidence of
possession of the animal prior to the enactment of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-2-2015) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.20 REPTILES.
   (A)   Registration-exotic snakes. Any person harboring an exotic snake
within the town must register the snake with the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (1)   Such registration shall consist of the name of the owner/guardian
and the address where the snake will be harbored.
      (2)   There will be no fee for said registration.
   (B)   Registration-changes in harboring address. It shall be the
responsibility of each owner/guardian of an exotic snake, to inform the Clerk-
Treasurer whenever the address at which a snake is being harbored changes for
any reason. These reasons include, but are not limited to: death; loss; sale;
transfer; or if the owner/guardian of the snake moves.
   (C)   Lost or impounded reptiles. Lost reptiles shall be impounded and
released to the registered owner/guardian or disposed of in accordance with
division (B) above, provided however, that any nonpoisonous species native to
the state shall be presumed wild and released to a natural habitat.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-2-2015) Penalty, see §
94.99
PERMITS
§ 94.35 KENNEL PERMITS.
   (A)   Kennel permits required. No person shall operate a general kennel or
non-commercial kennel without first obtaining a permit from the Clerk-Treasurer
in accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   Obtaining non-commercial kennel permits. Applications for non-
commercial kennel permits shall be made to the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (1)   The application for a non-commercial kennel permit shall include:
         (a)   The name, address, and telephone number of the applicant;
         (b)   The description (species, breed, sex, age, and coloration) of
and proof of rabies vaccination for each animal to be housed in the kennel; and
         (c)   A statement as to whether the applicant has ever been convicted
of the offense of cruelty to animals.
      (2)   If the applicant withholds or falsifies any information on the
application, no permit shall be issued and any permit previously issued on
false or withheld information shall be revoked.
      (3)   No person previously convicted of cruelty to animals shall be
issued a kennel permit without prior review by the Town Council.
   (C)   Obtaining general kennel permits. Applications for general kennel
permits shall be made to the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (1)   The application for a general kennel permit shall include:
         (a)   The name, address, and telephone number of the applicant;
         (b)   A statement as to whether the applicant has ever been convicted
of the offense of cruelty to animals; and
         (c)   A statement of the total capacity of the kennels used for the
purposes of Class B, Class C, and Class D general kennel permits.
      (2)   Applications for Class A general kennel permits must include the
description (species, breed, sex, age, and coloration) of each animal to be
housed in the kennel.
      (3)   If the applicant withholds or falsifies any information on the
application, no permit shall be issued and any permit previously issued on
false or withheld information shall be revoked.
      (4)   No person previously convicted of cruelty to animals shall be
issued a kennel permit without prior review by the Town Council.
   (D)   Inspection. It shall be a condition to the issuance of any permit
required by this chapter that:
      (1)   The animal control officers of the town and/or their designees
shall be permitted to inspect the structure and/or premises wherein a kennel or
colony is maintained (or believed to be maintained) and all animals located
thereon where such animals are harbored.
      (2)   All reports of such inspections shall be in writing and maintained
by the animal control officer.
      (3)   The animal control officers, and/or their designees, are authorized
to enter the structure or premises wherein a kennel or colony is maintained (or
believed to be maintained) at reasonable times to inspect subject to
constitutional restrictions on unreasonable searches and seizures.
      (4)   If the owner or those in possession of a structure or premises
wherein a kennel or colony is maintained (or believed to be maintained) refuse
inspection of said kennel or colony, the animal control officers and/or their
designees may obtain an inspection warrant from any court of record in the
county in which the kennel or colony is located in order to determine if the
kennel or colony is maintained in accordance with this chapter.
   (E)   Standards for non-commercial kennels. All non-commercial kennels
shall:
      (1)   Operate in such a manner as to not constitute a public nuisance;
and
      (2)   Comply with all of the provisions of this code which provide
standards for the general care of animals.
   (F)   Standards for general kennels. All general kennels shall:
      (1)   Operate in such a manner as to not constitute a public nuisance;
      (2)   Comply with all of the provisions of this code which provide for
the general care of animals;
      (3)   Provide an isolation area for animals which are sick or diseased to
be sufficiently removed so as to not endanger the health and well-being of
other animals;
      (4)   Keep all animals caged within a secure enclosure or under the
control of the owner/guardian or representative of the kennel at all times;
      (5)   Provide each animal sufficient space to stand up, lie down, and
turn around in a natural position without touching the sides or top of the
enclosure; and
      (6)   Provide individual kennels for each animal being harbored for any
portion of a 24-hour period, with the exception of yard or other play areas
used for the purpose of dog daycare. Kennels intended for single occupancy
shall not house more than one animal, with the exception of animals that are
normally housed together in a home.
   (G)   Kennel permit periods.
      (1)   Non-commercial kennel permits shall be valid for a period of one
year from the date of issuance. An application must be made within ten days of
the creation of a kennel.
      (2)   General kennel permits shall be valid for one year beginning
January 1 of each year. Applicants requiring a general kennel permit during the
year shall pay a prorated fee for the remaining portion of the current year. An
application must be made prior to the creation of a kennel.
   (H)   Fees.
      (1)   The fee for non-commercial kennel permits shall be:
         (a)   More than four altered dogs: $25;
         (b)   More than six altered cats: $25;
         (c)   More than a total of ten altered dogs and cats combined: $25;
         (d)   More than a total of 14 altered dogs and cats combined: $50; and
         (e)   Additional altered dogs and cats combined in increments of four:
$50, plus $25 per additional increment.
      (2)   The fee for general kennel permits shall be:
         (a)   Class A, owning:
            1.   Five to eight animals: $100;
            2.   Nine to 12 animals: $150; and
            3.   Additional animals in increments of four: $150, plus $50 per
additional increment.
         (b)   Class B, boarding:
            1.   One to 25 kennels: $100;
            2.   Twenty-six to 50 kennels: $250; and
            3.   Additional kennels in increments of 25: $250, plus $200 per
additional increment.
         (c)   Class C, training: $75; and
         (d)   Class D, grooming: $50.
      (3)   No fee shall be required of any veterinary hospital or town animal
shelter, research laboratory, or government operated zoological park.
      (4)   Persons whose establishments operate under more than one class as
defined by this chapter shall be required to apply for a permit for each
applicable class.
   (I)   Reclassification. Any person or business who has a change in class
under which the commercial and/or noncommercial kennel permit was issued shall
report the change to the Clerk-Treasurer and apply for a new permit within 30
days of any such change.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-2-2015)
§ 94.36 COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENT PERMITS.
   (A)   Permits-general. No person shall operate a commercial animal
establishment, or non-town animal shelter/sanctuary, except for the town animal
shelter, without first obtaining a permit in compliance with this chapter.
Every facility regulated by this chapter shall be considered a separate
enterprise and shall require an individual permit.
   (B)   Inspection of animals and premises authorized. It shall be a condition
to the issuance of any permit required by this chapter that:
      (1)   The animal control officers of the town and/or their designees
shall be permitted to inspect the premises and all animals located thereon
where such animals are harbored;
      (2)   All reports of such inspection shall be in writing and maintained
by the animal control officer;
      (3)   The animal control officers and/or their designees are authorized
to enter the structure or premises wherein a commercial animal establishment is
maintained (or believed to be maintained) at reasonable times to inspect
subject to constitutional restrictions on unreasonable searches and seizures;
and
      (4)   If the owner or those in possession of a structure or premises
wherein a commercial animal establishment is maintained (or believed to be
maintained) refuse inspection of said establishment, the animal control
officers and/or their designees may obtain an inspection warrant from any court
of record in the county in which the establishment is located in order to
determine if the establishment is maintained in accordance with the town code.
   (C)   Obtaining a permit. Applicants must apply for permits required by this
chapter with the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (1)   The application must contain:
         (a)   Information as to whether the applicant has been convicted of
cruelty to animals;
         (b)   A statement that the applicant complies and will comply with the
regulations promulgated under this code; and
         (c)   The applicant authorizes the animal control officers or their
designees to inspect the applicant’s facilities and animals.
      (2)   The permit shall be issued when the applicant complies with the
laws and regulations pertaining to the issuance of permits, and pays the fee
required.
      (3)   If the applicant withholds or falsifies any information on the
application, the permit shall not be issued, and any permit issued upon false
or withheld information shall be revoked.
      (4)   No permit to operate a commercial animal establishment shall be
issued to an applicant who has been convicted of cruelty to animals without
review by the Town Council.
   (D)   Standards for commercial animal establishments. In order to be
eligible to obtain a permit, a commercial animal establishment must:
      (1)   Be operated in such a manner as not to constitute a public
nuisance;
      (2)   Provide an isolation area for animals which are sick or diseased to
be sufficiently removed so as not to endanger the health of other animals;
      (3)   Keep all animals caged, within a secure enclosure or under the
control of the owner/guardian or operator at all times;
      (4)   With respect to all animals kept on the premises, comply with all
of the provisions of this title providing for the general care of animals; and
      (5)   Not sell animals which are unweaned or obviously diseased.
   (E)   Commercial animal establishment permit period. The commercial animal
establishment permit period shall begin on January 1 and shall run for one
year. Applicants requiring a permit during the year shall pay a prorated fee
for the remaining portion of the year. Applications must be made prior to the
establishment of a commercial animal establishment.
   (F)   Fees.
      (1)   Fees for permits shall be as follows:
         (a)   For each auction: $500;
         (b)   For each circus or animal exhibition - transient: $1,000 per
day;
         (c)   For each animal exhibition - permanent: $500 per year; and
         (d)   For each non-town animal shelter/sanctuary: $0.00 private/$0.00
non-profit.
      (2)   No fee shall be required of any town animal shelter, research
laboratory, or government-operated zoological park.
   (G)   Reclassification. Any person who has a change in the category under
which the commercial animal establishment permit was issued shall report the
change to the Clerk-Treasurer and apply for the new permit required within 30
days. Appropriate changes, including pro rata credit for the previous permit,
shall be made by the town.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-2-2015) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   No fine for a single violation of the provisions of this chapter shall
exceed $2,500 pursuant to I.C. 36-1-3-8(10). The violator shall pay the levied
fine through the Ordinance Violations Bureau. As to any person who violates any
provision of this chapter, or any person who, with knowledge of such violation,
aids and abets such violation, the Town Council may elect, in lieu of the fines
set forth above, but in addition to all other remedies set forth in this
chapter, to seek a fine for such violation in a court of competent jurisdiction
in an amount up to the maximum permitted by I.C. 36-1-3-8. The town may also
seek an injunction to enforce the provisions of this chapter. In the event that
the town seeks the enforcement of this chapter by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the town shall be entitled to its attorney fees, expenses, and
costs, in addition to the amount of the fine.
   (B)   Any animal control officer may issue to any person in violation of
this chapter a notice of ordinance violation. The penalty established in
division (2) may, at the discretion of the animal owner/guardian, be paid to
the Clerk-Treasurer within 72 hours in full satisfaction of the assessed
penalty. In the event that such payment is not made within the period
prescribed, proceedings shall be filed in the county court of competent
jurisdiction.
   (C)   (1)   Persons who violate this chapter shall be subject to the
following fines:
         (a)   Failure to restrain, first offense, altered animal: $20. Fines
for each subsequent offense within 12 consecutive months of first offense
increase in increments of $20 per offense;
         (b)   Failure to restrain, first offense, unaltered animal: $40. Fines
for each subsequent offense within 12 consecutive months of first offense
increase in increments of $40 per offense;
         (c)   Failure to restrain female animal in heat, first offense: $100.
Fines for each subsequent offense within 12 consecutive months of first offense
are $150 per offense;
         (d)   Failure to restrain vicious animal or potentially dangerous
animal, first offense: $100. Fines for each subsequent offense within 12
consecutive months of first offense are $150 per offense;
         (e)   Failure to post warning signs for potentially dangerous and/or
vicious animals: $50;
         (f)   Failure to notify the Clerk-Treasurer of change of status for
potentially dangerous and/or vicious animals: $50;
         (g)   Failure to prevent potentially dangerous and/or vicious animal
from breeding: $100; and
         (h)   Failure to alter potentially dangerous and/or vicious animal
within 30 days of such classification: $100.
      (2)   Persons who violate any other provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to a fine of $50 for the first offense, with the fine of each
subsequent offense of this chapter increasing by an increment of $50. In the
event the person has no additional violations of this chapter for a period of
12 consecutive months, the fine for any violation of this chapter after that
period shall be $50 for the first offense, with the fine for each subsequent
offense increasing by an increment of $50.
      (3)   If the violation is continuing, each day’s violation shall be
deemed a separate violation.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-2-2015)
CHAPTER 95: CURFEW FOR MINORS
Section
   
95.01   Short title
   
95.02   Fifteen, sixteen, and seventeen year-olds
   
95.03   Children under fifteen years of age
   
95.04   Defenses
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be cited as “Curfew For Minors”.
(2011 Code, § 95.01) (Ord. 2008-9, passed 8-4-2008)
§ 95.02 FIFTEEN, SIXTEEN, AND SEVENTEEN YEAR-OLDS.
   (A)   It is a curfew violation for a child 15, 16, or 17 years of age to be
in a public place:
      (1)   Between 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. on Saturday or Sunday;
      (2)   After 11:00 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or
Thursday; or
      (3)   Before 5:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, or
Friday.
   (B)   A law enforcement officer may not detain a child or take a child into
custody based on a violation of this chapter unless the law enforcement
officer, after making a reasonable determination and considering the facts and
surrounding circumstances, reasonably believes that:
      (1)   The child has violated this chapter; and
      (2)   There is no legal defense to the violation.
(2011 Code, § 95.02) (Ord. 2008-9, passed 8-4-2008) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03 CHILDREN UNDER FIFTEEN YEARS OF AGE.
   (A)   It is a curfew violation for a child under 15 years of age to be in a
public place after 11:00 p.m. or before 5:00 a.m. on any day.
   (B)   A law enforcement officer may not detain a child or take a child into
custody based on a violation of this chapter unless the law enforcement
officer, after making a reasonable determination and considering the facts and
surrounding circumstances, reasonably believes that:
      (1)   The child has violated this chapter; and
      (2)   There is no legal defense to the violation.
(2011 Code, § 95.03) (Ord. 2008-9, passed 8-4-2008) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 DEFENSES.
   (A)   It is a defense to a violation under this chapter that the child was
emancipated:
      (1)   Under I.C. 31-37-19-27 or I.C. 31-6-4-15.7 (before its repeal);
      (2)   By virtue of having married; or
      (3)   In accordance with the laws of another state or jurisdiction; at
the time that the child engaged in the prohibited conduct.
   (B)   It is a defense to a violation under this chapter that the child
engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
      (1)   Accompanied by the child’s parent, guardian, or custodian;
      (2)   Accompanied by an adult specified by the child’s parent, guardian,
or custodian;
      (3)   Participating in, going to, or returning from:
         (a)   Lawful employment;
         (b)   School sanctioned activity;
         (c)   A religious event;
         (d)   An emergency involving the protection of a person or property
from an imminent threat of serious bodily injury or substantial damage;
         (e)   An activity involving the exercise of the child’s rights
protected under the First Amendment to the United States Constitution or
Article 1, § 31 of the Constitution of the State of Indiana, or both, such as
freedom of speech and the right of assembly; or
         (f)   An activity conducted by a nonprofit or governmental entity that
provides recreation, education, training, or other care under the supervision
of one or more adults.
      (4)   Participating in an activity undertaken at the prior written
direction of the child’s parent, guardian, or custodian; or
      (5)   Engaged in interstate or international travel from a location
outside the state to another location outside the state.
(2011 Code, § 95.04) (Ord. 2008-9, passed 8-4-2008) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   The custodial parent or legal guardian of any child who commits a curfew
violation, as defined herein, violates this chapter and shall be subject to the
following penalties.
   (A)   Payment of citation within seven days. A judgment of violation of the
provisions of this chapter entered against a person shall subject the person to
a penalty of not less than $100 and not more than $2,500. Any police officer
who observes the violation of this chapter shall issue to the violator a
citation and advise that such person may, within seven days from the date of
such notice, pay to the Clerk-Treasurer (the Violations Clerk), as a fine for
and in full satisfaction of such violation, the sum of $75. Upon failure of the
individual to make such payment within the seven-day period, the original fine
shall increase from $75 to $100. If this enhanced fine is not paid in full
through the Violations Clerk on or before the date and time set forth on the
citation, the individual who has been issued said citation shall be subject to
the general penalties provided for violations of this chapter. All fines
received for violation of this chapter shall be deposited into the town’s
General Fund pursuant to applicable law.
   (B)   Failure to satisfy civil penalty, prosecution. A person who receives a
citation for a violation may elect to stand trial for the violation by
indicating on the citation his or her intent to stand trial and returning a
copy of the citation to the Violations Clerk. The returned copy of the citation
shall serve as notice of the person’s intent to stand trial, and the issuance
of additional citations and additional monetary fines as prescribed by this
chapter shall be stayed upon receipt of the notice. The notice shall be given
at least five days before the date that payment of the citation is due as set
forth below. On receipt of the notice of intention to stand trial, a lawsuit
may be commenced by the town or appropriate enforcement official as provided by
applicable law to enforce the terms and provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Lawsuit for enforcement. The town or designated enforcement official
may file a lawsuit as provided by applicable law to enforce the terms and
provisions of this chapter if a person who receives a citation fails to:
      (1)   Pay the assessed fine within 45 days after the issuance of a
citation;
      (2)   File a petition as prescribed above; or
      (3)   Give notice of his or her intention to stand trial as prescribed
above.
   (D)   Alternative relief. Seeking a civil penalty as authorized in this
chapter does not preclude the designated enforcement entity from seeking
alternative and additional relief from the court in the same action, or from
seeking injunctive relief or any other remedy in a separate action for the
enforcement of this chapter adopted or action taken under state law.
   (E)   Attorney fees and court costs. In the event that a violation of this
chapter is determined to exist by a court of competent jurisdiction, the
violator shall be liable to the town for the town’s reasonable attorney fees
and court costs.
(2011 Code, § 95.05) (Ord. 2008-9, passed 8-4-2008)
CHAPTER 96: LOITERING
Section
   
96.01   Short title
   
96.02   Definitions
   
96.03   Loitering
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be cited as “Loitering”.
(2011 Code, § 96.01) (Ord. 2008-10, passed 8-4-2008)
§ 96.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LOITERING. Remaining idle in essentially one location, and shall include the
concept of spending time idly; to be dilatory; to linger; to stay; to saunter;
to delay; to stand around; and shall also include the colloquial expression
“hanging around”.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the general public has access and a right
to resort for business, entertainment, or other lawful purpose, but does not
necessarily mean a place devoted solely to the use of the public. It shall also
include the front or immediate area of any store, shop, restaurant, tavern,
other places of business as well as public grounds, areas, parks, schools, or
school grounds.
(2011 Code, § 96.02) (Ord. 2008-10, passed 8-4-2008)
§ 96.03 LOITERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter, loaf, wander, stand, or
remain idle either alone or in consort with others in a public place in such a
manner as to do the following:
   (A)   Obstruct any public street, public highway, public sidewalk, or any
other public place or building by hindering, impeding, or tending to hinder or
impede the free and uninterrupted passage of vehicles, traffic, or pedestrians;
and/or
   (B)   Commit in or on any public street, public highway, public sidewalk, or
any other public place or building any act or thing which is an obstruction or
interference to the free and uninterrupted use of property or with any business
lawfully conducted by anyone in, on, facing, or fronting any public street,
public highway, public sidewalk, or any other public place or building, all of
which prevents the free and uninterrupted ingress, egress, and regress therein,
thereon, and thereto.
(2011 Code, § 96.03) (Ord. 2008-10, passed 8-4-2008) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   Any adult who commits a loitering violation as defined herein (or in the
case of a minor, the custodial parent or legal guardian of any minor who
commits a violation as defined herein) violates this chapter and shall be
subject to the following penalties.
   (A)   Violation. A judgment of violation of the provisions of this chapter
entered against a person shall subject the person to a penalty of not less than
$100 and not more than $2,500. Any police officer who observes the violation of
this chapter shall issue to the violator a citation and advise that such person
may, within seven days from the date of such notice, pay to the Clerk-Treasurer
(the Violations Clerk), as a fine for and in full satisfaction of such
violation, the sum of $75. Upon failure of the individual to make such payment
within the seven-day period, the original fine shall increase from $75 to $100.
If this enhanced fine is not paid in full through the Violations Clerk on or
before the date and time set forth on the citation, the individual who has been
issued said citation shall be subject to the general penalties provided for
violations of this chapter. All fines received for violation of this chapter
shall be deposited into the town’s General Fund pursuant to applicable law.
   (B)   Failure to satisfy civil penalty, prosecution. A person who receives a
citation for a violation may elect to stand trial for the violation by
indicating on the citation his or her intent to stand trial and return a copy
of the citation to the Violations Clerk. The returned copy of the citation
shall serve as notice of the person’s intent to stand trial, and the issuance
of additional citations and additional monetary fines as prescribed in this
chapter shall be stayed upon receipt of the notice. The notice shall be given
at least five days before the date that payment of the citation is due as set
forth below. On receipt of the notice of intention to stand trial, a lawsuit
may be commenced by the town or appropriate enforcement official as provided by
applicable law to enforce the terms and provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Lawsuit for enforcement. The town or designated enforcement official
may file a lawsuit as provided by applicable law to enforce the terms and
provisions of this chapter if a person who receives a citation fails to:
      (1)   Pay the assessed fine within 45 days after the issuance of a
citation;
      (2)   File a petition as prescribed above; or
      (3)   Give notice of his or her intention to stand trial as prescribed
above.
   (D)   Alternative relief. Seeking a civil penalty as authorized in this
chapter does not preclude the designated enforcement entity from seeking
alternative and additional relief from the court in the same action, or from
seeking injunctive relief or any other remedy in a separate action for the
enforcement of this chapter adopted or action taken under state law.
   (E)   Attorney fees and court costs. In the event that a violation of this
chapter is determined to exist by a court of competent jurisdiction, the
violator shall be liable to the town for the town’s reasonable attorney fees
and court costs.
(2011 Code, § 96.04) (Ord. 2008-10, passed 8-4-2008)
CHAPTER 97: UNSAFE BUILDING LAW
Section
   
97.01   Short title
   
97.02   Adoption of state unsafe building law; references to state statutes
   
97.03   Establishment and appointment of Department and designation of Hearing
Authority
   
97.04   Director of Development
   
97.05   Establishment of Unsafe Building Fund
 
   
97.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Building regulations, see
Chapter 150
§ 97.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be cited as the “Unsafe Building Law”.
(2011 Code, § 97.01) (Ord. 2009-04, passed 11-2-2009)
§ 97.02 ADOPTION OF STATE UNSAFE BUILDING LAW; REFERENCES TO STATE STATUTES.
   (A)   The town adopts I.C. 36-7-9, which establishes the Indiana Unsafe
Building Law and explicitly incorporates by reference the definition of
SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST found in I.C. 36-7-9-2.
(2011 Code, § 97.02)
   (B)   Any reference to a state statute shall mean the statute as amended
from time to time, or any similar statutory provision that may supersede it
relating to the same or similar subject matter.
(2011 Code, § 97.06)
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 11-2-2009)
§ 97.03 ESTABLISHMENT AND APPOINTMENT OF DEPARTMENT AND DESIGNATION OF HEARING
AUTHORITY.
   There is established an executive department authorized to administer this
chapter and be responsible for the administration of the provisions of I.C. 36-
7-9. Said department shall be designated as the “Development Department”. The
“Hearing Authority” shall be the Town Council.
(2011 Code, § 97.03) (Ord. 2009-04, passed 11-2-2009)
§ 97.04 DIRECTOR OF DEVELOPMENT.
   There is hereby created for the town the position of “Director of
Development” who shall be the chief administrative officer of the Development
Department. The Director of Development shall be appointed by the Town Council
and shall serve in this capacity until the official either resigns or the Town
Council removes the official from the position, with or without cause.
(2011 Code, § 97.04) (Ord. 2009-04, passed 11-2-2009)
§ 97.05 ESTABLISHMENT OF UNSAFE BUILDING FUND.
   An Unsafe Building Fund is hereby established pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9-14.
All provisions of said code, chapter, and section are incorporated by
reference.
(2011 Code, § 97.05) (Ord. 2009-04, passed 11-2-2009)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   The penalty for violations of this chapter shall be those established in
I.C. 36-7-9 as it may be amended from time to time.
(2011 Code, § 97.07) (Ord. 2009-04, passed 11-2-2009)
CHAPTER 98: ABATEMENT OF VACANT AND ABANDONED STRUCTURES
Section
   
98.01   Short title
   
98.02   Adoption of state law; references to statutes
   
98.03   Appointment of administrative department and hearing authority
   
98.04   Director of Development
   
98.05   Rules and procedures for enforcement of regulations
 
   
98.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Citizens Complaint Form
Cross-reference:
   Building regulations, see
Chapter 150
§ 98.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be cited as “Abatement of Vacant Structures and Abandoned
Structures”.
(2011 Code, § 98.01) (Ord. 2009-05, passed 11-2-2009)
§ 98.02 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW; REFERENCES TO STATUTES.
   (A)   The town hereby adopts I.C. 36-7-36, which establishes the Indiana
Abatement of Vacant Structures and Abandoned Structures Law and explicitly
incorporates by reference all of the provisions set forth therein.
(2011 Code, § 98.02)
   (B)   Any reference to a state statute shall mean the statute as amended
from time to time, or any similar statutory provision that may supersede it
relating to the same or similar subject matter.
(2011 Code, § 98.06)
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 11-2-2009)
§ 98.03 APPOINTMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT AND HEARING AUTHORITY.
   The executive department authorized to administer this chapter and be
responsible for the administration of the provisions of I.C. 36-7-36 shall be
the “Development Department”. The “Hearing Authority” shall be the Town
Council.
(2011 Code, § 98.03) (Ord. 2009-05, passed 11-2-2009)
§ 98.04 DIRECTOR OF DEVELOPMENT.
   The “Director of Development” shall be the chief administrative officer of
the Development Department. The Director of Development shall be appointed by
the Town Council and shall serve in this capacity until the official either
resigns or the Town Council removes the official from the position, with or
without cause.
(2011 Code, § 98.04) (Ord. 2009-05, passed 11-2-2009)
§ 98.05 RULES AND PROCEDURES FOR ENFORCEMENT OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   As per the provisions of I.C. 36-7-36-7(2), the enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter shall be subject to duly adopted rules and
procedures.
(2011 Code, § 98.05)
   (B)   (1)   The Town Council shall be vigilant in identifying structures
located in the town that are vacant or abandoned.
         (a)   The Town Council shall also receive complaints from neighboring
residents concerning dwellings or other buildings or any combination thereof
that may be vacant or abandoned or may be unfit for human habitation due to
dilapidation, defects increasing the hazard of fire, accidents, or other
calamities, lack of ventilation, light, or sanitary facilities, or any other
conditions prevailing in these dwellings or other buildings whether used for
human habitation or not, which would cause such structures to be unsafe,
unsanitary, dangerous, or detrimental to the public safety or welfare whether
the result of natural or manmade force or effect; and complaints concerning
accumulation of refuse or debris, overgrown vegetation, or toxic spillage or
toxic seepage located on private lands which may be deemed to be unsafe,
unsanitary, dangerous, or detrimental to the public safety or welfare whether
the result of nature or manmade force or effect.
         (b)   The Town Council may accept a complaint for investigation.
         (c)   Upon the completion of the investigation of the complaint, and
without further public input, the Town Council may:
            1.   Dismiss the complaint;
            2.   Conduct further investigation;
            3.   Adopt an agreement to remedy deficiencies and continue to
monitor the structure to permit the property owner time to remedy deficiencies
in accordance with an agreement between the Town Council and the property
owner;
            4.   Determine that the structure, accumulation of refuse or
debris, overgrown vegetation, toxic spillage, or toxic seepage is unsafe,
unsanitary, dangerous, or detrimental to the public safety or welfare and
should be repaired, altered, improved, vacated, removed, closed, cleaned up, or
demolished as the case may be;
            5.   Issue such notices or orders which are allowed by statute; or
            6.   Initiate proceedings to seek an order requiring the property
owner to repair, alter, improve, vacate, remove, close, clean up, or demolish
the dwelling or building in question within a reasonable time; or to remove or
clean up any accumulation of refuse or debris, overgrown vegetation or toxic
spillage, or toxic seepage within a reasonable time; and to impose daily civil
monetary penalties upon the property owner who fails to obey.
      (2)   The Town Council shall utilize the following procedures for
accepting complaints and conducting investigations.
         (a)   Complainants shall make complaints in writing utilizing the
complaint form located in Appendix A.
         (b)   Upon accepting the complaint and conducting an investigation,
the Town Council may contact the following public officials and ascertain the
following information:
            1.   County Treasurer’s office and County Assessor’s office to
ascertain the property owner’s address and parcel number for the property in
question; its assessed value for both the land and buildings; acreage or lot
size if known by the Treasurer or Assessor’s office and the status of taxes
paid or due and owing on this property; any lien information; and a copy of the
tax map for the property in question; and
            2.   Clerk of the County to ascertain any information about
judgment liens, tax liens, mechanics liens or mortgage liens on the subject
property and obtain a copy of the deed, or other document by which the owner
obtained title to the property in question.
         (c)   The Town Council may (if deemed necessary) deliver notice to the
property owner by United States mail, postage prepaid, to the property owners’
address as ascertained from the Treasurer’s office and Assessor’s office
informing the property owner of the general nature of the complaint and
informing the property owner that the Town Council will visit the property at a
specific time and date to investigate the allegations set forth in the
complaint. The notice may inform the property owner that photographs may be
taken of the property in question and/or that soil samples may be taken from
the property in question. However, any such entrance upon the property in
question shall be made in such a manner as to cause the least possible
inconvenience to the persons in possession.
         (d)   The Town Council shall, whenever possible, take written
statements from the complaining party, the property owner, neighbors, and other
interested persons and attach these statements to the investigative report.
         (e)   The Town Council shall prepare a written investigative report.
         (f)   Town Council may propose an agreement between the property owner
and the Town Council whereby the property owner agrees to remedy all
deficiencies to the satisfaction of the Town Council within a designated period
of time. Such agreement should provide that if after the designated period of
time the deficiencies are not remedied, the Town Council may proceed to issue
an abatement notice and order as provided by law.
         (g)   The Town Council may seek any and all civil penalties as
provided by I.C. 36-7-36-10 and I.C. 36-7-9.
(2011 Code, § 98.08)
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 11-2-2009; Res. 2009-06, passed 11-2-2009)
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   The penalty for violations of this chapter shall be those established in
I.C. 36-7-36 as it may be amended from time to time.
(2011 Code, § 98.07) (Ord. 2009-05, passed 11-2-2009)
APPENDIX A: CITIZENS COMPLAINT FORM
CITIZENS COMPLAINT FORM
Regarding Problems Associated with
Abandoned and Dilapidated Properties
in Brownstown, Indiana
The following information must be submitted before a complaint will be accepted
and investigated.
1.   Complainant Information
   a.    Name, Address, Telephone Number
2.   Property Owner Information
   a.   Name and Mailing Address of Property Owner(s)
3.   Property Information
   a.   Location of Property (Street Address, Town)
   b.   Tax District, Tax Map, and Tax Parcel Number (Tax ID Information)
4.   Pictures of subject property, with description of the hazard(s) that
exist.
5.   Signed and Dated Complaint Form
CITIZENS COMPLAINT FORM
1.   Citizen Making Complaint
   Name:
                                                                                                                              
   Address:
                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                   
   Telephone:
                                                                                                       
2.   Name and Address of Property Owner(s)
   Name:
                                                                                                                              
   Address:
                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                   
3.   Location of Property
   Physical Street Address:
                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                         
   Tax ID Information:      Tax District:                              Tax Map:
                            
                     Tax Parcel(s):
                                                                              
4.   Describe the scope and nature of any hazardous conditions on this property
which threatens the public health, safety, and welfare of the community.
                                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                                           
5.   Signature of Complainant:
                                                                                                
6.   Signature Date:
                                                                                                                   
Return This Form To:   Brownstown Development Department
                  c/o Clerk-Treasurer, Town of Brownstown
                  200 West Walnut Street
                  Brownstown, IN 47220
(2011 Code, Ch. 98, App. A)
CHAPTER 99: SKATEBOARDS, ROLLER SKATES, AND SIMILAR DEVICES
Section
   
99.01   Short title
   
99.02   Use in town park prohibited; signs
   
99.03   Use on public streets prohibited
   
99.04   Crossing streets
   
99.05   Use on public sidewalks
   
99.06   Uncontrolled skateboard prohibited
   
99.07   Nonapplicability to mobility handicapped persons
   
99.08   Confiscation of equipment
   
99.09   Restitution for damages caused
 
   
99.99   Penalty
§ 99.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be cited as “Skateboard, Roller Skates, In-Line Skates”.
(2011 Code, § 99.01) (Ord. 2010-03, passed 4-5-2010)
§ 99.02 USE IN TOWN PARK PROHIBITED; SIGNS.
   (A)   Use of skateboards is prohibited in the town park.
(2011 Code, § 99.02)
   (B)   Signs giving notice of this prohibition in the town park may be posted
giving notice of such regulation at all locations deemed appropriate by the
Town Marshal.
(2011 Code, § 99.11)
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 4-5-2010) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.03 USE ON PUBLIC STREETS PROHIBITED.
   Use of skateboards, roller skates, in-line skates, coasters, scooters, toy
vehicles, and similar devices is prohibited on all public streets, except that
the laws governing pedestrians crossing streets shall apply to any person
crossing a street on a skateboard, roller skates, in-line skates, coaster,
scooter, toy vehicle, or similar device.
(2011 Code, § 99.03) (Ord. 2010-03, passed 4-5-2010) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.04 CROSSING STREETS.
   Any person crossing a street on a skateboard, roller skates, in-line skates,
a coaster, scooter, toy vehicle, or similar device shall yield the right-of-way
to pedestrians at all crosswalks, and shall not travel too fast for existing
conditions.
(2011 Code, § 99.04) (Ord. 2010-03, passed 4-5-2010) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.05 USE ON PUBLIC SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   The use of skateboards, roller skates, in-line skates, coasters,
scooters, toy vehicles, and similar devices shall be permitted on public
sidewalks as a means of travel only. A person using a skateboard, roller
skates, in-line skates, coaster, scooter, toy vehicle, and similar devices
shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian.
   (B)   No person shall use such devices for jumping onto or from items such
as, but not limited to, railings, stairs, bicycle racks, planters, benches,
curbs, or similar items.
      (1)   The waxing of such items or similar items on public property shall
not be permitted, and shall be permitted on private property only with the
permission of the owner of the property.
      (2)   Congregation on public property for the purpose of using any of the
above equipment or doing any of the above cited acts is prohibited.
      (3)   No one shall erect or place ramps or other items intended to be
jumped or used as a means of propelling a person who is using a skateboard,
roller skates, in-line skates, coaster, scooter, toy vehicle or other similar
device on a public sidewalk, in a public parking lot or on public property, nor
shall such items be placed on private property that does not belong to the user
of said devices without the express permission of the owner of the property.
(2011 Code, § 99.05) (Ord. 2010-03, passed 4-5-2010) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.06 UNCONTROLLED SKATEBOARD PROHIBITED.
   It shall be a violation for a skateboard to be out of the direct physical
control of the owner or user when it is in motion anywhere within the town.
(2011 Code, § 99.06) (Ord. 2010-03, passed 4-5-2010) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.07 NONAPPLICABILITY TO MOBILITY HANDICAPPED PERSONS.
   This chapter does not apply to mobility handicapped persons using a motor-
driven, wheeled device on a sidewalk or in a parking lot.
(2011 Code, § 99.07) (Ord. 2010-03, passed 4-5-2010)
§ 99.08 CONFISCATION OF EQUIPMENT.
   If a minor (a person under the age of 18 years) is cited for a violation of
this chapter, the police officer citing the offender may take possession of the
skateboard, roller skates, in-line skates, coaster, scooter, toy vehicle, or
other similar equipment and secure it until the ordinance violation is resolved
or the parent or guardian of the minor appears at police headquarters and
requests its return, whichever occurs first. If a person over the age of 18
years is cited for a violation, the officer citing the offender may take
possession of the skateboard, roller skates, in-line skates, coaster, scooter,
toy vehicle, or other similar device and secure it until the ordinance
violation is resolved.
(2011 Code, § 99.08) (Ord. 2010-03, passed 4-5-2010) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.09 RESTITUTION FOR DAMAGES CAUSED.
   The offender shall be responsible for reimbursement/restitution for damages
caused by him or her.
(2011 Code, § 99.10) (Ord. 2010-03, passed 4-5-2010)
§ 99.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation. A judgment of violation of the provisions of this chapter
entered against a person shall subject the person to a penalty of not less than
$100 and not more than $2,500. Each event shall constitute a separate
violation. Any police officer who observes the violation of this chapter shall
issue to the individual a citation and advise that such person may, within
seven days from the date of such notice, pay to the Clerk-Treasurer (the
Violations Clerk), as a fine for and in full satisfaction of such violation,
the sum of $25. Upon failure of the individual to make such payment within the
seven-day period, the original fine shall increase from $25 to $100. If this
enhanced fine is not paid in full through the Violations Clerk on or before the
date and time set forth on the citation, the individual who has been issued
said citation shall be subject to the general penalties provided for violations
of this chapter. All fines received for violation of this chapter shall be
deposited into the town’s General Fund pursuant to applicable law.
   (B)   Failure to satisfy civil penalty, prosecution. A person who receives a
citation for a violation may elect to stand trial for the violation by
indicating on the citation his or her intent to stand trial and return a copy
of the citation to the Violations Clerk. The returned copy of the citation
shall serve as notice of the person’s intent to stand trial, and the issuance
of additional citations and additional monetary fines as prescribed in this
chapter shall be stayed upon receipt of the notice. The notice shall be given
at least five days before the date that payment of the citation is due as set
forth below. On receipt of the notice of intention to stand trial, a lawsuit
may be commenced by the town or appropriate enforcement official as provided by
applicable law to enforce the terms and provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Lawsuit for enforcement. The town or designated enforcement official
may file a lawsuit as provided by applicable law to enforce the terms and
provisions of this chapter if a person who receives a citation fails to:
      (1)   Pay the assessed fine within 45 days after the issuance of a
citation;
      (2)   File a petition as prescribed above; or
      (3)   Give notice of his or her intention to stand trial as prescribed
above.
   (D)   Alternative relief. Seeking a civil penalty as authorized in this
chapter does not preclude the designated enforcement entity from seeking
alternative and additional relief from the court in the same action, or from
seeking injunctive relief or any other remedy in a separate action for the
enforcement of this chapter adopted or action taken under state law.
   (E)   Attorney fees and court costs. In the event that a violation of this
chapter is determined to exist by a court of competent jurisdiction, the
violator shall be liable to the town for the town’s reasonable attorney fees
and court costs.
(2011 Code, § 99.09) (Ord. 2010-03, passed 4-5-2010)
CHAPTER 100: UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS
Section
   
100.01   Prohibition of discharging firearms within town limits
   
100.02   Definitions
   
100.03   Exceptions
§ 100.01 PROHIBITION OF DISCHARGING FIREARMS WITHIN TOWN LIMITS.
   In order to protect the persons and property of the citizens of the town,
and in order to better protect the peace and quietude of the community, it is
declared unlawful for any person to discharge, fire, or shoot a firearm, or any
other device whereby a projectile is propelled by the explosive power of gun
powder, within the limits of the town.
(Ord. 2020-5, passed 9-8-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 100.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREARM. Any weapon, whether loaded or unloaded, which will expel a
projectile by the action of an explosive and includes any such weapon commonly
referred to as a pistol, revolver, rifle, gun, shotgun or machine gun. Any
weapon which can be readily made into a firearm by the insertion of a firing
pin, or other similar thing in the actual possession of the perpetrator is a
FIREARM.
(Ord. 2020-5, passed 9-8-2020)
§ 100.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   The general prohibition contained in §
100.01 shall not apply to:
   (A)   Person in the lawful defense or protection of life as provided by
state statute; nor to
   (B)   Peace officer or member of the military discharging a firearm or
weapon while acting within the scope of his or her official duty; nor to
   (C)   Government employee discharging a firearm or weapon when authorized
and required by his or her employment or public office to carry or use firearms
or weapons and while acting within the scope of his or her official duty; nor
to
   (D)   Person conducting an athletic contest who fires blank ammunition in a
plugged firearm toward the sky; nor to
   (E)   Person authorized by permit of the Chief of Police to discharge blank
ammunition or a weapon for a lawful purpose (e.g. ceremony); nor to
   (F)   Person discharging a firearm or weapon on a licensed public or private
shooting range, shooting gallery or other approved and licensed area designed
or built for the purpose of target shooting, when such person is a member or
guest of the range or area.
(Ord. 2020-5, passed 9-8-2020)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
      
111.   CABLE SERVICES
      
112.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110: ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Compliance required
   
110.03   Exemptions
   
110.04   Itinerant merchant application requirements
   
110.05   Solicitor application requirements
   
110.06   Order requirements
   
110.07   Mobile food trucks
   
110.08   Prohibition of solicitation and/or distribution of information or
materials on public streets, alleys and/or roadways
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any transient person who shall engage temporarily in the
making or selling of any kind of goods, wares, or merchandise, including the
making and selling of photographs within the town, regardless of whether the
goods, wares, or merchandise are peddled from house to house, sold upon the
streets or other public places, or sold from any room, building, structure, or
lot rented or leased for the purpose of carrying on the business. The operation
of food trucks shall not be included in the definition of ITINERANT MERCHANT.
The operation of food trucks shall be controlled by §
110.07.
   SOLICITOR. Any person calling at residences or other places in the town
without the previous consent of the occupant for the purpose of soliciting
orders, sales, subscriptions, or business of any kind for future delivery,
provided, however, that this chapter shall apply only to SOLICITORS who demand,
accept, or receive payment or a deposit of money in advance of final delivery.
SOLICITOR shall further include any person calling from house to house or place
to place in the town without the previous consent of the owner seeking
information or donations.
(2011 Code, § 110.01) (Ord. 1978-4, passed 12-18-1978; Ord. 2021-1, passed 7-
19-2021)
§ 110.02 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to engage in the
business of itinerant merchant or in the business of solicitor within the town,
as defined by this chapter, until the provisions of this chapter have been
complied with.
(2011 Code, § 110.02) (Ord. 1978-4, passed 12-18-1978) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to sales to dealers by
commercial travelers, nor to sales by producers of farm or dairy products, nor
to sales by charitable, philanthropic, or civic groups or organizations, such
as, without limitation thereto, Girl Scouts, Boy Scouts, Chamber of Commerce,
Jay Cees, or the Jacksy United Fund.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall also not apply to officers or
employees of the town, county, state, or federal government, or any subdivision
thereof, when on official business.
(2011 Code, § 110.03) (Ord. 1978-4, passed 12-18-1978)
§ 110.04 ITINERANT MERCHANT APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation desiring to engage in the business of
itinerant merchant within the town, as herein defined, shall make an
application in writing with the Clerk-Treasurer for a license to do so, which
application shall be filed with the Clerk-Treasurer at least seven days before
the applicant shall be authorized for beginning of the business. The
application shall state the name and residence of the applicant, the place
where the business is to be conducted, the kind of goods to be sold, and the
length of time for which the license is desired. The application shall be
accompanied by a bond in the penal sum of $500 executed by a surety company or
two responsible freeholders residing in the town, or in lieu therefor a cash
bond of equal amount, conditioned that all goods, wares, merchandise, or
articles sold for the applicant will be as represented by him or her and that
he or she will refund the purchase price of any goods, wares, merchandise, or
articles sold by him which are not as represented.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by the action of any itinerant merchant shall
have a right of action on the bond for the recovery of money, or damages, or
both, in the event a cash bond is deposited. The same shall be retained by the
town for 90 days after the expiration of the license. Upon the filing of the
application and bond and the approval of the bond by the Clerk-Treasurer, a
license shall be issued by the Clerk-Treasurer to the applicant to begin
business not less than seven days after the filing of the application and bond,
upon the payment of the fee of $200 for each day.
   (C)   The license fees must be paid in advance, and if the licensee desires
to continue in business after the expiration of the license, a new license must
be secured in the same manner and upon the same terms as the original license.
Any person exempted by the laws of this state from the payment of the license
fees shall, before beginning the business, present to the Clerk-Treasurer his
or her credentials showing that he or she is entitled to the exemptions,
execute and file a bond as provided above, and upon approval of the bond by the
Clerk-Treasurer shall then receive a certificate authorizing him or her to
engage in the business of itinerant merchant within the town for any period not
longer than one month. If at the end of the month the person desires to
continue with the business, another certificate must be procured from the
Clerk-Treasurer.
(2011 Code, § 110.04) (Ord. 1978-4, passed 12-18-1978) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.05 SOLICITOR APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any person desiring to engage in the business of solicitor within the
town, as defined in this chapter, shall, before engaging in the business, file
with the Clerk-Treasurer an application containing his or her name, address,
the firm or corporation which he or she represents, the kind of goods to be
offered for sale, and the length of time during which he or she desires to
engage in the business. The application shall be accompanied by a bond in the
penal sum of $250, executed by a surety company or by two responsible
freeholders residing in the town, or in lieu thereof a cash bond of equal
amount, conditioned upon the making of final delivery of the goods ordered in
accordance with the terms of the order or failure therein that the advance
payment on the order be refunded.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by the action of any solicitor shall have a right
of action on the bond for the recovery of the money, or damages, or both. In
the event of a cash bond being deposited, the deposit shall be retained by the
town for a period of 90 days after the expiration of the time the solicitor is
authorized to engage in the business. Upon filing of the statement and bond and
the approval of the bond by the Clerk-Treasurer, the Clerk-Treasurer shall
issue to the applicant a certificate authorizing him or her to engage in the
business of solicitor within the town during the time requested in the
application.
(2011 Code, § 110.05) (Ord. 1978-4, passed 12-18-1978) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.06 ORDER REQUIREMENTS.
   All orders taken by solicitors within the town shall be in writing and in
duplicate, and shall state the terms thereof and the amount paid in advance,
and one copy of the order shall be given to the purchaser.
(2011 Code, § 110.06) (Ord. 1978-4, passed 12-18-1978) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.07 MOBILE FOOD TRUCKS.
   (A)   Applicability.
      (1)   The provisions of this section apply to mobile food vehicles used
to store, prepare, display or serve food or beverage with or without charge
whether operated on public or private property. This section applies to such
food service vehicles that are generally self-contained, movable, wheeled,
towed, motorized or non-motorized.
      (2)   The requirements of this section shall not apply to the following
persons:
         (a)   Any person selling fruits, vegetables or farm products grown by
himself or herself, or other homemade products with or without the help of
others at an established farm market within the town at a stationary location
on public or private property. A FARM MARKET means a collection of three or
more persons selling a variety of agricultural products and other homemade
products.
         (b)   Any business or merchant making delivery of food previously
ordered by the customer.
         (c)   Any person selling food as part of a town-approved special event
or festival such as the Watermelon Festival.
         (d)   Any person selling food as part of a private function not open
to the general public.
   (B)   License required.
      (1)   Any vendor wishing to operate a mobile food vehicle must first
apply for a mobile food license on a form prescribed by the Brownstown Town
Council. The application fee shall be $125 which shall be paid at the time the
application is submitted.
      (2)   Vendors shall provide proof of general liability insurance in the
amount of not less than $1,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 aggregate at
the time the application is filed.
      (3)   Separate applications shall be required for each mobile food
vehicle.
      (4)   If the application is in order, the Brownstown Clerk-Treasurer
shall issue a mobile food vehicle license to the applicant. A license shall be
valid through the thirty-first day of December of the year that the license was
issued.
      (5)   Any failure to comply with the regulations in this section may
result in the revocation, suspension of the license, or the town not renewing
the mobile food vehicle license.
   (C)   General regulations.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, including any religious,
charitable or nonprofit organization to operate a mobile food vehicle within
the town without a license unless otherwise exempted by these regulations.
      (2)   A mobile food vehicle must hold all requisite Health Department,
business, and resale licensures to sell food and beverages.
      (3)   A separate license is required for each mobile food vehicle. The
license must be prominently displayed on the food truck.
      (4)   A license issued under this section shall expire on the thirty-
first day of December of the year the license was issued.
      (5)   Mobile food vehicles shall not be required to obtain a temporary
use permit from the town.
      (6)   A vendor shall not operate on private property without first
obtaining written consent to operate from the affected private property owner.
      (7)   No mobile food vehicle unit shall locate in any parking lot,
parking space, or parking facility owned, leased or managed by the town unless
approval has been given by the Town Council.
      (8)   No mobile food vehicle unit shall operate within 50 feet of any
facade of a ground level establishment that also sells food or beverages, or
operate within 50 feet of the perimeter of such an establishment's outdoor
seating area, regardless of whether or not the mobile food vehicle unit is
currently conducting business. The distance restriction only applies from one
hour before the opening time until one hour after the closing time posted by a
ground level establishment on the facade of its building.
      (9)   No mobile food vehicle unit shall locate within one block from the
perimeter of a special event or festival unless prior approval has been granted
by either the organizer/operator of the special event or the Town Council.
      (10)   The operator of the mobile food vehicle must comply with the motor
vehicle laws of the State of Indiana.
      (11)   In locations where mobile food vehicles are permitted to operate,
mobile food vehicles shall comply with all parking rules.
      (12)   Mobile food vehicles shall not interfere with or obstruct the free
passage of pedestrians or vehicles along any street, sidewalk, road, or parking
lot drive aisle or operate in such a way that would endanger the safety or
property of the public. On public streets, a mobile food vehicle shall not park
within 20 feet of any intersection, bus stop, crosswalk, driveway, alleyway,
building entrance or walk-up window or within 15 feet of any fire hydrant. No
mobile food vehicle unit may be located in or operate in an alleyway.
      (13)   Mobile food vehicles may operate at events on public property if
they have a vendor agreement with the event coordinator.
      (14)   No mobile food vehicle shall be equipped with any external
electronic sound.
      (15)   Except as provided herein, all signs must be permanently affixed
to or painted on the mobile food vehicle and shall not extend more than six
inches from the vehicle. No sign shall flash, cause interference with radio,
telephone, television or other communication transmissions; produce or reflect
motion pictures; emit visible smoke, vapor, particles, or odor; be animated or
produce any rotation, motion, or movement. Each mobile food vehicle shall be
permitted to display one sandwich board sign that does not exceed four feet in
height, two feet in width or eight square feet in total area. Each sandwich
board sign shall be located within ten feet of the location of the food truck.
The sign may be located within the public right-of-way, provided there is a
minimum clearance distance of five feet between the sign and the food truck.
The sign shall be removed each day by the license holder or his, her or its
designated representative.
      (16)   All exterior lights with over 60 watts shall contain opaque, hood
shields to direct the illumination downward.
      (17)   All mobile food vehicle vendors shall offer a waste container for
public use which the vendor shall empty at its own expense. All trash and
garbage originating from the operation of mobile food vehicles shall be
collected and disposed of off-site by the operators each day. Spills of food or
food by-products shall be cleaned up, and no dumping of gray water, grease or
oil into the storm water inlets, sanitary sewers or on the street is allowed.
      (18)   Any power required for the mobile food vehicle located on a public
way shall be self-contained and a mobile food vehicle shall not use utilities
drawn from the public right-of-way. Mobile food vehicles on private property
may use electrical power from the property being occupied or an adjacent
property, but only when the property owner provides written consent to do so.
No power cable or equipment shall be extended at or across any town street or
alley.
   (D)   Enforcement; penalties.
      (1)   The Ordinance Administrator and/or Brownstown Police shall be
vested with enforcement authority to issue citations for violations of this
section in conformance with this code.
      (2)   Violations of this section shall be subject to penalty and
enforcement provisions as follows:
         (a)   First offense: $150 fee;
         (b)   Second offense: $300 fee;
         (c)   Third offense: $450 fee; and
         (d)   Fourth offense: $450 fee and mobile food truck license revoked
for one calendar year.
(Ord. 2021-1, passed 7-19-2021)
§ 110.08 PROHIBITION OF SOLICITATION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION OF INFORMATION OR
MATERIALS ON PUBLIC STREETS, ALLEYS AND/OR ROADWAYS.
   (A)   The town prohibits pedestrian solicitation and/or distribution of
information and/or materials of any type or nature to motorists using any
public streets, alleys and/or roadways located within the corporate limits of
the town. This solicitation and/or distribution prohibits pedestrians from
soliciting and/or distributing materials or information of any type or nature
while standing or otherwise being within the public streets, alleys and/or
roadways and in the public rights-of-way contiguous to such public streets,
alleys and/or roadways, excluding sidewalks.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to licensed retail businesses that
operate motor vehicles to facilitate their business on or around such public
streets, alleys and/or roadways.
   (C)   The Chief of Police of the Town of Brownstown is hereby directed to
erect or cause to be erected appropriate signs or notices, where necessary, to
inform the public of the changes at the above locations.
   (D)   Pedestrians found in violation of this section shall be subject to a
fine of $100 upon the first offense. Any pedestrian committing a second or
subsequent violation within any one-year period shall be subject to a fine of
$500. Each act of or attempted act of solicitation and/or distribution of
materials or information shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 2022-2, passed 8-15-2022)
CHAPTER 111: CABLE SERVICES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.001   Title
   
111.002   Intent
   
111.003   Statutory authority
   
111.004   Definitions
Scope of Franchise Authority
   
111.015   Franchise requirement
   
111.016   Franchise duration
   
111.017   Function of franchise
   
111.018   Franchise limitations
   
111.019   Franchise nonexclusive
   
111.020   Special franchise provisions
   
111.021   State and federal laws and regulations
   
111.022   Franchise agreements subject to this chapter
Procedures for Obtaining New Franchises
   
111.035   Content of franchise applications
   
111.036   Application review expenses
   
111.037   Application review process
   
111.038   Application review criteria
   
111.039   Procedures for preparing agreement for new franchises
   
111.040   Franchise agreement preparation expenses
Financial Obligations to Franchise Holders
   
111.055   Performance bond requirements
   
111.056   Indemnification by the grantee
   
111.057   Grantee insurance
   
111.058   Franchise fees
   
111.059   Auditing and financial records
Construction and Maintenance of System
   
111.070   Authority for use of streets
   
111.071   Conditions on occupancy of public ways
   
111.072   Erection of poles
   
111.073   Undergrounding
   
111.074   Relocation
   
111.075   Movement of buildings
   
111.076   Approval of construction by town
   
111.077   Completion of system
   
111.078   Removal
Rates and System Capacity Requirements
   
111.090   Rates
   
111.091   Universal service
   
111.092   General capacity
   
111.093   Override capacity
   
111.094   Technical and safety standards
   
111.095   Public, educational, and governmental access
   
111.096   Support for use of access
   
111.097   Availability of access facilities
   
111.098   Prohibition of obscene programming
Customer Service Requirements
   
111.110   Applicability of FCC provisions
   
111.111   Office hours and telephone availability
   
111.112   Installations, outages, and service calls
   
111.113   Communications, bills, and refunds
   
111.114   Complaint procedure
   
111.115   Subscriber contracts
   
111.116   Subscriber rights upon termination of service
Franchise Transfers, Modifications, Renewals and Terminations
   
111.130   Transfers
   
111.131   Modification of franchise terms
   
111.132   Renewal procedures
   
111.133   Town’s cost in franchise transfers, modifications, or renewals
   
111.134   Franchise terminations
Administration and Enforcement
   
111.145   Reporting requirements
   
111.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.001 TITLE.
   This chapter, along with any amendments that may be made to it, shall be
known the “Cable Communications Ordinance”.
(2011 Code, § 111.001) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000)
§ 111.002 INTENT.
   (A)   The Town Council finds that the development of cable communications
systems has the potential of having great benefit and impact upon the residents
of the town. Because of the complex and rapidly changing technology associated
with cable communications, the Council further finds that the public
convenience, safety, and general welfare can best be served by establishing
regulatory powers vested in the town government.
   (B)   This chapter is intended to provide for and specify the means to best
protect the public interest and advance public purposes in these matters.
(2011 Code, § 111.002) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000)
§ 111.003 STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   (A)   This chapter has been adopted under the home rule authority granted
all state municipalities pursuant to I.C. 36-1-3-1 et seq. This chapter also
exercises specific powers granted local governmental entities by federal law.
The primary applicable federal law is the Communications Act of 1934 and all
amendments adopted thereto. At the time of the initial adoption of the chapter,
most of the applicable federal law provisions come from two amendments to the
Communications Act of 1934, which are the Cable Communications Policy Act of
1984 and the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992,
and also from the Telecommunications Act of 1996. These federal acts are
codified at 47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq.
   (B)   The provision of 47 U.S.C. § 541(a) grants municipalities the
authority to grant one or more cable communications system franchises within
its jurisdiction. Under 47 U.S.C. § 541(a), a franchise authorizes the grantee
to construct a cable system over public rights-of-way and through easements
within the franchise area which have been dedicated for compatible uses. A
cable operator may not provide cable services without a franchise pursuant to
47 U.S.C. § 541(b)(1).
(2011 Code, § 111.003) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000)
§ 111.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASIC SERVICE. The level of cable service provided to customers for the
minimum subscription fee that includes all access channels and signals the
grantee is required to provide its customers.
   CABLE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM, CABLE SYSTEM, or SYSTEM. A system of antennae,
cables, wires, lines, towers, waveguides, or other conductors, converters,
amplifiers, headend equipment, master controls, earth stations, equipment, and
facilities designed and constructed for the purpose of producing, receiving,
transmitting, amplifying, and distributing audio, video, and other forms of
electronic or electrical signals within the town. This shall include anything
within the definition of CABLE SYSTEM as found in Title VI of the
Communications Act of 1934 or as used by the FCC in its rules or regulations.
   CABLE OPERATOR or OPERATOR. Any person who provides cable service over a
cable system.
   CABLE SERVICE. The transmission of video programming or other programming
services made available to subscribers generally.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission of the United States government
or any successor agency with responsibilities pertaining to cable
communications systems.
   FRANCHISE. The right granted through a contractual agreement between the
Town Council and a person, by which the Council authorizes the person to erect,
construct, reconstruct, operate, dismantle, test, use, and maintain a cable
communications system in the town.
   FRANCHISE AGREEMENT. A contract entered into between the Town Council and a
person which sets forth rights and obligations between the town government and
the person arising out of the Council’s grant of a franchise including those
rights and obligations required by this chapter.
   FRANCHISE AREA. The part of the town that a franchise authorizes a person to
provide cable services to.
   FRANCHISE FEES. Any tax, fee, or assessment of any kind imposed by a
franchising authority on a grantee solely for the benefits of being the holder
of a franchise. The term FRANCHISE FEE does not include:
      (1)   Any lease fees for the grantee’s use of town government-owned
facilities or equipment;
      (2)   Any tax, fee, or assessment of general applicability, including any
tax, fee, or assessment imposed on both utilities and cable operators or their
services;
      (3)   Capital costs which are required by the franchise to be incurred by
the grantee for public, educational, or governmental access facilities; or
      (4)   Requirements or charges incidental to the award, or enforcement of
the franchise, including the cost of bonds, security funds, letters of credit,
insurance and indemnification penalties, or liquidated damages.
   FRANCHISING AUTHORITY. The legislative branch of the government of the town,
which is the Town Council.
   GRANTEE.  A person granted a franchise by the franchising authority.
   GRANTOR. The franchising authority as represented by any town official or
agent acting under the authority of the Town Council.
   GROSS REVENUES.  All cash, credits, property of any kind or nature or other
consideration derived directly or indirectly by a grantee, its affiliates,
subsidiaries, parent, and any other person or entity in which the grantee has a
financial interest or which has a financial interest in the grantee arising
from or attributable to the operation of the cable system in providing cable
services. GROSS REVENUES shall include value at retail levels, the value of any
goods, services, or other non-monetary form received by the grantee or others
in consideration for performance by a grantee or others described above of any
advertising or other service in connection with the cable system.
   LEASED ACCESS. The use on a fee for service basis of the cable system by
business enterprises, whether profit, nonprofit or governmental, to render
services to the citizens of the town, and shall include without limitation all
use pursuant to 97 U.S.C. § 612.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   NORMAL BUSINESS HOURS. The hours during which most similar businesses in the
community are open to serve customers. A franchise agreement may include a
specific schedule of NORMAL BUSINESS HOURS.
   NORMAL OPERATING CONDITIONS. The conditions within the control of the cable
operator, including but not limited to special promotions, pay-per-view events,
rate increases, regular peak or seasonal demand periods, and maintenance or
upgrade of the cable system. Those conditions not within the control of the
cable operator include, but are not limited to, natural disasters, civil
disturbances, power outages, telephone network outages, and severe weather.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership, association, joint
venture, or organization of any kind and the lawful trustee, successor,
assignee, transferee, or personal representative thereof.
   PUBLIC WAY.  The surface and the area above and below the surface of any
public street, highway, lane, alley, sidewalk, path, right-of-way, or easement,
and any public utility easement or right-of-way dedicated generally for public
utility uses but not including easements granted for purposes incompatible with
the cable system use.
   SERVICE INTERRUPTION.  The loss or the substantial deterioration in quality
of picture or sound on one or more cable channels.
   SHALL or WILL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SUBSCRIBER or CUSTOMER.  Any person who has been authorized by a cable
operator to receive any one or more of the cable services provided by the
operator’s cable system.
   TOWN. The Town of Brownstown, Indiana, and all the territory within its
present and future boundaries.
(2011 Code, § 111.004) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000)
SCOPE OF FRANCHISE AUTHORITY
§ 111.015 FRANCHISE REQUIREMENT.
   No cable communications system shall be allowed to occupy or use the public
ways of the town, or otherwise be allowed to operate, without a franchise
secured in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(2011 Code, § 111.015) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.016 FRANCHISE DURATION.
   The duration of any franchise and all rights, privileges, obligations, and
restrictions pertaining thereto shall be as established in the franchise
agreement, unless terminated earlier pursuant to the provisions of this chapter
or of the franchise agreement.
(2011 Code, § 111.016) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000)
§ 111.017 FUNCTION OF FRANCHISE.
   The Town Council’s grant of a franchise to construct, operate, maintain, and
reconstruct a cable system within the town, or a renewal of an existing
franchise, shall constitute both a right and an obligation to provide the
services of a cable system as required by the provisions of this chapter and
the franchise agreement.
(2011 Code, § 111.017) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000)
§ 111.018 FRANCHISE LIMITATIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter or in any franchise agreement awarded in accordance
herewith shall be construed as an abrogation by the town government of any of
its police powers.
(2011 Code, § 111.018) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000)
§ 111.019 FRANCHISE NONEXCLUSIVE.
   The franchise granted shall be nonexclusive. The grantor specifically
reserves the right to grant, at any time, any additional franchises for cable
systems as it deems appropriate, provided, however, that the additional
franchise grants shall not operate to materially modify, revoke, or terminate
any rights previously granted to any grantee without that prior grantee’s
consent, unless the grantor reasonably determines that a modification or
termination of a grantee’s right is required by law.
(2011 Code, § 111.019) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000)
§ 111.020 SPECIAL FRANCHISE PROVISIONS.
   The Town Council reserves the right to award franchises on terms and
conditions that may deviate from the terms and conditions of this chapter. This
shall be permitted where the Town Council expressly determines that special
circumstances warrant the deviations. A cable operator’s use of technology or
equipment affecting the public interest or public resources in substantially
different ways than this chapter was designed to address may entail special
circumstances.
(2011 Code, § 111.020) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000)
§ 111.021 STATE AND FEDERAL LAWS AND REGULATIONS.
   Any franchise granted under this chapter shall be consistent with state and
federal laws and regulations. The requirements of state or federal laws or
regulations shall, without exception, control over any conflicting terms and
conditions of this chapter or of a franchise agreement.
(2011 Code, § 111.021) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000)
§ 111.022 FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS SUBJECT TO THIS CHAPTER.
   Except with respect to special franchise provisions established pursuant to
§
111.020, any franchise granted is hereby made subject to this chapter. Terms
and conditions in this chapter applicable to any particular subject matter do
not preclude additional terms and conditions in a franchise agreement on the
same subject, unless those terms or conditions of the franchise agreement would
necessarily conflict with those of this chapter. Nothing in this chapter shall
be deemed to waive the requirements of other ordinances or codes of the grantor
regarding permits, fees to be paid or the manner of construction.
(2011 Code, § 111.022) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000)
PROCEDURES FOR OBTAINING NEW FRANCHISES
§ 111.035 CONTENT OF FRANCHISE APPLICATIONS.
   Applications for a franchise, the following not being applicable to
franchise transfers or renewals, shall include at a minimum:
   (A)   A clear description of the identity of the applicant, including but
not limited to the name of the applicant, the address of the applicant, the
nature of the business entity the applicant owns or represents, and the name,
location, and address of any other cable systems the applicant owns or is
affiliated with;
   (B)   Evidence that all aspects of the applicant’s cable system will comply
with all applicable laws including, but not limited to, this chapter and the
town zoning code;
   (C)   A map or maps of a scale of not less than one inch equaling 100 feet,
and showing the precise geographic area for which the applicant seeks a
franchise. The applicant shall propose a franchise area with a perimeter
defined by streets, to the extent that the delineation of the franchise area is
feasible;
   (D)   Evidence that the applicant has applied or is prepared to apply for
building and electrical code review and approval of the plans for construction
of the cable system within the proposed franchise area;
   (E)   Evidence of financial responsibility in the form of a performance bond
conforming to §
111.055;
   (F)   A schedule of construction, as established by the applicant and
reflected upon the map(s) provided pursuant to division (C) above, showing by a
logical geographic progression which streets within the franchise area will be
included in the applicant’s construction activities within each calendar
quarter during the period of construction; and
   (G)   Detailed plans and specifications for the cable system which is
proposed by the applicant.
(2011 Code, § 111.035) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000)
§ 111.036 APPLICATION REVIEW EXPENSES.
   Upon the filing of a franchise application, the applicant shall pay to the
town government a nonrefundable application fee of $300 plus $0.02 for every
home or apartment, hotel or motel unit in the geographic area covered by the
franchise application. This fee is intended to cover the town government’s cost
in reviewing the franchise application and determining the applicant’s
qualifications for obtaining a franchise.
(2011 Code, § 111.036) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000)
§ 111.037 APPLICATION REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   All franchise applications, when filed, shall be available for public
inspection at places designated by the grantor. The grantor may at any time
make reasonable requests of an applicant for any additional information that it
believes will be useful in making a decision on a franchise application. One or
more public hearings shall be held on the applications no later than 90 days
after an application is filed, or the final date for filing applications if the
Town Council solicits applications.
   (B)   A decision shall be made by the grantor not later than 90 days after
the conclusion of all public hearings based on the review criteria set forth in
§
111.038 using information from the application(s) and applicant(s), the
hearings, and other sources the grantor may deem appropriate. The grantor may
grant one or more franchises, or may decline to grant any franchise.
(2011 Code, § 111.037) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000)
§ 111.038 APPLICATION REVIEW CRITERIA.
   In making a determination whether to award a franchise, the Town Council may
consider the following factors:
   (A)   The quality of service which the applicant promises and of which the
applicant is capable;
   (B)   The income and expense to the town government;
   (C)   The needs of other users of the public ways;
   (D)   The capacity of the public ways and private property, including
easements, poles, and conduits, to accommodate the additional equipment or
other demands of an additional cable operator;
   (E)   The effect on the ability of existing grantees to perform their
obligations under their franchises;
   (F)   The experience, character, background, and financial responsibility of
the applicant;
   (G)   The demonstrated ability of the applicant to meet the construction
schedule in the application and any physical requirements imposed by this
chapter;
   (H)   The likelihood that the applicant, as a cable operator, can maintain
financially feasible operations over an extended period of time; and/or
   (I)   Any other considerations deemed pertinent by the Town Council to its
task of safeguarding the public health, safety, and welfare, and facilitating
and encouraging the orderly and responsible development of a cable system which
will provide the people of the town with cable service which is versatile,
reliable, and efficient.
(2011 Code, § 111.038) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000)
§ 111.039 PROCEDURES FOR PREPARING AGREEMENT FOR NEW FRANCHISES.
   (A)   Once it makes a decision to award a franchise, the Town Council shall
within 60 days provide the successful applicant with written notification of
its decision, including a description of the franchise they intend to grant.
This franchise description may incorporate by reference information in the
applicant’s franchise application. The applicant and representatives of the
Town Council may then proceed to negotiate a franchise agreement.
   (B)   The Town Council’s decision to award a franchise does not commit the
Council to approve any franchise agreement containing any material terms not
identified in its notification to the applicant.
(2011 Code, § 111.039) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000)
§ 111.040 FRANCHISE AGREEMENT PREPARATION EXPENSES.
   Once negotiations on a franchise agreement are successfully completed, the
new grantee shall pay to the town government a sum of money sufficient to
reimburse the town government for all its legal, consulting, and other expenses
incurred in connection with the preparation and execution of the franchise
agreement.
(2011 Code, § 111.040) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000)
FINANCIAL OBLIGATIONS TO FRANCHISE HOLDERS
§ 111.055 PERFORMANCE BOND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Each franchise applicant shall file with its application for a
franchise, and at all times thereafter until the filing of a final notice of
completion, pursuant to §
111.077, maintain, in full force and effect, an acceptable corporate surety
bond issued by a surety licensed therefor by the state in an amount equal to:
      (1)   The grantee’s estimate of the total cost of construction of the
cable system within the franchise area; or
      (2)   That determined to be appropriate by the Town Council after
allowing the grantee an opportunity to provide information for the Council’s
consideration in making this determination.
   (B)   Prior to the issuance of a final order of completion pursuant to §
111.077 of this chapter, the amount of the aforesaid corporate surety bond
shall be reduced to an amount equal to $50 for each dwelling unit located
within the franchise area upon the date of the notice of final completion, and
maintained at the same amount at all times thereafter during the operation of
the cable system, unless the Town Council determines that a bond in a lesser
amount is appropriate.
   (C)   Neither the provisions of this section, any bond accepted pursuant
thereto, nor any damages recovered thereunder shall be construed to excuse
faithful performance by the grantee, or to limit the liability of the grantee
under the franchise or for damages, either to the full amount of the
cancellation by the surety during the term of the franchise, whether for
failure to pay a premium or otherwise, without 30 calendar days’ advance
written notice mailed by the surety to the Clerk-Treasurer. The form of the
bond and surety shall be subject to the approval of the Town Council.
(2011 Code, § 111.050) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000)
§ 111.056 INDEMNIFICATION BY THE GRANTEE.
   (A)   Each grantee shall, at its sole expense, fully indemnify, defend, and
hold harmless the town government, and in their capacity as town government,
the officers, agents, and employees thereof, from and against any and all
claims, suits, actions, liability, and judgments for damages, expenses, or
other financial responsibilities relating to the granting of the franchise or
the construction and operation of the franchised cable system:
      (1)   For actual or alleged injury to persons or property, including loss
of use of property due to an occurrence, whether or not the property is
physically damaged or destroyed, in any way arising out of or through or
alleged to rise out of or through the acts or omissions of the grantee or its
officers, agents, employees, or contractors, or to which the grantee’s or its
officers, agents, employees, or contractors acts or omissions in any way
contribute; and/or
      (2)   Arising out of or alleged to arise out of any claim for damages for
invasion of the right of privacy, defamation of any person, firm, or
corporation, or the violation or infringement of any copyright, trademark,
trade name, service mark or patent, or of any other right of any person, firm,
or corporation; and
      (3)   Arising out of or alleged to arise out of the grantee’s failure to
comply with the provisions of any statute, regulation, or ordinance of the
United States, the state, or the town applicable to the grantee in its
business.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall be deemed to prevent the parties indemnified and
held harmless herein from participating in the defense of any litigation by
their own counsel. Participation shall not, under any circumstances, relieve
the grantee from its duty of defense against liability or of paying any
judgment entered against the party.
(2011 Code, § 111.051) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000)
§ 111.057 GRANTEE INSURANCE.
   (A)   As a part of the indemnification provided by §
111.056, but without limiting the foregoing, each grantee shall file with the
application a certificate of insurance verifying that the grantee has obtained,
and at all times thereafter shall maintain in full force and effect at its sole
expense, an acceptable policy or policies of liability insurance, including
comprehensive general liability insurance products/completed operations
liability, personal injury liability, owners and contractors protective
liability, broad form property damage contractual liability, automobile
liability for owned, non-owned, and hired automobiles, workers’ compensation,
and employer liability.
   (B)   The policy or policies shall name as additionally insured the town
government, and in their capacity their officers, agents, and employees. The
grantee and the town government and officers, agents, and employees shall be
named as co-insured, and the policy or policies shall contain cross-liability
endorsements. Policies of insurance shall be in the minimum single limit amount
of $5,000,000 per occurrence, unless the Town Council determines that a lesser
coverage amount is appropriate. The insurance policy or policies shall contain
contractual liability insurance naming the grantee, insure against the types of
liabilities covered by the indemnification and hold harmless the provisions of
§
111.056.
   (C)   The form and substance of the policy or policies of insurance shall
also be subject to approval by the Town Council. The policy or policies of
insurance shall be maintained by the grantee in full force and effect during
the entire term of the franchise.
(2011 Code, § 111.052) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000)
§ 111.058 FRANCHISE FEES.
   (A)   Unless a grantee’s franchise agreement specifically sets forth a
different basis for determining the amount of franchise fees, or a different
percentage amount, each grantee shall pay to the town government an amount
equal to 5% per year of the grantee’s annual gross revenue.
   (B)   No acceptance of any payment shall be construed as an accord that the
amount paid is, in fact, the correct amount, nor shall the acceptance of
payment be construed as a release of any claim which the town government may
have for further or additional sums payable under the provisions of this
section or the terms of the franchise agreement.
   (C)   Any franchise fees which remain unpaid after the dates specified in
the franchise agreement shall be delinquent and shall thereafter accrue
interest at an annual rate of 8% until paid.
   (D)   Not less than annually, the grantee shall provide the Town Council
with a report provided by an independent certified public accountant certifying
the accuracy of the franchise fee payments paid within the preceding 12 months.
The certification shall be prepared in accordance with generally accepted
accounting standards as established by the Financial Accounting Standards Board
(FASB).
(2011 Code, § 111.053) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000)
§ 111.059 AUDITING AND FINANCIAL RECORDS.
   (A)   The town government may audit the books, records and accounts of the
grantee for the purpose of determining whether the grantee has paid franchise
fees in the amounts prescribed by §
111.058 or otherwise required by the franchise agreement. Subject to potential
reimbursement, as provided for below, the audit shall be conducted at the sole
expense of the town government. A copy of the report detailing the audit’s
findings shall be provided to the grantee.
   (B)   If the town government has a certified public accountant conduct the
audit, and if the audit indicates that the grantee has paid less than 95% of
the total amount of the franchise fees that it is obligated to pay the town
government under the terms of this chapter and its franchise agreement, the
grantee shall pay the town government not only the amount of the shortfall with
interest based on an annual rate of 8%, but also all costs associated with the
audit and the enforcement of this provision. Any period for which franchise
fees are not more than 30 days past due shall not be included in the
determination of whether 95% of the total amount of the franchise fees have
been paid for the application of the audit and enforcement cost reimbursement
provision. The grantee shall be entitled 30 days from its receipt of the audit
report to present the town government with evidence that the audit findings
should not be relied on for determining the existence and amount of a shortfall
in franchise fee payments prior to being required to make payment of the
amounts provided for by this section.
   (C)   Each grantee shall make available for inspection by authorized
representatives of the town, its books, accounts, and all other financial
records at reasonable times and upon reasonable advance notice for the purpose
of permitting exercise of the authority conferred by this section.
(2011 Code, § 111.054) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000)
CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE OF SYSTEM
§ 111.070 AUTHORITY FOR USE OF STREETS.
   (A)   For the purposes of operating and maintaining a cable system in the
town, the grantee may erect, install, construct, repair, replace, reconstruct,
and retain in public ways within the town any lines, cables, conductors, ducts,
conduits, vaults, manholes, amplifiers, appliances, pedestals, attachments, and
other property and equipment as are necessary and appurtenant to the operation
of the cable system, provided that all applicable permits are applied for and
granted, all required fees are paid, and all other pertinent town government
policies and procedures are met.
   (B)   Prior to construction or alteration, the grantee shall in each case
file plans with all appropriate town agencies and utility companies, and
receive written approval of the plans, which approval shall not be unreasonably
withheld. The grantee shall provide a monthly progress report to the town
government until the completion of construction or alteration of the cable
system.
   (C)   The grantee shall construct and maintain its cable system so as not to
interfere with other uses of public ways. To the extent possible, the grantee
shall make use of existing poles and other facilities available to the grantee
prior to installing new poles and other facilities in and along public ways.
The grantee shall notify all residents affected by proposed construction prior
to the commencement of that work.
   (D)   Notwithstanding the above grant to use public ways, no public way
shall be used by the grantee if the town government, in its sole opinion,
determines that the use is inconsistent with the terms, conditions, or
provisions by which the way is created or dedicated, or presently used.
(2011 Code, § 111.065) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000)
§ 111.071 CONDITIONS ON OCCUPANCY OF PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)   All transmissions and distributions structures, lines, and equipment
erected by the grantee within the town shall be so located as to cause minimum
interference with the proper use of public ways and places, and to cause
minimum interference with the rights and reasonable convenience of property
owners who join any of the public ways.
   (B)   In case of disturbance of any public way, the grantee shall, at its
own cost and expense, and in a manner approved by the Town Council or its
designated representative, replace and restore the public way in as good a
condition as before the work creating the disturbance was done.
   (C)   Each grantee shall be responsible for, shall indemnify, and defend and
hold harmless the town government and its officers, agents, and employees from
and against any and all damages arising out of or resulting from the removal,
trimming, mutilation of, or any injury to any tree or trees proximately caused
by the grantee or its officers, agents, employees, contractors, or
subcontractors.
(2011 Code, § 111.066) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.072 ERECTION OF POLES.
   (A)   No franchise shall be deemed to expressly or impliedly authorize the
grantee to construct or install poles or wire-holding structures within public
ways for the purpose of placing cables, wires, lines or otherwise, without the
written consent of the town government. The consent shall be given upon the
terms and conditions as the town government in its sole discretion may
prescribe, which shall include a requirement that the grantee perform, at its
sole expense, all tree trimming required to maintain the poles clear of
obstructions.
   (B)   The grantee shall extend to the town government and its utilities, the
use of any or all poles owned by the grantee to the extent that the town
government’s or a town utility’s use of the poles does not interfere with the
grantee’s use or future planned usage of these poles. The town government shall
hold the grantee harmless from any and all actions or damages caused by the
placement of town government-owned wires and appurtenances upon the poles of
the grantee.
(2011 Code, § 111.067) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000)
§ 111.073 UNDERGROUNDING.
   (A)   Except as hereinafter provided, in all areas of the town where the
cables, wires, and all other like facilities of a municipal or public utility
are placed underground, each grantee shall construct and install its cables,
wires, and other facilities underground. Amplifier boxes and pedestal-mounted
terminal boxes may be placed above ground if existing technology reasonably
requires, but shall be of a size, design, and location so as not to be
unsightly or unsafe. In any area of the town where there are certain cables,
wires, and other like facilities of a municipal or public utility underground
and at least one operable cable, wire, or like facility of a municipal or
public utility suspended above the ground from poles, a grantee may construct
and install its cables, wires, and other facilities from the same pole.
   (B)   With respect to any cables, wires, and other like facilities
constructed and installed by a grantee above ground, the grantee shall, at its
sole expense, reconstruct and reinstall the cables, wires, or other facilities
underground pursuant to any project under which the cables, wires, or other
like facilities of the municipal or public utilities are placed underground
within an area. The duty of a grantee to place its cables, wire, and other
facilities underground shall arise only if all like facilities or utilities
which are existing above ground are placed underground.
(2011 Code, § 111.068) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000)
§ 111.074 RELOCATION.
   (A)   If during the term of a franchise the town government or a town-owned
utility decides to alter, repair, realign, abandon, improve, vacate, reroute,
or change the grade of any public way or to replace, repair, install, maintain,
or otherwise alter any above ground or underground cable, wire, conduit, pipe,
line, pole, structure, or other facility utilized for the provision of utility
or other services or transportation of drainage, sewage, or other liquids, the
grantee shall, at its sole expense, remove or relocate as necessary its poles,
wires, cables, underground conduits, manholes, and any other facilities which
it has installed.
   (B)   The grantee shall take action to remove or relocate at any time or
times as are directed by the town government, utility, or company undertaking
the work. Reasonable advance written notice shall be mailed to the grantee
advising the grantee of the date or dates removal or relocation is to be
undertaken.
(2011 Code, § 111.069) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000)
§ 111.075 MOVEMENT OF BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Each grantee shall, upon request by any person holding a building
moving permit or other approval issued by the town government or the state,
temporarily remove, raise, or lower its wire to permit the movement of
buildings. The expense of the removal, raising, or lowering shall be paid by
the person requesting the same, and a grantee shall be authorized to require
the payment in advance.
   (B)   This expense charged shall be reasonable in light of standard
practices and charges in the community. A grantee shall be given not less than
48 hours oral or written notice to arrange for the temporary wire changes.
(2011 Code, § 111.070) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.076 APPROVAL OF CONSTRUCTION BY TOWN.
   (A)   Except for individual service connections, the grantee shall not,
within the town, run any line or make any attachment, nor shall any
construction of any kind be commenced without the prior approval of the Town
Council or its designated representative. The approval shall not be
unreasonably withheld and action shall be taken on any request for approval
within three business days of receipt of the request, or it shall be deemed
granted. The grantee shall be able to make emergency repairs as needed. The
town government shall have and maintain the right to inspect the construction,
operation and maintenance of the system by the grantee to ensure the proper
performance under applicable town and state regulations.
   (B)   Whenever it is necessary to shut off or interrupt service for the
purpose of making repairs, installations, or adjustments, the grantee shall do
so at times that will cause the least amount of inconvenience to its
subscribers.
(2011 Code, § 111.071) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000)
§ 111.077 COMPLETION OF SYSTEM.
   (A)   A final order of completion shall be issued by the Town Council when:
      (1)   Construction of the cable system has been complete within the
entirety of each franchise area in compliance with the construction standards
and other requirements of this chapter;
      (2)   Cable services have been made available to 100% of the dwelling
units within each franchise area;
      (3)   Any and all studio facilities, equipment channels and other
services, resources, or benefits required for public, educational, and
governmental access purposes pursuant to the provisions of this chapter or the
franchise agreement have been completed and made available;
      (4)   Complete and accurate as built plans pursuant to §
111.070 have been filed by the grantee with the town government; and
      (5)   A notice of completion has been filed by the grantee as hereinafter
provided.
   (B)   For purposes of this chapter, cable service shall be deemed to be made
available when cable services are offered on a non-discriminatory basis for
immediate provision to the owner or legal representative of the owner empowered
to consent to use of the property of the individual dwelling units.
   (C)   A grantee who asserts completion shall file a written notice of
completion with the Clerk-Treasurer.
(2011 Code, § 111.072) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000)
§ 111.078 REMOVAL.
   (A)   Upon termination of a franchise, and if neither the town government
nor an assignee purchase the cable system, the grantee may remove any
underground cable from the public ways in which it has been installed in a
manner that it can be removed without trenching or other opening of paved
surfaces along the extension of cable to be removed. The grantee shall not
remove any underground cable or conduit which requires trenching or other
opening of paved surfaces along the extension of cable to be removed, except as
hereinafter provided.
   (B)   The grantee shall remove, at its sole cost and expense, any
underground cable or conduit by trenching or opening of the streets, along the
extension thereof or otherwise, which is ordered to be removed by the town
government based upon a determination in the sole discretion of the town
government, that removal is required in order to eliminate or prevent a
hazardous condition or promote future utilization of the public way for public
purposes. Any order by the town government to remove cable or conduit shall be
made to the grantee not later than 30 calendar days following the date of
termination.
   (C)   A grantee shall file written notice with the Clerk-Treasurer not later
than 30 calendar days following the date of termination of the franchise of its
intention to remove cable or conduit, and a schedule for removal by location.
      (1)   The schedule and timing of removal shall be subject to approval by
the Town Council or its designated representative.
      (2)   Removal shall be completed not later than 12 months following the
date of termination.
      (3)   Unless the town government authorizes otherwise, underground cable
and conduit in public ways which is not removed within 12 months shall be
deemed abandoned and title thereto shall be vested with the town government.
   (D)   Upon termination of a franchise, if the franchise is not renewed and
if neither the town nor an assignee purchase the cable system, the grantee
shall, at its sole expense unless relieved of the obligation by the town
government, remove from the public ways all above ground elements of the cable
system, including but not limited to amplifier boxes, pedestal-mounted terminal
boxes, and cable attached to or suspended from poles which are not purchased by
the town government or its assignee.
   (E)   The grantee shall apply for and obtain any encroachment permits,
licenses, authorizations, or other approvals, pay any fees and deposit any
security as required by applicable ordinance of the town government, conduct
and complete the work of removal in compliance with all applicable ordinances,
and restore the streets to the same condition they were in before the work of
removal commenced. The work of removal shall be completed not later than one
year following the date of termination.
(2011 Code, § 111.073) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000) Penalty, see §
111.999
RATES AND SYSTEM CAPACITY REQUIREMENTS
§ 111.090 RATES.
   (A)   Subject to securing any required federal certification, the Town
Council expressly reserves the right to approve the rates which the grantee
charges its subscribers for basic service, and the rates for other services as
the Town Council may hereafter be permitted to regulate by law. The grantee
shall not deny, delay, interrupt, or terminate cable services or the use of
community communications facilities to subscribers or users because the Town
Council denies a request for a rate increase, provided, however, that nothing
herein shall be construed to limit the grantee’s right to seek judicial review
of the action.
   (B)   The grantee shall file with the town on December 31 of each year a
full schedule of all subscriber and user rates and all other charges including,
but not limited to, pay television, lease channels, and any other discrete
services made in connection with the cable system.
   (C)   The grantee shall not discriminate in the assessment, levy, charge
imposition, or collection of rates on the basis of age, race, creed, color,
religion, national origin, sex, or marital status. This restriction shall not
be construed to prohibit the grantee from making available a senior citizen
discount of up to 10% off the standard charge for basic service to all
subscribers age 65 and older, or from reducing or waiving charges in
conjunction with promotional campaigns for the purpose of attracting new
subscribers or users.
(2011 Code, § 111.085) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000)
§ 111.091 UNIVERSAL SERVICE.
   Any franchise subject to this chapter shall provide equal and uniform cable
service. No dwelling units within the franchise area shall be denied access to
service, unless the Town Council determines that requiring service to certain
identified dwelling units presents an unreasonable hardship upon the grantee.
(2011 Code, § 111.086) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.092 GENERAL CAPACITY.
   Each cable system shall, at a minimum:
   (A)   Relay to subscriber terminals those broadcast signals required by the
FCC;
   (B)   Distribute in color all television signals which it receives in color;
   (C)   Make available, upon request by any subscribers receiving channels
showing premium services and pay-per-view events, a lockout device which
prevents the unauthorized viewing of the channels; and
   (D)   Make available to subscribers, upon request, a switch permitting
conversion from cable to antenna reception.
(2011 Code, § 111.087) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000)
§ 111.093 OVERRIDE CAPACITY.
   Within six months of receiving written notification of a decision by the
Town Council to provide emergency broadcasting services, the grantee shall
include an emergency alert capability in its cable system which will permit the
town government to override by remote control the audio and video, to the
extent that this technology is practically available and adaptable to the
grantee’s system, of all channels simultaneously to broadcast from the town
hall for civil defense, disaster, and emergency services. The emergency alert
system shall be used in accordance with FCC standards.
(2011 Code, § 111.088) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.094 TECHNICAL AND SAFETY STANDARDS.
   (A)   The grantee shall construct, install, and maintain its cable system in
a manner consistent and in compliance with all applicable technical standards
established by the FCC. The grantee shall provide to the Town Council, upon
request, written reports of the grantee’s annual proof of performance tests
conducted pursuant to FCC standards and requirements.
   (B)   The grantee shall at all times comply with the: National Electrical
Safety Code (National Bureau of Standards); National Electrical Code (National
Bureau of Fire Underwriters); applicable FCC and other federal, state, and
local regulations and codes and other ordinances of the town government.
   (C)   The grantee shall install and maintain in use methods and devices for
preventing failures in and accidents resulting from its cable system that meet
current industry standards and available technology. In any event, the cable
system or work performed on it shall not endanger or interfere with the safety
of persons or property within the town.
   (D)   All working facilities, conditions, and procedures used or occurring
during construction of the cable system shall comply with the standards of the
Occupational Safety and Health Administration.
   (E)   Construction, installation, and maintenance of the cable system shall
be performed in an orderly and workmanlike manner, and in close coordination
with underground cable from the public ways in which it has been installed in a
manner that it can be removed without trenching or other opening of paved
surfaces along the extension of cable to be removed. The grantee shall not
remove any underground cable or conduit which requires trenching or other
opening of paved surfaces along the extension of cable to be removed, except as
hereinafter provided.
   (F)   All cable and wires shall be installed, where possible, parallel with
electric and telephone lines.
   (G)   Any antenna structure used in the cable system shall comply with the
requirements of the United States Department of Transportation with respect to
the construction, marking, and lighting of antennae structures.
   (H)   All operations of the cable system and installations of cable services
shall be conducted and effected in a manner and form so as not to interfere
with the television reception of persons who are not subscribers of the
grantee’s cable services or the operations of other utilities serving the
residents of the town.
(2011 Code, § 111.089) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.095 PUBLIC, EDUCATIONAL, AND GOVERNMENTAL ACCESS.
   The grantee may be required, in its franchise agreement, to make available
public, educational, or governmental access channels for use by the town. The
maximum number of channels the grantee may be required by the Town Council to
provide is three. The grantee shall not be required to make available more than
one new channel for public, educational, or governmental access purposes in any
90-day period.
(2011 Code, § 111.090) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000)
§ 111.096 SUPPORT FOR USE OF ACCESS.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to limit the grantee
from providing equipment and technical assistance or payments in support of the
use of public, educational, and/or governmental channels. However, any
equipment, assistance, or payments provided voluntarily shall in no event be
considered in the calculation of franchise fees pursuant to this chapter.
(2011 Code, § 111.091) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000)
§ 111.097 AVAILABILITY OF ACCESS FACILITIES.
   If public, educational, or governmental access channels are made available
upon the cable system pursuant to §
111.095, the users of the channels shall submit to the Town Council for
approval its proposed policies and rules for the promotion and use of these
channels.
(2011 Code, § 111.092) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000)
§ 111.098 PROHIBITION OF OBSCENE PROGRAMMING.
   Pursuant to federal law, a grantee shall refuse to transmit any leased
access program or portion of a leased access program that it reasonably
believes contains obscenity, indecency, or nudity.
(2011 Code, § 111.093) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000)
CUSTOMER SERVICE REQUIREMENTS
§ 111.110 APPLICABILITY OF FCC PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Consumer protection/customer service provisions established by rule or
regulation of the FCC are hereby adopted by the Town Council and shall be
applicable to franchises to the extent that the rules do not conflict with the
provisions of this section or the terms of the grantee’s franchise agreement.
Inclusion of specific provisions in this section shall not be construed as
indicating an intention to exclude other consumer protection/customer service
provisions established by rule or regulation of the FCC from application to the
grantee.
   (B)   The consumer protection/customer service provisions established by the
FCC shall be enforceable by the town government along with the provisions of
this chapter and the franchise agreement.
(2011 Code, § 111.105) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000)
§ 111.111 OFFICE HOURS AND TELEPHONE AVAILABILITY.
   (A)   The grantee will maintain a local, toll-free, or collect call
telephone line which will be available 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
      (1)   Trained representatives of the grantee will be available to respond
to telephone inquiries during normal business hours.
      (2)   After normal business hours, the access line may be answered by an
answering service. Inquiries received after normal business hours must be
responded to by a trained representative of the grantee on the next business
day.
   (B)   Under normal operation conditions, telephone answer time by a customer
representative, including wait time, shall not exceed 30 seconds from when the
connection is made. If the call needs to be transferred, transfer time shall
not exceed 30 seconds. These standards shall be met no less than 90% of the
time, measured on a quarterly basis. For purpose of compliance with the terms
of this chapter and the franchise agreement, if the town government determines
that there have been violations of these standards, the grantee has the burden
of proving to the town government’s satisfaction that the violations are not in
excess of the 90% compliance requirement.
   (C)   The grantee will not be required to acquire equipment or perform
surveys to measure compliance with the telephone answering standards above
unless an historical record of the complaints, as interpreted by the Town
Council, indicates a clear failure to comply.
   (D)   Under normal operation conditions, the caller will receive a busy
signal less than 3% of the time.
   (E)   Customer service center and bill payment locations will be open at
least during normal business hours and will be conveniently located.
Subscribers that bring bill payments to the customer service center during
normal business hours or bill payment locations will have their accounts
credited for having made that payment at that time.
(2011 Code, § 111.106) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.112 INSTALLATIONS, OUTAGES, AND SERVICE CALLS.
   (A)   The grantee shall render efficient service, make installations and
repairs promptly and interrupt service only for good cause and for the shortest
time possible. Service interruptions, insofar as possible, shall be preceded by
notice and shall occur during periods of minimum use of the system. The grantee
shall make a record of all service interruptions. At a minimum, record shall be
made of the date, time, and duration of the interruption, what subscribers were
subject to the interruption, and the cause of the interruption. Subscribers who
notify the grantee that their service has been interrupted shall be entitled to
a pro rate refund of their cable fees whenever the total time that service is
interrupted during a billing period exceeds 24 hours.
   (B)   Under normal operating conditions, each of the following standards
will be met no less than 95% of the time, as measured on a quarterly basis. For
the purpose of compliance with the terms of this chapter and the franchise
agreement, if the town government determines that there have been violations of
these standards, the grantee has the burden of proving to the town government’s
satisfaction that the violations are not in excess of the 95% compliance
requirement.
      (1)   Standard installations will be performed within seven business days
after an order has been placed, and for a charge of no more than the grantee’s
advertised installation rate. Standard installations are those that are located
up to 125 feet from the existing distribution system. Installations that are
not standard shall be performed within 21 business days of an order for the
installation being placed, unless the site is a part of a franchise area
extension occurring within the six months of the request for installation.
Installations that are not standard may be performed for a charge based on the
grantee’s use of materials and labor costs.
      (2)   Cable lines used to connect subscribers to the grantee’s
distribution system shall be properly buried or safely elevated above ground by
attachment to properly placed utility poles within 21 days of a service
installation unless conditions beyond the control of the grantee, such as
weather-related conditions, require delay. When conditions require delay in
burying or properly elevating cable line connections to subscribers, that work
shall be completed as soon as conditions permit the work to be done.
      (3)   Excluding conditions beyond the control of the grantee, work will
begin promptly on service interruptions to restore service, and in no event
will work begin later than 24 hours after the interruption becomes known. The
grantee must begin actions to correct other service problems the next business
day after notification of the service problem.
      (4)   The appointment window alternatives for installations, service
calls, and other installation activities will be either a specific time or, at
maximum, a four-hour time block during normal business hours. Service calls and
other installation activities may be scheduled outside of normal business hours
for the express convenience of the customer.
      (5)   The grantee’s representatives may not cancel an appointment with a
customer after the close of business on the business day prior to the scheduled
appointment.
      (6)   If the grantee’s representative is running late for an appointment
with a customer and will not be able to keep the appointment as scheduled, the
customer will be contacted. The appointment will be rescheduled, as necessary,
at a time which is convenient for the customer.
(2011 Code, § 111.107) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.113 COMMUNICATIONS, BILLS, AND REFUNDS.
   (A)   The grantee shall provide written information on each of the following
areas at the time of installation of service, at least annually to all
subscribers, and at any other time upon request:
      (1)   Products and services offered;
      (2)   Prices and options for programming services and conditions of
subscriptions to programming and other services;
      (3)   Installation and service maintenance policies;
      (4)   Instructions on how to use the cable service;
      (5)   Channel positions of programming carried on the system; and
      (6)   Billing and complaint procedures, including address and telephone
number of the town government’s cable office.
   (B)   Customers will be notified of any changes in rates, programming
services, or channel positions as soon as possible through announcements on the
cable system and in writing. Notice must be given to subscribers a minimum of
30 days in advance of the changes if the change is within the control of the
grantee. In addition, the grantee shall notify subscribers 30 days in advance
of any significant changes in the other information required by division (A)
above.
   (C)   (1)   Bills will be clear, concise, and understandable.
      (2)   Bills must be fully itemized, with itemizations including, but not
limited to, basic and premium service charges and equipment charges. Bills will
also clearly delineate all activity during the billing period, including
optional charges, rebates, and credits.
   (D)   In case of a billing dispute, the grantee must respond to a written
complaint from a subscriber within 30 days.
   (E)   Refund checks will be issued promptly, but no later than either the
customer’s next billing cycle following resolution of the request or 45 days,
whichever is earlier, or the return of the equipment supplied by the grantee if
service is terminated.
   (F)   Credits for service will be issued no later than the customer’s next
billing cycle following the determination that a credit is warranted.
(2011 Code, § 111.108) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000)
§ 111.114 COMPLAINT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The grantee shall make a record of every written or telephone
complaint received from its customers or from other persons in the town. At a
minimum, record shall be made of the time and date of the complaint, the name
of the person registering the complaint, the type of complaint and the details
on any response provided by the grantee.
   (B)   The grantee shall prepare a written response to all persons
registering a written complaint, which shall be mailed to the person(s) within
five days of the day the complaint was received.
   (C)   Information on customer complaints may be used by the town government
as evidence in support of its enforcement of this chapter and the franchise
agreement and/or in support of its position with respect to a request to renew
the grantee’s franchise, pursuant to federal law.
(2011 Code, § 111.109) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.115 SUBSCRIBER CONTRACTS.
   (A)   The grantee may not require that a person commit to a term of service
greater than a month in length in order to receive cable service.
   (B)   Any rights that subscribers may have pursuant to this chapter, the
franchise agreement, or federal law are enforceable by the subscribers. The
town government shall not be obligated to prosecute or defend any actions
between the grantee and its subscribers.
(2011 Code, § 111.110) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.116 SUBSCRIBER RIGHTS UPON TERMINATION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   In the event that a subscriber fails to pay a properly due fee or
charge, the grantee may disconnect the subscriber’s service outlet upon giving
ten days’ written notice thereof.
   (B)   If the grantee collects a deposit or advance charge on any service or
equipment requested by a subscriber or user, the grantee shall provide the
service or equipment within 30 days of the collection of the deposit or charge,
or it shall refund the deposit.
   (C)   In the event that a subscriber terminates basic service prior to the
end of a prepaid period, the pro-rata portion of any pre-paid subscriber fee
which represents payment for services which are no longer to be rendered shall
be refunded.
   (D)   Upon the termination of service to a subscriber, the grantee shall
repair at its own cost any damage done to that subscriber’s real or personal
property caused by the grantee’s removal of its lines or equipment.
(2011 Code, § 111.111) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000)
FRANCHISE TRANSFERS, MODIFICATIONS, RENEWALS AND TERMINATIONS
§ 111.130 TRANSFERS.
   (A)   A franchise shall not be sold, assigned, or transferred, either in
whole or in part, or leased or sublet, nor shall title thereto, either legal or
equitable, or any right, interest, or property therein, pass to or vest in any
person without the prior written consent of the Town Council. Consent shall not
be withheld unreasonably. However, no consent shall be required prior to any
form of hypothecation.
   (B)   The proposed assignee must show technical ability, financial
capability, legal qualifications, and general character qualifications, as
determined by the Town Council, and must agree to comply with all provisions of
this chapter, the franchise agreement, and any additional conditions as may be
prescribed by the Town Council. The Town Council shall be deemed to have
consented to a proposed transfer of assignment in the event that a denial of
its consent is not communicated in writing to the grantee within 120 days
following the town government’s receipt of written notice of the proposed
transfer of assignment and any other information required by FCC regulations.
   (C)   In no event shall a transfer of ownership or control be approved
without the successor in interest becoming a signatory to the franchise
agreement.
(2011 Code, § 111.125) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.131 MODIFICATION OF FRANCHISE TERMS.
   (A)   Franchise agreements may be modified by mutual agreement of the
grantor and grantee.
   (B)   All modifications must be in writing and properly executed by the
authorized representatives of the grantor and grantee.
(2011 Code, § 111.126) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.132 RENEWAL PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Franchise renewal proceedings shall be conducted in compliance with
the procedures and standards set forth in federal law. To the extent permitted
by federal law, the grantor and a grantee may undertake informal proceedings
for the purpose of renewing a franchise agreement.
   (B)   In the event that the term of a franchise agreement expires without
the adoption of a new/replacement agreement, or a formal extension of the
expired agreement, and negotiations for a renewal of a grantee’s franchise
agreement are being pursued by both the grantee and the Town Council, the
provisions of this chapter and the franchise agreement shall continue to apply
to the grantor and grantee.
(2011 Code, § 111.127) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000)
§ 111.133 TOWN’S COST IN FRANCHISE TRANSFERS, MODIFICATIONS, OR RENEWALS.
   (A)   The grantee shall assume the town government’s cost for legal,
financial, and other professional services employed for the purpose of acting
on franchise transfer or modification requests or renewals of the grantee’s
franchise.
   (B)   The grantee shall not be obligated to cover costs greater than $2,000
unless it proposes extensive and substantial changes in the franchise agreement
making town costs greater than $2,000 reasonably necessary.
(2011 Code, § 111.128) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000)
§ 111.134 FRANCHISE TERMINATIONS.
   Upon any termination of the franchise by the Town Council, the grantee shall
remove its facilities and equipment from the town’s public ways pursuant to §
111.078 and applicable federal law.
(2011 Code, § 111.129) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000) Penalty, see §
111.999
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 111.145 REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   The grantee shall, at the time payment of franchise fees are made, file with
the Clerk-Treasurer a report on the revenue upon which the franchise fees are
based.
(2011 Code, § 111.140) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000)
§ 111.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   In the event the grantee should violate any of the terms of this
chapter, any federal or state law or regulation, or any provision of their
franchise agreement, the town government shall give the grantee written notice
of the violation, breach, default, or noncompliance.
      (1)   The grantee shall, within 30 days of receipt of written notice from
the town government, substantially undertake and promptly correct the default,
breach, violation, or noncompliance and certify the same to the Clerk-
Treasurer.
      (2)   In the event that the grantee fails to substantially undertake the
corrective action within 30 days of receipt of the written notice and promptly
complete the corrective action, the town government may:
         (a)   Make the correction itself and charge the cost of the same to
the grantee; and/or
         (b)   Secure the proceeds from any financial performance instrument
posted by the grantee or impose the sum of $100 per day for each day breach or
violation following the cure date that the grantee fails to meet agreed upon
limits for the activity or its contractual or legal obligations.
   (B)   In the case of a material breach of this chapter or the franchise
agreement, the town government may declare the grantee in default and terminate
the franchise and rights granted under the franchise.
   (C)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this chapter, the town
government shall not impose any penalty upon the grantee where either the
violation or failure to cure the same result from force majeure, labor dispute,
declaration of war or other hostilities, act of God, or any other reason beyond
the control of the grantee.
   (D)   By acceptance of a franchise, a grantee understands and shall agree
that failure to comply with any time and performance requirements as stipulated
in this chapter and the franchise agreement will, after notice and an
opportunity to cure have been provided, result in damage to the town, and that
it is and will be impracticable to determine the actual amount of the damage in
the event of delay or nonperformance. This chapter shall include provisions for
liquidated damages to be paid by the grantee to the town government, chargeable
to the grantee’s performance/corporate surety bond, in the amounts set forth as
follows.
      (1)   For failure to complete system construction or reconstruction in
accordance with §
111.078, unless the Town Council specifically approves the delay by motion or
resolution due to the occurrence of conditions beyond the grantee’s control, a
grantee shall pay $500 per day for each day, or part thereof, the deficiency
continues.
      (2)   For failure to provide, upon written request, data, documents,
reports, or information pursuant to §
111.145, or to cooperate with the town government, a grantee shall pay $50 per
instance or per day, or part thereof, each violation occurs or continues.
      (3)   For failure to provide in a continuing manner the types of services
proposed in the accepted application or specified in a franchise agreement,
unless the Town Council specifically approves the grantee a delay or change, a
grantee shall pay up to $500 per instance or per day for each day, or part
thereof, that each noncompliance continues.
      (4)   Nothing in this section shall preclude further liquidated damages
as agreed upon by parties in the franchise agreement.
      (5)   If the town government concludes that a grantee is liable for
liquidated damages pursuant to this section, it shall issue to the grantee by
certified mail a notice of intention to assess liquidated damages. The notice
shall set forth the basis for the assessment, and shall inform the grantee that
liquidated damages will be assessed from the date of the notice unless the
assessment notice is appealed for hearing before the Town Council, and the Town
Council rules that the violation has been corrected, or that an extension of
time or other relief should be granted.
   (E)   A grantee desiring a hearing before the Town Council shall send a
written notice of appeal by certified mail to the Clerk-Treasurer within ten
days of the date on which the town government sent the notice of intention to
assess liquidated damages. The hearing on the grantee’s appeal shall be within
30 days of the date on which the town government sent the notice of intention
to assess liquidated damages. Unless the Council indicates to the contrary, the
liquidated damages shall be assessed beginning with the date on which the town
sent the notice of the intention to assess liquidated damages, and continuing
thereafter until the time the violation ceases, as determined by the Council.
(2011 Code, § 111.999) (Ord. 2000-4, passed 7-17-2000)
CHAPTER 112: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Purpose and findings
   
112.02   Definitions
Operating Regulations
   
112.15   Location restrictions
   
112.16   Exemptions and defenses
   
112.17   Existing businesses; grandfather provisions
   
112.18   Minors on premises prohibited
   
112.19   Advertising and display; lighting
   
112.20   Hours of operation
   
112.21   Public nudity prohibited
   
112.22   Operating without valid permit prohibited
Permit Provisions
   
112.35   Permits; enforcement responsibility
   
112.36   Application procedure
   
112.37   Investigation
   
112.38   Issuance or denial
   
112.39   Fees
   
112.40   Permit expiration
   
112.41   Suspension
   
112.42   Revocation
   
112.43   Permit transfer restricted
Administration and Enforcement
   
112.55   Inspection of premises
   
112.56   Administrative and judicial review
   
112.57   Culpable mental state required to establish liability
   
112.58   Remedies
   
112.59   Injunction
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate sexually oriented
businesses in order to promote the health, safety, and general welfare of the
citizens of the town and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to
prevent the deleterious secondary effects of sexually oriented businesses
within the town.
      (2)   The provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect
of imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of, or reasonable access
to, any communicative materials, including sexually oriented materials.
      (3)   Similarly, it is neither the intent nor effect of this chapter to
restrict or deny access by adults to sexually oriented materials protected by
the First Amendment to the United States Constitution or Article I, § 9 of the
Indiana Constitution, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of
sexually oriented entertainment to their intended market.
      (4)   Adoption of this chapter will allow the town to obtain the identity
of persons licensed and to be licensed for the operation of sexually oriented
business to ensure proper identification of those persons responsible for the
operation of such businesses so as to assist in the proper enforcement of this
chapter.
      (5)   It is an important public purpose to protect children and the
family environment from the deleterious and harmful secondary effects of
sexually oriented businesses.
      (6)   It is not the purpose of this chapter to establish community
standards on obscenity nor to permit persons to engage in any activity which is
in violation of law, including but not limited to, state laws pertaining to the
advertising, promotion, distribution, or sale of obscene matter or matters
portraying a sexual performance by a minor, or state laws pertaining to the use
of a minor in a sexual performance or promotion of sexual performance by a
minor, or the use of a minor to distribute material portraying sexual
performance by a minor.
      (7)   Neither is it the intent nor effect of this chapter to condone or
legitimize the distribution of obscene material.
   (B)   Findings. Based on evidence of the adverse secondary effects of adult
uses presented in hearings and in reports made available to the Town Council,
and on findings, interpretations, and narrowing constructions incorporated in
the cases of City of Littleton v. ZJ. Gifts D-4, L.L.C., 124 S. Ct. 2219 (June
7, 2004); City of Los Angeles v. Alameda Books, Inc., 535 U.S. 425 (2002);
Pap’s A.M. v. City of Erie, 529 U.S. 277 (2000); City of Renton v. Playtime
Theatres, Inc., 475 U.S. 41 (1986), Young v. American Mini Theatres, 426 U.S.
50 (1976), Barnes v. Glen Theatre, Inc., 501 U.S. 560 (1991); California v.
LaRue, 409 U.S. 109 (1972); Schultz v. City of Cumberland, 26 F.Supp.2d 1128
(W.D. Wisc. 1998), aff’d in part, rev’d in part, 228 F.3d 831 (7th Cir. 2000);
Blue Canary Corp. v. City of Milwaukee, 270 F.3d 1156 (7th Cir. 2001); Matney
v. County of Kenosha, 86 F.3d 692 (7th Cir. 1996); Berg v. Health & Hospital
Corp., 865 F.2d 797 (1989); DiMa Corp. v. Town of Hallie, 185 F.3d 823 (1999);
Graff v. City of Chicago, 9 F.3d 1309 (1993); North Avenue Novelties, Inc. v.
City of Chicago, 88 F.3d 441 (1996); Chulchian v. City of Indianapolis, 633
F.2d 27 (7th Cir. 1980); Bigg Wolf Discount Video v. Montgomery County, 256
F.Supp.2d 385 (D. Md. 2003); County of Cook v. Renaissance Arcade and
Bookstore, 122 Ill. 2d 123 (1988) (including cases cited therein); World Wide
Video of Washington, Inc. v. City of Spokane, 368 F.3d 1186 (9th Cir. 2004);
Ben’s Bar, Inc. v. Village of Somerset, 316 F.3d 702 (7th Cir. 2003); People ex
rel Deters v. Effingham Retail 27, Inc., No. 04-CH-26 (4th Judicial Circuit,
Effingham County, Ill., June 13, 2005); Andy’s Lounge et al. v. City of Gary,
No. 2:01-CV-327, Order Granting Summary Judgment, Mar. 31, 2005 (N.D. Ind.);
LLEH, Inc. v. Wichita County, 289 F3d 358 (5th Cir. 2002); and based upon
reports concerning secondary effects occurring in and around sexually oriented
businesses, including, but not limited to, Austin, Texas - 1986; Indianapolis,
Indiana - 1984; Garden Grove, California - 1991; Houston, Texas - 1983, 1997;
Phoenix, Arizona - 1979, 1995-98; Chattanooga, Tennessee - 1999-2003; Los
Angeles, California - 1977; Whittier, California - 1978; Spokane, Washington -
2001; St. Cloud, Minnesota -1994; Littleton, Colorado - 2004; Oklahoma City,
Oklahoma - 1986; Dallas, Texas - 1997; Greensboro, North Carolina - 2003;
Amarillo, Texas -1977; New York, New York Times Square - 1994; Kennedale, Texas
- 2005; and the Report of the Attorney General’s Working Group On The
Regulation Of Sexually Oriented Businesses, (June 6, 1989, State of Minnesota),
the Town Council finds:
      (1)   Sexually oriented businesses should be regulated and should be
segregated from one another and from religious institutions, schools, boys
clubs, girls clubs, parks, residences, and residential neighborhoods to protect
the public health, welfare, and safety because sexually oriented businesses, as
a category of commercial uses, are associated with a wide variety of adverse
secondary effects, including, but not limited to, personal and property crimes,
prostitution, potential spread of disease, lewdness, public indecency, illicit
drug use and drug trafficking, negative impacts on surrounding properties,
urban blight, litter, and sexual assault and exploitation.
      (2)   Each of the foregoing negative secondary effects constitutes a harm
which the town has a substantial governmental interest in abating and/or
preventing in the future, and this substantial government interest exists
independent of any comparative analysis between sexually oriented and non-
sexually oriented businesses.
(2011 Code, § 112.01) (Ord. 2005-04, passed 10-3-2005)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT ARCADE. A commercial establishment where, for any form of
consideration, one or more still or motion picture projectors, slide
projectors, or similar machines, or other image-producing machines, for viewing
by five or fewer persons each, are regularly used to show films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, digital video disks (e.g., DVDs), slides, or other
photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. A commercial establishment which has a
significant or substantial portion (25% or more) of its stock-in-trade or
interior business space allocated to, or derives 25% or more of its revenues
from the sale or rental for any form of consideration of, any one or more of
the following: books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, digital video disks
(e.g., DVDs), slides, or other visual representations which are characterized
by the depiction or display of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant, bottle club, or similar
commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages are served, which
regularly features:
      (1)   Persons who appear semi-nude or in a state of semi-nudity; or
      (2)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or by pictures, video cassettes, digital video disks
(e.g., DVDs), slides, or other photographic reproductions which are
characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT MOTEL. A motel, hotel, or similar commercial establishment which:
      (1)   Offers public accommodations, for any form of consideration, which
provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, digital video disks (e.g. DVDs), slides, or other
photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas and
which advertises the availability of this sexually oriented type of material by
means of a sign visible from the public right-of-way, or by means of any off-
premises advertising including, but not limited to, newspapers, magazines,
pamphlets or leaflets, radio, or television;
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time less than ten
hours; or
      (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant to sub-rent the sleeping room for a
time period of less than ten hours.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, digital video disks (e.g., DVDs), slides, or similar
photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas are
regularly shown for any form of consideration.
   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar commercial
establishment which, for any form of consideration, regularly features persons
who appear in a state of semi-nudity or live performances which are
characterized by exposure of specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual
activities.
   CHARACTERIZED BY. This term means the essential character or quality of an
item. As applied in this chapter, no business shall be classified as a sexually
oriented business by virtue of showing, selling, or renting materials rated NC-
17 or R by the Motion Picture Association of America.
   COMMERCIAL SEXUAL ENTERTAINMENT CENTER. Any commercial establishment not
otherwise described herein which as one of its principal uses regularly offers
matter, services, or entertainment appealing to adult sexual interests if the
establishment or its entertainment, services, or goods are advertised by or on
behalf of the establishment in a manner patently designed to appeal to such
adult sexual interests.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person hired by or suffered or permitted to work in a sexually
oriented business establishment whether that person receives remuneration or
compensation directly from the operator or owner of the establishment, from
patrons of the establishment, or from any other source whether by contract of
employment or otherwise, for work or services performed for the benefit of the
sexually oriented business establishment. EMPLOYEE does not include a person
exclusively on the premises for repair or maintenance of the premises or for
the delivery of goods, such as foods, to the premises.
   ESCORT. A person who, for any form of consideration, agrees or offers to act
as a companion, guide, or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes for a fee, tip, or other consideration.
   ESTABLISH or ESTABLISHMENT. Includes any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any type of sexually oriented
business as a new business after the adoption of this chapter;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, if not a sexually oriented
business, to any of the sexually oriented businesses defined in this chapter;
      (3)   The addition of any of the sexually oriented businesses defined in
this chapter to any other existing sexually oriented business; or
      (4)   The relocation of any sexually oriented business.
   KNOWINGLY. A person engages in conduct KNOWINGLY if, when he or she engages
in the conduct, he or she is aware of a high probability that he or she is
doing so.
   LICENSEE. A person in whose name a license to operate a sexually oriented
business has been issued, as well as the individual or individuals listed as an
applicant on the application for a sexually oriented business license.
   MASSAGE PARLOR. Any place where, for any form of consideration or gratuity,
massage, alcohol rub, administration of fomentations, electric or magnetic
treatments, or any other treatment manipulation of the human body which occurs
as a part of or in connection with specified sexual activities, or where any
person providing this treatment, manipulation, or service related thereto,
exposes his or her specified anatomical areas. The definition of sexually
oriented businesses shall not include the practice of massage in any licensed
hospital, nor by a licensed hospital, nor by a licensed physician, surgeon,
chiropractor, osteopath, or certified massage therapist, nor by any nurse or
technician working under the supervision of a licensed physician, surgeon,
chiropractor, osteopath, or certified massage therapist, nor by trainers for
any amateur, semi-professional, or professional athlete or athletic team or
school athletic program.
   NUDITY or STATE OF NUDITY. Any of the following: the showing of the human
male or female genitals, pubic area, anus, or anal cleft with less than a fully
opaque covering, the showing of the female breast with less than a fully opaque
covering of any part of the nipple, or the showing of the covered male genitals
in a discernibly turgid state.
   OPERATE or CAUSE TO OPERATE. To cause to function, or to put or keep in a
state of doing business.
   OPERATOR. Any person on the premises of a sexually oriented business who
operates or manages the business or exercises overall control of the business
premises. A person may be found to be operating or causing to be operated a
sexually oriented business regardless of whether that person is an owner, part
owner, or licensee of the business.
   PERMITTED OR LICENSED PREMISES. Any premises that requires a license or
permit and that is classified as a sexually oriented business.
   PERMITTEE. The same as LICENSEE.
   PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal entity.
   PRINCIPAL USE.  
      (1)   A substantial or significant use, but not necessarily a majority of
the business activity or stock in trade. The fact that a business may have one
or more other PRINCIPAL USES unrelated to sexually oriented business shall not
relieve the business from the provisions of this chapter applicable to sexually
oriented business establishments.
      (2)   PRINCIPAL USE shall exist in the following circumstances:
         (a)   Where a business establishment dedicates, or permits the use of,
at least 25% of the
utilized square footage of its premises for sexually oriented business activity
or activities; or
         (b)   Where at least 25% of the gross receipts of a business
establishment, excluding food and beverage receipts, result from sexually
oriented business activity or activities.
   PUBLIC BUILDING. Any building owned, leased, or held by the United States,
the state, the county, a city, town, township, any special district, school
district, or any other agency or political subdivision of the state or the
United States, which building is used for government purposes.
   PUBLIC PARK or RECREATION AREA. Public land which has been designated for
park or recreational activities, including but not limited to a park,
playground, nature trails, swimming pool, reservoir, athletic field, basketball
or tennis courts, pedestrian or bicycle paths, open space, wilderness areas, or
similar public land within the town which is under the control, operation, or
management of the United States, the state, the county, a city, town, township,
any special district, school district, or any other agency or political
subdivision of the state or the United States.
   RECKLESSLY. A person engages in conduct RECKLESSLY if he or she engages in
the conduct in plain, conscious, and unjustifiable disregard of harm that might
result and the disregard involves a substantial deviation from acceptable
standards of conduct.
   REGULARLY. As used in the phrases herein such as REGULARLY FEATURES and
REGULARLY OFFERS, REGULARLY means a consistent and repeated course of conduct
engaged in or permitted by the operator of the business.
   RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION. Any church, synagogue, mosque, temple, or building
which is used primarily for religious worship and related religious activities.
   RESIDENCE. Any structure, manufactured home, or mobile home used by one or
more persons as a dwelling.
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT OR USE. A single-family, duplex, townhouse, multiple-
family, or mobile home park or subdivision and campground as defined in this
code of ordinances.
   SCHOOL. Any public or private educational facility, including but not
limited to child daycare facilities, nursery schools, preschools,
kindergartens, elementary schools, primary schools, intermediate schools,
junior high schools, middle schools, high schools, vocational schools,
secondary schools, continuation schools, special education schools, junior
colleges, and universities. SCHOOL includes the school grounds, but does not
include the facilities used primarily for another purpose and only incidentally
as a SCHOOL.
   SELF-DESIGNATED SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS CENTER. Any establishment which
designates all or a portion of its premises as for adults only and has a policy
of excluding minors from its premises or from a portion of its premises and
which advertises so as to convey the impression that the services,
entertainment, matter, or goods available at the premises or at the portion of
the premises designated for adults only are characterized or distinguished by
displays of human genitals or sexual activities.
   SEMI-NUDE. A state of dress which shows the female breast below a horizontal
line across the top of the areola and extending across the width of the breast
at that point, or the male or female buttocks. This definition shall include
the lower portion of the human female breast, but shall not include any portion
of the cleavage of the human female breasts exhibited by a dress, blouse,
shirt, leotard, or similar wearing apparel provided the areola is not exposed
in whole or in part.
   SEMI-NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person, who regularly appears in a
state of SEMI-NUDITY, is provided for money or any form of consideration to be
observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or similarly
depicted by other persons.
   SEX CLUB also known as a SWINGERS CLUB. An establishment which provides
patrons the opportunity to voluntarily engage in and/or view live consensual
sexual activity and which collects remuneration of any kind, including entrance
fees, facility use fees, gratuities, fees for goods provided far in excess of
their value, and/or donations.
   SEXUAL DEVICE. Any three-dimensional object designed and marketed for
stimulation of the male or female human genital organ or anus, or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of oneself or others, and shall include devices
such as dildos, vibrators, and penis pumps, and shall also include other
devices with non-sex related utility, such as leather whips, straps, and
ligatures, when such devices are marketed in a context suggesting sexual or
sadomasochistic purposes. Nothing in this definition shall be construed to
include devices primarily intended for protection against sexually transmitted
diseases or for preventing pregnancy. Nothing in this definition shall be
construed to restrict sales by any pharmacy, drug store, medical provider, or
any establishment primarily dedicated to providing medical or healthcare
products or services.
   SEXUAL DEVICE SHOP. A commercial establishment that regularly features
SEXUAL DEVICES. Nothing in this definition shall be construed to include any
pharmacy, drug store, medical clinic, or any establishment primarily dedicated
to providing medical or healthcare products or services.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER ESTABLISHMENT. A business or commercial establishment that,
as one of its primary business purposes, offers for any form of consideration,
a place where two or more persons may congregate, associate, or consort for the
purposes of specified sexual activities.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.  
      (1)   Any of the following businesses, as defined herein: adult arcade;
adult bookstore; adult novelty store; adult video store; adult cabaret; adult
motel; adult motion picture theater; adult theater; escort; escort agency;
massage parlor; self-designated sexually oriented business center; semi-nude
model studio; sex club; sexual device shop; or sexual encounter establishment.
      (2)   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES shall not include an establishment
where a medical practitioner, psychologist, psychiatrist, or similar
professional person licensed by the state engages in medically approved and
recognized sexual therapy.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Includes any of the following:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus, or female breasts below a point immediately above the
top of the areola; or
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Includes any of the following: masturbation;
intercourse; oral copulation; or sodomy; or excretory functions as a part of or
in connection with any of these activities.
   SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Increase in the floor
areas occupied by the business by more than 15%, as the floor areas exist on
the date of the passage of this chapter.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Includes
any of the following:
      (1)   The sale, lease, or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal device
which transfers ownership or control of the business, except for transfer by
bequest or other operation of law upon the death of a person possessing the
ownership or control.
(2011 Code, § 112.02) (Ord. 2005-04, passed 10-3-2005)
OPERATING REGULATIONS
§ 112.15 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall cause or permit the establishment of any sexually
oriented business, as defined in §
112.02, within 1,000 feet of another sexually oriented business or within 1,000
feet of any religious institution, school, boys club, girls club, public park,
or within 1,000 feet of any residence or residential property.
(2011 Code, § 112.03)
   (B)   As regarding division (A) above, the distance between any two sexually
oriented businesses shall be measured in a straight line, without regard to
intervening structures, from the closest exterior structural wall of each
business. The distance between any sexually oriented business and any religious
institution, school, boys club, girls club, public park, or any residence or
residential property, shall be measured in a straight line, without regard to
intervening structures or objects, from the nearest portion of the building or
structure used as part of the premises where the sexually oriented business is
conducted, to the nearest property line of the premises of a religious
institution, school, boys club, girls club, public park, or any residence or
residential property.
(2011 Code, § 112.04)
(Ord. 2005-04, passed 10-3-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.16 EXEMPTIONS AND DEFENSES.
   (A)   It is a defense to an action for any violation under this chapter if
the person appearing in a state of nudity did so for a modeling class operated:
      (1)   By a proprietary school licensed by the state; a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
      (2)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
      (3)   In a structure:
         (a)   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and
no other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing;
         (b)   Where, in order to participate in a class a student must enroll
at least three days in advance of the class; and
         (c)   Where no more than one nude model is on the premises at any one
time.
   (B)   It is a defense to prosecution for a violation of this chapter that an
employee of a sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or not it is
permitted under this chapter, exposed any specified anatomical area during the
employee’s bona fide use of a restroom, or during the employee’s bona fide use
of a dressing room which is accessible only to employees.
(2011 Code, § 112.05) (Ord. 2005-04, passed 10-3-2005)
§ 112.17 EXISTING BUSINESSES; GRANDFATHER PROVISIONS.
   (A)   A sexually oriented business, existing and operating lawfully in all
respects prior to the effective date of the passage of this chapter, that is in
a location that does not comply with §
112.15, may continue to operate for one year following the effective date of
the passage of this chapter in order to make a reasonable recoupment of its
investment in its current location. At the conclusion of said one year, the
sexually oriented business will no longer be allowed to operate at any location
that does not comply with §
112.15. The sexually oriented business may seek one or more six-month extension
(s) of the original one-year period upon a showing of financial hardship. An
application for an initial extension based upon financial hardship shall be
made at least 60 days before the conclusion of the aforementioned one-year
period. If a hardship extension is granted, subsequent applications for
hardship extensions shall be made at least 60 days before the conclusion of the
sexually oriented business’s then-current extension period.
   (B)   Procedure for seeking hardship extension. An application for a
hardship extension shall be filed in writing with the Town Council, and shall
include evidence of purchase and improvement costs, income earned and lost,
depreciation, and costs of relocation and evidence of compliance with the
town’s ordinances applicable to the business. The Town Council shall schedule
the matter for a public hearing at the next regularly-scheduled Town Council
meeting. The Town Council shall issue a written decision within ten days after
the public hearing on the application for a hardship extension.
   (C)   A sexually oriented business operating lawfully shall not be
considered to be operating unlawfully if said sexually oriented business is
granted a permit or license or a renewal of said permit or license and
thereafter a religious institution, school, public park, public building,
residential property, or residence locates within 1,000 feet of said sexually
oriented business.
   (D)   This provision applies only to the renewal of a valid permit or
license and does not apply when an application for a permit or license is
submitted after a permit or license has expired or has been revoked.
   (E)   A sexually oriented business existing and operating lawfully in all
respects prior to the effective date of the passage of this chapter shall apply
for the permit provided for by §
112.35 within 30 days of the effective date of this chapter.
(2011 Code, § 112.06) (Ord. 2005-04, passed 10-3-2005)
§ 112.18 MINORS ON PREMISES PROHIBITED.
   A person is in violation of this chapter if he or she operates or causes to
be operated a sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or not a permit
has been issued for that business under this chapter, and knowingly or with
reasonable cause to know, permits, suffers, or allows:
   (A)   Admittance of a person under 18 years of age to the business premises;
   (B)   A person under 18 years of age to remain at the business premises;
   (C)   A person under 18 years of age to purchase goods or services at the
business premises; or
   (D)   A person who is under 18 years of age to work at the business premises
as an employee.
(2011 Code, § 112.18) (Ord. 2005-04, passed 10-3-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.19 ADVERTISING AND DISPLAY; LIGHTING.
   (A)   All off-street parking areas and premises entries of the sexually
oriented business shall be illuminated from dusk to closing hours of operation
with a lighting system which provides an average maintained horizontal
illumination of one foot-candle of light on the parking surface and walkways.
This required lighting level is established in order to provide sufficient
illumination of the parking areas and walkways serving the sexually oriented
business for the personal safety of patrons and employees and to reduce the
incidence of vandalism and criminal conduct. The lighting shall be shown on the
required sketch or diagram of the premises.
   (B)   Nothing contained in this section shall relieve the operator(s) of a
sexually oriented business from complying with the requirements of the town in
this chapter, commonly known as the sexually oriented business ordinance, as it
may be amended from time to time, or any subsequently enacted town ordinances
or regulations.
(2011 Code, § 112.19) (Ord. 2005-04, passed 10-3-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.20 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful, and a person is in violation of this chapter if
he or she operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business,
regardless of whether or not a permit has been issued for that business under
this chapter, between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of any particular
day.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to prohibit the operation of businesses
licensed by the state Alcoholic Beverage Commissioner during the lawful hours
of operation as provided by the state Alcoholic Beverage Commission.
(2011 Code, § 112.20) (Ord. 2005-04, passed 10-3-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.21 PUBLIC NUDITY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The U.S. Supreme Court decision in Barnes v. Glen Theatre, Inc. 501
U.S., 111 S. Ct. 2456, (June 21, 1991), which upheld the rights of local
governments to prohibit live public exposure of a person’s private parts,
specifically applies to sexually oriented businesses, regardless of whether or
not a permit has been issued to those businesses under this chapter, including
those businesses where no alcoholic beverages are sold, served, or consumed at
the premises.
   (B)   Public nudity is prohibited within the town, including any sexually
oriented business. Any sexually oriented business which is found in violation
of this section shall have its permit suspended pursuant to the provisions of §
112.41.
(2011 Code, § 112.21) (Ord. 2005-04, passed 10-3-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.22 OPERATING WITHOUT VALID PERMIT PROHIBITED.
   A person is in violation of this chapter if he or she operates or causes to
be operated a sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or not a permit
has been issued for that business under this chapter, and that person knows or
should know that:
   (A)   The business does not have a sexually oriented business permit under
this chapter for any applicable classification;
   (B)   The business has a permit which is under suspension;
   (C)   The business has a permit which has been revoked; or
   (D)   The business has a permit which has expired.
(2011 Code, § 112.22) (Ord. 2005-04, passed 10-3-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
PERMIT PROVISIONS
§ 112.35 PERMITS; ENFORCEMENT RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful, and a person is in violation of this chapter, if
he or she operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business
without a permit.
   (B)   The Town Council or its designee is responsible for granting, denying,
revoking, renewing, suspending, and canceling sexually oriented business
permits for proposed or existing sexually oriented businesses. The Town Council
or its designee is also responsible for ascertaining whether a proposed
sexually oriented business for which a permit is being applied for complies
with all locational requirements of §
112.15 and all other applicable laws.
(2011 Code, § 112.07) (Ord. 2005-04, passed 10-3-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.36 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   No person shall maintain, operate, conduct, or cause to be conducted,
any sexually oriented business within the limits of town without first
obtaining a permit under this section.
   (B)   An applicant for a sexually oriented business permit shall file with
the Town Council a completed application made on a form prescribed and provided
by the Town Council. An application shall be considered complete if it includes
the information required in this section. The applicant shall be qualified
according to the provisions of this chapter. The application is complete when
it includes the information and items required in divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2)
below:
      (1)   An application for permit must contain the following information:
         (a)   The full true name of the applicant, and any other names or
aliases used;
         (b)   The applicant’s current business or mailing address;
         (c)   Proof that the applicant is at least 18 years of age, consisting
of either:
            1.   A copy of the applicant’s birth certificate and current photo;
            2.   A copy of the applicant’s driver’s license with picture; or
            3.   Another picture identification document issued by a government
agency.
         (d)   The name of the business, the business location, the legal
description of the property, and a description of the type of sexually oriented
business;
         (e)   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared, but shall be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches;
         (f)   A signed statement stating:
            1.   The business is authorized by the state to conduct business
within the state;
            2.   The site being applied for meets the requirements of §
112.15; and
            3.   The name and address of the statutory agent or other agent
authorized to receive service of process.
         (g)   If a person wishing to operate a sexually oriented business is
an individual, he or she shall sign the application for a permit as applicant.
If an entity (partnership, corporation, limited liability company, and the
like) or group of individuals seeks to obtain a permit, each individual with
30% or greater ownership interest must sign as an applicant under oath and
provide the information required in this section.
      (2)   The applicant shall be required to pay a non-refundable application
fee as set forth in §
112.39.
   (C)   The information provided by an applicant in connection with the
application for a permit under this chapter shall be maintained by the town on
a confidential basis, and may be disclosed only:
      (1)   To other governmental agencies in connection with a bona fide law
enforcement or public safety function; or
      (2)   As may otherwise be required by law or a court order.
   (D)   Applicants for a permit under this section shall have a continuing
duty to promptly supplement application information required by this section in
the event that the information changes in any way from what is stated on the
application. The failure to comply with this continuing duty within 30 days
from the date of the change by supplementing the application on file with the
Town Council shall be grounds for suspension of a permit.
   (E)   In the event that the Town Council or their designee determines or
learns at any time that the applicant has improperly completed the application
for a proposed sexually oriented business, the Town Council shall promptly
notify the applicant of that fact and allow the applicant ten days to properly
complete the application. The time period for granting or denying a permit
shall be stayed during the period in which the applicant is allowed an
opportunity to properly complete the application.
(2011 Code, § 112.08) (Ord. 2005-04, passed 10-3-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.37 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application properly filed with the town and upon
payment of the non-refundable application fee, the Town Council or its designee
shall immediately stamp the application as received and shall immediately
thereafter send photocopies of the application to agencies responsible for
enforcement of this chapter. Each department or agency shall promptly conduct
an investigation of the applicant, application, and the proposed sexually
oriented business in accordance with its responsibility under law and as set
forth in this chapter. The investigation shall be completed within 20 days of
receipt of the application by the Town Council or its designee. At the
conclusion of its investigation, each department or agency shall indicate on
the photocopy of the application its approval or disapproval of the
application, date it, sign it, and, in the event it disapproves, state the
reasons therefor.
   (B)   After its indication of approval or disapproval, each department or
agency shall immediately return the photocopy of the application to the Town
Council or its designee.
(2011 Code, § 112.09) (Ord. 2005-04, passed 10-3-2005)
§ 112.38 ISSUANCE OR DENIAL.
   (A)   Within 30 days after the receipt of a completed application, the Town
Council shall either issue a permit or issue a written denial of a permit to
the applicant.
   (B)   The Town Council or its designee shall approve the application and
grant a sexually oriented business permit unless one or more of the following
is true:
      (1)   An applicant is less than 18 years of age;
      (2)   An applicant has failed to provide information required by §
112.36 or has provided false information on the application;
      (3)   The premises to be used for the sexually oriented business are not
in compliance with the locational requirements of §
112.15;
      (4)   The applicant failed to pay the nonrefundable permit application
fee; or
      (5)   The applicant has a permit under this chapter that has been revoked
within the previous year.
   (C)   The granting of a permit to a permittee for a sexually oriented
business shall be for one year and is non-transferable to any other person
other than the applicant(s) listed on the application and is valid only for the
location listed on the application.
(2011 Code, § 112.10) (Ord. 2005-04, passed 10-3-2005)
§ 112.39 FEES.
   The application fee for a sexually oriented business permit shall be $100.
(2011 Code, § 112.11) (Ord. 2005-04, passed 10-3-2005)
§ 112.40 PERMIT EXPIRATION.
   Each permit shall expire one year from the date of issuance and may be
renewed only by making application as provided in §
112.36. For renewals, filing of the original sketch or diagram, if applicable,
shall be sufficient. Application for renewal shall be made not more than 120
days and not less than 90 days before the expiration date, and when made less
than 90 days before the expiration date, the expiration of the permit will not
be affected.
(2011 Code, § 112.13) (Ord. 2005-04, passed 10-3-2005)
§ 112.41 SUSPENSION.
   The Town Council or its designee shall issue a written notice of intent to
suspend a permit for a period not to exceed 30 days, if a permittee has
knowingly violated any section of this chapter or has knowingly allowed an
employee of the sexually oriented business to violate this chapter. The
issuance of a written notice of intent to suspend shall not be a prerequisite
to issuance of a written notice of intent to revoke a permit per §
112.42.
(2011 Code, § 112.14) (Ord. 2005-04, passed 10-3-2005)
§ 112.42 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Town Council or its designee shall issue written notice of intent
to revoke a permit if a cause of suspension in §
112.41 occurs and the permit has been suspended for any reason within the
preceding 12 months.
   (B)   The Town Council or its designee shall issue written notice to revoke
a permit if:
      (1)   A permittee gave false information in the material submitted during
the application process;
      (2)   A permittee has knowingly or recklessly allowed possession, use, or
sale of controlled substances in or on the premises;
      (3)   A permittee has knowingly or recklessly allowed prostitution on the
premises;
      (4)   A permittee has knowingly or recklessly operated the sexually
oriented business during a period of time when the permittee’s permit was
suspended; or
      (5)   A permittee has knowingly or recklessly allowed any act of sexual
intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation, or any other specified
sexual activities to occur in or on the permitted premises.
   (C)   When Town Council or its designee revokes a permit, the revocation
shall continue for one year and the permittee shall not be issued a sexually
oriented business permit for one year from the date revocation became
effective.
(2011 Code, § 112.15) (Ord. 2005-04, passed 10-3-2005)
§ 112.43 PERMIT TRANSFER RESTRICTED.
   A permittee shall not operate a sexually oriented business under the
authority of a permit at any place other than the address designated in the
application for permit.
(2011 Code, § 112.17) (Ord. 2005-04, passed 10-3-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 112.55 INSPECTION OF PREMISES.
   Sexually oriented business permittees and their employees shall permit
officers or agents of the town to inspect, from time to time on an occasional
basis, the portions of the sexually oriented business premises where patrons
are permitted, for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the specific
regulations of this chapter, during those times when the sexually oriented
business is occupied by patrons or is open for business. This section shall be
narrowly construed by the town to authorize reasonable inspections of the
permitted premises pursuant to this chapter, but not to authorize a harassing
or excessive pattern of inspection.
(2011 Code, § 112.12) (Ord. 2005-04, passed 10-3-2005)
§ 112.56 ADMINISTRATIVE AND JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   (A)   (1)   If facts exist for denial, suspension, or revocation of a permit
under this chapter, the Town Council or its designee shall notify the applicant
or permittee (respondent) in writing of the intent to deny, suspend, or revoke
the permit, including the grounds therefor, by personal delivery, or by
certified mail. The notification shall be directed to the most current business
address on file with the town. Within five working days of receipt of such
notice, the respondent may provide to the Town Council or its designee, in
writing, a response that shall include a statement of reasons why the permit or
permit should not be denied, suspended, or revoked. Within three days of the
receipt of respondent’s written response, the Town Council shall notify
respondent in writing of the hearing date on respondent’s denial, suspension,
or revocation proceeding.
      (2)   Within ten working days of the receipt of respondent’s written
response, the Town Council shall conduct a hearing at which respondent shall
have the opportunity to be represented by counsel and present evidence and
witnesses on his or her behalf. The Town Council shall issue a written opinion
and decision within five days of the hearing. If a response is not received by
the Town Council in the time provided or, if after a hearing, the Town Council
finds that grounds as specified in this chapter exist for denial, suspension,
or revocation, then such denial, suspension, or revocation shall become final
five days after the Town Council sends, by certified mail, written notice that
the permit has been denied, suspended, or revoked. Such notice shall include a
statement advising the applicant or permittee of the right to appeal such
decision to a court of competent jurisdiction.
      (3)   If the Town Council finds that no grounds exist for denial,
suspension, or revocation of a permit, then within five days after the hearing,
the Town Council shall withdraw the intent to deny, suspend, or revoke the
permit, and shall so notify the respondent in writing by certified mail of such
action and, in the case of an application for a permit, shall contemporaneously
issue the permit.
   (B)   When a decision to deny, suspend, or revoke a permit becomes final,
the applicant or permittee (aggrieved party) whose application for a permit has
been denied, or whose permit has been suspended or revoked, shall have the
right to appeal such action to a court of competent jurisdiction. The following
shall apply to businesses that have previously obtained a license under this
chapter. Upon the filing of any court action to appeal, challenge, restrain, or
otherwise enjoin the town’s enforcement of the denial, suspension, or
revocation, the town shall immediately issue the aggrieved party a provisional
permit. The provisional permit shall allow the aggrieved party to continue
operation of the sexually oriented business, and will expire upon the court’s
entry of a judgment on the aggrieved party’s action to appeal, challenge,
restrain, or otherwise enjoin the town’s enforcement.
(2011 Code, § 112.16) (Ord. 2005-04, passed 10-3-2005)
§ 112.57 CULPABLE MENTAL STATE REQUIRED TO ESTABLISH LIABILITY.
   (A)   Where any provision or offense herein fails to state a necessary level
of culpability to establish a violation or liability, the offense shall be
established upon a showing that the person acted knowingly or recklessly with
regard to the predicate act.
   (B)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, for the purposes of this
chapter, an act by an employee shall be imputed to the sexually oriented
business permittee for the purpose of establishing a violation of this chapter,
or for purposes of license denial, suspension, or revocation only if a
permittee allowed, either knowingly or recklessly, a violation of this chapter
to occur. It shall be a defense to liability that the sexually oriented
business permittee was powerless to prevent the violation.
(2011 Code, § 112.23) (Ord. 2005-04, passed 10-3-2005)
§ 112.58 REMEDIES.
   (A)   In addition to whatever penalties are applicable under the penal code
of this state, and in addition to any other relief available under state
statute, this code, or common law, if any person fails or refuses to obey or
comply with or violates any of the provisions of this chapter, that person
shall be liable for a judgment in favor of the town including attorney fees
incurred by the town plus court costs.
      (1)   Each event or noncompliance shall be considered a separate and
distinct event.
      (2)   Furthermore, each day of continued noncompliance shall be
considered as a separate event.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent or restrict the town from
taking other lawful action in any court of competent jurisdiction as is
necessary to prevent or remedy any noncompliance. These other lawful actions
shall include, but shall not be limited to, an equitable action for injunctive
relief or an action at law for damages. All remedies provided for in this
section shall be cumulative and independently available to the town and the
town shall be authorized to pursue any and all remedies set forth in this
section to the full extent allowed by law.
(2011 Code, § 112.24) (Ord. 2005-04, passed 10-3-2005)
§ 112.59 INJUNCTION.
   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business
in violation of this chapter is subject to a suit for injunction. If any
injunction must be sought, attorney’s fees and costs will be assessed at the
discretion of the court against the violator.
(2011 Code, § 112.25) (Ord. 2005-04, passed 10-3-2005)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
(Reserved)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   MOBILE HOMES
      
152.   FLOOD HAZARD REGULATIONS
      
153.   SIGNS
      
154.   STREET CONSTRUCTION
      
155.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   Placement of structures
   
150.02   Building permit fees
Cross-reference:
   Unsafe building law, see
Chapter 97
§ 150.01 PLACEMENT OF STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Except as herein provided, no person, firm, corporation, or
association shall erect, place, use, or maintain any structure or facility of
any kind in, upon, beneath, above, or over any right-of-way of any public
street or any public way within the town without the express written consent of
the Town Council, or its duly appointed agent for granting the consent.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   Erecting, placing, or maintaining any canopy, sign, or signboard
above or over any sidewalk located upon any portion of any public street,
public way, or right-of-way within the town, so long as the canopy, sign, or
signboard does not inconvenience or interfere with the users of the sidewalk;
and/or
      (2)   Using, maintaining, or replacing any of the following located in,
upon, beneath, above, or over any right-of-way of any public street or any
public way in the town:
         (a)   Electric utility poles, electric transmission lines, or their
appurtenances;
         (b)   Any water distribution pipelines;
         (c)   Any natural gas distribution pipelines;
         (d)   Any telephone utility poles, telephone lines, or their
appurtenances; and/or
         (e)   Any storm, sanitary, or combination sewer collection or
transmission pipeline.
   (C)   The town may enforce the provisions of this section by all legal
remedies, including, but not limited to, the use of a mandatory injunction to
require the abatement of the conditions in violation of this section. In all
actions brought by the town to enforce the provisions of this section, the town
shall be entitled to recover all its costs of the litigation, including a
reasonable attorney’s fee.
(2011 Code, § 150.01) (Ord. 1993-3, passed 7-12-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.02 BUILDING PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Residential.
      (1)   New construction: $0.08 per square foot.
      (2)   Additions: $75.00.
      (3)   Accessory structures: $75.00.
      (4)   Agricultural buildings: $75.00.
      (5)   Swimming pools: $50.00.
   (B)   Commercial.
      (1)   New commercial buildings: $150.00 plus $0.08 per square foot.
      (2)   Additions to commercial buildings: $100.00 plus $0.08 per square
foot.
      (3)   Remodeling of commercial buildings: $100.00 plus $0.08 per square
foot.
      (4)   Institutional: $100.00 plus $0.08 per square foot.
      (5)   Structures other than buildings: $75.00.
      (6)   Wireless communication tower/facility: $1,500.00
      (7)   Cell tower alteration: $500.00.
   (C)   Sign permits. All types: $25.00.
   (D)   Petition fees.
      (1)   Special exception: $300.00.
      (2)   Variance: $150.00.
      (3)   Rezone: $300.00.
      (4)   Vacate: $150.00.
(Res. 2019-A, passed 4-1-2019)
CHAPTER 151: MOBILE HOMES
Section
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   Compliance required for mobile home placement and occupancy
   
151.03   Restrictions for emergency residence in mobile homes
   
151.04   Lot requirements
   
151.05   Violations
§ 151.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING OR USE. A subordinate building or use which is located on
the same lot on which the main building or use is situated, and which is
reasonably necessary and incidental to the conduct of the primary use of the
building or main use.
   DEPENDENT MOBILE HOME. A mobile home which does not possess a toilet, sink,
bath, or shower facilities.
   DWELLING. A building or portion thereof, but not a mobile home, designed
exclusively for residential occupancy including one-family, two-family, and
multiple-family dwellings, but not including hotels, boarding houses, and
lodging houses.
   INDEPENDENT MOBILE HOME. A mobile home which has a self-contained toilet,
sink, and bath or shower facilities.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied or suitable for occupancy by one main
building, structure, or use with accessory buildings.
   MOBILE HOME. Any vehicle, including equipment sold as a part of a vehicle,
which is so constructed as to permit its being used as a conveyance upon public
streets or highways by either self-propelled or non-self-propelled means, which
is designed, constructed, or reconstructed, or added to by means of an enclosed
addition or room in a manner that will permit the occupancy thereof as a
dwelling for one or more persons, which is both used and occupied as a dwelling
having no foundation other than wheels, jacks, skirting, or other temporary
supports.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. An area of land upon which five or more mobile homes are
harbored for the purpose of being occupied as principal residences and includes
all real and personal property used in the operation of the MOBILE HOME PARK.
An area of land that is subdivided and contains individual lots which are
leased or otherwise contracted for is a MOBILE HOME PARK if five or more mobile
homes are harbored there for the purpose of being occupied as principal
residences.
   PARTIALLY DEPENDENT MOBILE HOME. A mobile home which possesses toilet and
sink but does not possess a bath or shower facilities.
(2011 Code, § 151.01) (Ord. 1980-1, passed 3-17-1980)
§ 151.02 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED FOR MOBILE HOME PLACEMENT AND OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   No person shall place a mobile home for human occupancy or occupy a
mobile home other than a mobile home placed or occupied in a licensed mobile
home park within the corporate limits within the town, except after compliance
with the conditions hereinafter stated.
   (B)   The lot upon which the mobile home is placed shall contain no less
than 6,200 square feet and be occupied only by the mobile home with its
accessory buildings or uses. The foregoing notwithstanding, one mobile home
with its accessory buildings or uses may be placed upon Lot Number 148 in the
old Town of Ewing, now Brownstown.
   (C)   Each lot upon which a mobile home is placed shall have no less than 50
feet thereof that abuts directly onto a public street, public road, public
alley, or public parking lot.
   (D)   A hard surface area shall be provided for each lot upon which a mobile
home is to be placed, of adequate size, to provide a base for steps to the
mobile home.
   (E)   (1)   The lot upon which the mobile home is placed shall be provided
with anchors or tie-downs to stabilize the mobile home.
      (2)   Unless the tie-down system is designed by a registered professional
engineer or architect, tie-downs shall be placed not more than 24 feet on
centers beginning from the front wall, from the first stud and/or first cross
member. Not more than six feet open-end spacing shall be provided at the rear
wall of the mobile home unless additional tie-downs are provided.
      (3)   Provision for diagonal ties between ground anchors and the mobile
home shall be made in conjunction with each vertical tie down.
      (4)   Tie-downs exposed to weathering shall be resistant to weathering
deterioration at least equivalent to that provided by a coating of zinc on
steel of not less than 0.30 ounces per square foot of surface coated. Each tie-
down shall be designed to resist an allowable working load equal to or
exceeding 3,150 pounds and shall be capable of withstanding a 50% overload
without failure.
(2011 Code, § 151.02) (Ord. 1980-1, passed 3-17-1980; Ord. 1982-3, passed 6-7-
1982; Ord. 1993-4, passed 2-7-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.03 RESTRICTIONS FOR EMERGENCY RESIDENCE IN MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   A mobile home, other than a mobile home placed in a licensed mobile
home park, may be placed within the corporate limits of the town for a period
of not more than one calendar year on a lot upon which is located an existing
dwelling, which dwelling is to be repaired or replaced due to damage by fire,
explosion, or act of God, or which is to be repaired or replaced due to
obsolescence.
   (B)   A mobile home placed upon the lot shall be occupied only by the
immediate previous residents of the dwelling located on the lot and shall be
subject to the same conditions as prescribed in §
151.02.
(2011 Code, § 151.03) (Ord. 1980-1, passed 3-17-1980) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.04 LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall place a dwelling or occupy a dwelling within the
corporate limits of the town, except after compliance with the conditions
hereinafter stated.
   (B)   The lot upon which the dwelling is placed shall contain no less than
6,200 square feet and be occupied only by the dwelling with its accessory
buildings or uses. The foregoing notwithstanding, one dwelling with its
accessory buildings or uses may be placed upon Lot Number 148 in the old Town
of Ewing, now Brownstown.
   (C)   Each lot upon which a dwelling is placed shall have no less than 50
feet thereof that abuts directly onto a public street, public road, public
alley, or public parking lot.
(2011 Code, § 151.04) (Ord. 1980-1, passed 3-17-1980; Ord. 1982-3, passed 6-7-
1982; Ord. 1993-4, passed 2-7-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.05 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   This chapter shall be of no force and effect as to mobile homes and
dwellings placed within the town on or before the effective date hereof.
However, in the event the lot upon which is located an existing mobile home or
dwelling ceases, for a period of 30 days after the effective date of this
chapter, to be used for the placement of the mobile home or dwellings, the use
of the lot regarding the placement of mobile homes or dwellings shall be
controlled by this chapter.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be served by
the Town Council with written notice stating the nature of the violation, and
providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The
person found to be violating this chapter shall, within the period of time
stated within the notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (C)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in this section shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (D)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the town for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned to the
town by reason of the violation.
   (E)   The town may apply to the county circuit court for an order to compel
the removal of any mobile home or dwelling placed upon a lot within the town in
violation of the terms of this chapter, or for an order enjoining the further
violation of this chapter, as well as the cost of the action together with
reasonable attorney fees of the town, to be assessed by the court against the
violator of this chapter.
(2011 Code, § 151.05) (Ord. 1980-1, passed 3-17-1980) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD HAZARD REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Statutory authorization
   
152.02   Findings of fact
   
152.03   Statement of purpose
   
152.04   Objectives
   
152.05   Definitions
   
152.06   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
152.07   Basis for establishing regulatory flood data
   
152.08   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
152.09   Compliance
   
152.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.11   Discrepancy between mapped floodplain and actual ground elevations
   
152.12   Interpretation
   
152.13   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
152.14   Effective date
Administration
   
152.25   Designation of Administrator
   
152.26   Permit procedures
   
152.27   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
152.40   General standards
   
152.41   Specific standards
   
152.42   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
152.43   Critical facility
   
152.44   Standards for identified floodways
   
152.45   Standards for identified fringe
   
152.46   Standards for SFHAs without established base flood elevation and/or
floodways/fringes
   
152.47   Standards for flood prone areas
Variance Procedures
   
152.60   Designation of Board of Zoning and Appeals (Plan Commission)
   
152.61   Duties of Board
   
152.62   Variance procedures
   
152.63   Conditions for variances
   
152.64   Variance notification
   
152.65   Historic structures
   
152.66   Special conditions
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The state legislature has in I.C. 36-1-4-11 granted the power to local
government units to control land use within their jurisdictions. Therefore, the
Town Council does hereby adopt the following floodplain management regulations.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 10-6-2014)
§ 152.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the town are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities, and by the
occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to
other lands which are inadequately elevated, inadequately flood-proofed, or
otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 10-6-2014)
§ 152.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards, which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage;
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands; and
   (F)   Make federal flood insurance available for structures and their
contents in the town by fulfilling the requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 10-6-2014)
§ 152.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To protect human life and health;
   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone, and sewer lines, streets, and bridges
located in floodplains; and
   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood blight
areas.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 10-6-2014)
§ 152.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A ZONE. Portions of the SFHA in which the principal source of flooding is
runoff from rainfall, snowmelt, or a combination of both. In A ZONES,
floodwaters may move slowly or rapidly, but waves are usually not a significant
threat to buildings. These areas are labeled as Zone A, Zone AE, Zones A1-A30,
Zone AO, Zone AH, Zone AR and Zone A99 on a FIRM. The definitions are presented
below.
      (1)   ZONE A. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event. Because detailed hydraulic analyses have not been performed, no base
flood elevation or depths are shown.
      (2)   ZONE AE AND A1-A30. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual
chance flood event determined by detailed methods. Base flood elevations are
shown within these zones. (ZONE AE is on new and revised maps in place of ZONES
A1-A30.)
      (3)   ZONE AO. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain) where average depths are
between one and three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed
hydraulic analyses are shown within this zone.
      (4)   ZONE AH. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding (usually areas of ponding) where average depths are between one and
three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed hydraulic analyses are
shown within this zone.
      (5)   ZONE AR. Areas that result from the decertification of a previously
accredited flood protection system that is determined to be in the process of
being restored to provide base flood protection.
      (6)   ZONE A99. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event, but which will ultimately be protected upon completion of an under-
construction federal flood protection system. These are areas of special flood
hazard where enough progress has been made on the construction of a protection
system, such as dikes, dams, and levees, to consider it complete for insurance
rating purposes. ZONE A99 may only be used when the flood protection system has
reached specified statutory progress toward completion. No base flood
elevations or depths are shown.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure with a floor area
400 square feet or less that is located on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should constitute a minimal initial
investment, may not be used for human habitation, and be designed to have
minimal flood damage potential. Examples of accessory structures are detached
garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns, and hay sheds.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on the community’s
flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation of the 1% annual chance flood.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a structure having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BOUNDARY RIVER. The part of the Ohio River that forms the boundary between
Kentucky and Indiana.
   BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY. The floodway of a boundary river.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity that has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives for those communities in the regular
program that have gone beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to
develop extra measures to provide protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire, and emergency response
installations, installations which produce, use, or store hazardous materials
or hazardous waste.
   D ZONE. Unstudied areas where flood hazards are undetermined, but flooding
is possible. Flood insurance is available in participating communities but is
not required by regulation in this zone.
   DEVELOPMENT.  
      (1)   Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including but not limited to:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a structure or any
addition to a structure;
         (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
         (c)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction
of roads, or similar projects;
         (d)   Construction of flood control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements, and the like;
         (e)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation, or drilling
operations;
         (f)   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
         (g)   Storage of materials; or
         (h)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance of
existing structures and facilities such as painting, re-roofing; resurfacing
roads; or gardening, plowing, and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation, or the construction of permanent
structures.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, filled stem wall foundations (also called chain walls), pilings, or
columns (posts and piers).
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A certified statement that verifies a structure’s
elevation information.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The first phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP. It is intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at
subsidized rates on all insurable structures in that community before the
effective date of the initial FIRM.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA)
has delineated the areas of flood hazards and regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official hydraulic and hydrologic report
provided by FEMA. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the FIRM, FBFM
(where applicable), and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD PRONE AREA. Any land area acknowledged by a community as being
susceptible to inundation by water from any source. (See FLOOD.)
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPG). The elevation of the regulatory flood plus two
feet at any given location in the SFHA. (See FREEBOARD.)
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining any wetland, lake, or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory
flood. The FLOODPLAIN includes both the floodway and the fringe districts.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited
to emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances, and other applications of police power which control development in
flood prone areas. This term describes federal, state, or local regulations in
any combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing and reducing
flood loss and damage. FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS are also referred to
as FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS, FLOODPLAIN ORDINANCE, FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
ORDINANCE, and FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   FLOODPROOFING (DRY FLOODPROOFING). A method of protecting a structure that
ensures that the structure, together with attendant utilities and sanitary
facilities, is watertight to the floodproofed design elevation with walls that
are substantially impermeable to the passage of water. All structural
components of these walls are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy, and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form used to certify compliance for
nonresidential structures as an alternative to elevating structures to or above
the FPG. This certification must be by a registered professional engineer or
architect.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodpiains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flood flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood.
   FRINGE. The portions of the floodplain lying outside the floodway.
   HARDSHIP. As related to variances of this chapter, the exceptional HARDSHIP
that would result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The Town
Council requires that the variance is exceptional, unusual, and peculiar to the
property involved. Mere economic or financial HARDSHIP alone is not
exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps,
personal preferences, or the disapproval of one’s neighbors likewise cannot, as
a rule, qualify as an exceptional HARDSHIP. All of these problems can be
resolved through other means without granting a variance, even if the
alternative is more expensive, or requires the property owner to build
elsewhere or put the parcel to a different use than originally intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to the start of construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURES. Any structures individually listed on the National
Register of Historic Places or the Indiana State Register of Historic Sites and
Structures.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC). The cost to repair a substantially
damaged structure that exceeds the minimal repair cost and that is required to
bring a substantially damaged structure into compliance with the local flood
damage prevention ordinance. Acceptable mitigation measures are elevation,
relocation, demolition, or any combination thereof. All renewal and new
business flood insurance policies with effective dates on or after June 1,
1997, will include ICC coverage.
   LETTER OF FINAL DETERMINATION (LFD). A letter issued by FEMA during the
mapping update process which establishes final elevations and provides the new
flood map and flood study to the community. The LFD initiates the six-month
adoption period. The community must adopt or amend its floodplain management
regulations during this six-month period unless the community has previously
incorporated an automatic adoption clause.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). A general term used to refer to the several
types of revisions and amendments to FEMA maps that can be accomplished by
letter. They include letter of map amendment (LOMA), letter of map revision
(LOMR), and letter of map revision based on fill (LOMR-F). The definitions are
presented below.
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment by letter to the
currently effective FEMA map that establishes that a property is not located in
a SFHA through the submittal of property specific elevation data. A LOMA is
only issued by FEMA.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official revision to the
currently effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones,
delineations, and elevations.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). An official revision
by letter to an effective NFIP map. A LOMR-F provides FEMA’s determination
concerning whether a structure or parcel has been elevated on fill above the
BFE and excluded from the SFHA.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The lowest elevation, after completion of
construction, of the ground, sidewalk, patio, deck support, or basement
entryway immediately next to the structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest elevation described among the following:
      (1)   The top of the lowest level of the structure;
      (2)   The top of the basement floor;
      (3)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level of
the structure;
      (4)   The top of the first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or
pillars; and
      (5)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure, other than a basement,
below an elevated structure where the walls of the enclosure provide any
resistance to the flow of floodwaters unless:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters by
providing a minimum of two openings (in addition to doorways and windows) in a
minimum of two exterior walls; if a structure has more than one enclosed area,
each shall have openings on exterior walls;
         (b)   The total net area of all openings shall be at least one square
inch for every one square foot of enclosed area; the bottom of all such
openings shall be no higher than one foot above the exterior grade or the
interior grade immediately beneath each opening, whichever is higher; and
         (c)   Such enclosed space shall be usable solely for the parking of
vehicles and building access.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, excluding the land (as agreed to between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. MARKET VALUE can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of building (actual cash value), or
adjusted assessed values.
   MITIGATION.  Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk
to people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of
MITIGATION is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the
cost of disaster response and recovery.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD) OF 1929. As corrected in 1929, is a
vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within
the floodplain.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the start of construction
commenced after the effective date of the community’s first floodplain
ordinance.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   NON-BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY. The floodway of any river or stream other than
a boundary river.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 (NAVD 88). As adopted in 1993, is a
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, canalization,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation, or other material in, along, across, or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard, or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water; or due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
   ONE-PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. The flood that has a 1% chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with the
letter A is subject to the ONE-PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. See REGULATORY
FLOOD.
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR). An official republication of a community’s FEMA
map to effect changes to base (1% annual chance) flood elevations, floodplain
boundary delineations, regulatory floodways, and planimetric features. These
changes typically occur as a result of structural works or improvements,
annexations resulting in additional flood hazard areas, or correction to base
flood elevations or SFHAs.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community, neighborhood, or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
quarters for recreational camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of the community’s participation in the NFIP
where more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and
higher amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure that is acceptable
to and approved by the State Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The regulatory flood elevation at any location is
as defined in §
152.07 of this chapter. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the terms BASE
FLOOD, 1% ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD, and 100-YEAR FLOOD.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on the average, equaled or exceeded 25% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SECTION 1316. The section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new flood insurance coverage shall be provided
for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a duly
constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public body to
be in violation of state or local laws, regulations, or ordinances that
intended to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy in
flood prone areas.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). Lands within the jurisdiction of the town
subject to inundation by the regulatory flood. The SFHAs of the town are
generally identified as such on the Jackson County, Indiana and Incorporated
Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map dated November 19, 2014 as well as any future
updates, amendments, or revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency with the most recent date. (These areas are shown on a FIRM as Zone A,
AE, A1-A30, AH, AR, A99, or AO.)
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and the date the
building permit was issued, provided the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION, repair,
reconstruction, or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The
ACTUAL START means either the first placement of permanent construction of a
structure on a site, such as the pouring of a slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers,
foundations, or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home, or a prefabricated building. The term also includes
recreational vehicles to be installed on a site for more than 180 days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the START OF CONSTRUCTION of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred REPETITIVE LOSS
or SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term
does not include improvements of structures to correct existing violations of
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code requirements or any alteration
of an HISTORIC STRUCTURE, provided that the alteration will not preclude the
structures continued designation as an HISTORIC STRUCTURE.
   SUSPENSION. The removal of a participating community from the NFIP because
the community has not enacted and/or enforced the proper floodplain management
regulations required for participation in the NFIP.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter, which
permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter where
specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A structure or other development without the
elevation, other certification, or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel, or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
Shaded X ZONES shown on recent FIRMs (B zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% chance of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood). Unshaded X ZONES (C zones on older FIRMs)
designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is less
than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a FIRM that reflects the severity or type
of flooding in the area.
   ZONE A. See definition for A ZONE.
   ZONE B, C, AND X. Areas identified in the community as areas of moderate or
minimal hazard from the principal source of flood in the area. However,
buildings in these zones could be flooded by severe, concentrated rainfall
coupled with inadequate local drainage systems. Flood insurance is available in
participating communities but is not required by regulation in these zones.
ZONE X is used on new and revised maps in place of ZONES B AND C.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 10-6-2014)
§ 152.06 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all SFHAs and known flood prone areas within the
jurisdiction of the town.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 10-6-2014)
§ 152.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING REGULATORY FLOOD DATA.
   This chapter’s protection standard is the regulatory flood. The best
available regulatory flood data is listed below.
   (A)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for the
studied SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the town shall be as delineated on the
1% annual chance flood profiles in the Flood Insurance Study of Jackson County,
Indiana and Incorporated Areas and the corresponding flood insurance rate map
dated November 19, 2014 as well as any future updates, amendments, or
revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most
recent date.
   (B)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for each
of the SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the town, delineated as an A Zone on
the Jackson County, Indiana and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map
dated November 19, 2014 as well as any future updates, amendments, or
revisions, prepared by FEMA with the most recent date, shall be according to
the best data available as provided by the State Department of Natural
Resources; provided the upstream drainage area from the subject site is greater
than one square mile. Whenever a party disagrees with the best available data,
the party needs to replace existing data with better data that meets current
engineering standards. To be considered, this data must be submitted to the
State Department of Natural Resources for review and subsequently approved.
   (C)   In the absence of a published FEMA map, or absence of identification
on a FEMA map, the regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits of
any watercourse in the community’s known flood prone areas shall be according
to the best data available as provided by the State Department of Natural
Resources; provided the upstream drainage area from the subject site is greater
than one square mile.
   (D)   Upon issuance of a Letter of Final Determination (LFD), any more
restrictive data in the new (not yet effective) mapping/study shall be utilized
for permitting and construction (development) purposes, replacing all
previously effective less restrictive flood hazard data provided by FEMA.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 10-6-2014)
§ 152.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in areas of special flood hazard.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 10-6-2014) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure shall hereafter be located, extended, converted or structurally
altered within the SFHA without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. No land or stream within the SFHA shall
hereafter be altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 10-6-2014) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 10-6-2014)
§ 152.11 DISCREPANCY BETWEEN MAPPED FLOODPLAIN AND ACTUAL GROUND ELEVATIONS.
   (A)   In cases where there is a discrepancy between the mapped floodplain
(SFHA) on the FIRM and the actual ground elevations, the elevation provided on
the profiles shall govern.
   (B)   If the elevation of the site in question is below the base flood
elevation, that site shall be included in the SFHA and regulated accordingly.
   (C)   If the elevation (natural grade) of the site in question is above the
base flood elevation and not located within the floodway, that site shall be
considered outside the SFHA and the floodplain regulations will not be applied.
The property owner shall be advised to apply for a LOMA.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 10-6-2014)
§ 152.12 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 10-6-2014)
§ 152.13 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Therefore, this chapter does not create any
liability on the part of the town, the State Department of Natural Resources,
or the state, for any flood damage that results from reliance on this chapter
or any administrative decision made lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 10-6-2014)
§ 152.14 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect on November 19, 2014.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 10-6-2014)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.25 DESIGNATION OF ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Town Council hereby appoints the Clerk-Treasurer to administer and
implement the provisions of this chapter and is herein referred to as the
Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 10-6-2014)
§ 152.26 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be made to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her prior to any
development activities, and may include, but not be limited to, the following:
plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and
elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed structures, earthen
fill, storage of materials or equipment, drainage facilities, and the location
of the foregoing.
   (B)   Specifically, the following information is required.
      (1)   Application stage.
         (a)   A description of the proposed development;
         (b)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structure(s) in relation to existing roads and streams;
         (c)   A legal description of the property site;
         (d)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed
development locations and existing and proposed land grades;
         (e)   Elevation of the top of the planned lowest floor (including
basement) of all proposed buildings. Elevation should be in NAVD 88 or NGVD;
         (f)   Elevation (in NAVD 88 or NGVD) to which any non-residential
structure will be floodproofed; and
         (g)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development. A hydrologic and
hydraulic engineering study is required and any watercourse changes submitted
to DNR for approval and then to FEMA as a letter of map revision. (See § 152.27
(B)(6) for additional information.)
      (2)   Construction stage.
         (a)   Upon establishment of the lowest floor of an elevated structure
or structure constructed on fill, it shall be the duty of the applicant to
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the NAVD 88 or NGVD
elevation of the lowest floor, as built. Said certification shall be prepared
by or under the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor or
professional engineer and certified by the same. The Floodplain Administrator
shall review the lowest floor elevation survey data submitted. The applicant
shall correct deficiencies detected by such review before any further work is
allowed to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or failure to make said
corrections required hereby shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the
project. Any work undertaken prior to submission of the elevation certification
shall be at the applicant’s risk.
         (b)   Upon establishment of the flood proofed elevation of a
floodproofed structure, it shall be the duty of the applicant to submit to the
Floodplain Administrator a floodproofing certificate. Certification shall be
prepared by or under the direct supervision of a registered professional
engineer and certified by same. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the
floodproofing certification submitted. The applicant shall correct any
deficiencies detected by such review before any further work is allowed to
proceed. Failure to submit the floodproofing certification or failure to make
correction required shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
      (3)   Finished construction. Upon completion of construction, an
elevation certification which depicts the “as-built” lowest floor elevation is
required to be submitted to the Floodplain Administrator. If the project
includes a floodproofing measure, floodproofing certification is required to be
submitted by the applicant to the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 10-6-2014) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.27 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or designated staff is hereby
authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The
Administrator is further authorized to render interpretations of this chapter,
which are consistent with its spirit and purpose.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development permits to assure that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
      (2)   Inspect and inventory damaged structures in the SFHA and complete
substantial damage determinations;
      (3)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
State Department of Natural Resources for all development projects subject to §
152.44, and §
152.46(A) of this chapter, and maintain a record of such authorization (either
copy of actual permit/authorization or floodplain analysis/regulatory
assessment);
      (4)   Ensure that all necessary federal or state permits have been
received prior to issuance of the local floodplain development permit. Copies
of such permits/authorizations are to be maintained on file with the floodplain
development permit;
      (5)   Maintain and track permit records involving additions and
improvements to residences located in the floodway;
      (6)   Notify adjacent communities and the state floodplain coordinator
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit copies of
such notifications to FEMA;
      (7)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request local
permit documents, damaged structure inventories, substantial damage
determinations, regulatory flood data, SFHA maps, Letters of map change (LOMC),
copies of DNR permits, letters of authorization, and floodplain analysis and
regulatory assessments (letters of recommendation), federal permit documents,
and “as-built” elevation and floodproofing data for all buildings constructed
subject to this chapter.
      (8)   Utilize and enforce all letters of map change (LOMC) or physical
map revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently effective SFHA maps of the
community;
      (9)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished;
      (10)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance;
      (11)   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, in
accordance with §
152.26;
      (12)   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new or
substantially improved structures have been floodproofed in accordance with §
152.26;
      (13)   Stop-work orders.
         (a)   Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator, work on any
building, structure, or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease.
         (b)   Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner
of the property, or to his or her agent, or to the person doing the work, and
shall state the conditions under which work may be resumed.
      (14)   Revocation of permits.
         (a)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval,
issued under the provisions of the chapter, in cases where there has been any
false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application
or plans on which the permit or approval was based.
         (b)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon
determination by the Floodplain Administrator that the construction, erection,
alteration, repair, moving, demolition, installation, or replacement of the
structure for which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in
conformity with, the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 10-6-2014)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 152.40 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs and known flood prone areas, the following provisions are
required.
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage below the FPG.
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, utility meters, and other service facilities shall be located at/
above the FPG or designed so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components below the FPG. Water and sewer pipes, electrical and
telephone lines, submersible pumps, and other waterproofed service facilities
may be located below the FPG.
   (F)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (G)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (H)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (I)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a structure
that is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of “new construction” as contained in this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 10-6-2014) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.41 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Building protection requirement. In addition to the requirements of §
152.40, all structures to be located in the SFHA shall be protected from flood
damage below the FPG. This building protection requirement applies to the
following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of any structure having a floor area
greater than 400 square feet;
      (2)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure where the
cost of the addition or improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the
existing structure (excluding the value of the land);
      (3)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged structure where the
costs of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure (excluding the value of the
land) before damage occurred;
      (4)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days;
      (5)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. This chapter does not apply to returning the existing
manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it was removed
to avoid flood damage;
      (6)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive loss structure; and
      (7)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure with a
previous addition or improvement constructed since the community’s first
floodplain ordinance.
   (B)   Residential structures. New construction or substantial improvement of
any residential structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest floor;
including basement, at or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood
elevation). Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a
structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of
floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of division (D)
below.
   (C)   Nonresidential structures.
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial, or nonresidential structure (or manufactured home) shall either
have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above the FPG (two
feet above the base flood elevation) or be floodproofed to or above the FPG.
Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a structure,
openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of floodwaters shall
be provided in accordance with the standards of division (D) below.
      (2)   Structures located in all A Zones may be floodproofed in lieu of
being elevated if done in accordance with the following.
         (a)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify
that the structure has been designed so that below the FPG, the structure and
attendant utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the
effects of the regulatory flood. The structure design shall take into account
flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures, and impacts
from debris or ice. Such certification shall be provided to the official as set
forth in §
152.27(B)(12).
         (b)   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human
intervention and without an outside source of electricity.
   (D)   Elevated structures.
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvements of elevated structures
shall have the lowest floor at or above the FPG.
      (2)   Elevated structures with fully enclosed areas formed by foundation
and other exterior walls below the flood protection grade shall be designed to
preclude finished living space and designed to allow for the entry and exit of
floodwaters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior
walls.
      (3)   Designs must meet the following minimum criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings located in a minimum of two
exterior walls having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot above
the exterior grade or the interior grade immediately beneath each opening,
whichever is higher;
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions;
         (d)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to
allow for parking for vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator);
         (e)   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms; and
         (f)   The interior grade of such enclosed area shall be at an
elevation at or higher than the exterior grade.
   (E)   Structures constructed on fill. A residential or nonresidential
structure may be constructed on a permanent land fill in accordance with the
following.
      (1)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the
standard or modified Proctor test method. The results of the test showing
compliance shall be retained in the permit file.
      (2)   The fill shall extend ten feet beyond the foundation of the
structure before sloping below the BFE.
      (3)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or bulkheading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three horizontal to one vertical.
      (4)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
      (5)   The top of the lowest floor including basements shall be at or
above the FPG.
   (F)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles to be installed or substantially
improved on a site for more than 180 days must meet one of the following
requirements.
      (1)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on
a site outside a manufactured home park or subdivision; in a new manufactured
home park or subdivision; in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision; or in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on
which a manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as a result of a
flood.
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor shall be at or above the FPG and securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in division (D) above.
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (2)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on
a site in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision that has not been
substantially damaged by a flood.
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated so that the lowest floor
of the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other
foundation elevations that are no less than 36 inches in height above grade and
be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in division (D) above.
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (3)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site shall either:
         (a)   Be on site for less than 180 days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use (defined as being on
its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions); or
         (c)   Meet the requirements for manufactured homes as stated earlier
in this section.
   (G)   Accessory structures.
      (1)   Relief to the elevation or dry floodproofing standards may be
granted for accessory structures.
      (2)   Such structures must meet the following standards:
         (a)   Shall not be used for human habitation;
         (b)   Shall be constructed of flood resistant materials;
         (c)   Shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the minimum
resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
         (d)   Shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation;
         (e)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment
shall be elevated or floodproofed to or above the FPG; and
         (f)   Shall be designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters
to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as
required for elevated structures in division (D) above.
   (H)   Above ground gas or liquid storage tanks. All above ground gas or
liquid storage tanks shall be anchored to prevent flotation or lateral
movement.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 10-6-2014) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.42 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions), which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five acres.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 10-6-2014) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.43 CRITICAL FACILITY.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA. Construction of new critical facilities
shall be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated to or above the FPG at the site. Floodproofing and
sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be
displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above
the FPG shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 10-6-2014) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.44 STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   Located within SFHAs, established in §
152.07, are areas designated as floodways.
      (1)   The floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of
floodwaters, which carry debris, potential projectiles, and has erosion
potential.
      (2)   If the site is in an identified floodway, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the State Department of Natural
Resources and apply for a permit for construction in a floodway.
      (3)   Under the provisions of I.C. 14-28-1, a permit for construction in
a floodway from the State Department of Natural Resources is required prior to
the issuance of a local building permit for any excavation, deposit,
construction, or obstruction activity located in the floodway. This includes
land preparation activities such as filling, grading, clearing, paving, and the
like undertaken before the actual start of construction of the structure.
However, it does exclude non-substantial additions/improvements to existing
(lawful) residences in a non-boundary river floodway.
      (4)   I.C. 14-28-1-26 allows construction of a non-substantial addition/
improvement to a residence in a non-boundary river floodway without obtaining a
permit for construction in the floodway from the State Department of Natural
Resources. If fill is needed to elevate an addition above the existing grade,
prior approval for the fill is required from the State Department of Natural
Resources.
   (B)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until a
permit or letter of authorization (when applicable) has been issued by the
State Department of Natural Resources granting approval for construction in the
floodway. Once a permit for construction in a floodway or letter of
authorization has been issued by the State Department of Natural Resources, the
Floodplain Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit,
provided the provisions contained in §§
152.40 through
152.47 of this chapter have been met. The floodplain development permit cannot
be less restrictive than the permit for construction in a floodway issued by
the State Department of Natural Resources. However, a community’s more
restrictive regulations (if any) shall take precedence.
   (C)   No development shall be allowed, which acting alone or in combination
with existing or future development, that will adversely affect the efficiency
of, or unduly restrict the capacity of the floodway. This adverse affect is
defined as an increase in the elevation of the regulatory flood of at least
0.15 of a foot as determined by comparing the regulatory flood elevation under
the project condition to that under the natural or pre-floodway condition as
proven with hydraulic analyses.
   (D)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill (including
levees) the town shall submit the data and request that FEMA revise the
regulatory flood data per mapping standard regulations found at 44 C.F.R. §
65.12.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 10-6-2014)
§ 152.45 STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FRINGE.
   If the site is located in an identified fringe, then the Floodplain
Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit provided the
provisions contained in §§
152.40 through
152.47 of this chapter have been met. The key provision is that the top of the
lowest floor of any new or substantially improved structure shall be at or
above the FPG.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 10-6-2014) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.46 STANDARDS FOR SFHAS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION AND/OR
FLOODWAYS/FRINGES.
   (A)   Drainage area upstream of the site is greater than one square mile.
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage area
upstream of the site is greater than one square mile, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the State Department of Natural
Resources for review and comment.
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
either a permit for construction in a floodway (including letters of
authorization) or a floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment citing the 1%
annual chance flood elevation and the recommended flood protection grade has
been received from the State Department of Natural Resources.
      (3)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper permit
for construction in a floodway (including letters of authorization) or
floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment approving the proposed development, a
floodplain development permit may be issued provided the conditions of the
floodplain development permit are not less restrictive than the conditions
received from the State Department of Natural Resources and the provisions
contained in §§
152.40 through
152.47 of this chapter have been met.
   (B)   Drainage area upstream of the site is less than one square mile.
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area upstream
of the site is less than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator shall
require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the limits of
the floodplain and 1% annual chance flood elevation for the site.
      (2)   Upon receipt, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
floodplain development permit, provided the provisions contained in §§
152.40 through
152.47 of this chapter have been met.
   (C)   Cumulative effect. The total cumulative effect of the proposed
development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated development,
shall not increase the regulatory flood more than 0.14 of one foot and shall
not increase flood damages or potential flood damages.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 10-6-2014) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.47 STANDARDS FOR FLOOD PRONE AREAS.
   All development in known flood prone areas not identified on FEMA maps, or
where no FEMA published map is available, shall meet applicable standards as
required per §§
152.40 through
152.47 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 10-6-2014) Penalty, see §
152.99
VARIANCE PROCEDURES
§ 152.60 DESIGNATION OF BOARD OF ZONING AND APPEALS (PLAN COMMISSION).
   The Town Council, acting as the Board of Zoning and Appeals (Plan
Commission), shall hear and decide appeals and requests for variances from
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 10-6-2014)
§ 152.61 DUTIES OF BOARD.
   The Variance and Appeals Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is
alleged an error in any requirement, decision, or determination is made by the
Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of this chapter.
Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Board may appeal such decision to
the County Circuit Court.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 10-6-2014)
§ 152.62 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   In passing upon such applications, the Variance and Appeals Board shall
consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards
specified in other sections of this chapter and the following:
   (A)   The danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
   (B)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
   (C)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
   (D)   The necessity of the facility to a waterfront location, where
applicable;
   (E)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
   (F)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
   (G)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
   (H)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
   (I)   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment of
transport of the floodwaters at the site; and
   (J)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and bridges.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 10-6-2014)
§ 152.63 CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variances shall only be issued when there is:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship; and
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public,
or conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
   (B)   No variance for a residential use within a floodway subject to §
152.44 or §
152.46(A) of this chapter may be granted.
   (C)   Any variance granted in a floodway subject to §
152.44 or §
152.46(A) of this chapter will require a permit from the State Department of
Natural Resources.
   (D)   Variances to the provisions for flood hazard reduction of §
152.41, may be granted only when a new structure is to be located on a lot of
one-half acre or less in size, contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the flood protection grade.
   (E)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (F)   Variances may be granted for the reconstruction or restoration of any
structure individually listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Register of Historic Sites and Structures.
   (G)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the flood protection grade and the
elevation to which the lowest floor is to be built and stating that the cost of
the flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from
the reduced lowest floor elevation. (See § 152.64.)
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency or
the State Department of Natural Resources upon request. (See § 152.64.)
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 10-6-2014)
§ 152.64 VARIANCE NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted that allows the lowest
floor of a structure to be built below the flood protection grade shall be
given written notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the flood
protection grade will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
      (2)   Such construction below the flood protection grade increases risks
to life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the office of the County Recorder and shall be recorded in a
manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator will maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 10-6-2014)
§ 152.65 HISTORIC STRUCTURES.
   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of “historic
structures” upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation
will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as an “historic
structure” and the variance is the minimum to preserve the historic character
and design of the structure.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 10-6-2014)
§ 152.66 SPECIAL CONDITIONS.
   Upon the consideration of the factors listed in §§
152.60 through
152.66, and the purposes of this chapter, the Town Council may attach such
conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the
purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 10-6-2014)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit in the SFHA or
failure to comply with the requirements of a floodplain development permit or
conditions of a variance shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter. All
violations shall be considered a common nuisance and shall be punishable by a
fine not exceeding $2,500.
   (B)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the violation
continues to exist
   (C)   The Floodplain Administrator shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore
may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
   (D)   Nothing herein shall prevent the town from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 10-6-2014)
CHAPTER 153: SIGNS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Purpose and title
   
153.02   Scope of application
   
153.03   Administration
   
153.04   Definitions; rules of interpretation
Types of Signs; Regulations
   
153.15   Nonconforming signs
   
153.16   Prohibited signs; special exemptions with written permit
   
153.17   Exempt signs
   
153.18   Sign standards
   
153.19   Automobile service station signs
   
153.20   Campaign signs
   
153.21   Temporary signs
Sign Permit Provisions
   
153.35   Sign permit required
   
153.36   Permit application procedure
   
153.37   Issuance of sign permit
   
153.38   Permit fees
Administration and Enforcement
   
153.50   Stop orders
   
153.51   Inspections
   
153.52   Notice of violation
   
153.53   Right of injunction
   
153.54   Right of entry
   
153.55   Presumption of violator’s identity
   
153.56   Appeals
   
153.57   Confiscation of snipe sign
 
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 PURPOSE AND TITLE.
   (A)   The purposes of this chapter are:
      (1)   To regulate, classify, restrict, and control the location, size,
type, and placement of all signs and sign structures;
      (2)   To eliminate and prevent excessive and confusing sign displays
which do not relate to the premises on which they are located within the town;
      (3)   To preserve the natural beauty and environment which is
instrumental in attracting those who come to visit, trade, attend school, or
set up residence;
      (4)   To safeguard, stabilize, and enhance property values;
      (5)   To protect public and private investment in buildings and open
spaces;
      (6)   To ensure a consistent and appropriate aesthetic environment; and
      (7)   To protect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   This chapter shall be known as the “Sign Ordinance”.
(2011 Code, § 153.01) (Ord. 2004-01, passed 4-5-2004)
§ 153.02 SCOPE OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   All construction, relocation, enlargement, alteration, and
modification of signs within the town shall conform to the requirements of this
chapter, all state and federal regulations concerning signs and advertising,
the Uniform Building Code, and the National Electric Code.
   (B)   If a permit for a sign has been issued in accordance with law prior to
the effective date of this chapter, and provided that construction is begun
within six months of the effective date of this chapter and diligently
prosecuted to completion, said sign may be completed in accordance with the
approved plans on the basis of which the permit has been issued, subject
thereafter, if applicable, to the provisions herein for nonconforming signs.
(2011 Code, § 153.02) (Ord. 2004-01, passed 4-5-2004) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.03 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Town Council shall have the power to administer and enforce the
provisions of this chapter. The Town Council may, in its discretion and with
its consent, delegate and assign such administrative, enforcement, and
inspection duties hereunder to the Police Department, the Fire Department, or
other appropriate person or agency.
(2011 Code, § 153.03) (Ord. 2004-01, passed 4-5-2004)
§ 153.04 DEFINITIONS; RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with context, words used in the present tense include the future
and past tenses, words in the singular number include the plural, words in the
plural include the singular, and words in the masculine gender include the
feminine and neuter.
   ANIMATED SIGN. Any sign which includes action, motion, or color changes on
all or any part of the sign facing, requiring electrical energy, or set in
motion mechanically or by movement of the atmosphere. This definition includes
signs commonly called bi-view, tri-view, or multi-view signs which alternate or
otherwise change displays whether through mechanical or electrical means. An
ANIMATED SIGN does not include a clock and/or thermometer display.
   AREA OF SIGN. Defined by the smallest perimeter fully enclosing the total
surface devoted to the sign’s message, together with any ornamentation,
embellishment, and associated background, excluding any necessary supports or
uprights on which the message is placed and excluding any architectural
ornamentation. As an aid to interpreting this formulation, the following is to
be employed: if the message is on a surface, structure, or frame specifically
employed for holding signage, the entire surface area within the frame’s border
is counted; if the message is on a door, wall, or other structural part of a
building, only that portion of the door, wall, or structure actually devoted to
the message and associated symbols and background, if any, is counted. If a
sign has two or more faces, the AREA of all faces shall be included in
determining the area of the sign, except that if two faces are placed back-to-
back and are at no point more than three feet from one another, the area of the
sign shall be taken as the area of one face if the two faces are of equal area,
or the area of the larger face if the two faces are of unequal area.
   ARTISAN SIGN. An unilluminated sign not exceeding eight square feet in area
placed on a site during the period that the work is being engaged in, with the
permission of the site’s owner, displaying the name of the contractor or
artisan improving the site or structure on the site.
   BUILDING FRONTAGE. The total length in linear feet of a building along the
edge most nearly parallel with a street abutting the building’s lot regardless
of whether such is functionally the front, rear, end, or side of the building.
   CAMPAIGN SIGN. Any sign, poster, billboard, or other outdoor advertisement
advocating the election or defeat of a particular candidate for public office,
or group of candidates, or political party.
   CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN. A sign wherein provision is made for letters or
characters to be placed in or upon the surface area either manually or
electronically to provide a message. Such message may not be changed more often
than daily, except for time and/or temperature displays. A CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN
does not include any sign that meets the definition of a “flashing sign”.
   CHASER SIGN. A sign that creates a running effect in a bank of lamps or
tubes.
   CONSTRUCTION SIGN. An unilluminated sign giving the name or names of
principal contractors, architects, and lending institutions responsible for new
construction or major renovation on the site where the sign is placed together
with other information included thereon authorized by the Town Council in
connection with construction operating for a specific project not to exceed 36
square feet in area beginning with the commencement of construction and
extending to a date 15 days after the completion of construction operations.
   ELECTRONIC READER BOARD. A sign which contains a traveling message or a
message which appears to be traveling, and usually in a horizontal direction.
   FINANCER’S SIGN. An unilluminated sign not exceeding eight square feet in
area placed on a site during the period of construction or renovation and for
seven days after the completion of the project, with the permission of the
site’s owner, displaying the name of the person, firm, or financial institution
providing the financing for the project.
   FLASHING SIGN. A directly or indirectly illuminated sign or portion thereof
that exhibits changing light or color effect by any means, so as to provide
intermittent illumination that changes light intensity in sudden transitory
bursts and creates the illusion of intermittent flashing light by streaming,
graphic bursts showing movement, or any mode of lighting which resembles
zooming, twinkling, or sparkling. Also including any illuminated device whose
lighting fluctuates, alternates, or otherwise varies in brightness, pattern,
position, or reflection. Such a sign, copy, or other device is not a FLASHING
SIGN if its lighting varies in brightness, pattern, position, or reflection
only instantaneously and concurrently on the entire sign for the purpose of
changing the graphics or copy within the sign more often than eight second
intervals, except for message display of time or temperature.
   GROUND SIGN. Any sign supported by uprights or braces in or upon the ground
and not attached to any building.
   HOME OCCUPATION SIGN. A sign directing attention to a business or
professional activity conducted on the same lot in a residential district,
containing only the name and occupation of the resident, not to exceed two
square feet in area, and only as approved by the Town Council.
   ILLUMINATED SIGN. A sign designed to give forth artificial light or reflect
it from another source. A sign designed to give forth artificial light is an
“internally illuminated sign”.
   INFLATABLE DISPLAY. Any three-dimensional, ambient air-filled object
depicting a container, figure, product, or product trade dress, whether or not
such object contains a message.
   INSTITUTION SIGN. A sign containing information about an on-site
institution, such as churches, schools, hospitals, rest homes, private clubs,
and similar institutions or organizations.
   INTEGRAL SIGN. Memorial signs or tablets, names of buildings, and date of
erection when cut into any masonry surface on the wall of a building, or when
constructed of bronze or other incombustible materials mounted on the wall of a
building.
   MESSAGE. A sign’s message includes its text, drawings, figures, logo, and
any associated background.
   MESSAGE CENTER. A sign which contains a changing message within the copy
area which remains on for a specified minimum period of time and blacks out for
a specified minimum period of time between messages. Messages contained on the
sign do not travel or appear to travel in any direction.
   OFF-PREMISES SIGN. A sign attached to a building, the ground, or structure
advertising a business, product, service, or event conducted, sold, or offered
elsewhere than upon the same lot. This definition includes structures commonly
called billboards, posterboards, or panels.
   PERMANENT SIGN. Any sign which is not a portable sign.
   PERSON. Any individual, association, corporation, or other legal entity.
   PORTABLE SIGNS. Any sign not permanently affixed to a building, structure,
or the ground such as a sign designed to be moved from place to place, or
designed to be removed and re-erected from time to time, or attached directly
or through a structure to a chassis equipped with wheel and axle or other means
of mobility.
   PROJECTING SIGN. Any sign supported by a building or other structure which
projects over any street, sidewalk, alley, public way, or public easement, more
than 12 inches from the face of the building or structure.
   REAL ESTATE SIGN. A sign pertaining to the sale or lease of the lot or tract
of land on which the sign is located or to the sale or lease of one or more
structures or a portion thereof located on such lot or tract of land, during
the pendency of such sale or lease and for seven days after closing.
   ROOF LINE. The upper edge of any building wall or parapet, exclusive of any
tower, chimney, ventilation equipment, or utility equipment.
   SIGN. A name, display, identification, device, notice, figure, painting,
drawing, message, placard, poster, word, bulletin board, symbol, letter,
numeral, emblem, trademark, flag, or banner, pennant, or other illustration
which is affixed to or painted or represented directly or indirectly upon a
building, or other outdoor surface, or parcel of land and which directs
attention to an object, product, place, activity, person, institution,
organization, or business, and is visible from any alley, street, highway,
sidewalk, or other public way, whether such is placed out of doors or in
windows. The term SIGN does not include any display of official notices of
courts or other public offices, nor the flag, emblem, or insignia of a nation,
political unit, school, or religious group. The term SIGN shall not include the
merchandise which is for sale on the premises, the packaging or container for
such merchandise, or any writings or other symbols on such merchandise,
container, or packaging.
   SNIPE SIGN. Any sign (whether attached in any way to a utility pole, tree,
traffic-control device, or any object, or the ground, or otherwise situated)
on:
      (1)   Public property without the consent of the appropriate public body;
or
      (2)   Private property without the consent of the owner or occupier
thereof.
   TOWN. Always refers to the Town of Brownstown, and means the town itself or
any subdivision, board, commission, or agency of the town; it does not include
the Brownstown Community School System.
   WALL SIGN. A sign mounted on, attached to, or painted or applied on the
exterior wall of a building or structure in a plane parallel to that of the
supporting wall or structure, or painted or otherwise applied to an awning or
canopy consisting of cloth or fabric material provided such awning or canopy is
attached to a wall and not to the ground, extending no more than 12 inches from
the surface to which it is attached. Any sign meeting this definition is not a
“projecting sign”.
   WIND SIGN. Any attention-arresting device, with or without message, or a
series of devices such as streamers, and/or pennants, with or without message,
designed and fastened in such a manner as to move upon being subjected to
pressure by the atmosphere; except that such definition shall not include:
      (1)   On each building, up to four banners, flags, or pennants; and
      (2)   On each light standard, one banner, flag, or pennant.
   WINDOW SIGN. A sign installed on the exterior or on or near the interior of
a window for the purpose of viewing from outside the premises.
(2011 Code, § 153.05) (Ord. 2004-01, passed 4-5-2004; Ord. 2011-10, passed 8-
15-2011)
TYPES OF SIGNS; REGULATIONS
§ 153.15 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   Any sign located within the town limits on the date of the adoption of
this chapter and which does not conform to the provisions of this chapter shall
be a “legal nonconforming” sign and will be permitted, provided the sign is a
permanent sign.
   (B)   Loss of legal nonconforming status.
      (1)   A legal nonconforming sign shall immediately lose its legal
nonconforming status if:
         (a)   The sign or sign structure, because of improper installation or
maintenance, constitutes a threat to public health or safety and remains in
such condition after a reasonable time is given to remedy the problem;
         (b)   The sign is demolished or damaged to the extent of 50% or more
of its value;
         (c)   The permit or condition under which the sign was allowed
expires; or
         (d)   The sign or sign structure is substantially structurally altered
so as to prolong its expected life.
      (2)   On the happening of any one of the above-listed items, the sign
shall be immediately brought into conformance with this chapter or shall be
removed. The following shall not result in loss of legal nonconforming status:
         (a)   Any changes of color, design, or message on the sign’s face; and
         (b)   Any modification to the sign or sign structure which does not
constitute a substantial structural modification.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall relieve the owner or user of a legal
nonconforming sign or owner of the property on which the legal nonconforming
sign is located from any provisions regarding safety, maintenance, and repair
of signs.
(2011 Code, § 153.06) (Ord. 2004-01, passed 4-5-2004)
§ 153.16 PROHIBITED SIGNS; SPECIAL EXEMPTIONS WITH WRITTEN PERMIT.
   (A)   Signs prohibited. Subject only to the exemptions set forth in division
(B) below, the following signs are hereby expressly prohibited as to erection,
construction, creation, maintenance, repair, alteration, location, or
relocation within the town:
      (1)   Portable signs;
      (2)   Animated signs;
      (3)   Chaser signs;
      (4)   Flashing signs;
      (5)   Inflatable displays;
      (6)   Wind signs;
      (7)   Any sign on a motor vehicle or on a semi-trailer with or without
tractor which can be seen from the street if circumstances, including the
absence of vehicular use and/or the fact that the vehicle or semi-trailer
carries no current motor vehicle registration or license plate, demonstrate
that the primary use for said vehicle or semi-trailer is the advertisement of a
business, product, or service of a business located on the premises where such
a vehicle is parked. Trailers used for construction purposes during the course
of construction on site are exempt from this section. Any such sign advertising
a business, product, or service not conducted or available on site is an off-
premises sign;
      (8)   Off-premises signs except as expressly permitted;
      (9)   Any sign attached to or painted or otherwise rendered on a bench or
seat which is located outside a building or structure on a public sidewalk or
right-of-way. Such a sign on a bench or seat not on a public sidewalk or right-
of-way is not prohibited by this provision but must comply with all other
regulations and its surface area shall be included in the total allowable
surface area permitted for the building;
      (10)   Signs which advertise a business which has not been conducted
within the past 90 days, or a product or service which has not been offered for
sale within the past 90 days, on the premises where such sign is located; if
otherwise in compliance with this chapter, a sign may be located at such
location indicating a move of such business to another location for a period of
time not exceeding 90 days from the date of discontinuance of the business at
the sign’s location;
      (11)   Signs which use string lights or any unshielded light within
public view if used in connection with commercial premises for commercial
purposes, except that this shall not include:
         (a)   Holiday decorations at holiday time; or
         (b)   Non-flashing neon window signs.
      (12)   Any sign or sign structure determined by the Town Council to be:
         (a)   Structurally unsafe; or
         (b)   A hazard to safety or health by reason of inadequate
maintenance, dilapidation, or abandonment. Any sign which obstructs the vision
of drivers, or unduly distracts the attention of drivers, or obstructs the
visibility of any traffic sign or traffic-control device by reason of size,
location, coloring, or illumination;
      (13)   Any sign which obstructs free ingress and egress from a required
door, window, fire escape, or other exit way;
      (14)   Signs with a commercial purpose which make use of words such as
“Stop”, “Look”, or “Danger”, or other similar words, phrases, symbols, or
characters in such a manner as to imply the need of stopping or the existence
of danger;
      (15)   Any sign unlawfully installed, erected, or maintained;
      (16)   Any sign or other advertising structure containing any obscene,
indecent, or immoral matter;
      (17)   Any sign placed or installed in or on any parkway, alley, public
street, easement, or right-of-way except as may be authorized by the Town
Council;
      (18)   Any sign not in compliance with federal or state law;
      (19)   Any sign which is constructed or installed in such a manner as to
overhang a public street, sidewalk, or right-of-way, except as otherwise
expressly permitted by this chapter;
      (20)   Snipe signs; and
      (21)   Signs which are accessory to an unlawful use.
   (B)   Exemptions by special permit.
      (1)   Exemptions for grand openings. A business or other venture
commencing its activities on a site shall be, for a period of one week prior to
such opening and for two weeks after such opening, if such business applies to
the Town Council for an exemption, granted exemption from the prohibitions in
divisions (A)(1) through (A)(7) above. The surface area of these signs shall
not be counted toward the maximum sign surface area permitted nor be subject to
any height regulation.
      (2)   Exemptions for special promotions. Upon application to the Town
Council, a business or other venture engaging in special promotions shall be
granted exemption from the prohibitions in divisions (A)(1) through (A)(7)
above for a period or periods totaling up to ten weeks per calendar year. The
application shall indicate the exact period or periods of the special promotion
(s). The surface area of these signs shall not be counted toward the maximum
sign surface area permitted nor subject to any height regulation.
(2011 Code, § 153.07) (Ord. 2004-01, passed 4-5-2004) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.17 EXEMPT SIGNS.
   The following signs, if they comply with the limitations as stated in this
section, are exempt from the requirement of a sign permit:
   (A)   Construction signs;
   (B)   Real estate signs, as defined in §
153.04. A sign erected by any person or firm in the business of selling or
brokering real estate advertising said business is not a real estate sign;
   (C)   Specific decorative displays used for holidays, public demonstrations,
or promotions of civic affairs or charitable activities, except that such may
be situated on public property only if authorized by the Town Council;
   (D)   Signs advertising private garage sales;
   (E)   Posters announcing special programs or events;
   (F)   Campaign signs as permitted in §
153.20, but not including campaign signs on billboards;
   (G)   Home occupation signs;
   (H)   Window signs;
   (I)   House numbers, name plates for residential housing units identifying
the occupancy and address of the premises, not to exceed two square feet;
   (J)   Signs identifying the building name or occupancy and address of the
building on professional buildings, not to exceed eight square feet in area;
   (K)   Integral signs;
   (L)   Signs painted on or attached to vehicles bearing current license
plates unless such signs are within the definition of §
153.16(A)(7);
   (M)   Signs on vending machines, gas pumps, or ice containers indicating
only the contents of such devices, provided that as to each such device the
sign area does not exceed six square feet;
   (N)   Signs not exceeding six square feet each which contain only
noncommercial messages including designation of restrooms, telephone location,
restrictions on smoking, door openings, and private traffic control and parking
signs;
   (O)   One sign, not to exceed six square feet in area, per parking lot
entrance identifying the business served and providing driving and parking
information;
   (P)   Business signs, not to exceed two square feet in area per sign face,
containing information on credit cards and business affiliations;
   (Q)   Wall signs of no greater than ten square feet and installed no higher
than the interior ceiling of the first floor level;
   (R)   Artisan signs; and
   (S)   Financer’s signs.
(2011 Code, § 153.08) (Ord. 2004-01, passed 4-5-2004)
§ 153.18 SIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Setback requirement. No part of a ground sign or ground sign structure
shall be closer than five feet to a paved street, a driveway, a sidewalk, the
nearest easement line, the nearest property line, or the nearest right-of-way
line.
   (B)   Height regulations.
      (1)   Ground signs. The maximum height of any portion of a permitted
ground sign or ground sign structure shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   For lots with street frontage of 150 feet or less: 15 feet;
         (b)   For lots with street frontage of more than 150 feet and less
than 300 feet: one foot of height for each ten feet of street frontage;
         (c)   For lots with 300 feet or more of street frontage: 30 feet; and
         (d)   If a lot has frontage on more than one street: the calculation
shall be based on the largest frontage.
      (2)   Wall signs. No maximum height applies to wall signs which do not
project in any part above the roof line. Any sign so projecting shall be
subject to the height regulations for ground signs, and such shall be measured
from the uppermost portion of the sign to ground level.
   (C)   Surface area regulations.
      (1)   The gross surface area (see definition of AREA OF SIGN) of all
signs (whether ground signs, wall signs, or projecting signs) excluding exempt
signs as set forth in §
153.17, signs permitted pursuant to §
153.16(B), real estate signs, and other signs permitted on a lot or building
shall not exceed three square feet of sign area for each one linear foot of
building frontage, subject to the further limitation in division (C)(1)(b)
below.
         (a)   For purposes of calculation, each side of a building which abuts
upon a public way shall be considered separate building frontage; however, the
surface area of signage attributable to each frontage must face such frontage.
         (b)   For any one business or venture, three square feet of sign area
for each one linear foot of building frontage or 132 square feet, whichever is
less. For purposes of the 132 square feet limitation for one business or
venture, if such business has frontage on more than one public way, it shall
have up to 132 square feet for each public way provided that the signage
attributable to each frontage must face such frontage.
      (2)   A business or activity with no ground floor frontage is not
prohibited from displaying signage; however, the total area of all signs on the
building shall not exceed that calculated on the basis of the ground floor.
   (D)   Projection regulations.
      (1)   No sign shall project more than 45 inches into the public way,
sidewalk, or dedicated public easement all as determined, in case of dispute,
by a registered surveyor. Any such projecting sign shall be oriented so that
the face surfaces of the sign are perpendicular to the face of the wall from
which they project; provided, however, that a sign projecting from a point at
which two walls meet to form a corner may be oriented in any direction. Such
projecting signs shall not exceed one and one-half inches in thickness.
      (2)   Subject to the limitations set forth herein, projecting signs are
permitted, provided that the building is set back a minimum of 20 feet from the
public right-of-way.
      (3)   If permitted, projecting signs shall meet the following
requirements:
         (a)   A maximum of one projecting sign per building or building lot
(except that for buildings or building lots with more than one business or
professional user, each user may have one such projecting sign);
         (b)   The lowest part of such sign or structure encasing such sign is
a minimum of eight feet above ground level;
         (c)   The projection from the building shall not be more than six feet
(or 45 inches pursuant to division (D)(1) above) if the sign projects over a
public right-of-way or sidewalk;
         (d)   No part of the sign shall be closer than 12 inches from a line
extended vertically from the curb of a public street or alley; and
         (e)   The surface area of any sign shall not exceed eight square feet.
   (E)   Illumination regulations. If a sign is illuminated by light beamed or
reflected upon it, direct rays of light shall not beam upon any part of any
existing residential area nor into a residential district, nor into a street. A
sign in direct line of vision of a traffic signal shall not be red, green, or
amber in color. Illuminated signs are permitted. (See the definition of
ILLUMINATED SIGN.)
   (F)   Unified shopping centers. If the premises have three or more occupants
each with a distinct business name, as in a unified shopping center under
single ownership or control, one additional ground sign is permitted containing
the name of the premises, the occupants thereof, and, if desired, a changeable
copy sign. Such ground sign shall not exceed one square foot of sign area for
each one linear foot of building frontage, but in no event shall the total
surface area of such ground sign exceed 100 square feet. Such sign shall be in
addition to the maximum surface area for such premises as set forth in division
(C) above.
   (G)   Large commercial buildings. For individual buildings (i.e., not in a
unified shopping center) one additional ground sign is permitted if the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   The premises have a minimum of 1,500 square feet of usable floor
space;
      (2)   The building is set back from any street a minimum of 30 feet; and
      (3)   The sign does not exceed 40 feet in surface area. Such sign shall
be in addition to the maximum surface area for such premises as set forth in
division (C) above.
   (H)   Off-premises signs. Subject to §
153.16 and other prohibitions set forth in this chapter, off-premises
billboards, posterboards, or panels are permitted provided that:
      (1)   No such sign shall exceed 100 square feet in surface area;
      (2)   No part of such sign shall be closer than 300 feet from any part of
any other sign, whether such other sign is an off-premises or on-premises sign.
(2011 Code, § 153.09) (Ord. 2004-01, passed 4-5-2004) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.19 AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION SIGNS.
   Any business which dispenses gasoline products at the pump to the public for
motor vehicles may display, in addition to all other signs permitted for the
nature of the use, not more than two additional signs, each of which shall not
exceed eight square feet in surface area, for the purpose of indicating the
pump price of fuel sold, or the announcement of special offers. Said sign or
signs may be attached to an existing ground sign, lighting standard, the pump,
or the wall of a building. The area of such signs shall not be counted against
the total sign area limit. Such signs shall not require a permit.
(2011 Code, § 153.10 (Ord. 2004-01, passed 4-5-2004)
§ 153.20 CAMPAIGN SIGNS.
   (A)   There shall be no time limit on properly placed campaign signs.
   (B)   There is no maximum number of campaign signs per lot.
(2011 Code, § 153.11) (Ord. 2004-01, passed 4-5-2004; Ord. 2006-01, passed 2-6-
2006)
§ 153.21 TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   Temporary signs, such as construction signs, or signs in connection with a
business or venture being carried on in a temporary location, shall be
authorized by the Town Council for not more than two months at a time by
written permit which shall show the size, shape, content, height, type of
construction and locations of such sign and the period of authorization upon a
finding by the Town Council, on the basis of written information furnished by
the applicant, that the proposed sign or signs are necessary for the direction
of the public and not contrary to the spirit and purpose of this chapter.
(2011 Code, § 153.23) (Ord. 2004-01, passed 4-5-2004)
SIGN PERMIT PROVISIONS
§ 153.35 SIGN PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No sign shall be erected, constructed, created, or located or relocated
within the town by any person or persons, or entity, except for signs expressly
exempted from the permitting process in §
153.17, without first obtaining a written sign permit from the Town Council. No
person, persons, or entity shall engage in any work requiring a permit without
having the written permit in his or her possession at the job site.
(2011 Code, § 153.12) (Ord. 2004-01, passed 4-5-2004) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.36 PERMIT APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Application for a sign permit may be made by the owner (or agent) of
the sign during regular business hours at the office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   The application shall be made on a form provided by the town and shall
contain or have attached thereto the following information:
      (1)   Name, address, and telephone number of the applicant;
      (2)   Name, address, and telephone number of the person or company who
will erect, alter, construct, or relocate the sign (if not the applicant);
      (3)   Name, address, and telephone number of the person or firm for whom
the sign is being made or installed (if not the applicant);
      (4)   The position of the sign or advertising structure in relation to
nearby building(s) or structure(s), easements, rights-of-way, or applicable
setback lines;
      (5)   Two blue prints or ink drawings to scale of the plans and
specifications and method of construction, attachment to the building or other
structure, or placement in the ground;
      (6)   If required by the Town Council, a copy of the stress sheets and
calculations showing the structure’s deadload and wind pressure capacities;
      (7)   If the sign includes electrical service, a description of the
service to be installed;
      (8)   Written consent or other proof of authorization of the owner of the
building, structure, or land to which or on which the sign is to be erected;
and
      (9)   Such other information as the Town Council may require to
demonstrate full compliance with this chapter, other town ordinance, or any
applicable requirement of state or federal law.
(2011 Code, § 153.13) (Ord. 2004-01, passed 4-5-2004)
§ 153.37 ISSUANCE OF SIGN PERMIT.
   (A)   The Town Council shall, within 30 days of the filing of the completed
application, grant such permit if, and only if:
      (1)   The application contains all necessary information;
      (2)   There is provided proof that the electrical work will be done by a
qualified electrician, if the sign requires electrical service; and
      (3)   The sign complies with this chapter, all other town ordinances, and
all applicable state and federal law.
   (B)   The Town Council may grant a permit on the condition that the work be
stopped at specified times to permit inspections.
      (1)   If the Town Council denies such permit, the reasons therefor shall
be stated to the applicant.
      (2)   If the Town Council fails to take any action within 30 days, the
application is deemed denied. All denials are appealable pursuant to §
153.56.
(2011 Code, § 153.14) (Ord. 2004-01, passed 4-5-2004)
§ 153.38 PERMIT FEES.
   Signs granted approval by the town will not be subject to any fee for a sign
permit.
(2011 Code, § 153.15) (Ord. 2004-01, passed 4-5-2004)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.50 STOP ORDERS.
   The Town Council or its designee may issue a stop order commanding that work
on a sign cease if:
   (A)   The sign requires a permit and none has been issued;
   (B)   The sign violates any provision of this chapter; or
   (C)   The continuation of the work otherwise threatens public safety.
(2011 Code, § 153.16) (Ord. 2004-01, passed 4-5-2004)
§ 153.51 INSPECTIONS.
   All signs for which a permit is required shall be subject to inspection by
the Town Council or its designee.
(2011 Code, § 153.17) (Ord. 2004-01, passed 4-5-2004)
§ 153.52 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   When written notice of violation of any of the provisions of this chapter
has been served on the property owner, agent, occupant, contractor, or builder,
such violation shall be discontinued. Unless the Town Council specifies a
particular time by which the violation must be removed, it shall be assumed
that each day the violation continues constitutes a separate violation.
(2011 Code, § 153.18) (Ord. 2004-01, passed 4-5-2004)
§ 153.53 RIGHT OF INJUNCTION.
   The Town Council or its designated representative may institute a suit for
injunction in an appropriate court to restrain an individual from violating the
provisions of this chapter, and may also institute a suit for a mandatory
injunction directing the removal of any structure or improvement. Such remedy
shall be in addition to other remedies, fines, and enforcement set forth in
this or any other chapter.
(2011 Code, § 153.19) (Ord. 2004-01, passed 4-5-2004)
§ 153.54 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   In order to determine if any sign or sign structure is unlawfully erected,
altered, or maintained, the Town Council or any officer of the town may enter
onto that property to investigate the matter and may take appropriate action to
bring such sign or structure into compliance. However, before action to bring
into compliance may be taken, all persons holding a substantial interest in the
sign or structure must be notified and given a reasonable opportunity to bring
the sign or structure into compliance, except that the town may, without such
notice, take any steps necessary to alleviate immediate public danger. The
town’s cost for any work done on the site may be recouped from any person
chargeable with the violation.
(2011 Code, § 153.20) (Ord. 2004-01, passed 4-5-2004)
§ 153.55 PRESUMPTION OF VIOLATOR’S IDENTITY.
   (A)   Unless circumstances clearly show otherwise, there exists the
following presumptions in connection with any existing sign (including snipe
signs) which violates any provision of this chapter:
      (1)   The sign was erected at its location by, or with the consent of,
the owner and occupier of the site;
      (2)   The sign was erected by, or with the consent of, the company or
business advertised thereon; and
      (3)   The sign was erected by, or with the consent of, the promoter of
the item or event advertised thereon (including, in the case of the
advertisement of available residential housing, the realtor or other promoter
thereof).
   (B)   Any person cited for a violation may rebut any such presumption by
introducing evidence of the non-existence of the presumed fact sufficient to
prove by a preponderance of the evidence that the presumed fact is not true.
(2011 Code, § 153.21) (Ord. 2004-01, passed 4-5-2004)
§ 153.56 APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Town Council shall have a right to
appeal such decision within 30 days to a court of competent jurisdiction.
(2011 Code, § 153.22) (Ord. 2004-01, passed 4-5-2004)
§ 153.57 CONFISCATION OF SNIPE SIGN.
   In addition to any and all other remedies set forth in this chapter for a
violation thereof, the Town Council or its designee may remove any snipe sign
and confiscate it.
(2011 Code, § 153.25) (Ord. 2004-01, passed 4-5-2004)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   In addition to any and all other remedies set forth in this chapter for a
violation thereof, the Town Council may, for any violation of this chapter,
levy a fine against the violator of up to $50. The Town Council shall notify
the violator in writing of such fine. The violator shall pay the levied fine
through the Ordinance Violations Bureau. The Town Council may levy a fine for
each day the violation is continued. As to any person who violates §
153.35 by erecting a sign requiring a permit or any person who, with knowledge
of such violation, aids and abets such violation as by hiring a person to erect
a sign without a permit, the Town Council may elect, in lieu of the fine set
forth above, but in addition to all other remedies set forth in this chapter,
to seek a fine for such violation in a court of competent jurisdiction in an
amount up to the maximum permitted by I.C. 36-1-3-8. In the event that the town
seeks the enforcement of this chapter by a court of competent jurisdiction, the
town shall be entitled to its attorney fees, expenses, and costs, in addition
to the amount of the fine.
(2011 Code, § 153.24) (Ord. 2004-01, passed 4-5-2004)
Cross-reference:
   Ordinance Violations Bureau, see
Chapter 33
CHAPTER 154: STREET CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Purpose
   
154.002   Administration
   
154.003   Waivers
   
154.004   Appeals
   
154.005   Conflict with other ordinances
   
154.006   Definitions
   
154.007   Special requirement for dead end streets
   
154.008   Preparation for public and private streets
   
154.009   Sight line distances
   
154.010   Treatment of street edges and rights-of-way
   
154.011   Banking or tilt
   
154.012   Arterial streets
Public Street Standards
   
154.025   Application of subchapter
   
154.026   Design and construction standards
   
154.027   Application procedures
   
154.028   Layout
   
154.029   Subsurface soils
   
154.030   Storm drainage design and construction standards
   
154.031   Grading for public streets
   
154.032   Bases and pavement
   
154.033   Curbing
   
154.034   Handicapped accessible sidewalks
   
154.035   Monuments
   
154.036   Planting
   
154.037   Inspections
Streets Associated With Subdivisions
   
154.050   Application of subchapter
   
154.051   Streets in proposed subdivisions
   
154.052   Application procedures and review
   
154.053   Subdivision and railroad
   
154.054   Subdivision and existing narrow street
   
154.055   Subdivision and arterial street
   
154.056   Subdivision requiring more than one street connection
   
154.057   Monuments
Private Streets
   
154.070   Application of subchapter
   
154.071   Private street requirements
   
154.072   Application procedures
   
154.073   Private street layout
   
154.074   Design and construction standards
   
154.075   Inspections
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote public health, safety, and welfare
for the residents of the town by establishing construction standards for public
and private streets, roads, highways, avenues, boulevards, ways, lanes, alleys,
and the like.
(2011 Code, § 154.01) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 154.002 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Application. For purposes of the administration of this chapter, all
applications for construction of public and private streets, roads, highways,
avenues, boulevards, ways, lanes, alleys, and the like shall be submitted to
the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (1)   The applicant shall arrange with the Clerk-Treasurer to schedule a
pre-application conference with the Clerk-Treasurer and the head of the Street
Department.
      (2)   An application will not be considered to be complete until a pre-
application conference has been conducted with the Clerk-Treasurer and the head
of the Street Department.
   (B)   Procedures. The procedures and the schedule for review of proposed new
construction, lengthening, or modification of streets shall be as follows:
      (1)   Complete application. Within 22 working days from the date of
receipt of an application, the Clerk-Treasurer shall notify the applicant in
writing that either the application is complete or, if not complete, the
specific additional material needed to make it complete. A determination by the
Clerk-Treasurer that the application is complete in no way commits or binds the
town as to the adequacy of the application to meet the requirements of this
chapter.
         (a)   Within five working days from the date of determining that an
application is complete, the Clerk-Treasurer shall forward the application to
the Town Council to begin the process of considering whether to grant or deny
approval of the application.
         (b)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall also forward copies of the application
to the Fire Chief for informational purposes. If said individual desires to
offer unsolicited comments on the application to the Town Council or its
designee said comments are to be delivered to the Town Council or its designee
within ten working days of their receipt of a copy of the application.
         (c)   In consideration of the purpose of this chapter as stated in §
154.001, it shall be entirely at the discretion of the Town Council or its
designee to choose whether or not to request comments on the application from
third parties.
         (d)   In consideration of the purpose of this chapter as stated in §
154.001 Purpose, it shall be entirely at the discretion of the Town Council or
its designee whether or not to hold a public hearing on the application. If the
Town Council or its designee decides to hold a public hearing, the hearing must
be held within 30 working days of having received a complete application from
the Clerk-Treasurer. The applicant shall be notified to cause notice of the
date, time, and place of such hearing to be given to all abutting property
owners and to be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the town at
least ten days prior to the hearing.
      (2)   Application approval. Within 30 working days of a public hearing,
or within 45 working days of having received a complete application, or within
such other time limit as may be mutually agreed to, the Town Council or its
designee shall grant or deny approval on such terms and conditions as may be
deemed advisable to satisfy this chapter and to preserve the public health,
safety, and welfare. In all instances, the burden of proof shall rest upon the
applicant. In issuing the decision, the Town Council or its designee shall
issue a written decision establishing that the application does or does not
meet the provisions of this chapter. If the Town Council or its designee finds
that the application does not meet the provisions of this chapter, the Town
Council or its designee shall provide a written statement of the reasons for
the negative finding.
      (3)   Decision is public record. The decision of the Town Council or its
designee shall be a matter of public record. The Clerk-Treasurer will forward
the decision to the applicant within ten working days.
   (C)   Further provisions.
      (1)   The applicant may choose to begin street construction as soon as
the Clerk-Treasurer has determined that the applicant’s street construction
application is complete, with the caution of division (C)(2) below. Before
beginning work on a street, the applicant is required to participate in a pre-
construction meeting with the Town Council or its designee, the Clerk-
Treasurer, and other town staff as may be appropriate. Upon notification by the
applicant, the Town Council or its designee will arrange for the pre-
construction meeting to be held within 15 working days.
      (2)   Any street construction work that the applicant may choose to begin
before the formal approval of the applicant’s street construction application
shall be entirely at the applicant’s own risk. The town shall not be liable for
any costs if the applicant’s street construction application is not finally
approved upon full and proper consideration and review. Notification that an
application is complete is not assurance of approval.
   (D)   Surety. Approval of a plat associated with any new construction of
public streets or private streets shall not be issued until either the
construction of the streets are completed or the applicant has provided an
acceptable form of surety to cover the estimated cost to complete the
construction. The estimated cost to complete the construction shall be
determined on the basis of usual and customary costs for similar construction.
The applicant may provide surety in the form of cash, certified bank checks,
insurance bonds, or irrevocable letters of credit all payable to the town. Any
such surety shall be satisfactory to the Town Council, and the Town Attorney as
to sufficiency, manner of execution, and amount. The amount of surety shall be
reduced incrementally upon recommendation of the Town Council as construction
progresses and shall be discharged completely within ten working days after the
Town Council or its designee certifies in writing that the construction is
complete.
(2011 Code, § 154.03) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 154.003 WAIVERS.
   (A)   The Town Council may grant waivers to provide relief from one or more
of the requirements of this chapter so that substantial justice may be done and
the public interest secured where extraordinary and unnecessary hardships may
result from strict compliance.
   (B)   The Town Council may grant waivers to provide relief from one or more
of the requirements of this chapter due to special circumstances of a
particular plan or specifications if those requirements are not in the best
interest of the public health, safety, or general welfare, or are otherwise
inappropriate in the particular circumstance presented.
   (C)   If at any time before or during construction, it is demonstrated to
the satisfaction of the Town Council that unforeseen conditions make it
necessary or preferable, consistent with the purpose of this chapter, to modify
the location or design of the construction, the Town Council may authorize such
modifications provided that these modifications are within the spirit and
intent of the original approval and do not amount to a waiver or substantial
alteration of the function of any of the requirements imposed under either this
chapter or the approval previously granted. The Town Council or its designee
shall issue any authorization under this section in writing and shall transmit
a copy of such authorization to the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (D)   In granting waivers and modifications of the requirements of this
chapter, the Town Council shall require such conditions as will nonetheless
substantially secure the objectives of the requirements so modified.
   (E)   All such approved waivers and modifications of the requirements of
this chapter shall be noted on “as built” plans filed at the town office.
(2011 Code, § 154.04) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 154.004 APPEALS.
   Decisions of the Town Council on this chapter are final.
(2011 Code, § 154.05) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 154.005 CONFLICT WITH OTHER ORDINANCES.
   This chapter shall not repeal, annul, or in any way impair or remove the
necessity of compliance with any other rule, regulation, permit, or provision
of law. Whenever the requirements of this chapter are in conflict with the
requirements of any other lawfully adopted rules, regulations, ordinances, deed
restrictions, or covenants, the most restrictive shall govern.
(2011 Code, § 154.07) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 154.006 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Anyone whose name appears in the section “Names of applicants” on
an application for the construction or lengthening of a public street or
private street.
   DRIVEWAY. A private way that provides access for vehicles from a street to
parking areas for not more than two of the following in any combination or mix
that does not constitute a subdivision: lots; dwelling units; cottages; camps;
churches; clubs; fields; business establishments; and the like. A DRIVEWAY is
not a “street”.
   ENTRANCEWAY. Similar to a driveway, but it provides access for vehicles from
a street to a parking area for more than two lots, dwelling units, cottages,
camps, churches, clubs, fields, business establishments, and the like. An
ENTRANCEWAY may be a public street or a private street.
   PARKING SPACE. A space for parking vehicles.
   SIGHT LINE. Lines of visibility for both pedestrians and vehicular traffic.
   STREET. Any way that is intended for vehicular travel and may be called a
street, road, highway, avenue, boulevard, way, lane, alley, and the like.
      (1)   ARTERIAL STREET. Any street where volumes of traffic are typically
more than 5,000 vehicles per day.
      (2)   COLLECTOR STREET. Streets where volumes of traffic typically range
from 500 to 5,000 vehicles per day.
      (3)   DEAD END STREET. Any public street or private street that is closed
at one end and does not provide for through travel between other streets.
      (4)   MINOR STREET. A street where the volume of traffic is typically
less than 250 vehicles per day.
      (5)   PRIVATE STREET. Any street that is not a public street or a
driveway.
      (6)   PUBLIC STREET. A federal or state highway or a street that has been
accepted by the Town Council for upkeep and maintenance by the town.
      (7)   SUB-COLLECTOR STREET. A street where the volume of traffic is
typically 250 to 500 vehicles per day.
   TOWN ENGINEER. Any qualified street construction engineer appointed by the
Town Council to undertake the duties prescribed by this chapter.
   TRAVEL WAY. The portion of the street for the movement of vehicles,
exclusive of shoulders.
   TURN-AROUND. An area at the end of a dead end street that provides adequate
maneuvering space for large vehicles to turn around.
(2011 Code, § 154.09) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 154.007 SPECIAL REQUIREMENT FOR DEAD END STREETS.
   (A)   All new or extended public and private dead end streets shall include
a properly constructed turn around area at or near the end of the street.
      (1)   The design and the construction of a turn around area shall be
suitable and appropriate for both of the following purposes:
         (a)   The turn around of large vehicles such as, but not limited to,
fire engines, school busses, and snow removal equipment; and
         (b)   The orderly and efficient clearing of snow from the travel ways
and the deposition by snowplows of all the snow that may be reasonably
anticipated to accumulate at the end of a dead end street throughout an entire
winter. For the portions of division (A) that follow, all references to
directions of travel and the terms “right” and “left” are to be interpreted
with regard to facing the end of travel.
      (2)   Within an area that is designated as a turn-around:
         (a)   The width of the travel way shall be not less than 24 feet;
         (b)   Junctions of the dead end street with branches of the turn-
around shall have each corner rounded to provide a turning radius that forms a
quarter circle of not less than a 50-foot radius tangent to the edges of the
travel ways.
         (c)   Provisions for turn-arounds may be in any of the following
forms.
            1.   A dead end street may have a turn-around that is formed by a
single side branch near the end of the street. For this case, the area that is
designated as a turn-around shall be in the form of a “T” that consists of a
section of the dead end street and the side branch.
               a.   The centerline of the travel way of the side branch shall
be located a minimum distance of 100 feet, but not more than 150 feet, from the
end of the travel way of the dead end street.
               b.   The travel way of the side branch shall extend for a
minimum distance of 100 feet from the centerline of the dead end street.
               c.   The area that is designated as the turn-around and that
shall be constructed in accordance with this division (A)(2) shall include the
side branch and that portion of the dead end street that extends from a minimum
distance of 50 feet before the centerline of the side branch to a minimum
distance of 100 feet past the centerline of the side branch.
               d.   The preferred location of a single side branch shall be on
the right hand side of the dead end street for convenience of snow removal. A
single side branch may be located on the left hand side of the dead end street
only under special circumstances and only upon the concurrence in writing of
the Town Council.
            2.   A dead end street may have a turn-around that is formed by
double side branches near the end of the street. For this case, the area that
is designated as a turn-around shall be in the form of a “+” that consists of a
section of the dead end street and side branches directly on opposite sides of
the dead end street.
               a.   The centerline of the travel ways of the side branches
shall be located a minimum distance of 50 feet, but not more than 100 feet,
from the end of the travel way of the dead end street.
               b.   The travel ways of the side branches shall extend for a
minimum distance of 100 feet from the centerline of the dead end street.
               c.   The area that is designated as the turn-around and that
shall be constructed in accordance with this division (A)(2) shall include the
side branches and that portion of the dead end street that extends from a
minimum distance of 50 feet before the centerline of the side branches to a
minimum distance of 50 feet past the centerline of the side branches.
            3.   A street that may otherwise be a dead end street may terminate
in a loop or circular travel way that may have an irregular shape.
               a.   Curves shall have a minimum centerline turning radius of
not less than 150 feet.
               b.   The connection of a loop or circular travel way with the
dead end street must include a straight section that is perpendicular to the
dead end street on the right hand side of the dead end street. The straight
section and the associated portion of the dead end street shall be designated
as a turn-around and shall be constructed to the same dimensions as in
divisions (A)(2)(b)1.b. and (A)(2)(b)1.c. above.
               c.   Smaller cul-de-sacs shall not be allowed.
   (B)   Driveway access from turn-arounds shall not interfere with or
otherwise disrupt the orderly and efficient clearing of snow from the travel
ways. In order to provide for driveway access, the design of a turn-around may
be augmented with additional space for the deposition of snow. Locations of
driveway access shall be determined only upon the concurrence in writing of the
Town Council.
(2011 Code, § 154.08) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 154.008 PREPARATION FOR PUBLIC AND PRIVATE STREETS.
   (A)   Before rough grading begins, all areas needed for the right-of-way on
a proposed public street shall be cleared of all trees and brush not intended
for preservation and of all stumps, roots, and other objectionable materials.
Any trees or other vegetation in the right-of-way that will shade the travel
way during the cold months of the year are to be removed. For any private
street, the clearing within the right of way shall be to the extent needed to
meet the standards of Tables 154.074(A) and (B).
   (B)   Trees not intended for preservation, stumps, and other organic
materials shall be removed to a depth of two feet below the subgrade level.
Stumps or other substantial parts of trees shall not be buried or included in
any street construction materials.
   (C)   All rocks or boulders, exceeding eight inches in any dimension shall
be removed down to subgrade level unless otherwise approved in writing by the
Town Council or its designee.
   (D)   Aggregate base shall meet the requirements of Indiana Department of
Transportation (INDOT).
(2011 Code, § 154.10) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 154.009 SIGHT LINE DISTANCES.
   (A)   All public and private streets shall be designed in profile and
grading and located to provide minimum sight line distances that will satisfy
the requirements of one of the following:
      (1)   Ten feet for each mph of posted speed limit or of allowable speed;
or
      (2)   State Department of Transportation standard for highways,
driveways, and entrance rules.
   (B)   The measurement of sight line distances shall be from a point at a
distance of ten feet from the edge of the travel way at a height of three and
one-half feet above the level of the surface of the travel way to the top of an
object four and one-quarter feet above the surface of the travel way.
   (C)   Intersections and curves. Where it is necessary to achieve minimum
sight line distances at intersections for public streets and private streets or
around curves for public streets and private streets, portions of the right-of-
way as well as portions of abutting lots under the control of the applicant
shall be cleared of all growth (except isolated trees) and obstructions above
the level that is three feet higher than the center line of the public street.
If directed by the Town Council or its designee, ground shall be excavated to
achieve visibility.
(2011 Code, § 154.11) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 154.010 TREATMENT OF STREET EDGES AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Rights-of-way shall be cleared as per §§
154.008 and
154.030.
   (B)   Large trees maintained along travel ways and associated sub-structures
shall be pruned of overhanging branches to a height of 16 feet.
(2011 Code, § 154.12) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 3-5-2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.011 BANKING OR TILT.
   Unless design speeds suggest otherwise, public and private streets shall be
sufficiently close to level from side to side such that, under normal
circumstances, rain water or melt water will not flow across the finished crown
from one side of the street to the other side. Construction shall generally
cause water to flow from the middle toward the sides and into ditches. A
minimum crown of one-quarter inch per foot for paved streets and one-half inch
per foot for unpaved streets shall be maintained from the centerline to the
edge of the travel way and the shoulder on each side.
(2011 Code, § 154.13) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 3-5-2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.012 ARTERIAL STREETS.
   Arterial streets shall be built to State Department of Transportation
specifications.
(2011 Code, § 154.14) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 3-5-2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
PUBLIC STREET STANDARDS
§ 154.025 APPLICATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   This subchapter shall apply to the construction or major modification of all
public streets within the town, but not for maintenance and minor
modifications. For a street to be accepted by the Town Council as a public
street, it must meet the full provisions of this subchapter unless waivers are
granted in accordance with §
154.003 of this chapter.
(2011 Code, Ch. 154, Part 2) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 154.026 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   All new or modified public streets constructed after the date of
adoption of this chapter shall meet the street construction standards of this
section’s table unless waivers are granted in accordance with §
154.003 of this chapter.
   (B)   If a private street that is proposed for acceptance as a public street
does not meet the minimum standards of this section’s table, including the
width of right-of-way, that street must be improved to meet the requirements
before being accepted as a public street unless waivers are granted in
accordance with §
154.003 of this chapter.
   (C)   All changes of centerline grade shall be connected by vertical tangent
curves that provide for clear visibility to satisfy the requirements of §
154.009 of this chapter.
   (D)   Intersections of public streets shall be at angles as close to 90
degrees as possible and in no case shall two public streets intersect at an
angle smaller than 75 degrees. To this end, where one public street approaches
another between 75 and 90 degrees, one or both streets shall be curved
approaching the intersection. Any variation of an intersection angle from 90
degrees shall be approved by the Town Council or its designee only upon a
review of evidence submitted by the applicant that demonstrates that a lesser
angle is necessary.
   (E)   Cross (four-corner) public street intersections shall be aligned on
opposite sides of the through street insofar as possible. If it is not possible
to align the intersecting streets, a distance of at least 200 feet shall be
maintained between centerlines of offset intersecting public streets.
   (F)   Public street intersections and curves shall be designed to permit
adequate visibility for both pedestrians and vehicular traffic in accordance
with §
154.009 of this chapter.
   (G)   All public streets shall have suitable drainage facilities to provide
for adequate removal of storm water to prevent flooding and erosion.
   (H)   Curbs and gutters shall be required on all public streets.
   (I)   Handicapped accessible sidewalks shall be constructed on at least one
side of all public streets.
   (J)   Shoulders shall be constructed to the same specifications as the
traveled way so as to be suitable for use by vehicles of all types that may be
reasonably expected to use the travel way of the street.
   (K)   The final grade level of ditch bottoms along a public street shall be
a minimum of six inches below the subgrade level of the street.
   (L)   All new public streets constructed after the date of adoption of this
chapter shall not be isolated from existing public streets by intervening
private streets. That is, new public streets must either intersect existing
public streets or there shall be a continuous path from a new public street
through other new public streets to one or more existing public streets.
   Table 154.026 Public Street Construction Standards
Item Collector Street Sub-collector Street Minor Street
                                                 Collector Sub-      Minor
Item                                             Street    collector Street
                                                           Street
Maximum grade                                    10%       10%       10%
Maximum grade within 30 feet of an intersection  5%        5%        5%
Minimum angle of intersection                    75        75        75 degrees
                                                 degrees   degrees
Minimum centerline radii on curves               300 feet  150 feet  150 feet
Minimum combined width of shoulders plus ditches 16 feet   16 feet   12 feet
on each side for parking and/or snow removal
Minimum diameter of culverts
Culverts must be suitable in size and number to
provide adequate drainage in accordance with §
154.026(G) of this chapter
Minimum distance between street intersections    200 feet  200 feet  200 feet
Opposite side                                    200 feet  200 feet  200 feet
Same side
Minimum grade                                    0.5%      0.5%      0.5%
Minimum radii                                    50 feet   40 feet   25 feet
Radii at 90-degree intersections                 50 feet   40 feet   30 feet
Radii at less than 90-degree intersections
Minimum travel way                               6 inches  6 inches  6 inches
Aggregate base                                   3 inches  3 inches  3 inches
Bituminous binding                               2 inches  2 inches  2 inches
Bituminous surface                               1/4 inch  1/4 inch  1/4 inch
Minimum crown per foot                           24 feet   24 feet   24 feet
Width
Minimum width of right-of-way                    60 feet   60 feet   52 feet
Sidewalks                                        4 inches  4 inches  4 inches
Aggregate base gravel                            2 inches  2 inches  2 inches
Bituminous paving if used                        5 feet    5 feet    5 feet
Minimum width
Width of shoulders on each side                  8 feet    8 feet    6 feet
 
(2011 Code, § 154.15) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 3-5-2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.027 APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   Prior to the construction or modification of any public street, an
application shall be submitted to the Clerk-Treasurer. The application shall
include the following information.
   (A)   Submission requirements.
      (1)   Names of applicants;
      (2)   Right, title, and interest of the applicant to land for the
proposed construction or modification of a public street;
      (3)   A statement of any legal encumbrances on the land for the location
of a proposed public street;
      (4)   The anticipated starting and completion dates of each major phase
of construction of a proposed public street;
      (5)   A statement indicating the nature and volume of traffic anticipated
on an average daily basis of a proposed public street; and
      (6)   An estimated cost of the construction of the proposed public
street.
   (B)   Plans. Detailed construction drawings shall be submitted showing a
plan view, profile, and typical cross-section of a proposed public street. The
plans shall include the following information:
      (1)   Date, scale, and magnetic or true North;
      (2)   Intersections of the proposed public street with existing streets;
      (3)   Right-of-way limits of the proposed public street and the existing
streets including edge of pavement, edge of shoulder, sidewalks, and curbs;
      (4)   Kind, size, location, material, profile, and cross-section of all
existing and proposed drainage ways and structures and their location with
respect to the existing natural waterways. Such structures shall be designed
and sized in accordance with a stormwater management plan prepared by a
qualified registered professional engineer and shall meet the minimum
stormwater design and construction standards in §
154.030;
      (5)   Complete curve data shall be indicated for all horizontal and
vertical curves;
      (6)   Turning radii at all intersections;
      (7)   Centerline gradients;
      (8)   Locations of all existing and proposed overhead and underground
utilities including, but not limited to, water, sewer, electricity, telephone,
lighting, and cable television; and
      (9)   A soil erosion and sedimentation control plan showing interim and
final control provisions.
   (C)   Application fee. The fee schedule for review of plans for a new public
street or an alteration of an existing public street shall be the sum of $500.
   (D)   Application review. The schedule for review of proposed new public
streets or lengthening or improvement of existing public streets, shall be in
accordance with §
154.002 of this chapter.
   (E)   Acceptance of a public street. Approval by the Town Council of a
proposed public street shall not be deemed to constitute nor be evidence of
acceptance by the town of said public street. Before the process of acceptance
of a public street begins, the street must satisfy §
154.026(A) or (B) of this chapter, must have been properly inspected, and must
have gone through one winter and spring season before any Town Council action
for acceptance. Final acceptance of a public street shall be only by
affirmative vote of the Town Council.
      (1)   A plan of said street or way shall be recorded in the County
Recorder’s Office at the time of its acceptance.
      (2)   A petition for the acceptance of said street or way shall be
submitted to the Town Council upon a form to be prescribed by the Town
Attorney. Said petition shall be accompanied by a plan, profile, and cross-
section of said street or way as follows:
         (a)   A plan drawn when practical to a scale of 50 feet to one inch,
and to be on one or more sheets of paper not exceeding 24 inches by 36 inches
in size or in digital format;
         (b)   A profile of said street or way drawn to a horizontal scale of
50 feet to one inch and a vertical scale of five feet to one inch; and
         (c)   A typical cross-section of said street or way, drawn to a
horizontal scale of five feet to one inch and a vertical scale of five feet to
one inch.
      (3)   Streets offered for acceptance.
         (a)   Streets to be offered to the town for acceptance must have a
written report of inspection prepared by the town’s consulting engineer that
affirms compliance with the standards required in Table 154.026 at the
completion of construction. Final certification by the Town Council shall be
done only after the time period stipulated in division (E) above. Both reports
shall accompany the petition.
         (b)   No street or way shall be accepted by the Town Council until the
town’s consulting engineer shall have made a careful investigation thereof, and
shall have reported to the Town Council their recommendations in writing. Such
results shall include at a minimum of one core sample for the road proposed.
         (c)   No street or way may be accepted unless the Town Council finds
that the acceptance is in the public interest. In cases of subdivisions, at
least 75% of the housing units on that street or within that subdivision phase
must be occupied before any acceptance by the Town Council.
(2011 Code, § 154.16) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 154.028 LAYOUT.
   (A)   The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade, and location of all
public streets shall be considered in their relation to existing or planned
streets, to topographical conditions, to public convenience and safety, and
their appropriate relation to the proposed use of the land to be served by such
streets. Grades of public streets shall conform in general to the terrain and
as closely as possible to the original topography.
   (B)   In the case of dead end public streets the Town Council may require
the reservation of a 20-foot wide easement in the line of the public street on
land under the control of the applicant to provide continuation of pedestrian
traffic or utilities to another street.
   (C)   Reserve strips controlling access to public streets shall be
prohibited except where the town has definite control of the reserve strips
under conditions approved by the town.
   (D)   In front of areas designed for commercial use, or where a change of
the character of the area which lends itself to commercial use, a public street
right-of-way and/or pavement width shall be increased by such amount on each
side as may be necessary to assure the free flow of through traffic without
interference by parked or parking vehicles, and to provide adequate and safe
parking space for such commercial or business district. In no case shall a
public street in a commercial area or business district have a right-of-way
width less than 60 feet nor have less than two 12-foot wide travel lanes and
two eight-foot wide parking lanes.
   (E)   Adequate off-street loading space, suitably surfaced, shall be
provided in connection with lots designed for commercial use.
   (F)   Minor public streets shall be so laid out that their use by through
traffic will be a logical contemplated growth of the town.
(2011 Code, § 154.17) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 3-5-2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.029 SUBSURFACE SOILS.
   The applicant shall be required to investigate and determine the
classifications and the types of the subsurface soils. If in the opinion of the
Town Council, or its designee, unsuitable subsurface soils are encountered
during construction, the applicant shall be required to excavate and remove the
unsuitable material and replace it with suitable granular material complying
with acceptable engineering standards or other as determined by the Town
Council or its designee.
(2011 Code, § 154.18) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 3-5-2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.030 STORM DRAINAGE DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Drainage system required. An adequate piped storm drainage system
including appurtenances such as catch basins and manholes shall be provided for
proper drainage of storm water collected in public streets and areas tributary
to the public street system. Appropriate conveyances for outlets to drainage
systems must be provided. A minimum easement width of 30 feet is required along
the centerline of any pipe system or drainage course. If ponding will occur at
culvert inlets or if permanent erosion control measures extend outside of the
right-of-way, then easements on abutting property are required.
   (B)   Design standards.
      (1)   All storm water systems for public streets shall be designed to
meet the criteria of a ten-year storm based on rainfall data from the National
Weather Service in Jackson County, Indiana. Flows shall be computed by a method
acceptable to the Town Council or its designee. Design computations of flows
shall be submitted for approval.
      (2)   Upstream drainage shall be accommodated by an adequately sized
system for existing conditions and an estimation of future potential
development in the upstream drainage area or tributary areas.
      (3)   Existing downstream drainage facilities shall be studied to
determine the effect of development on downstream drainage. The applicant shall
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Town Council that the storm drainage
will not, in any way, overload existing downstream drainage systems.
      (4)   No storm water shall be permitted to drain across a public street
or across an intersection.
      (5)   Design standards for drainage systems shall be approved by the Town
Council or its designee. The minimum diameter for any storm drainage pipe shall
be 12 inches for enclosed drains and 15 inches for culverts.
   (C)   General construction requirements
      (1)   All trenching shall be accomplished in accordance with all
appropriate federal and state safety requirements.
      (2)   Maximum trench width at the pipe crown shall be the outside
diameter of the pipe plus two feet.
      (3)   Pipe shall be bedded in a granular material with a minimum depth of
six inches below the bottom of the pipe and extending to six inches above the
top of the pipe.
      (4)   Drain alignment shall be straight in both horizontal and vertical
an alignment.
      (5)   Manholes shall be provided at all changes in vertical and
horizontal alignment, and at all junctions. On straight runs, manholes shall be
placed at intervals of no more than 300 feet.
      (6)   Catch basin leads shall enter the drainage system only at manholes.
The difference in elevation between the inverts of the lead and the main drain
shall not exceed 12 inches.
      (7)   All drain outlets shall be riprapped to prevent erosion. Facilities
for energy dissipation shall be provided.
      (8)   Underdrains shall be laid with perforation down with a backfill of
three-quarter inch crushed stone wrapped in a filter fabric envelope.
(2011 Code, § 154.19) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 3-5-2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.031 GRADING FOR PUBLIC STREETS.
   (A)   All new, or modifications of existing, public streets shall be graded
to the full width of the right-of-way in accordance with §§
154.008, 154.009, 154.026(G) and 154.028(B) of this chapter. Deviation from
this requirement due to special topographical conditions will be allowed only
with special approval of the Town Council or its designee.
   (B)   All fill material used in the construction of embankments shall be of
the quality to meet the standards for embankment construction, as per the State
Department of Transportation Standard Specifications. Excess materials
including organic materials, soft clays, wet and non-compatible materials, and
the like shall be removed from a public street site.
   (C)   All sideslopes shall be graded at a maximum slope of three feet
horizontal to one foot vertical.
      (1)   All sideslopes shall be finished with loam or other suitable
mixture to a minimum compacted depth of four inches.
      (2)   All inslopes shall be seeded or planted as appropriate.
   (D)   All backslopes shall be graded at a maximum slope of two feet
horizontal to one foot vertical.
      (1)   All backslopes shall be finished with loam or other suitable
mixture to a minimum compacted depth of four inches.
      (2)   All backslopes shall be seeded or planted as appropriate.
   (E)   All riprapped backslopes shall be graded at a maximum slope of one
foot horizontal to one foot vertical.
   (F)   All ledge cuts shall have a maximum slope of three inches horizontal
to one foot vertical.
   (G)   Ditches along streets shall be lined as necessary to assist in
vegetative establishment and erosion control.
   (H)   Erosion control mesh shall be installed on all slopes that are steeper
than one foot horizontal to three feet vertical.
(2011 Code, § 154.20) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 154.032 BASES AND PAVEMENT.
   The appropriate State Department of Transportation standard specifications
currently in effect shall be applicable to this section except as follows.
   (A)   Where pavement being placed joins an existing pavement, the existing
pavement shall first be cut along a smooth line to a neat, even, vertical joint
with a tack coat of pavement emulsion to be applied before any pavement is
installed. Broken or ragged edges or deviation from grade are not permitted.
   (B)   Grading for the base course of hot bituminous pavement shall meet
INDOT specifications.
   (C)   Grading for the surface course of hot bituminous pavement shall meet
INDOT Specifications.
(2011 Code, § 154.21) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 3-5-2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.033 CURBING.
   Curbing shall be in accordance with the State Department of Transportation
standard specifications.
(2011 Code, § 154.22) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 154.034 HANDICAPPED ACCESSIBLE SIDEWALKS.
   Handicapped accessible sidewalks shall be installed at the expense of the
applicant on at least one side of any street unless waived by the Town Council.
The most recent revision of the State Department of Transportation standard
specifications, shall be applicable to all sidewalks.
(2011 Code, § 154.23) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 154.035 MONUMENTS.
   (A)   Stone survey marker monuments with metal caps shall be set at all
street corners. Angle points and all points of curve in each public street
shall be monumented per 2.10.3 below.
   (B)   Each survey marker shall be set with the top between six and 12 inches
above the finished grade except that the top shall be flush with the finished
grade wherever it is located in an area to be plowed for removal of snow or is
to be pavement, lawn, or a decorative planting area.
   (C)   The preferred material for all monuments shall be rebar five-eighths
inch in diameter. Alternate acceptable materials for monuments shall be iron
pipe five-eighths inch in diameter and stone shafts (with metal caps) four
inches square.
   (D)   All monuments are to be not less than 36 inches in total length unless
they are drilled at least three inches into solid ledge or rock.
   (E)   All monuments shall have the surveyor’s identification suitably
attached.
(2011 Code, § 154.24) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 3-5-2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.036 PLANTING.
   (A)   All esplanade or planting strip areas at the sides of a public street
shall have a covering of topsoil (loam) free of sods, clay, and stones more
than one inch in diameter. The layer of topsoil shall be at least three inches
deep after being compacted. Base material shall be removed prior to the
placement of topsoil.
   (B)   Planting strips are to be limed at the rate of 33 pounds per 1,000
square feet and fertilized at the rate of nine pounds of 10-10-10 fertilizer
per 1,000 square feet or equivalent and seeded with a conservation mix endorsed
by the County Soil and Water Conservation District.
(2011 Code, § 154.25) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 3-5-2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.037 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   At least five days prior to commencing construction for public streets
the applicant shall pay an inspection fee equal to:
 
      (1)   Two percent of the cost of the construction; or
 
      (2)   The estimated cost of inspection by the Town Engineer.
 
   (B)   The inspection fee shall be payable to the town stating the purpose of
the fee. The applicant shall notify the Clerk-Treasurer in writing of the time
when construction is proposed to commence so that inspection can be made to
assure that all specifications and requirements will be met.
   (C)   If upon inspection, it is found that any of the construction is not in
accordance with the approved plans and specifications, the Town Council or its
designee shall so report to the Clerk-Treasurer. The Clerk-Treasurer shall then
notify the applicant and, if applicable, the bonding company, and take all
necessary steps to preserve the rights of the town under the conditions of the
bond.
   (D)   The applicant is required to provide for maintenance and for snow
removal on the constructed public streets and sidewalks until they are accepted
by the Town Council.
   (E)   In accordance with §
154.006 of this chapter, inspections may be performed by any duly appointed
engineer for the town or by any other qualified street construction engineer
designated by the Town Council to undertake the inspection duties prescribed by
this chapter.
(2011 Code, § 154.26) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 3-5-2007)
STREETS ASSOCIATED WITH SUBDIVISIONS
§ 154.050 APPLICATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   This subchapter shall apply to all streets associated with proposed
subdivisions within the town.
(2011 Code, Chapter 154, Part 3) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 154.051 STREETS IN PROPOSED SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   All construction of streets associated with proposed subdivisions
within the town shall meet the applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Streets to be proposed for acceptance by the Town Council as public
streets must meet all provisions of §§
154.025 through
154.037.
   (C)   Streets that are to be private streets must meet all provisions of §§
154.070 through
154.075.
(2011 Code, § 154.27) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 154.052 APPLICATION PROCEDURES AND REVIEW.
   Proposals for construction of streets as part of a platted subdivision shall
be submitted to the Town Board as an integral part of any application for
approval of a plat.
   (A)   The Town Council shall have responsibility for the approval of the
layout and aesthetic design of all street construction associated with a
subdivision and the responsibility for the approval of the accompanying public
utilities.
   (B)   The technical aspects of the construction of streets proposed within a
proposed plat shall conform to the full provisions of this chapter.
      (1)   Any request or application shall be in accordance with §
154.002 of this chapter.
      (2)   The procedures for application and the schedule for review of the
technical aspects of the construction of proposed new streets or proposed
lengthening or improvement of existing streets associated with a subdivision
shall be as described in this chapter.
(2011 Code, § 154.28) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 154.053 SUBDIVISION AND RAILROAD.
   Where a subdivision borders on or contains a railroad right-of-way, the Town
Council may require a street approximately parallel to and on each side of such
right-of-way, at a distance suitable for the appropriate use of the intervening
land, as for park purposes in residential areas or for commercial or industrial
purposes in appropriate areas. Such distances shall also be determined with due
regard for approach grades and future grade separations.
(2011 Code, § 154.29) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 154.054 SUBDIVISION AND EXISTING NARROW STREET.
   Where a subdivision borders an existing narrow street that is below
standards for a public street, the subdivider shall be required to show areas
for widening or realigning such streets on the plan, marked “Reserved for
Realignment (or widening) Purposes”.
(2011 Code, § 154.30) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 154.055 SUBDIVISION AND ARTERIAL STREET.
   Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed arterial
street, the Town Council may require marginal access streets (streets parallel
to arterial streets providing access to adjacent lots), reverse frontage, that
is, frontage on a street other than the existing or proposed arterial street
with screen planting contained in a non-access reservation along the rear
property line, or such other treatments as may be necessary for adequate
protection of residential properties and to afford separation of through and
local traffic.
(2011 Code, § 154.31) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 154.056 SUBDIVISION REQUIRING MORE THAN ONE STREET CONNECTION.
   If feasible, wherever deemed necessary by the Town Council for a particular
subdivision and for any subdivision containing more than 14 lots, there shall
be at least two street connections with existing streets, if such exists, or
streets on an approved plat for which a bond has been filed.
(2011 Code, § 154.32) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 154.057 MONUMENTS.
   Along streets within subdivisions, corners of lots shall be marked by
monuments in accordance with the specifications of §
154.035 of this chapter.
(2011 Code, § 154.33) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 3-5-2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
PRIVATE STREETS
§ 154.070 APPLICATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   This subchapter shall apply to all private streets within the town. All
references to the term PRIVATE STREET shall be deemed to include private roads,
avenues, alleys, lanes, ways, and the like intended for vehicles.
(2011 Code, Chapter 154, Part 4) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 154.071 PRIVATE STREET REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All private streets proposed to be constructed or lengthened within
the town shall be required to meet the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   If a street that is private is proposed for acceptance as a public
street, it must meet the requirements of §§
154.025 through
154.037 of this chapter before being accepted as a public street.
(2011 Code, § 154.34) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 154.072 APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   The procedure for application for proposed new private streets or proposed
lengthening of existing private streets shall be as follows.
   (A)   Contents of application. Prior to the construction or lengthening of
any private street, an application shall be submitted to the Clerk-Treasurer.
The application shall include the following information:
      (1)   Names of applicants;
      (2)   Right, title, and interest of the applicant to land for the
proposed construction or modification of a private street;
      (3)   A statement of any legal encumbrances on the land for the location
of a proposed private street;
      (4)   A plan setting forth how the private street and associated drainage
structures are to be maintained.
         (a)   Responsibility for the private street maintenance may be
assigned to an association of the lot owners or to all lot owners in common
through provisions included in the deeds for all lots which utilize the private
street for access.
         (b)   The applicant shall submit appropriate legal documentation such
as proposed Homeowners Association documents and proposed deed covenants. This
documentation must address specific maintenance activities such as summer and
winter maintenance including snow removal from turn-arounds on dead end
streets, long-term maintenance or improvements, and emergency repairs.
         (c)   The documentation must include a mechanism to generate funds to
pay for all necessary maintenance work.
      (5)   The anticipated starting and completion dates of construction; and
      (6)   A statement indicating the nature and volume of traffic anticipated
on an average daily basis.
   (B)   Construction drawings. Construction drawings of the proposed private
street shall be submitted to the Clerk-Treasurer with the application. Detailed
construction drawings shall be submitted showing a plan view, profile, and
typical cross-section of the proposed private street. The drawings shall
include the following information:
      (1)   Date, scale, and magnetic or true North;
      (2)   Intersections of the proposed private street with existing streets;
      (3)   Right-of-way limits of the proposed private street and the existing
streets;
      (4)   Existing and proposed drainage ways and structures and their
location and relationship with respect to the existing natural waterways;
      (5)   Turning radii at intersections;
      (6)   Approximate centerline gradients;
      (7)   Locations of existing overhead and underground utilities including,
but not limited to, water, sewer, electricity, telephone, lighting, and cable
television;
      (8)   A soil erosion and sedimentation control plan showing interim and
final control provisions; and
      (9)   An estimated cost of the construction of the proposed private
street.
   (C)   Application fee. The fee schedule for review of plans for a new
private street or an alteration to an existing private street shall be
established by the Town Council.
   (D)   Application review. The schedule for review of proposed private
streets or lengthening of existing private streets shall be in accordance with
§
154.002(B) of this chapter.
(2011 Code, § 154.35) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 154.073 PRIVATE STREET LAYOUT.
   (A)   All private streets shall be designed to provide safe vehicular travel
while discouraging movement of through traffic.
   (B)   The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade, and location of all
private streets shall be considered in their relation to existing or planned
streets, to topographical conditions, to public convenience and safety, and
their appropriate relation to the proposed use of the land to be served by such
streets. Grades of private streets shall conform in general to the terrain and
as closely as possible to the original topography.
   (C)   All changes of grade shall be connected by vertical tangent curves
that provide for clear visibility.
   (D)   In the case of dead end private streets the Town Council may require
the reservation of a 20-foot wide easement in the line of the street on land
under the control of the applicant to provide continuation of pedestrian
traffic or utilities to another street.
   (E)   Reserve strips controlling access to private streets shall be
prohibited except where the town has definite control of the reserve strips
under conditions approved by the town.
   (F)   In front of areas utilized for commercial use, or where it is foreseen
that future commercial use will occur, a private street right-of-way and/or
pavement width shall be increased by such amount on each side as may be
necessary to assure the free flow of through traffic without interference by
parked or parking vehicles, and to provide adequate and safe parking space for
such commercial or business uses. In no case, shall a private street in a
commercial area or business area have a right-of-way width less than 60 feet
nor have less than two 12-foot wide travel lanes and two eight-foot wide
parking lanes.
   (G)   Adequate off-street loading space, suitably surfaced, shall be
provided in connection with lots designed for commercial use.
   (H)   The distance between two accesses to a tract of land on a private
street shall be considered in their relation to existing or planned streets, to
topographical conditions, to public convenience and safety, their appropriate
relation to the proposed use of land, and to minimize conflict with the flow of
traffic.
(2011 Code, § 154.36) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 3-5-2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.074 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   After the date of adoption of this chapter, all private streets
constructed on existing rights-of-way to serve lots along an existing right-of-
way, shall meet the street construction standards
of Table 154.074(A). All new private streets constructed with a new right-of-
way, or on any extension of an existing right-of-way or to extend a driveway,
shall meet the street construction standards of Table 154.074(B).
   (B)   Where feasible, existing private streets which do not meet the minimum
standards of Table 154.074(A) including the right-of-way width, but which are
to provide access for the addition of three or more dwelling units or
nonresidential uses shall be improved to meet these requirements. All required
improvements shall be the responsibility of the applicant.
      (1)   The improvements shall be required for all applicable portions of
private streets located between the new accesses and an intersection with a
public street in accordance with the following interpretation of Table 154.074
(A).
      (2)   Minimum width of travel way of Table 154.074(A):
         (a)   Starting at an intersection with a public street and progressing
toward proposed new accesses along an existing right-of-way, the portion of a
private street system that is closest to the intersection shall meet the
highest applicable requirement of Table 154.074(A) as determined by the total
number of lots served by the entire private street system including any side
streets. When progressing further toward proposed new accesses, each portion
shall meet only the applicable requirements of Table 154.074(A) as determined
by the reduced number of lots served including any applicable side streets.
         (b)   Any newly constructed private side street along a newly
established right-of-way shall meet the applicable requirements of Table
154.074(B) as determined by the reduced number of lots served by it and any
side streets off of it. Where feasible, the portion of the private street
system between the newly constructed side street and an intersection with a
public street shall also be upgraded to meet the applicable requirements of
Table 154.074(B).
         (c)   If a private street system has two intersections with one or
more public streets, then the requirements of this division (B) shall be
applied to each part of the private street system in the direction toward the
closest intersection.
         (d)   Where an application for a subdivision of eleven lots or more is
approved by the Town Board, the applicant will be required to pave travel ways
in accordance with the requirements of Table 154.074(B) of this chapter.
   (C)   For all private streets:
      (1)   Stabilized shoulders and suitable drainage facilities to provide
for adequate removal of storm water to prevent flooding and erosion shall be
the responsibility of the applicant; and
      (2)   Shoulders shall be constructed to the same specifications as the
traveled ways so as to be suitable for use by vehicles of all types that may be
reasonably expected to use the travel way of the street.
   (D)   Private streets that are longer than 400 feet with a travel way width
of less than 16 feet shall, at intervals of no more than 350 feet, be widened
to a minimum width of travel way of 16 feet for a minimum distance of 50 feet
to provide “turnouts” for meeting vehicles to safely get by each other.
   (E)   Private streets associated with lots that are included in a plan must
be built by the applicant prior to the occupancy of said lots.
   (F)   All new private streets shall be graded and treated in accordance with
§§
154.008 through
154.010 and 154.073 of this chapter.
   (G)   The applicant shall be required to investigate and determine the types
and classifications of the subsurface soils. If in the opinion of the Town
Council, or its designee, unsuitable subsurface soils are encountered during
construction, the applicant shall be required to excavate and remove the
unsuitable material and replace it with granular material.
Table 154.074(A)   Private Street Construction Standards for Existing Private
Streets and Existing Rights-of-Way
Maximum grade                                                     15%
Maximum grade within 30 feet of an intersection                   8%
Minimum angle of intersection                                     75º
Minimum centerline radii on curves                                100 feet
Minimum combined width of shoulders on each side for snow removal 12 feet
Minimum diameter of culverts
Culverts must be suitable in size and number to provide adequate  15 inches
drainage in accordance with §
154.074(C) of this chapter   
Minimum grade                                                     0.5%
Minimum radii at intersections                                    25 feet
Minimum width of travel way
Serving not more than 5 lots                                       
Serving 6 to 10 lots                                              20 feet
Serving 11 to 60 lots                                             20 feet
Serving more than 60 lots                                         20 feet
Commercial establishments shall be counted as 1 lot for each      20 feet
increment of 5 employees
Sidewalks if installed                                             
Aggregate base gravel                                             8 inches
Minimum width                                                     5 feet
Surface bituminous paving if used                                 1 inch
Travel way                                                         
Aggregate base                                                    6 inches
Bituminous binding                                                3 inches
Bituminous surface                                                2 inches
Minimum crown per foot                                            1/4 inch
Width of shoulders on each side                                   6 feet
 
(2011 Code, Ch. 154, Table 4.1)
Table 154.074(B)   Private Street Construction Standards for New Private Roads
On Newly Created Rights-of-Way
Maximum grade                                                    15%
Maximum grade within 30 feet of an intersection                  8%
Minimum angle of intersection                                    75º
Minimum centerline radii on curves                               100 feet
Minimum diameter of culverts
Culverts must be suitable in size and number to provide adequate 15 inches
drainage in accordance with §
154.074(C) of this chapter
Minimum grade                                                    0.5%
Minimum radii at intersections                                   25 feet
Minimum width of right-of-way                                    52 feet
Minimum width of travel way
Serving not more than 5 lots                                      
Serving 6 to 10 lots                                             20 feet
Serving 11 to 60 lots                                            20 feet
Serving more than 60 lots                                        20 feet
Commercial establishments shall be counted as 1 lot for each     20 feet
increment of 5 employees
Sidewalks if installed                                            
Aggregate base gravel                                            8 inches
Minimum width                                                    5 feet
Surface bituminous paving if used                                1 inch
Travel way                                                        
Aggregate base                                                   10 inches
Bituminous binding                                               3 inches
Bituminous surface                                               2 inches
Minimum crown per foot                                           1/4 inch
Width of shoulders on each side                                  6 feet
 
(2011 Code, § 154.37) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 3-5-2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.075 INSPECTIONS.
(A)   At least five days prior to commencing construction of private streets,
the applicant shall:
      (1)   Pay an inspection fee equal to 2% of the cost of the construction;
or
      (2)   Pay an inspection fee equal to the estimated cost of inspection by
the Town Council.
   (B)   The inspection fee shall be payable to the town stating the purpose of
the fee. The applicant shall notify the Clerk-Treasurer in writing of the time
when construction is proposed to commence so that inspection can made to assure
that all specifications and requirements will be met.
   (C)   If upon inspection, it is found that any of the construction has not
been in accordance with the approved plans and specifications, the Town Council
shall so report to the Clerk-Treasurer. The Clerk-Treasurer shall then notify
the applicant and, if applicable, the bonding company, and take all necessary
steps to preserve the rights of the town under the conditions of the bond. The
applicant shall provide for maintenance of all construction and for snow
removal on streets and sidewalks until the lots are sold and the responsibility
for maintenance has been legally transferred to the new owners.
(2011 Code, § 154.38) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 3-5-2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 155: ZONING
Section
   
155.01   Adopted by reference
§ 155.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The zoning code and any amendments thereto is are adopted by reference as if
appearing in total.
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   STREET NAME CHANGES
      
III.   VACATIONS
      
IV.   FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICTS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1978-3   10-2-1978   Annexation extending the town limits
1979-3   10-1-1979   Annexation extending the town limits
1979-4   11-5-1979   Annexation extending the town limits
1987-3   5-19-1987   Annexation extending the town limits
1987-8   11-17-1987  Annexation extending the town limits
1991-1   3-4-1991    Annexation extending the town limits
1992-1   5-4-1992    Annexation extending the town limits
1992-3   10-19-1992  Annexation extending the town limits
1993-5   8-23-1993   Annexation extending the town limits
1995-3   10-2-1995   Annexation extending the town limits
1997-1   3-3-1997    Annexation extending the town limits
1999-1   1-4-1999    Annexation extending the town limits
2001-1   2-26-2001   Annexation extending the town limits
2001-6   10-1-2001   Annexation extending the town limits
2007-7   8-20-2007   Annexation extending the town limits
2008-11  9-15-2008   Annexation extending the town limits
2008-12  9-15-2008   Annexation extending the town limits
2010-4   6-21-2010   Annexation extending the town limits
2011-1   4-5-2011    Annexation extending the town limits
2011-2   4-5-2011    Annexation extending the town limits
2011-3   4-5-2011    Annexation extending the town limits
2011-4   4-5-2011    Annexation extending the town limits
2011-5   4-5-2011    Annexation extending the town limits
2011-6   4-5-2011    Annexation extending the town limits
2011-7   6-6-2011    Annexation extending the town limits
                    
 
TABLE II: STREET NAME CHANGES
 
Ord.   Date   Description
No.    Passed
1987-7 11-2-  Changes the name of the street know as Sunset Drive to Scotty’s
       1987   Drive
             
 
TABLE III: VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1982-1   6-7-1982    Vacation of a portion of Beech Alley
1982-6   11-1-1982   Vacation of an alley
1985-2.5 8-19-1985   Vacation of an alley
1986-5   8-19-1986   Vacation of an alley
1987-1   2-3-1987    Vacation of an alley
1987-2   3-3-1987    Vacation of an alley
1987-4   5-5-1987    Vacation of alleys
1987-6   10-20-1987  Vacation of portion of an alley
1988-1   2-9-1988    Vacation of alleys
1993-1   5-17-1993   Vacation of an alley
1996-1   6-3-1996    Vacation of an alley
1997-2   4-7-1997    Vacation of a portion of an alley
1997-4   11-3-1997   Vacation of an alley
2000-1   3-6-2000    Vacation of a portion of Bridge Street
2002-05  12-2-2002   Vacating portions of two alleys
—      5-3-2004    Vacation of an alley
2004-2   5-17-2004   Vacating portions of three alleys
2005-01  1-17-2005   Vacating 15-foot drainage and utility easement
2007-01  3-5-2007    Vacation of an alley
2007-04  6-4-2007    Vacation of a portion of Oak Street in Ewing
2009-06  10-19-2009  Vacation of alley west of Lot 2 and east of Lot 3 in the
                     original lots to the Town of Brownstown
2010-01  1-4-2010    Vacation part of Vine Street South of Lot X and North of
                     Lot 162 in Old Town of Ewing
                     Vacating a portion of Third Street and a ten-foot
2016-4   11-7-2016   unimproved alley, as described in the exhibit to Ord.
                     2016-4
2017-2   3-20-2017   Vacating a portion of two alleyways, as described in the
                     exhibit to Ord. No. 2017-2
                     Vacating an alleyway, which is twelve feet in width and
2018-4   10-1-2018   runs generally north from Tanner Street to Cross Street
                     and is parallel to Asher Street and Frances Street
2020-C   1-21-2020   Vacation of a public thoroughfare and alleyway as
                     described in Ord. 2020-C
2020-F   3-16-2020   Vacation of a public thoroughfare and alleyway as
                     described in Ord. 2020-F
2021-5   10-4-2021   Vacation of a public alleyway as described in Ord. 2021-5
                    
 
TABLE IV: FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2010-02  2-1-2010    Consent to establishment of fire protection districts
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to 2011 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Section Code Section
I.C. Section      Code Section
1-1-1-5           10.04
1-1-1-7           10.12
1-1-1-8           10.06
1-1-4-5           10.05
1-1-5-1           10.11
1-1-6-1           10.08
4-16-1-23         73.14
5-2-1-9(f)        34.01
7.1-1-3-5         93.03
7.1-1-3-13        93.03
9-13-2-105(a)     93.03
9-13-2-150        93.03
9-17-2-12(c)      31.17
9-18-12           92.06
9-21-9-2          73.03
9-26-2-3          31.16
14-8-2-5.7        73.01
14-8-2-233.5      73.01
14-16-1           73.09
14-16-1-20(C)     73.01
14-16-1-21        73.03
14-16-1-24        73.06,
                  73.07
14-28-1           152.44
14-28-1-26        152.44
22-3-6            34.01
22-3-7            34.01
31-6-4-15.7       95.04
31-37-19-27       95.04
36-1-3-1 et seq.  111.003
36-1-3-8          94.99,
                  153.99
36-1-3-8(10)      94.99
36-1-4-11         152.01
36-1-6-3          51.999
36-1-6-4          51.090
36-1-8-5.1        31.20
36-5-2-2          10.15
36-5-2-4.1        32.01
36-5-2-5          32.01
                  97.03,
36-7-9            97.99,
                  98.05
36-7-9-2          97.02
36-7-9-14         97.05
                  98.02,
36-7-36           98.03,
                  98.99
36-7-36-7(2)      98.05
36-7-36-10        98.05
36-8-3-20         34.01
36-9-15.5         31.25
36-9-16-3         31.15
36-10-3-1 et seq. 30.02
36-10-3-10        30.02
                  
 
REFERENCES TO 2011 CODE
2011 Code Section 2018 Code Section
2011 Code Section 2018 Code Section
30.01             30.01
30.02             30.02
31.01             31.01
31.15             31.15
31.16             31.16
31.17             31.17
31.18             31.18
31.19             31.19
31.20             31.20
31.22             31.21
31.23             31.22
31.24             31.23
31.25             31.24
31.26             31.25
32.01             32.01
33.01             33.01
33.02             33.02
33.03             33.03
33.04             33.04
33.05             33.05
33.06             33.06
33.07             33.07
33.08             33.08
34.01             34.01
34.02             34.02
50.01             50.01
50.02             50.02
50.03             50.03
50.04             50.04
50.05             50.05
50.06             50.06
Ch. 50, App.      Ch. 50, App. A
51.01             51.001
51.02             51.002
51.03             51.003
51.04             51.004
51.05             51.005
51.06             51.006
51.07             51.007
51.08             51.008
51.20             51.020
51.21             51.021
51.22             51.022
51.23             51.023
51.24             51.024
51.25             51.025
51.26             51.026
51.27             51.027
51.28             51.028
51.29             51.029
51.30             51.030
51.31             51.031
51.45             51.045
51.46             51.046
51.47             51.047
51.48             51.048
51.49             51.049
51.50             51.050
51.51             51.051
51.52             51.052
51.53             51.053
51.54             51.054
51.65             51.065
51.66             51.066
51.67             51.067
51.68             51.068
51.69             51.069
51.70             51.070
51.71             51.071
51.72             51.072
51.85             51.085
51.86             51.086
51.87             51.087
51.88             51.088
51.89             51.089
51.90             51.090
51.91             51.091
51.99             51.999
52.01             52.01
52.02             52.02
52.03             52.03
52.04             52.04
52.05             52.05
52.06             52.06
52.07             52.99
70.01             70.01
70.02             70.02
70.03             70.03
70.99             70.04,
                  70.99
71.01             71.01
71.02             71.02
72.01             72.01
Ch. 73, Sch. I    Ch. 74, Sch. I
Ch. 73, Sch. II   Ch. 74, Sch. II
Ch. 73, Sch. III  Ch. 74, Sch. III
Ch. 73, Sch. IV   Ch. 74, Sch. IV
Ch. 73, Sch. V    Ch. 74, Sch. V
Ch. 74, Sch. I    Ch. 75, Sch. I
Ch. 74, Sch. II   Ch. 75, Sch. II
Ch. 74, Sch. III  Ch. 75, Sch. III
90.01             90.01
90.02             90.02
90.03             90.03
90.04             90.04
90.05             90.05
90.06             90.06
90.07             90.07
90.08             90.08
90.09             90.09
91.01             91.01
91.02             91.02
91.03             91.03
91.04             91.04
91.05             91.05
91.06             91.06
91.10             91.20,
                  91.99
92.01             92.01
92.02             92.02
92.03             92.03
92.04             92.03
92.05             92.04
92.06             92.05
92.07             92.06
92.08             92.07,
                  92.99
92.09             92.08
93.01             93.01
93.02             93.02
93.03             93.03
93.04             93.04
93.05             93.05
93.06             93.06
93.07             93.06
93.08             93.07
93.09             93.08
93.10             93.09
93.11             93.10
93.12             93.11,
                  93.12
93.13             93.99
93.14             93.05
95.01             95.01
95.02             95.02
95.03             95.03
95.04             95.04
95.05             95.99
96.01             96.01
96.02             96.02
96.03             96.03
96.04             96.99
97.01             97.01
97.02             97.02
97.03             97.03
97.04             97.04
97.05             97.05
97.06             97.02
97.07             97.99
98.01             98.01
98.02             98.02
98.03             98.03
98.04             98.04
98.05             98.05
98.06             98.02
98.07             98.99
98.08             98.05
Ch. 98, App. A    Ch. 98, App. A
99.01             99.01
99.02             99.02
99.03             99.03
99.04             99.04
99.05             99.05
99.06             99.06
99.07             99.07
99.08             99.08
99.09             99.99
99.10             99.09
99.11             99.02
110.01            110.01
110.02            110.02
110.03            110.03
110.04            110.04
110.05            110.05
110.06            110.06
111.001           111.001
111.002           111.002
111.003           111.003
111.004           111.004
111.015           111.015
111.016           111.016
111.017           111.017
111.018           111.018
111.019           111.019
111.020           111.020
111.021           111.021
111.022           111.022
111.035           111.035
111.036           111.036
111.037           111.037
111.038           111.038
111.039           111.039
111.040           111.040
111.050           111.055
111.051           111.056
111.052           111.057
111.053           111.058
111.054           111.059
111.065           111.070
111.066           111.071
111.067           111.072
111.068           111.073
111.069           111.074
111.070           111.075
111.071           111.076
111.072           111.077
111.073           111.078
111.085           111.090
111.086           111.091
111.087           111.092
111.088           111.093
111.089           111.094
111.090           111.095
111.091           111.096
111.092           111.097
111.093           111.098
111.105           111.110
111.106           111.111
111.107           111.112
111.108           111.113
111.109           111.114
111.110           111.115
111.111           111.116
111.125           111.130
111.126           111.131
111.127           111.132
111.128           111.133
111.129           111.134
111.140           111.145
111.999           111.999
112.01            112.01
112.02            112.02
112.03            112.15
112.04            112.15
112.05            112.16 
112.06            112.17
112.07            112.35
112.08            112.36
112.09            112.37
112.10            112.38
112.11            112.39
112.12            112.55
112.13            112.40
112.14            112.41
112.15            112.42
112.16            112.56
112.17            112.43
112.18            112.18
112.19            112.19
112.20            112.20
112.21            112.21
112.22            112.22
112.23            112.57
112.24            112.58
112.25            112.59
150.01            150.01
151.01            151.01
151.02            151.02
151.03            151.03
151.04            151.04
151.05            151.05
153.01            153.01
153.02            153.02
153.03            153.03
153.05            153.04
153.06            153.15
153.07            153.16
153.08            153.17
153.09            153.18
153.10            153.19
153.11            153.20
153.12            153.35
153.13            153.36
153.14            153.37
153.15            153.38
153.16            153.50
153.17            153.51
153.18            153.52
153.19            153.53
153.20            153.54
153.21            153.55
153.22            153.56
153.23            153.21
153.24            153.99
153.25            153.57
154.01            154.001
154.03            154.002
154.04            154.003
154.05            154.004
154.07            154.005
154.08            154.007
154.09            154.006
154.10            154.008
154.11            154.009
154.12            154.010
154.13            154.011
154.14            154.012
Ch. 154, Part 2   154.025
154.15            154.026
154.16            154.027
154.17            154.028
154.18            154.029
154.19            154.030
154.20            154.031
154.21            154.032
154.22            154.033
154.23            154.034
154.24            154.035
154.25            154.036
154.26            154.037
Ch. 154, Part 3   154.050
154.27            154.051
154.28            154.052
154.29            154.053
154.30            154.054
154.31            154.055
154.32            154.056
154.33            154.057
Ch. 154, Part 4   154.070
154.34            154.071
154.35            154.072
154.36            154.073
154.37            154.074
154.38            154.075
                  
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res.  No. Date Passed Code Section
2009-06   11-2-2009   98.05
2019-A    4-1-2019    150.02
                     
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     70.01 -
                     70.04,
                     71.01,
                     71.02,
215      7-13-1959   72.01, Ch. 74, Schs.
                     I,
                     IV,
                     V, Ch. 75, Schs.
                     II,
                     III
239      12-3-1973   30.02
1976-2   6-22-1976   30.01
1976-3   8-9-1976    30.02
1978-3   10-2-1978   TSO I
1978-4   12-18-1978  110.01 -
                     110.06
1979-3   10-1-1979   TSO I
1979-4   11-5-1979   TSO I
1980-1   3-17-1980   151.01 -
                     151.05
                     Ch. 75, Schs.
1980-2   6-2-1980    I,
                     II
1980-3   10-6-1980   Ch. 75, Sch. II
1982-1   6-7-1982    TSO III
1982-3   6-7-1982    151.02,
                     151.04
1982-6   11-1-1982   TSO III
1983-1   3-21-1983   Ch. 74, Sch. IV
1983-2   12-19-1983  Ch. 74, Sch. IV
1984-1   4-17-1984   91.01 -
                     91.06
1985-2   7-2-1985    31.15
1985-2.5 8-19-1985   TSO III
1986-5   8-19-1986   TSO III
1986-7   12-16-1986  31.16
1987-1   2-3-1987    TSO III
1987-2   3-3-1987    TSO III
1987-4   5-5-1987    TSO III
1987-3   5-19-1987   TSO I
1987-6   10-20-1987  TSO III
1987-7   11-2-1987   TSO II
1987-8   11-17-1987  TSO I
1988-1   2-9-1988    TSO III
1988-5   7-11-1988   31.17
1989-1   6-5-1989    Ch. 74, Sch. I
1989-4   12-27-1989  31.18
1989-5   12-27-1989  31.19
1991-1   3-4-1991    TSO I
                     50.01 -
1991-4   5-20-1991   50.06,
                     Ch. 50, App. A
91-3m    12-3-1991   10.99
1992-1   5-4-1992    TSO I
1992-3   10-19-1992  TSO I
1993-1   5-17-1993   TSO III
1993-3   7-12-1993   150.01
1993-4   2-7-1994    151.02,
                     151.04
1993-5   8-23-1993   TSO I
1995-3   10-2-1995   TSO I
1995-5   12-18-1995  31.01
1996-1   6-3-1996    TSO III
1997-1   3-3-1997    TSO I
1997-2   4-7-1997    TSO III
84-1     8-18-1997   91.01 -
                     91.06
1997-4   11-3-1997   TSO III
1999-1   1-4-1999    TSO I
2000-1   3-6-2000    TSO III
                     51.007,
                     51.065 -
2000-2   6-19-2000   51.069,
                     51.071,
                     51.072
                     111.001 -
                     111.004,
                     111.015 -
                     111.022,
                     111.035 -
                     111.040,
                     111.055 -
                     111.059,
2000-4   7-17-2000   111.070 -
                     111.078,
                     111.090 -
                     111.098,
                     111.110 -
                     111.116,
                     111.130 -
                     111.134,
                     111.145,
                     111.999
                     70.01,
2000-5   6-19-2000   70.99, Ch. 74, Schs.
                     II,
                     III
                     51.001 -
                     51.006,
                     51.020 -
                     51.031,
2000-6   7-3-2000    51.045 -
                     51.054,
                     51.085 -
                     51.091,
                     51.999
2000-10  9-18-2000   51.008
2001-1   2-26-2001   TSO I
                     51.001,
2001-3   6-4-2001    51.070,
                     51.072
2001-4   6-18-2001   51.001,
                     51.005
2001-5   8-20-2001   51.008
2001-6   10-1-2001   TSO I
2001-10  11-19-2001  31.20
2002-1   11-4-2002   32.01
2002-05  12-2-2002   TSO III
                     92.01 -
2003-04  9-1-2003    92.08,
                     92.99
                     93.01 -
2003-05  9-1-2003    93.12,
                     93.99
2003-06  10-6-2003   33.01 -
                     33.08
                     153.01 -
                     153.04,
                     153.15 -
                     153.19,
2004-01  4-5-2004    153.21,
                     153.35 -
                     153.38,
                     153.50 -
                     153.57,
                     153.99
- -      5-3-2004    TSO III
2004-03  5-3-2004    33.03
2004-04  5-3-2004    Ch. 75, Sch. I
2004-05  5-3-2004    Ch. 74, Sch. III
2004-2   5-17-2004   TSO III
2004-7   9-20-2004   31.21
2005-01  1-17-2005   TSO III
2005-02  5-2-2005    91.20,
                     91.99
2005-03  6-6-2005    Ch. 74, Sch. III
                     112.01,
                     112.02,
                     112.15 -
2005-04  10-3-2005   112.22,
                     112.35 -
                     112.43,
                     112.55 -
                     112.59
2006-01  2-6-2006    153.20
2006-06  11-6-2006   31.22
2007-01  3-5-2007    TSO III
                     154.001 -
                     154.012,
                     154.025 -
2007-02  3-5-2007    154.037,
                     154.050 -
                     154.057,
                     154.070 -
                     154.075
2007-3   5-7-2007    34.01,
                     34.02
2007-04  6-4-2007    TSO III
2007-05  6-4-2007    31.23
2007-06  6-4-2007    33.03
2007-08  8-6-2007    71.01
2007-7   8-20-2007   TSO I
                     Ch. 74, Schs.
2007-9   10-1-2007   I,
                     IV
                     51.001,
2008-1   2-4-2008    51.004,
                     51.023
2008-01  2-4-2008    51.069
                     52.01 -
2008-2   5-19-2008   52.06,
                     52.99
2008-3   5-19-2008   31.24
                     95.01 -
2008-9   8-4-2008    95.04,
                     95.99
                     96.01 -
2008-10  8-4-2008    96.03,
                     96.99
2008-11  9-15-2008   TSO I
2008-12  9-15-2008   TSO I
2009-02  2-2-2009    Ch. 74, Sch. III
2009-03  10-19-2009  51.020,
                     51.999
2009-06  10-19-2009  TSO III
                     97.01 -
2009-04  11-2-2009   97.05,
                     97.99
                     98.01 -
2009-05  11-2-2009   98.05,
                     98.99
2009-09  12-21-2009  51.008
2010-01  1-4-2010    TSO III
2010-02  2-1-2010    TSO IV
                     99.01 -
2010-03  4-5-2010    99.09,
                     99.99
2010-4   6-21-2010   TSO I
2011-1   4-5-2011    TSO I
2011-2   4-5-2011    TSO I
2011-3   4-5-2011    TSO I
2011-4   4-5-2011    TSO I
2011-5   4-5-2011    TSO I
2011-6   4-5-2011    TSO I
2011-9   5-2-2011    31.25
2011-7   6-6-2011    TSO I
2011-10  8-15-2011   153.04
2012-1   11-7-2012   32.01
                     Ch. 74, Schs.
2013-1   2-18-2013   II,
                     III
                     152.01 -
                     152.14,
                     152.25 -
                     152.27,
2014-1   10-6-2014   152.40 -
                     152.47,
                     152.60 -
                     152.66,
                     152.99
                     94.01 -
                     94.04,
                     94.15 -
2015-1   2-2-2015    94.20,
                     94.35,
                     94.36,
                     94.99
2015-3   6-1-2015    71.03
2016-1   8-15-2016   51.066,
                     51.067
2016-2   11-7-2016   Ch. 74, Sch. II
2016-4   11-7-2016   TSO III
2016-5   12-19-2016  Ch. 74, Sch. II
                     73.01 -
2017-1   3-6-2017    73.14,
                     73.99
2017-2   3-20-2017   TSO III
                     93.02,
2017-4   6-19-2017   93.09,
                     93.99
2018-2   8-6-2018    Ch. 75, Sch. II
2018-3   10-1-2018   Adopting Ordinance
2018-4   10-1-2018   TSO III
2018-5   12-3-2018   Ch. 74, Sch. II
2019-1   5-20-2019   51.004
2019-2   5-20-2019   51.069
2020-C   1-21-2020   TSO III
2020-F   3-16-2020   TSO III
2020-5   9-8-2020    100.01 -
                     100.03
2021-1   7-19-2021   110.01,
                     110.07
2021-2   7-6-2021    31.26
2021-5   10-4-2021   TSO III
2021-6   11-1-2021   10.99,
                     Ch. 74, Sch. III
                     Ch. 75, Schs.
2022-1   7-18-2022   I,
                     II
2022-2   8-15-2022   110.08
2022-4   8-15-2022   51.066
                    
 
 
